Corporate Responsibility 2013 Report 2014 Internalization of Sustainability CONTENTS MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD 1 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL 53 BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS AT A GLANCE 3 ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THE REPORT 4 Environmental Management 54 CORPORATE PROFILE 4 Our 2015 Environmental Targets 55 About Us 4 Input Materials 55 Our Mission and Vision 5 Energy Consumption 55 Our Production Facilities 5 Water Consumption 57 Board of Directors 6 Waste Management 57 Organization Structure 7 Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Our Carbon 64 Our Values 8 Footprint Our Boards 9 Our Environment Friendly Practices 67 Stakeholder Engagement 9 Materiality 13 OUR SOCIAL INVESTMENTS 69 Our Awards 15 Our Social Investment 70 Ethics and Compliance 16 A. Domestic Projects 73 Human Rights at Bilim 17 B. Overseas Projects 77 Risk Management 18 Sustainability Management 19 APPENDIX: TABLES 79 Our Memberships 20 GRI G4 INDEX 89 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDICATORS 99 OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 23 Economic Value 24 Innovation and R&D 26 OUR SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 29 Work Force of Bilim Pharmaceuticals 30 Occupational Health and Safety 41 Supply Chain Management at Bilim 44 Product Excellence, Patient Health and Safety 48 Informing Customers, Promotion Principles and 51 Ethics Customer Privacy 52 Customer Satisfaction 52 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Being a growing company is an integral part of being a responsible company... BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 2 Dear Stakeholders, Bilim pharmaceuticals’ understanding of values and business ethics is something that is well known among all business ethics has directed us in every phase of our of our stakeholders. As one of the leading companies in work on sustainability. When upgrading the quality of the Turkish pharmaceutical sector, we direct our operations our operations, we have also developed our respect for with the aim of protecting not only the reputation of our nature and our environmental practices are always at the company, but also the reputation of our country in every forefront of everything we do. The health and safety of our step we take. At the same time, as the leader in sustainability employees has always been a priority for our company. We of the Turkish pharmaceutical industry, we are aware of our provided end users with access to world class products with responsibilities. With this awareness, we are expending the our commitment to R&D work and the resources that we utmost efforts to further develop our sustainability work. allocate to R&D. As well as providing the highest transparency to all of our stakeholders, including the pharmaceutical sector, with The Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers have this report we have also conveyed our experience. For this carried out a number of very valuable projects to promote reason, I would like to underline the importance of corporate social welfare. I am delighted be able to present you, responsibility/sustainability reporting. We must remember our valued stakeholders, with all applications and results that sharing of experience allows us to transfer valuable that have been implemented within the framework of information that will carry forward not only our industry, this sustainability, through our Corporate Responsibility but also all companies in the business world. It is for this Report which covers the years 2013 and 2014. At Bilim reason that I would like to invite all companies to prepare Pharmaceuticals, the results of the work we have carried a Corporate Responsibility Report in the Turkish business out show that being a growing company goes hand-inworld. hand with being a “responsible” company. Indeed, while we move towards creating a “responsible company”, an array Bülent Karaağaç of opportunities for material and spiritual gains, primarily Chairman savings, are waiting to be assessed. Our commitment to BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 3 BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS AT A GLANCE… IN 2014 BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS… • Provided a total of 118,883,256 boxes, • Had total working capital of TL 1,043,000,837.14, Shareholders’ Equity of TL338,955,599.99 and total liabilities of TL 704,045,237.15 at the end of the year, • Recorded Net Sales of TL 516,956,970, • Recorded a total of 163,912,427 transactions/ operations, • Employed a total of 1,774 people, OUR SOCIAL ACTIVITIES... • Was the most preferred company for prescriptions, with a 8.7% share, • The Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community • Ranked 2nd in the box market with a 6.7% share, Volunteers has been active since its • Was ranked 6th in the Turkish pharmaceutical establishment in 2005, market, with 3.9% share • Bilim Pharmaceuticals completed 12 • Was ranked 142nd in the ISO 500 list*, different projects, carried out 420 activities and • Was ranked 195th in the Fortune Turkey 500 list, performed 36,101 hours of volunteer work, • Ranked 410th in “Top 1,000 Exporters of • Achieved access to more than 51,000 Turkey”list** children and young people, • Worked with 1,000 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers... IN 2014 BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS… • Was the most preferred pharmaceutical company among physicians with a 8.3% share, • Ranked 2nd in the box market with a 6.4% share, • Ranked in 7th place in the Turkish pharmaceutical market with a 3.4% share, • Was ranked 289th in the Capital 500 list, • Had a total of 1,590 employees, • Conducted a total of 161,665,587 transactions/operations, • Recorded net sales of TL498,826,638, • Provided 116,399,622 boxes, • Had total working capital of TL 946,313,660.64, Shareholders’ Equity of TL 261,007,967.14 and total liabilities of TL 685,305,693.50 at the end of the year, • Produced 17% of the medicines produced in Turkey at its Gebze Plant, which has a production capacity of 250 million boxes, • Was ranked 11th among the domestic companies * Istanbul Chamber of Industry which realize Turkey’s technology exports *** ** Turkish Exporters’ Assembly *** Turkish Time 2015 BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 4 ABOUT THE CORPORATE REPORT PROFILE We published our work in 2009 in what was the About us first corporate responsibility report in the Turkish pharmaceutical sector. Our report for 2010 was BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS, which is proud to be 100% owned the first GRI approved level A report in Turkey by Turkish capital, began operations in 1953 and is headquartered in Istanbul, carrying out its production at two plants. Approved by while our 2011 report was Turkey’s first A+ the German Ministry of Health, the Bilim Çerkezköy Processing level published report approved by the GRI. We Facility is one of Turkey’s most important penicillin production have been transparently sharing our economic, plants. Bilim Gebze, approved by the UK Department of Health, social and environmental impacts and our social is the largest, newest and the most environmentally sensitive drug responsibility projects with our stakeholders manufacturing plant in Turkey. It houses the largest R&D center in through our corporate responsibility reports. the Turkish pharmaceutical industry, with 4,500 m2 of laboratory space. Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Corporate Responsibility Report With a presence outside Turkey since 1998, sales of Bilim was prepared in compliance with the GRI G4 Core Level Pharmaceuticals products continue to evolve as a result of the and in accordance with the United Nations Global Compact company’s search for potential partners in the target countries Communication on Progress criteria; the information in the content we determined based on the country selection criteria in line covers the period from 1 January, 2013 to 31 December, 2014. with the strategic plan, which covered 56 countries as of 2013 and 58 countries as of 2014. After gaining experience by Bilim Pharmaceuticals published Corporate Responsibility Reports accessing regional markets through local partners, in line with our annually until 2012. However, with effect from 2013, the strategy of setting up our representative office based on market reporting period was changed to two years. Our previous report potential, Bilim Pharmaceuticals established Representative covering the period from 1 January to 31 December, 2012 may offices in Moldova and Albania in 2009, and finally in Bosnia and be accessed from our website at http://www. bilimilac.com.tr/ Herzegovina in 2010. tr/kurumsal-sorumluluk/kurumsal-sorumlulukraporlari.html. We would welcome your views, proposals and questions on all Detailed information about Bilim Pharmaceuticals may be found reports at the surdurulebilirlik@bilimilac.com address. on the corporate web page www.bilimilac.com.tr AFGHANISTAN 2013 2014 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Export Map ALBANIA BELARUS AZERBAIJAN GEORGIA BELGIUM IRAQ BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA KAZAKHSTAN FRANCE KYRGYZSTAN CROATIA UZBEKISTAN ENGLAND RUSSIA KOSOVO TAJIKISTAN MACEDONIA TURKMENISTAN MACEDONIA VIETNAM MOLDOVA YEMEN SERBIA UKRAINE INDONESIA PHILIPPINES HONG KONG CAMBODIA MACAU MALAYSIA MYANMAR BENIN SINGAPORE BURKINA FASO SRI LANKA ETHIOPIA IVORY COAST GABON GHANA CAMEROON KENYA CONGO ECUADOR LIBYA EL SALVADOR NIGER* GUATEMALA NIGERIA HONDURAS SENEGAL* NICARAGUA SOMALIA CHILE SUDAN TANZANIA TOGO *Countries joined in 2014 UGANDA Figure 1 BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 5 Our mission and vision Holding the ISO 9001 Quality Management System, ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System As a deeply rooted corporation, Bilim Pharmaceuticals places certifications, the facility complies with cGMP regulations and people and human health above everything, adopts quality as a integrated management system standards. (Appendix: Table 2: philosophy of life, is open to continuous improvement, makes use Box production amounts) of advanced technology, carries out production at international standards, is customer-oriented and develops economic products Gebze Production Plant in line with its mission. Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ mission includes preserving the environment and natural resources with a sense Having entered operation in 2008, Bilim Gebze, which is of social responsibility, placing importance on ethical values and the largest drug manufacturing plant in Turkey according to contributing to the welfare of the community. Being in a sensitive production forms, was planned in accordance with the standards sector due to the presence of direct concern to human health, of the American FDA (Food and Drug Administration), one of the the foundation of the vision of Bilim Pharmaceuticals comes from world’s most prestigious healthcare authorities. Established in both keeping quality at the forefront of what it does and while also the Gebze Organized Industrial Zone on an area of 60,000 m2, respecting future generations. The Vision: 2014, created with this the facility has an indoor area of 51,500 m2. With a production basis, consists of two main elements; capacity of 250 million boxes per year, Bilim Gebze is planned in a manner that will allow adaptation to the need to increase • To be one of the top three companies in the Turkish capacity. The facility is single-handedly able to meet 17% of the pharmaceutical market needs of the Turkish pharmaceutical industry. • To achieve the highest level of exports of any domestic producer of medicines The Bilim Gebze Processing Facility holds the ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems, ISO 14001 Environmental Management OUR PRODUCTINO Systems and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems certificates. FACILITIES Products Manufactured at the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Gebze Production Plant and Their Amounts Bilim Pharmaceuticals is headquartered in the Bilim Plaza in Gastrointestinal products, analgesics-anti-inflammatory products, Istanbul, with production taking place in two separate facilities dermatological products, antibiotics (non Beta-Lactam), vitamins which were designed in accordance with current Good and minerals, respiratory system products, anti-parasitic products, Manufacturing Practices (cGMP). Sweeteners, central nervous system products, cardiovascular The Bilim Çerkezköy Processing Facility, which holds EU products, iron preparations, muscle relaxants and flu products GMP certification, is one of Turkey’s most important penicillin are produced. (Appendix: Table 3: Products Manufactured at the production facilities. The Bilim Gebze production facility, which Gebze Production Plant and Their Amounts). is also EU GMP certified, is Turkey’s largest, newest and most environmentally friendly drug manufacturing plant. Foreign Markets, the total turnover grew by Bilim Pharmaceuticals Production Quantities 2013-2014 72% over a 5 year Çerkezköy Processing Facility (G4-4) period to reach USD 45.4 million. Located in the Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone, the Çerkezköy Processing Facility is built on an area of 22,000 m2 with an *USD * USD indoor area of 9,250 m2. The facility entered operation in 1998. 26.4 million 45.4 Million Penicillin Oral Solid (tablets, film covered tablets, capsules and dry (2010) (2014) powder suspension) and Penicillin Powder Injectable drugs are manufactured at Bilim Çerkezköy Processing Facility, which has a Share of total exports of total production capacity of 44 million boxes per year. (Appendix: pharmaceutical products: Table 1: Products Manufactured at the Çerkezköy Processing Facility and Their Amounts). 5,2% (2014) BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 6 BOARD OF The Chairman and Deputy Chairman have no executive duty in the company. The CEO is also the Chairman of the Executive Board. DIRECTORS Shareholders may table suggestions to the highest governance body, but they have no power to give instructions. Methods and mechanisms determined on how to obtain the expectations of shareholders and other stakeholders, are defined in detail in the Bilfar Holding, which was the owner of more than 97% shares of company’s “Strategic Plan (SP) and Annual Plan and Budget Bilim Pharmaceuticals Co., and Bilim Pharmaceuticals merged on (APB) Approach”. 3 January 2014. Number of Board Member remained same as 4. Members of the Board of Directors are elected by the General Assembly and convene at least once a month and, if necessary, Shareholding Structure more than once a month in accordance with the regulations on jointstock companies. Board members are predominantly individuals 55,6884 60 with a high level of knowledge, experience and expertise in the 50 40 36,7531 areas of Marketing, Finance and the Pharmaceutical Industry. 30 20 10 Chaired by the CEO, the Directors Committee is comprised of 2,1426 1,0636 1,0636 1,0636 1,0636 0,0311 0,0042 1,1262 0 the heads of all departments who directly report to the CEO. The ağ aç aç ağ raa ç ğa ç ğa ç ğa ğa ç n ara ağ aç ğa ç eri erl committee convenes once a week. The ratios of men and women in the Committee are 64% and 36%. ara ara Ka raa raa raa aş ara raa Diğ tK lK Ka Ka Ka nB il K Ka len ma an ra na rra rte ren yd Es Mi Se aE Ad Bü Ke So M. lse fa tm Gü sta Fa Mu Table 4: Shareholding Structure (%) Chairman Deputy Chairman Board Member Board Member Bülent Karaağaç Mustafa Kemal Karaağaç Erhan Baş Serdar Tamer Kaygan After graduating from the School Mustafa Kemal Karaağaç Erhan Baş graduated Serdar Tamer Kaygan graduated of Business at Indiana University, graduated from the from the Faculty of from the Department Of Business Bülent Karaağaç went on to Business School of Medicine at Istanbul Administration at Ankara University complete a Master’s degree in Manchester University. University in 1983. in 1989 and completed a Master’s Accounting from the Roosevelt Mustafa Kemal Karaağaç Erhan Baş has more degree in the same university in University. Bülent Karaağaç has more than 30 years of than 25 years of 1993. Kaygan has more than 11 has more than 35 years of experience working in the experience working in years of experience in the sector. experience working in the sector. sector. the sector. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS ORGANZATION STRUCTURE GENERAL MANAGER (CEO) INDUSTRIAL SCIENTIFIC OPERATIONS OPERATIONS FINANCE QUALITY RESOURCE PLANNING FOREIGN MARKETS MARKETING MARKETING RELATIONS DEPARTMENT DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR I DIRECTOR II MANAGER1 DIRECTOR GEBZE ÇERKEZKÖY PUBLIC RELATIONS PRODUCTION BUSINESS BUSINESS MANAGER QUALITY CONTROL EXPORT R&D FORMULATION PRODUCTION PRODUCTION PLANNING UNIT MANAGER UNIT MANAGER MANAGER ÇERKEZKÖY MANAGER MANAGER MANAGER MANAGER MANAGER TYPHOON STORM MEDICAL SUPPORT BUSINESS BUSINESS MANAGER QUALITY CONTROL ACCOUNTING R&D ANALYTICAL WAREHOUSES WAREHOUSES UNIT MANAGER UNIT MANAGER MANAGER GEBZE MANAGER MANAGER MANAGER MANAGER HURRICANE LIGHTNING BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT BUSINESS BUSINESS QUALITY ASSURANCE PROCUREMENT LICENSING TECHNICAL SERVICES TECHNICAL SERVICES MANAGER UNIT MANAGER UNIT MANAGER MANAGER GEBZE MANAGER MANAGER MANAGER MANAGER NORTH-EASTER STAR 3 INFORMATION BUSINESS BUSINESS TECHNOLOGIES QUALITY ASSURANCE BUDGET and COST ACCOUNTING SUPERVISOR UNIT MANAGER UNIT MANAGER MANAGER MANAGER ÇERKEZKÖY VOLCANO THUNDERBOLT HUMAN RESOURCES NATIONAL SALES SALES TRAINING MANAGER MANAGER SUPERVISOR 4 CORPORATE ANALYSIS OF MARKET COMMUNICATIONS MARKETING SERVICES DEVELOPMENT SUPERVISOR MANAGER SUPERVISOR 5 SALES FORCE PRODUCTIVITY DEPARTMENT2 NOTE: The positions numbered 1, 3, 4 and 5 were abolished in 2014. Position 2 was created in 2014. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 7 8 OUR VALUES Ethics management The three axes of justice, accountability and transparency are of Human happiness tremendous importance, with ethics running in the DNA of our decision making processes. We are aware of our obligation to abide by national and global laws and rules. We believe in the We know that quality of life is based on human happiness. importance of being able to sleep with peace of mind. We think the competence of our employees is reflected in our customers’ happiness. We believe that the concept ‘respect for people’ is the most important link of this chain. A passion for success Respect for the future We know that the first step taken on any journey of success is passion. We think that having a solution-oriented positive generations character will allow us to reach the biggest achievements. We believe each and every new day is the messenger of new success Change We know that we are responsible for the world we leave to future generations. We think it is vital to wisely utilize all global resources especially water and energy. We believe in the importance of providing economic, ecological and sociological contributions to We know that the only thing that does not change is change the community. itself. We think that change does not only mean ‘being open to innovation’; it also means differentiating and developing. We believe we must continuously improve and develop our business within the framework of the principle of excellence. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 9 OUR BOARDS Figure 2 Note: The boards shown in pink are sponsored by the CEO, while the boards shown in blue operate independently. STAKEHOLDER Stakeholder Visits ENGAGEMENT In 2013 and 2014, doctors, pharmacists and partners from various countries were invited to Istanbul and were taken to the (G4-24, G4-25) production facilities at Bilim Pharmaceuticals, where they were informed about the Turkish pharmaceutical technology and our Stakeholders are those individuals and/or corporations which are production processes. Within the scope of such we visited 333 affected by our activities or affect our activities. In this respect, our stakeholders in 2013 and 245 stakeholders in 2014 in 15 stakeholders are our employees, customers, business partners/ countries. suppliers, shareholders, public institutions, sectoral associations, non-governmental organizations, the media and the community. We set up clear, transparent and reliable relationships with all of our stakeholders and act with the understanding of ethical and principled management. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 10 Management of Stakeholder Communication (G4-26, G4-27) Stakeholders Communication Channels Objective Notice Boards (continuous), Bilim Portal (continuous), Electronic Communication (continuous), Quality Day (in case of necessity on the basis directorship), CEO Information Meetings (twice annually), Marketing End Period Meetings (annual), Open Door Meetings (monthly), Acquaintance Cocktails (when necessary), “Welcome to the Club!” Dinner (when necessary), Meetings with Special Agenda (when necessary), Social-Sports Events (within the framework of the communications plan), Bilim Family Activities (within the framework of the communications plan), To achieve a unity of the language and goals among our Field Period Meetings (every three months), employees through active and HR Regional Visits (when necessary), various communication channels/ Employee Satisfaction Surveys (annual), tools, to provide the opportunity to follow the corporate agenda Employees Subject-Based Surveys (annual), and guidance, to increase their Focus Group Negotiations (annual), competency, to contribute to Performance Negotiations (annual), their development, to ensure their Individual Suggestion System (continuous), participation in work processes and to promote their motivation Boards (every three months), and loyalty. Guest of the Month (in the framework of the communications plan), Departmental Meetings (when necessary), Bilim Portal News from Bilim (when necessary), Motivation Practices (when necessary), Marketing-HR Coordination Meetings (when necessary), Quality Circle and Quality Improvement Projects, Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Platform (continuous), Reputation Ambassadors Platform (continuous), Orientation Program (monthly), Exit Interview (when necessary), Phase Trainings (when necessary), BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 11 Management of Stakeholder Communication (G4-26, G4-27) Stakeholders Communication Channels Objective Medical Promotion Representative Visits (continuous), Factory Visits (continuous), Customer Visits (continuous), Scientific Meetings, Congresses / Panels / Conferences (when necessary), To understand our customers’ expectations and requirements accurately Customer Satisfaction Survey (every two years), by establishing bidirectional, sustainable Customers Customer Focus Group Research (when necessary), and qualified communication channels Pharmacy Consultancy Board (when necessary), and to apply our processes in this direction. Physician Consultancy Board (when necessary), Foreign Market Partner Meetings (continuous), Phone Calls (continuous), Complaints (continuous) Supplier Visits (continuous), Factory Visits (continuous), Supplier Satisfaction Survey (every two years), To trade ethically with our suppliers and Suppliers and Supplier Evaluation Survey (when assessing new suppliers collaborations and to create awareness Collaborations and when necessary), on sustainability. Business Partners Summit (every two years), Supplier Audits (continuous), Phone Calls and Visits (continuous) Board of Directors Meetings (monthly), Activity Reports (monthly), To raise the level of satisfaction of Shareholders Annual Plan Budget Meetings (according to schedule, 3-4 shareholders and to strengthen their times a year), investment motivation. Strategic Plan Meetings (according to schedule, 2-3 times a year) Project Partnerships (continuous), To provide information about the sector, Memberships, Participation in Meetings (continuous), to ensure full compliance with the laws Public Institutes, and regulations, to offer suggestions with Sectoral Associations Benchmark Studies (when necessary/ within the respect to new draft laws and regulations framework of the benchmarking plan) in order to contribute to the development of the sector. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 12 Management of Stakeholder Communication (G4-26, G4-27) Stakeholders Communication Channels Objective Project Partnerships, To contribute to the development of Non-Governmental Memberships, NGOs, to employ their expertise and to Organizations Representation create an environment of mutual learning. Press Meetings (where necessary), Press Bulletins (where necessary), To strengthen our corporate reputation, Interviews (where necessary), Media to ensure transparency and to inform the Factory Visits (where necessary), community Corporate Reputation and Research on Perception (every two years) Awareness Raising Efforts (continuous), Factory Visits (for students, on request), To be sensitive, respectful, and Corporate Reputation and Research on Perception (every responsive to the needs of the community Community two years), and to contribute to social and cultural development Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Platform (continuous) Table 5: Stakeholder Communication BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 13 MATERIALITY Materiality and Borders (G4-17, G4-18) This report contains economic, social and environmental impacts The distribution of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ priority issues based on of organizations in the consolidated financial statements of BİLİM Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ business strategies and stakeholder views PHARMACEUTICALS. are set out in detail in the following matrix. Workshops are conducted with groups that have the authority The scope and boundaries of the report are determined in to set the company’s strategic priorities, as well as with different accordance with the ideas received from different stakeholder stakeholder groups in order to map out the priorities for Bilim groups through workshops. The report is designed in such Pharmaceuticals. A framework for BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS’ a manner that all stakeholders can easily reach the issues of PRIORITY ISSUES emerged as a result of these workshops. concern and information they seek. Table 6: Materiality Matrix BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 14 Material Issues (G4-19, G4-20, G4-21) A strategically important element for Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Workshops are identified as the first priority Product Excellence and element for our internal stakeholders, principally the Sustainability Board, Board of Directors and Employees of Patient Health and Safety Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Due to its significant prioritization by our external stakeholders, the issue is covered in detail in the report. Economic performance is of tremendous great importance in terms of the continuity of operations at Bilim Economic Performance Pharmaceuticals. Applications and data are highly important for our stakeholders, considering the indirect economic impacts. This item is deemed to be of high priority, especially by the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Sustainability Board and the Innovation and R&D Board of Directors, while it is deemed at a lower priority for our external stakeholders. At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we focus on Ethics and Compliance, which has been identified as a first priority Ethics and Compliance issue, in particular by pharmaceutical wholesalers and pharmacies. Appropriate Working Appropriate Working Conditions, which we attach the highest importance to in the context of caring for our Conditions employees, is ranked as having the highest importance among NGOs and international organizations. The Environmental and This is ranked in middle places by the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Sustainability Board among the priority issues social compliance of and ranked second by the pharmacies and pharmaceutical wholesalers. suppliers Occupational health and The health and safety of our employees is the most important priority of our company and external safety stakeholders, NGOs and international organizations, and the 3rd highest priority for Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ sensitivity to the environmental is amply demonstrated in its operations, and is Environmental Protection approached with the same sensitivity and has been identified as a priority issue by our external stakeholders, the COSB (Cerkezkoy Organized Industrial Zone) and the GOSB (Gebze Organized Industrial Zone). The Physicians and Patients Association, one of our external stakeholders, prioritized Access to Drugs at the Access to Medicines top level, while at Bilim Pharmaceuticals it was identified as a high priority by the Board of Directors. Suppliers, one of our external stakeholders, placed the highest priority on Employee Development among the Employee Development priority issues ranking, demonstrating as much sensitivity to the issue as Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Diversity, Equal Opportunity The issue, which was identified as the top priority by NGOs and international organizations, was prioritized at and Non-Discrimination the 8th level by employees of Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Although Waste Management was not among the priority issues for external stakeholders, it was identified as Waste Management a priority issue by the Sustainability Board of Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Although the element of Social Investment Work was not among external stakeholders’ priority issues, it was Social Investment identified as a priority issue by the employees of Bilim Pharmaceuticals The Water Usage issue was prioritized at the most important issue by our external stakeholders, the COSB Water Usage (Cerkezkoy Organized Industrial Zone) and the GOSB (Gebze Organized İndustrial Zone), and as the second most important issue by the Physicians and Patients Association. Prevention of Corruption The Prevention of Corruption and Anti-competitive Behavior was prioritized at the first level by suppliers, and Anti-competitive one of our external stakeholders, while it was determined as the 4th most important issue by pharmaceutical Behavior wholesalers and pharmacies. Table 7: Priority Factors BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 15 OUR AWARDS 1999 2000 2003 2004 2006 2007 Environmental Certificate from the Istanbul Chamber of Industry Çerkezköy Chamber of Industry A first in the Turkish A first in the pharmaceutical sector Kariyer.net Ministry of Environment “Sectoral Environmental and Commerce pharmaceutical sector “National Quality “Respect for People Award” Initiative Award” “Environmental Award” “EFQM Competence in Grand Prize” in the pharmaceutical Excellence Approval” sector category 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 • Kariyer.net • Kariyer.net –“Respect for • SEDEFED (Federation of Industrial • Corporate Volunteers • Turkey’s first “Sustainable Winner of CSR “Respect for People Award” Humans Award” in the Associations) and Competition Association– Brand” award Europe Turkey leg in the pharmaceutical pharmaceutical sector category Forum “Most Competitive Awards from the Heart • Winning Award in Corporate sector category • Corporate Volunteers Company of the Year Award” “Most Creative Project” and Social Responsibility Association • Corporate Volunteers Association Association “The Most • CSR Europe Enterprise 2020 “Most Successful Volunteer” Marketplace Stakeholder and PERYÖN – Successful Voluntary “Turkish Representative” Awards • Second prize in “The Stars Awards from the Heart Program Award” National Quality Award for • PERYÖN Human Management of Exports” competition, in the “PERYÖN SpecialAward” • KSS (Corporate Social Sustainability in Perfection Awards Talent New Markets – Market Diversity • PERYÖN Human Management Responsibility Association) • Kocaeli Chamber of Industry – Management Award category Awards – Finalist in the Turkey-CSR Europe “KSS “Sahabettin Bilgisu • PERYÖN Human Management “Training and Development/ Solutions Winning Award” in Environmental Award Awards – Finalist in the Talent Management and Turkey • European Business Award – “Hiring” category Applications that make a “Ruban d'Honneur Award • EFQM – Excellence Award difference” categories • Kariyer.net “Respect for and Achievement Award in 4 Humans Award” in the categories pharmaceutical sector category Figure 3 BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 16 ETHICS AND Ethics Board COMPLIANCE Our Board of Ethics continues the work with the aim of having our employees adopt our values and, in line with our ethics principles, creating a positive corporate atmosphere that emotions such as Our understanding of Ethics Management respect, honesty, and responsibility are felt strongly. Employees’ problems with Ethical Principles they encounter in everyday At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, the main demonstration of our way of business life, complaints and notices delivered by the employees, doing business is our values. Ethicals Management is the most pillar suppliers, or customers on ethics are discussed in the Ethics of our values. Our approach to ethical management is founded on Board. Business Ethics Principles and Policies which will form the our corporate values and operating principles stemming from our basis of the work of the Ethics Board, and the decisions taken activities, which we successfully carried out for many years. by considering laws, societal values and organizational values are reported directly to the Chairman of the Board of Directors. Our business ethics principles do not only protect our corporation and employees but also serve as a guide that helps us see the Decisions are implemented with the approval of the Chairman of way in light of all our decisions and activities goes beyond laws, the Board of Directors. regulations and procedures. Our Business Ethics Principles, which play an important role in protecting and strengthening the Our Board consists of five members, four of whom are fully relationship of trust between our corporation and the stakeholders, affiliated members (full time) and one independent member being as well as the third parties which it works with, consists of two a consultant. The Board aims to provide the highest level of parts Business Ethics Guidelines and Principles. objectivity and fairness with the participation of a legally competent independent member in the decision making process. In our understanding of Ethics Management, all members of the management, all of our employees and the members of the Board of Directors all have a stake. All members of the management are STAKEHOLDER OPINION responsible for ensuring suitable business ethics guidelines and TAYFUN ZAMAN (TEİD General Secretary) principles. The Chairman of the Board is responsible for organizing The Ethics Board in order to ensure the healthy application of work business ethics procedures. OUR ETHICS BOARD Chairman Dilek Mete Human Resources Manager Fully affiliated Kadriye Özçelik Quality Director Member Fully affiliated Metin Topsakal Medical Support Manager Member Fully affiliated Sibel Duran Çerkezköy Quality Member Assurance Manager Independent Zeki Pekgenç Business Law Attorney Member ETHICS BOARD CONTACT INFORMATION Phone: 0212 365 17 61 e-mail: etik@bilimilac.com The Ethics and Reputation Society (TEİD) has been promoting the understanding, adoption, and dissemination of the universal principles of business ethics and has ensured their place at the heart of the company’s written culture since 2010. In this regard, TEID aims to come to a point where it reflects companies’ experiences of commercial organizations in every corner of Turkey and becomes a reference point, while supporting their development with the best practices. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 17 Today, a new working understanding is crucial where ethical compliance with these principles by signing a commitment to values are at the heart of what we do, and these values have ethical management. become indispensable to corporate culture. The preconception that attaching importance to ethical values leads to a dilution in the The Bilim Pharmaceuticals Human Rights Project, which we value or profits of companies has been shown to be false. One implemented in 2013, aims to keep all Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ of the best examples in this regard can be seen in the value of employees informed of and raise their awareness of general companies trading on the US Dow Jones stock exchange, where human rights concepts, human rights and corporate practices, those companies which practice ethical management and work to and mobbing. At the end of the project, employees should be a code of ethics and are known as ethical by investors have, on informed of their rights and the rights of the other employees they average, a valuation 5 percentage right? higher than the valuation work with both in the working environment and outside working of companies in the same sector of equivalent size which do not hours, and should act on this awareness. practice ethical management. 193 employees attended the “Human Rights and Discrimination” One of the milestones of the journey that started with ethics training which we conducted within the scope of the Business is reputation. The impact of a company’s reputation on their World Human Rights Capacity Building Program, 327 employees efficiency was shown in a research study which found that 76% attended the “Mobbing” (Psychological harassment) training, of respondents agreed with the statement that “the products of 91 people attended the “Internal Gender Equality” training and companies which have business ethics are of better quality”, with 76 attended the “Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Human Rights” training 87% saying they would purchase a reputable firm’s products if the program. In this context, a total of 316 hours of training were products were the same price. Over the course of our ongoing provided. collaboration since 2010, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has always been a special member with the support of the work of our Prevention of Corruption and Anti-competitive Behavior association on business ethics. As an Association we appreciate Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ intention to send a clear message to All of our activities at Bilim Pharmaceuticals comply with the law, all stakeholders on this issue by signing the “Business Ethics regulations and internationally recognized practices. We conduct Common Declaration”. relations with organizations and institutions which regulate, implement and monitor the rule of law consistent with our HUMAN RIGHTS AT principles of integrity, transparency and accuracy. Our commitment to ethical management prohibits any profiting BİLİM from the purchase and sale of goods and services, the award of any gift to any person or the completion of any payment with the intention of providing undue benefit or advantage to the Bilim Pharmaceuticals always starts from the reference of “people company with the help of the authorities. During our activities first”. Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ impact on Human Rights is kept we pay special attention to the issues of bribery and corruption. under the strict control by the Ethics Committee. The necessary Due to the nature of our sector, we make use of the knowledge complaint mechanisms have been established and the accuracy and services of health workers and scientists. We conduct our of all complaints that are passed through the mechanism are services without neglecting the fact that most of these people are analysed in confidence, and necessary actions are implemented public authorities and work for public institutions. It is imperative immediately. that no gifts or payment be made to public officials with the intent of affecting their decisions, or which could be perceived as an During the reporting period no complaints were submitted to the attempt to do so. Bilim Pharmaceuticals prohibits its employees, Ethics Committee with respect to any violation of Human Rights consultants, agents and other representatives from direct or through formal complaints mechanism. indirect involvement in commercial bribery. Human Rights Training At Bilim Pharmaceuticals The Ethics Management Handbook, our guidance on human rights, equality, justice management practices, was transformed into an online training and open access to all of our employees in 2014 and has been declared to be compulsory training. Employees who have completed this training are committed to working in BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 18 Bilim Pharmaceuticals offers all of its employees training on As of September 2010, the Ministry of Health started making use corruption and the prevention of anti-competitive behaviour, and of the “Pharmaceuticals Track and Trace System” that will ensure all employees are required to sign a commitment to comply with mandatory communication between the Ministry’s systems, drug the Code of Ethics to make certain of this process. In addition, manufacturers, drug distribution stores and pharmacies to prevent all workers are required to declare their acceptance of the drug counterfeiting. Thanks to the “Pharmaceuticals Track and protection of privacy rights by signing the Confidentiality and Trace System”, traceability is ensured at every point of the supply Non-Competition Protocol. In the event that these principles are chain, from the production phase of the drug, continuing until it violated, measures are taken in the legal framework (Appendix: reaches the patient. Table 8: Communication and Training, Training Hours and Number of People Related to Anti-Corruption Policies and Procedures). Bilim Pharmaceuticals has realized full automation in all processes In tackling corruption, Bilim Pharmaceuticals ensures that all of between systems from production lines to the storage of products, its stakeholders, as well as its stakeholders, have access to the from the sales order to the production / sales declaration to the Ethics Board with our complaint mechanisms that are actively in Ministry of Health in Turkey. use as well as trainings. Bilim Pharmaceuticals employees who inform are under the employment security. Their employment The latest technologies are used in our Factories; cannot be terminated by any other person or administrator as a • Werum Production Management System (MES) and SAP result of any complaints associated with such action. Likewise, any system, used in production lines, of our members who have been the subject of false complaints • The Antares Medication Tracking System (ATS) and SAP are protected by employment security. With this method, we system, providing barcode printing in pharmaceutical production enable our employees to transmit their complaints to our Ethics lines, Board without interference or obstruction from managers, senior • The Schaffer Warehouse Management System (WMS) and management or colleagues. SAP System, which allow products to be placed on the highest shelves managed unattended, During the reporting period, no cases were recorded relating • The WMS system and SAP system, that undertake drug to trustification or monopolization. During this time, there were shipments to stores without human error, no recorded cases of corruption, firing due to corruption or any • Caretta system (T&T) which performs automatic notifications to disciplinary sanctions. There were no cases of cancellation due to Ministry Systems (MOH) violations related to corruption with our business partners. In addition to meeting the country’s regulatory requirements, this Traceability in the Drug Procurement Process and technology has raised manufacturing at Bilim Pharmaceuticals to Anti-Counterfeiting world-class levels and is regarded as an example of good practice in the Pharmaceuticals Tracking System at the international level, The Pharmaceutical Track and Trace System is a system that which will be rolled out worldwide in the future. aims to eliminate fraud in medicine by allowing traceability from RISK the production of a drug until it reaches the final patient at every point of the entire supply chain. Bilim pharmaceuticals runs a fully integrated Pharmaceutical Track and Trace System with SAP (ERP) system which employs MANAGEMENT advanced technology enabling full automation between systems in all processes from production lines to the storage of products, At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, risk management processes are from the sales order to the production / sales notice to the Ministry designed to manage and establish the prevention, prioritization, of Health in Turkey. and evaluation stages of risks as required by the regulations which apply to it, established practices and the risk management culture. Conducting studies for preventing the emergence of risks in an environment of existing continuous process of revision and improvement, as well as implementing preventive measures, is essential. In this stage, which preventive and protective activities are undertaken, the inclusion of two elements which are important components of the risk management process are of particular importance; BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 19 SUSTAINABILITY 1Receiving and evaluating stakeholder views 2Supporting sustainability Bilim Pharmaceuticals demonstrates the maximum effort to use resources in the most economical and efficient manner. In this MANAGEMENT context, a precautionary approach is at the forefront of its business As a responsible company, Bilim Pharmaceuticals aims to processes. According to Principle 15 of the Rio Declaration, a become a company engaged not only in positioning itself as a precautionary approach is defined as ‘In order to protect the profit-oriented company; but also investing in the future of our environment, the precautionary approach shall be widely applied sector, our country and our world as well as in their own future, by States according to their capabilities. Where there are threats with its sustainability work. According to studies conducted in the of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty sector, it is recognized as a “sustainability leader”. shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation’ At all levels of our organization, we strive to become “a company that respects future generations” and we are implementing social Prioritization of the risks likely to occur, despite the preventive investment projects through the principle of “respect for future measures being taken, is one of the most important elements of generations”. the risk management process. As a result of the evaluations of all of directorates with stakeholder feedback, the risk measurements We have been implementing the EFQM (European Foundation which calculate effects and probabilities constitute the basis for for Quality Management) Excellence Model since 1998 as a risk management plans and shed light on the work of which quality model in business processes and in the process we have risk management tactics and strategies will be developed must assumed a more corporate structure. We have been measuring be addressed first. The prioritization process, in which the our economic, environmental and social impacts and preparing improvement plans to reach better standards Sustainability Board also plays an active role, enables work related to risks which are deemed important (which have a high We are considered as an “example company” in sustainability, not probability of occurrence and significant effects to be carried out only in the pharmaceutical industry but across all sectors and we in a much more efficient manner and to spread. share our experiences and knowledge in many different platforms. Risk assessment, on the other hand, includes studies of the Our primary target is to build our sustainability approach within our elimination of risks that arise for internal or external reasons corporate culture and to support the participation and development despite all efforts and preventive measures, minimizing the effect of all our stakeholders, placing priority on our employees, our and also avoiding repetition. Risks which are assessed through customers and our suppliers on this journey. risk assessment environments in 10 different environments are evaluated within the framework of specific plans for each We manage corporate reputation effectively not only in the strategic risk within the framework of a risk management plan pharmaceutical industry but across all sectors, being considered and the effects are minimized with the selected measures. We among the “sample “companies in this field, and we share our are aware that the most important element in our excellent risk knowledge and our experience on many different platforms. At management, in terms of procedures and regulations as well as Bilim Pharmaceuticals, business strategies based on sustainable our actual implementations, is the involvement of all stakeholders. development are adopted, where “sustainable development” has an important place in the strategic plan. Behind all of this work Our work on risk management will assume a more significant is the fact that we have built corporate value of our company role in the corporate culture and improvements will remain an together with our employees and integrated our values with our important part of the strategic plan. processes and all our employees within the scope of the BI’L Leadership Model we are implementing. Transparency and accountability form the foundation of our sustainability strategy. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 20 Our employees take pride in working for a company which is a responsible contributor to OUR MEMBERSHIPS the ecosystem and the society in which they live. Collaborating with external initiatives, which is the complementary element in achieving our Strategic Sustainability Targets, The sustainability efforts we have undertaken in line with our represents an important place in the business processes of Bilim philosophy of sustainable living for future generations is aimed at Pharmaceuticals. providing a positive contribution to our business results. Being a responsible company strengthens our reputation, enables us to do • Gebze Chamber of Commerce our job better, strengthens our relationship with our stakeholders, • Kocaeli Chamber of Commerce increases the satisfaction and commitment of our employees • Çerkezköy Chamber of Commerce and Industry and allows us to save. In addition, sustainability studies trigger • IMMIBIstanbul Minerals and corporate learning, improve our capacity and promote a culture of Metals Exporters' Associations innovation. Thus, our employees have the satisfaction in knowing that they are working for a company which contributes positively • IEISPharmaceutical Manufacturers to the ecosystem and the society in which they live. Association of Turkey • ÇOSBÇerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone Our Strategic Sustainability Targets • GOSBGebze Organized Industrial Zone Industrialists' Association • Integrating the sustainability approach into the corporate culture • UNGC United Nations Global Compact • Instilling an awareness of sustainability by strengthening • TKYD Corporate Governance Association stakeholder dialogue of Turkey • Execution of improvement works • KALDER Quality Association of Turkey • To come to a leading position in sustainability. • OSGD The Corporate Volunteers Association • Continuous monitoring – evaluation for improvement • TEID Turkey Ethics and Reputation Society • PERYON Turkey People Management Associatio n Supported by the CEO, the Sustainability Board comprises of those • KSSD Corporate Social Responsibility Associatio n who have the right to make decisions on behalf of all departments • Genç Basari Vakfi The Young Achievement of the company. In order to integrate the sustainability approach Education Foundation into all business strategies, our sustainability board drafts strategic • WWF World Wide Fund for Nature plans, determines targets and monitors and evaluates practices. • AÇEVThe Mother Child Education Foundation The implementation and dissemination of our main strategic • FODER Association for Financial Literacy and goals are followed and encouraged under the leadership of Access the Sustainability Board. On our ongoing and newly developed • TEMA Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, supporting Reforestation and the projects, we are developing and evaluating issues in all aspects Protection of Natural Habitats with our collaboration with internal stakeholders, NGOs and international sustainability platforms. Mandatory memberships Our Sustainability Board follows and encourages the realization of Voluntary sector based memberships our strategic sustainability goals. Voluntary memberships and NGO memberships BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 21 Our Collaborations Within The Framework Of Our Commitment To Corporate Responsibility Our CEO, senior management, managers and employees from all departments such as field, factory, headquarters all work as volunteers in around 20 associations, NGOs, and foundations such as the Private Sector Volunteers Association, Turkish Quality Association, PERYÖN, Ethics and Reputation Society, the UN Global Compact. We are also involved in the management process of the institutions which we support voluntarily. Our CEO was Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Private Sector Volunteers Association in the 2013 – 2014 period, and his duty will continue until 2016. He is acting as a member of the board of directors between 2013 and 2016 at the Turkey Local Area Network of the UN Global Compact, the largest corporate citizenship initiative in international extent, and we also actively support a wide array of working groups in various fields such as the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) and Business for Peace (B4P). We also have a presence as a Member of the Board of Directors on organizations such as KalDer, IEIS and TEİD. In addition to those organizations that we are members of and support the management, we also conduct projects in partnership and periodic business associations with important institutions such as the WWF, TEMA, ACEV and Step by step. Figure 4: Business for Peace (B4P) BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 22 BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 24 ECONOMIC VALUE According to 2014 figures Bilim Pharmaceuticals was ranked 1st in terms of doctors’ prescription preferences with its medicines accounting for 8.3 out of every 100 prescriptions in the prescriptions market, which reached 720,596,644 boxes. In a research study conducted by the Capital magazine in 2014 to determine Turkey’s largest In terms of the number of boxes sold to the market, Bilim 500 companies, Bilim Pharmaceuticals was Pharmaceuticals completed 2014 as the 2nd most popular ranked 289th. Also in 2014, our company was pharmaceuticals company with 116,399,622 boxes sold and a ranked 429th in the “Top 1000 Exporters of 6.4% market share. Turkey” list published by the Turkish Exporters Assembly (TIM). With a 3.4% market share, Bilim Pharmaceuticals was ranked 7th in the Turkish pharmaceutical market with total sales of TL 498,826,638 in 2014, in a market with total net sales of TL Bilim Pharmaceuticals was the most popular pharmaceuticals 14,598,129,696. company with its medicines accounting for 8.7 out of every 100 prescriptions, reaching a total of 696,398,652 prescriptions Bilim Pharmaceuticals was one of the five highest ranking in 2013. In terms of the number of boxes sold to the market, companies in terms of turnover in three (antibiotics, respiratory Bilim Pharmaceuticals ended 2013 in 2nd place with a 6.7% system, muscular and skeletal system drugs) of the five segments market share, with 1,774,376,952 boxes sold in 2013. In the accounting for the highest sales volume, particularly in Turkey. Turkish pharmaceutical industry, which reached a volume of TL Bilim Pharmaceuticals owned 103 licensed drugs in the market in 13,412,434,029 in 2013, Bilim Pharmaceuticals was ranked 2013 and 115 in 2014. 6th with a 3.9% market share. 2013 2014 Turkish Turkish Bilim Share Bilim Share Pharmaceutical Ranking Pharmaceutical Ranking Pharmaceuticals % Pharmaceuticals % Market Market Prescription 696.398.652 60.704.977 8,7 1 720.596.644 59.567.140 8,3 1 Boxes 1.774.376.952 118.355.423 6,7 2 1.822.369.005 116.399.622 6,4 2 TL 13.412.434.029 516.956.970 3,9 6 14.598.129.696 498.826.638 3,4 7 Table 9: Bilim Pharmaceuticals in the Turkish Pharmaceutical Industry Social Security Administration Unemployment SSA Total (SSA) Employers Employees 2013 14.036.002 1.921.142 15.957.144 2014 12.202.380 1.591.957 13.794.337 Income tax Stamp Duty Total Tax 2013 103.570.411 942.280 104.512.690 2014 84.982.715 774.965 85.757.679 Table 10: Our Economic Value Added: Employee Aspect BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 25 Ratio in Total Ratio in Total 2013 (TL) 2014 (TL) Payments Payments Payments Total 124.147.535,53 100,00% 102.104.232,82 100,00% Total Benefits 27.834.302,44 22,42% 23.693.642,20 23,21% Bonus 23.207.825,36 18,69% 19.859.633,63 19,45% Family Assistance 1.010.863,17 0,81% 1.032.352,38 1,01% Child Benefit 196.153,26 0,16% 190.335,56 0,19% Fuel Benefit 309.450,24 0,25% 233.552,88 0,23% Annual Leave-allowance 27.909,64 0,02% 24.737,40 0,02% Religious festival-allowance 210.484,16 0,17% 157.162,84 0,15% Seniority Incentive Bonus 70.511,10 0,06% 92.636,58 0,09% Marriage Financial Benefit 31.090,50 0,03% 29.106,00 0,03% Death Benefits ( Relative ) 2.149,92 0,00% 2.811,45 0,00% Birth Financial Benefit 41.013,00 0,03% 41.674,50 0,04% Social Benefit 1.606.474,66 1,29% 1.334.920,25 1,31% Support on entry 461.412,95 0,37% 195.095,28 0,19% Health insurance 658.964,48 0,53% 499.623,45 0,49% Table 11: Employee Wages and Benefits Contributions of Our Investments to the Country’s Our External Market Activities Economy Bilim Pharmaceuticals has been conducting commercial activities Our total gross sales to international markets realized 21% YoY in international markets within the framework of its sustainable growth in dollar terms in 2013 and 1% YoY growth in 2014. In growth target, and its vision has been defined as “to be a net TL terms, we realized 30% YoY growth to international markets in exporter by 2020”. Our company has the necessary knowledge 2013 and 16% growth in 2014. (Appendix xx: Table 12: Trends and experience in international sales and promotion activities with in turnover from sales to international markets 2011-2014). its expert staff and has achieved major strides towards becoming a global company in recent years. In line with our 2020 vision, in addition to the opening of representative offices in Moldova, Albania and BosniaHerzegovina, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has been positioning its brand with its partners in more than 50 markets. 208 New Product Licenses Managing our opportunities and threats in international markets is an important component of realizing our vision. In international markets, the risks to be managed in this process include the Bilim Pharmaceuticals obtained 129 product licenses in various perception of production in Turkey, the introduction of price countries in 2013 and 79 new licenses in 2014. regulations by the government authority, permit regulations, delays in obtaining licenses and reimbursement lists, while the supportive effect of the weaker Turkish Lira on exports, the trend of falling API prices, the government’s efforts to promote exports through programs such as Turquality and the pricing environment in external markets represent opportunities in the same process. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 26 Our Contribution to Turkey’s Foreign Trade Economics Bilim Pharmaceuticals and R & D The foreign trade deficit, which is of critical importance for the Bilim Pharmaceuticals is proud to command a leading position Turkish economy, has remained significant in our industry. The in the Turkish pharmaceuticals market, with our own products export coverage ratio in the industry was just 18% in 2014, but we have developed and obtained the licenses for in our R & D this ratio stood at 61% for Bilim Pharmaceuticals in 2014. laboratories, thanks to our continually evolving R & D efforts. • Foreign Trade Deficit of the Turkish Pharmaceutical Sector In this respect, our company is the largest domestic manufacturer (USD, millions) (Appendix: Table 13: Foreign Trade Deficit of the of generic drugs with respect to original drug sales in the national Turkish Pharmaceutical Sector) pharmaceutical market. We maintain our investments in this area • Foreign Trade Deficit of Bilim Pharmaceuticals (USD, in order to protect this position by placing importance on R & D millions) (Appendix: Table: 14: Foreign Trade Deficit of Bilim activities. Pharmaceuticals) Our R & D work is currently the focus of our exports to 58 Our Export Shares by Country countries. The number of products which we have acquired licenses for has grown each year. Table 15 shows the share of Turkey’s total pharmaceutical product exports by country and the share of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ exports At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, the main starting point of the growth in by country. (Appendix: Table 15: Share Bilim Pharmaceutical’s our sales target is the priority we attach to technology-based R & exports in total Pharmaceutical Product exports from Turkey by D activities and increasing the budget allocated constantly. Country, %) 2. For instance, exports to Iraq totaled USD 75 million in 2013, Investment in Innovation while Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ exports to Iraq totaled USD 9.3 million. The company’s exports to Iraq accounted for 12% of The investments we have undertaken are not limited to buildings Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ total exports in 2013; this share increased and equipment. As a company, we also undertake large to 15% in 2014. According to figures published by the Exporters’ investments in competent human resources. Project teams working Association, we accounted for 6.6% of Turkey’s total exports of in our R & D department are competent scientific researchers pharmaceutical products in 2013 and 5.2% of the total in 2014. (such as Pharmaceutical Chemistry Specialists, Pharmaceutical Technology Specialists, Patent Proxies, Pharmacologists and INNOVATION and Analytical Chemists). The R & D department employs more than 100 scientists. Within the framework of the Career Management R&D AT BILIM System which we have been implementing, the “Graduate Study Program” is organized for employees who wish to enroll on a Master’s degree course or PhD, with support extended to R & D An Emphasis on Finding and Developing New Products Center employees. 90% of the products for which we have a license in the international More than 110 scientists are employed in the R&D center, market were developed through our R & D activities. Thanks to where equivalent versions of original drugs – whose patents our license files, which comply with international regulations in have expired – are offered to the market. The center is equipped order to respond to customer and market demands, as well as with 220 different items of state-of-the-art equipment. Bilim our R&D plant and production quality at high standards, we are Pharmaceuticals provides a significant contribution to the able to offer our drug portfolio to international markets. We have a Turkish economy with the new products developed in the Bilim cardiovascular product approved by the UK Department of Health Pharmaceuticals R&D Center, which is the largest R&D center and an anti-diabetic drug approved by the German Ministry of in the Turkish pharmaceutical industry with a laboratory area of Health. Our products are also sold in Europe. In addition, as of 4,500 m2. Equipped with the latest technology, the R&D Center the end of 2014, our products were being sold in 58 different deploys technologically advanced and sensitive laboratory devices countries from the Far East to Latin America and Africa to the as well as laboratory data automation and R&D pilot production Middle East, standing as testament to Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ facilities which meet FDA (*) standards. presence and quality in global markets. 1 İKMİB Istanbul Chemicals and Chemical Products Exporters’ Association 2 Commodity Group Country Report Istanbul Mineral and Metals Exporters’ Association (İMMİB) 3 Exporters’ Associations, which continue their activities under the Ministry of Economy Foreign Trade Undersecretariat, are divided based on sector. Pharmaceutical exports are classified as Pharmaceutical Products under the Istanbul Chemicals and Chemical Products Exporters’ Association. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 27 Two of our drugs were licensed in Western Europe. Part of our Investment Incentives strategic plan involves exporting drugs to Europe and the USA in the following days from our two production plants, which were Bilim Pharmaceuticals had submitted a total of 21 TUBITAK approved by the UK and Germany. projects by the end of 2013. Our aim is to reduce the costs per project by increasing the number of low cost projects. We therefore Even during the times of crisis, Bilim Pharmaceuticals did not aim to reach the highest level of product quality, increase product cease its R& D investment. Our company aims to further increase diversity and increase the number of projects that will provide its investments in the coming periods and allocate funding equal the highest contribution to human health. (Appendix: Table 16: to 8% of its net sales to R&D projects every year. Financial Assistance Received From the State) As a result of a multifaceted evaluation undertaken by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, the 2014 R & D Center Performance Index was created. According to the results of this report, Bilim Pharmaceuticals was ranked 2nd in the sector rankings at the end of 2014. For detailed information about our R&D Center, please refer to the 2012 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report. (http://www.bilimilac.com. TÜBİTAK The Department tr/tr/dosyalar/kurumsal-sorumluluk/kurumsalsorumlulukof Technology and Innovation raporlari/1_55366647_bilim_ilac_ks_rapor_2012.pdf ) Funding Programs Directorate Our modern R & D Center, which employs different technologies, was established with the aim aims to develop high patient compliance, reduced side-effects of speeding up the process of and patient friendly products. turning technology into social benefit and supporting activities Capsule Tablet Technology orientated towards the development of research and technology and • The products manufactured using this technology were not innovation of industrial corporations affected by a lethal dose or low treatment success problem. in our country. Thus, the target is • Provides controlled release to single or combination form of to boost the skills of our country’s drugs. corporations in research and • Provides cost-effective therapy and patient satisfaction. technology, as well as innovative • Delayed, extended release profiles may be obtained. culture and competitive capacity. • Drug release can be targeted in two different regions. The Department of Technology • Provides less costly treatment in the long-term treatments. and Innovation Funding Programs • It has a very wide range of applications as therapeutic. Directorate designs and manages support programs in view of these Modified Release Tablet Technology: targets. Inflatable Hydrophilic Matrix: • High drug loading • Less fluctuation of the level of drugs in the blood • Reduction in the need for drug administration • Reduction of side effects • Reducing costs while contributing to the economy Modified Release Tablets-Delayed Release Targeting • Protects acid labile drugs from effects gastric fluid (such as enzymes and various antibiotics) • Prevents stomach upset and nausea or irritation of the stomach • Drugs are delivered to the intestines • Absorption takes place in the intestines BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 28 With the investment incentive certificates we have received from the Ministry of the Economy we have benefited from VAT and Resource Utilization Support Fund (RUSF) exemption and investment allowances in the Corporate Tax account. (Appendix: Table 17: Tax reductions). In 2014, the following incentives were received based on country from International Unit, Brand and Advertising Activities Incentive, No. 2010/6. Moldova: USD 484.00 Bosnia and Herzegovina: USD 6,377.00 Intellectual and Industrial Property Rights Patents, one of the most elements of Intellectual Industrial and Commercial Copyrights, are tools that provide legal protection for inventions developed by companies and individuals. In order to encourage inventions and to enable technical, economic and social developments in the application of inventions into industry, the protection of inventions through patents and useful model certifications have been brought in our country under law 551 “Legislative Decree About The Protection of Patent Rights”. Bilim Pharmaceuticals knows the importance of patenting and has therefore established a department for patenting as a first step. Bilim Pharmaceuticals remains loyal to its values in view of these laws and acts lawfully in respect to industrial property rights protected by the law. Our corporation also receives external support for other intellectual and industrial rights. We also observe the intellectual and industrial property rights of companies that we work with as business partners. As Bilim Pharmaceuticals we stay loyal to our values in view of the laws and act lawfully in respect to industrial property rights as protected by the law. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 OUR SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Ekip 30 WORKFORCE OF BILIM Number of employees by gender Female Male Total PHARMACEUTICALS Below 30 Years old 173 442 615 30-40 Years old 159 814 973 2013 40-50 Years Old 29 139 168 One of our priorities at Bilim Pharmaceuticals concerns the rights, Over 50 Years Old 1 17 18 motivation, working conditions and well-being of our employees. Total 362 1412 1774 We are aware that Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ success is only possible when our employees feel peaceful and safe within the company. Below 30 Years old 170 381 551 All implementations for our employees are shaped with this 30-40 Years old 150 680 830 awareness in mind. 2014 40-50 Years Old 34 157 191 Over 50 Years Old 0 18 18 Demographic Data of Our Employees Total 354 1236 1590 Employment Data Showing Seniority Status White Blue Total Seniority Group Female Male Total Collar Collar 0-2 Years 189 604 793 Head Office 184 1 185 3-5 Years 65 269 334 Çerkezköy 61 68 129 6-10 Years 70 336 406 2013 Gebze 211 255 466 2013 11-15 Years 23 119 142 Field 994 0 994 Over 16 Years 15 84 99 Total 1450 324 1774 Total 362 1412 1774 Head Office 164 1 165 0-2 Years 177 476 653 Çerkezköy 58 92 150 3-5 Years 63 242 305 2014 Gebze 184 248 432 6-10 Years 71 279 350 2014 Field 843 0 843 11-15 Years 22 137 159 Total 1249 341 1590 Over 16 Years 21 102 123 Total 354 1236 1590 Tablo 18: Number of employees Distribution of Disabled Workers by Gender Female Male Total Cinsiyet Kırılımlı Personel Sayısı 2013 5 24 29 Female Male Total 2014 6 27 33 Head Office 90 95 185 Employment by Contract Type Çerkezköy 27 102 129 Female Male Total 2013 Gebze 134 332 466 Permanent 357 1412 1769 Field 111 883 994 2013 Temporary 5 0 5 Total 362 1412 1774 Total 362 1412 1774 Head Office 84 81 165 Permanent 352 1236 1588 Çerkezköy 33 117 150 2014 Temporary 2 0 2 2014 Gebze 125 307 432 Total 354 1236 1590 Field 112 731 843 Total 354 1236 1590 Tablo 20: Demographic information of our employees (LA12) Tablo 19: Number of employees by gender BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 31 Principles of Employees’ Rights Maternity Leave The principle of treating our employees with fairness and respect In 2013, 24 of our female employees took maternity leave, is the fundamental reason for our company’s high standing in of whom 20 returned to work, and 98 male employees took the industry. This principle is assured with our Employees’ Rights paternity leave and returned to work. The ratio of employees Principles. returning to work is 83.3% for female employees and 100% for male employees. In 2014, 24 of our female employees took In this context, our primary principles are; maternity leave and returned to work and 121 male employees • No forced labour • No child labour took paternity leave and returned to work; in 2014, all employees • No discrimination returned to work for both female and male employees. (Appendix: • Providing occupational health and safety Table 22: Ratio of Employees who return to work after giving • Ensuring proper working conditions that comply with legislation birth, Appendix: Table 23: Ratio of Employees who stayed at • Ensuring proper working hours and wages; work after giving birth). The company complies fully with these principles. Moreover, queries and complaints submitted by our employees who believe Diversity, Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination there are discrepancies between the laws and practices they Bilim Pharmaceuticals owes its innovative, dynamic and highly encounter in the workplace and our policies and principles may experienced structure to the diversity of its employees. The rights be passed on to the Upper Management, Human Resources of each and every employee that make up the valuable structure Division and the Ethics Board without the employees feeling under of our company is a priority for us. Equal Opportunities and nonpressure. discrimination is also one of these rights. If our employees feel a One of our principles on employee rights is a firm stance taken violation of their rights, they may notify the HR Department and against forced labour and child labour, principles we unfailingly Ethics Board. comply with. We also insist that our suppliers and collaborations In the reporting period no complaints of discrimination were comply with the same principles. received. Our company has an overtime policy and employees may work overtime with the approval of the management. Overtime pay Our Recruitment Process is based on the rates determined by law. Overtime is planned Our recruitment process allows the recruitment of the right staff by our employees and put into practice upon the approval of in parallel with the company culture, while meeting the need our directors. Overtime pay is paid after the total overtime hours for quality and competence. In line with our principle of equal of our employees is recorded in their payrolls in the respective opportunity, our HR policy is based on hiring in accordance month based on the rates determined by law. (Appendix: Table with the basic tools of our recruitment process set out in our 21: The scope of the company’s compensation obligations). Qualifications Catalogue without considering school, region, Unionization and collective bargaining is a constitutional right and gender, sexual orientation, religion, language or race as criteria. Bilim Pharmaceuticals respects and does not restrict those rights The principle of equal opportunity is the basic building block of of our employees within the framework of Employee Rights. Our our recruitment process. At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we create company is not a member of any union and we do not engage in equal opportunities for all candidates, accepting and assessing any union-related activities. No Bilim Pharmaceuticals employee applications from candidates without specifying distinctions such has entered a collective bargaining agreement. Our Human as gender, age and so on. Resources Policy can be accessed from our website. (www. bilimilac.com) Our part-time employees are paid the net wage with all social and fringe benefits reflected to their wages. The positions of part-time employees are jobs that require different competencies, and two employees serve as consultants in this area. Our term contract workers contract obligatory cases such as maternity leave. When vacancies occur, contracted workers are considered as a priority in the hiring process. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 32 Defined competencies are one of our most important tools with Age and Gender Distribution of Hired Employees respect to the creation of equality of opportunity during the recruitment process. We determine our favored candidates by Age Women Men Total evaluating their competencies with multiple tools and observers. Range The recruitment process is not a special process solely for the Below 30 HR department; all managers have equal responsibility in the 83 141 224 years old process. Following the evaluation, candidates who successfully pass the process go through a reference check before we deliver 2013 30-50 39 186 225 our job offers. years old Total 122 327 449 Candidates not included in the job hiring process are notified following the completion of the process. Below 30 182 75 257 years old Total Application Rate Female/Male 2014 30-50 63 20 83 Gender No of Applications Application Ratio (%) years old Male 20.957 53 Total 245 95 340 Female 18.324 47 Total 39.281 100 Table 26: Age and Gender Distribution of Hired Employees Field Employees Application Rate Female/Male Distribution of Employees Resigning from Their Positions Gender No of Applications Application Ratio (%) Male 14.476 72 Age Range Female Male Total Female 5.664 28 Below 30 63 107 170 Total 20.140 100 years old 30-40 Table 24: 2013 Total Application Rate 93 348 441 2013 years old Total Application Rate Female/Male 40-50 8 63 71 Gender No of Applications Application Ratio (%) years old Male 17.565 57 Total 164 518 682 Female 13.049 43 Below 30 57 132 189 Total 30.614 100 years old Field Employees Application Rate Female/Male 30-40 42 254 296 Gender No of Applications Application Ratio (%) 2014 years old Male 3.105 75 40-50 4 34 38 Female 1.018 25 years old Total 4.123 100 Total 103 420 523 Table 25: 2014 Total Application Rate Table 27: Age and Gender Distribution of Employees Resigning from Their Positions The reason for the low proportion of women is the industryspecific travel frequency of field staff which constitute the Recruitment of Locals in the Representative Offices majority of the employees, as well as the spread of the geographical dispersion. All of our employees working for representative offices located in countries shown in Table 28 are from the local community; country managers in our offices are also members of the local community and are in the senior management category. (Appendix: Table 28: Number of Employees from the Local Community Working at Representative Offices 2013 & 2014) BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 33 Ratio of Average Wages to Minimum Wage 2013 2014 Titles Male (%) Female (%) Male (%) Female (%) Regional Director 265,20 240,10 256,00 225,60 Employee 520,90 542,70 490,80 515,00 Operator 116,70 125,60 115,50 109,10 Technician with 2 Year 166,60 176,40 168,90 179,70 University diploma Technician 153,90 148,20 153,00 143,50 Medical Representative 193,60 186,10 190,00 182,80 Tıbbi Tanıtım Sorumlusu 208,70 182,20 202,40 167,00 Table 29: Ratio of Average Wages to Minimum Wage Male and Female Breakdown BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 34 Gender Distribution at Managerial Level General Years Location Gender Directors Managers Supervisors Grand Total Managers Male 1 4 21 28 54 Head Office Female 8 20 28 Total 1 4 29 48 82 Male 2 4 6 Çerkezköy Female 1 2 3 Total 3 6 9 2013 Male 2 5 11 18 Gebze Female 2 13 15 Total 2 7 24 33 Male 12 102 114 Field Female 3 3 Total 12 105 117 Grand Total 1 6 51 183 241 Male 1 5 16 22 44 Head Office Female 8 19 27 Total 1 5 24 41 71 Male 2 3 5 Çerkezköy Female 1 2 3 Total 3 5 8 2014 Male 2 4 10 16 Gebze Female 1 1 11 13 Total 3 5 21 29 Male 12 67 79 Field Female 2 2 Total 12 69 81 Grand Total 8 44 136 189 Table 30: Gender Distribution at Managerial Level BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 35 Age Distribution at Managerial Level General Years Location Gender Directors Managers Supervisor Grand Total Manager Below 30 years old 3 3 30-50 years old 3 25 44 72 Head Office Over 50 years old 1 1 4 1 7 Total 1 4 29 48 82 30-50 years old 3 5 8 Çerkezköy Over 50 years old 1 1 Total 3 6 9 Below 30 years old 1 1 30-50 years old 1 5 23 29 2013 Gebze Over 50 years old 1 2 3 Total 2 7 24 33 30-50 years old 11 105 116 Field Over 50 years old 1 1 Total 12 105 117 Below 30 years old 0 0 0 4 4 30-50 years old 0 4 44 177 225 Grand Total Over 50 years old 1 2 7 2 12 Total 1 6 51 183 241 Below 30 years old 4 4 30-50 years old 4 19 36 59 Head Office Over 50 years old 1 1 5 1 8 Total 1 5 24 41 71 30-50 years old 3 4 7 Çerkezköy Over 50 years old 1 1 Total 0 0 3 5 8 30-50 years old 2 4 21 27 2014 Gebze Over 50 years old 1 1 2 Total 0 3 5 21 29 30-50 years old 10 69 79 Field Over 50 years old 2 2 Total 0 0 12 69 81 Younger than 30 years old 0 0 0 4 4 30-50 years old 0 6 36 130 172 Grand Total Over 50 years old 1 2 8 2 13 Total 1 8 44 136 189 Table 31: Age Distribution at Managerial Level BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 36 Development of Employees At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, data from training programs is measured under four main categories. These are Total Quality Systems When defining our training and development target, we aim to Training, which regulates Quality, Environment, Occupational Hecreate an employee profile which would provide the organization alth and Safety standards in a single framework; Personal Destructure in line with our company’s requirements; in other words velopment Training, where the participant determines their own its mission, vision, values, strategic plan and primary business special training needs and assumes responsibility for their devetargets. (Appendix: Table 32: Categorized Employee Training, lopment; Vocational Training which focuses on professional deve2013 Appendix: Table 33: Categorized Employee Training, 2014). lopment and supports the accumulation of technical information; and Leadership Training. In addition, employee safety and health In order to realize our corporation’s vision, we see the creation training data can be monitored separately under the Occupational of a learning organization as the basic element of strategic HR Health and Safety and Environment categories. management. For this purpose, we provide all of our employees with new learning methods and various learning tools at our Online training through the BilmK@ampus system is assigned by platform, BilimK@mpüs. the HR department for newly hired employees; OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety at Work Management Systems standards training, ISO 14001 Environmental Management Sys63 tems, Occupational Health and Safety Basic TrainingGeneral Issues, Customer Complaints Notice and Bilim Pharmaceuticals 59 Ethical Management Training are all e-training programs to be 58 56 completed on a mandatory basis. 55 12,21 10,7 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 3,92 3,53 2,03 Table 34: Training Hours Per Employee on Annual Basis Each of our employees has a special development platform at 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 bilimk@mpüs. They may access the standard development progTable 37: Per capita Occupational Health and Safety Training hours. rams and individual development tools that they require for their career development and business targets. (Appendix: Table 35: Average Annual Training Hours Allocated Per Employee by Gender and Employee Category-2013, Appendix: Table 36: Average Annual Training Hours Allocated Per Employee by Gender and Employee Category-2013). Bilim Pharmaceuticals determines personal development and technical development needs through the Education Focus Group Discussions with departmental managers and training guides and training needs analysis during the BilimK@mpus event each year, and implements training plans towards it. The required followups on the implementation of the planned training programs are undertaken by the Training Unit of the Human Resources Department, Department Managers and internal trainers and the development process is monitored every year. Figure 5: 2013 Training Report BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 37 even better than themselves, and to use this information to offer them the careers of their dreams. In 2000, we launched the Career Management System which we consider to be the basis for the Talent Management System in which our employees can exhibit their talents, recognize and improve their potentials and receive consultancy for their career targets. Our systems operate as a guide in each step that our personnel take in their careers. Our Talent Management System is built on; • Attracting talent into the company, • Finding the right talent, • Discovering the talent, • Connecting talent with the company, • Developing the talent. Target Realized 64 43 36 20 11 8 10 8 Figure 6: 2014 Training Report Job Enrichment Horizontal Career Post Graduate and Total Development of New Employees Movement Doctorate Support For employees who have been newly hired to our company, Table 38: 2014 Number of employees whose careers were developed we provide company orientation programs, with Sales Training Programs for employees in Sales and Quality Systems and As of 2014 our number of employees whose graduate studies Technical Development training for our employees who work supported performance indicators; started to be monitored as in the production, technical and quality areas. We benefit from number of employees whose career developed with graduate studies, job enrichment or horizontal career move. both external sources and our internal training staff related to these training programs and we take active responsibility in this Performance and Potential Evaluation area. We allocate a budget for outsourced training programs for purposes such as determining annual strategic plans, targeted technological development and developing competencies in As “Human Resources”, we see each employee terms of people management. In addition, we provide financial as a source of talent, and offer a participative work support for participation in seminars and conferences programs environment for them to uncover and develop their provided outside the company. potential by preparing individual development opportunities for them. A total of 164 employees were sent to conferences and seminars in 2013 and 201 employees in 2014, and financial support As soon as they start to work with us, we discuss career paths is provided. In addition, 1,174 employees attended training with our employees and provide them with information on the expected criteria they need to achieve on their individual career programs received from an external consulting firm within the paths. The assignment criteria for each position is prepared in company during 2013, and 468 employees attended these advance. Our employees are aware of which criteria they need to programs in 2014. realize for which position. lında 1174, 2014 yılında ise 468 çalışanımız katılım göstermiştir. Talent Management System In an environment where companies compete to find experienced, qualified and competent employees, we believe the best way to find and retain high-performing employees is to get to know them BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 38 In the Talent Management System every year, at the end of the Other than that under our system defined in our company, we performance evaluation process, specialists and managers will be support our employees’ Master and PhD developments. If our evaluated as the target group with the career paths in mind for a employees in the “Stars Team” wish to participate in the graduate higher position within the scope of transparent appointment criteria. degree or a doctorate we offer scholarships and time to those employees. Specialists and staff receive 50% support for During the “Performance and Potential Evaluation” processes, scholarships, managers receive 60% support and executives and our employees who receive feedback about their strong and directors receive 70% support. improvable aspects to reach their career goals develop their potential through our learning platform in the areas they want to Scholarship support is only provided to the Stars Team. Support improve. is given in the form of one full day per week of paid leave (to compensate for the weekend). Paid leave is available for all In 2013 percentage of employees participating in our evaluation employees. Thesis and reports that are prepared by our supported process was realized as 85.1%. Ratio of employees not included in employees are shared with our employees through an Information the performance process, due to the date of entry is 13% while the Sharing Platform on our education portal, BilimK@mpus. ratio of employees who are not included in the performance process, due to long-term medical report or maternity leave is 1.9%. 2012 2013 2014 135 112 124 105 In 2014 percentage of employees participating in our evaluation 80 process was realized as 83.7% Ratio of employees not included in 60 the performance process, due to the date of entry is 13.6% while 44 45 23 the ratio of employees who are not included in the performance process, due to long-term medical report or maternity leave is 2.7%. Number of employees who Number of employees in the Total talented individuals are continuing the training pool to have completed the Stars Team training Stars Team Table 39: Number of employees in the Stars Team Our Stars Team is our target group, which consists of the employees who are one step ahead of other employees in terms The number of employees included in the Stars Team is expected of their performance and potential compared to other employees. to increase in 2015-2016 with the selection of the Stars Team Under the Talent Management model and our back up system, Purple Group candidates. we call our talented employees the Stars Team. We offer the employees who are in our Stars Team one of the biggest In addition, the “Employment Support Program”, training on opportunities that they can benefit from throughout their entire CV Preparation and Interviewing Techniques is provided to career development process. employees is provided and a CV pool created and shared with pharmaceutical companies and with companies in other related We have invested in the development of five main groups. sectors, and verbal counseling support is provided in line with In this process, the Blue Group represents the First Level the needs. Managers Development Program; the Green Group is the Middle Management Development Program; the Red Group is the Senior Employee Branding Practices Executive Development Program; the Yellow Group consists of the New Vocational Program and the Purple Group represents the The Bilim Ailem Project (Bilim Family) aims to raise the satisfaction Professional Specialization Program. and commitment of our employees to higher levels, to maintain continuous communication within the company and contribute to Those employees who have successfully completed their the personal and social development of our employees’ families. development here are directed to “the Assignment Assessment We have expanded our HR policy to cover the “Our Family” title Center”, where they are offered career opportunities. in line with suggestions put forward by our employees during the periodic meetings we held in 2005 and we have shaped HR practices for our employees’ families under the “Bilim Family” roof. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 39 Figure 7: If the children of Bilim come to work Figure 9: Bilim-mini Fathers’ Day We had initially dealt with families and children together in the Bilim Family Project, but as of 2006 we have brought two separate practices – the Bilim Family and Bilim Children’s World under the Bilim Family roof due to the differences in our children’s interests and demands, and as a result of feedback from our employees. With the “Bilim Children’s World”, developed in the Bilim Family, we have created a club in which the children of our employees are members. Figure 10: If Bilim’s children come to work… Figure 8: Distribution of Stationery Set We met our employees and families through various events and activities under the “We Derive Strength from our families” approach in our HR Policy. In this context, within the framework of the “Bilim Family Activities”, we realized 4 activities including the March 8 International Women’s Day, Mother’s Day & Father’s Day Celebrations, Baby Basket & Baby Care Book distribution Figure 11: 2876 trees planted by the Bilimailem-Çekül (Foundation for the and CEO Promotion Celebrations during 2013. We also held four Protection and Promotion of the Environment and Cultural Heritage) activities during 2014 including March 8 International Women’s Day, Mother’s Day & Father’s Day Celebrations, Sale Campaigns and CEO Promotion Celebrations. As part of the “Bilim Children World Activities”, we performed a total of six activities during 2013; the April 23 Activity Bulletin, the April 23 Cupcake Course, the Semester Activities Bulletin, the Distribution of Stationery, the Journal / Book / DVD Submissions and the Çekül Birthday Card Application. The activities we carried out in 2014 included the ‘When the Bilim Children Come to Work’ and again the Distribution of Stationery equipment and Sale Campaigns. (Appendix: Table 40: Our Employee Branding Practices) BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 40 Our Social and Sport Activities Club SOSAK Since 2003, we have been organizing activities that are fun, which promote the development of our employees and which As a platform that is established with the voluntary participation reinforce communication, which allow our employees to spend of our employees working in different departments within our time together outside work. We actively use e-mail, banners and company, SOSAK organizes activities in line with the feedback social media channels to communicate our company’s social and they receive from the employees, plans prepared in the beginning sporting activities to all employees. As part of the social activities, of every year. we organize New Year parties, a day of tasting the products of different companies, prize competitions, discounted activities, concerts and theatre participation. For sporting activities, we traditionally organize bowling, pool, backgammon and football tournaments. We have also organized sightseeing tours. Ratio of Internal Promotions On the first day our employees start to work with us, we give them information about what is expected from them and the goals they must accomplish in their career paths. The criteria for the assignment of each position have been prepared in advance. Our employees know which criteria they must fulfill for which position. In the Talent Management System every year, at the end of the performance evaluation process, specialists and managers will be evaluated as the target group with the career paths in mind for a higher position within the scope of transparent appointment criteria. In 2014, we approached our goal as a result of the gradual appointments made by defining a career management system designed specific to each department in the Scientific Department Figure 12: SOSAK Marketing – New Years’ Calendar under the Directorate for Quality and Business. Accordingly, the rate of internal promotions was 80.5% in 2013, and 88.1% in In order to strengthen our communication with our employees 2014. Assignment rates among candidates who satisfy all the and to foster an environment of social interaction between criteria by gender were 100% for the women and 99% for the employees, in 2003 SOSAK began to systematically organize men in both 2013 and 2014. We expect to reach the target in social and sporting activities which are included in SOSAK’s activity 2015 by specialist assignments and assignments from the talent programs. Through these activities, we support the business and pool to be realized. private life balance of our employees and organize social events that bring our employees together. Key Employees One of our most important goals as a leader is to create opportunities to achieve a competitive advantage in our own areas and sustain it. At the heart of our ability to create such opportunities is the team that we have founded and the talent that we have raised. Therefore, all corporations need to identify high-potential employees who they believe create added value or will create in the future. We also have started the process of determining “key employees” by evaluations conducted in 2014, in order to Figure 13: SOSAK Businesses New Years’ Calendar determine which employees in our company create value added, or who we believe have the potential to create value. In 2014, we found that 23.6% of the female employees and 38.2% of the male employees met all the criteria in the assessment as a key employee is 23.6% for women while 38.2% for men. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 41 OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System standards. Our Çerkezköy Production Facility has held the IMS Certification since 2004. As our Gebze Production Facility was certified in 2010, the scope of the certification was expanded so as to cover our entire company. The Occupational Health and Safety Management System has been structured in Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ OHS policy and risk analysis foundation. Risk analysis studies are repeated every 3 years in accordance with Risk Assessment Regulation throughout Table 41: Ratio of employees assessed as key to total employees the corporation. Hazards stemming from our activities within the study content, as well as risks are ascertained by evaluating the Special development programs are designed to meet the needs possibility of their occurrence and severity. A business plan is of the 5 basic groups whose development we have invested in, formulated with regard to non-acceptable risks by taking the and the processes are followed. Work has been carried out on degree of risk into account. Targets related to withdrawal of these response assessment in monitoring the development, exchanges risks to the acceptable levels will be integrated into the annual of information, behavioral changes and organizational impact OHS targets. Activity plans are taken into OSH management and the calculation of return of the investment in education thus, program. Higher level risks are evaluated by the OHS Board. The the development of the leader candidates who have graduated management program is reviewed at specified intervals. from our Leadership Development Program and our leaders is guaranteed. Natural disasters which may adversely affect the business continuity and operational emergencies are also regarded as part OCCUPATIONAL of the risk analysis. In our facilities, emergency drills conducted twice a year with the participation of all employees and emergency crews. HEALTH AND Checks and tests continue to be performed regularly for all SAFETY employees under the “Workplace Health Surveillance Procedure”. OHS Board As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, Occupational Health and Safety (OHS), is an issue we have shown a high degree of sensitivity to. The In addition to the members who are defined in regard to health and safety of all employees in business processes is under the requirements of the Occupational Health and Safety our responsibility. Our OHS management system and our policy Board’s Regulations, the OHS board also includes department was set up with this awareness in mind. representatives at the management and specialist level. The board convenes at least once a month and conducts an evaluation and The Occupational health and safety management revision with the following agenda: • Risk Analysis Results, OHS Targets, OHS Management Program system is structured on the basis of Bilim • Internal and External Inspection Findings, Corrective and Pharmaceuticals OHS policy and risk analysis. Preventative Activities and Improvement Plans • Findings and Recommendations Presented by Employee OHS Management Representatives and Other Board Members • Job Accidents, Accident Risk, ‘Close Call’ Accident and Bilim Pharmaceuticals applies the IMS (Integrated Management Occupational Sickness Bulletins System) which integrated the Quality, Environment, Occupational • OHS Training Activities Health and Safety standards within a single framework. Our system is based on the cGMP, ISO 9001 Quality Management System, ISO 14001 Environmental Management System as well as the BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 42 • Preparations for Natural Disasters and Emergency Situations Total labor that formal joint management-worker health and safety • Assessment and review of the progress deriving from the committees which help to monitor occupational health and safety Current Status Analysis programs and give advice about them represented in the Table • Assessment and review of legal amendments (when necessary) 102. • Monthly assessment of performance indicators related to OHS (monthly) OHS Trainings • Assessment and review of innovative and creative ideas and learning data (when necessary) One of the performance indicators through which the effectiveness • Assessment and review of OHS policy (at the last quarter) of our company’s occupational health and safety practices is Ratio of Employees on Total Employees Duty to Total number Employees on Duty of Employees(%) Head Office Occupational Safety (OS) Committee 185 12 6 Gebze OS Committee 466 25 5 Çerkezköy OS Committee 129 15 12 2013 Head Office Occupational Health&Safety, Environment 185 7 4 (OHSE) Guides Gebze OHSE Guides 466 14 3 Çerkezköy OHS Work Team 129 12 9 Head Office Occupational Safety (OS) Committee 165 11 7 Gebze OS Committee 432 23 5 Çerkezköy OS Committee 150 15 10 2014 Head Office Occupational Health&Safety, Environment 165 7 4 (OHSE) Guides Gebze OHSE Guides 432 19 4 Çerkezköy OHS Work Team 150 12 8 Table 42: OHS Board and Study Team evaluated is “training provided within the scope of OHS”. Based on the regulations on occupational safety training programs OHS Working Group published by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, an average of at least 12 hours of OHS training is organized for each The teams are comprised of managers and specialists determined employee each year. by the management of each department. They meet on a monthly These include significant training programs in areas such as driving basis, or more often if deemed necessary, to conduct risk analysis techniques, ergonomics, behavior-oriented safety management, within the Training Management Systems context. Their job is to personal protection, intervention in emergency, protection against conduct revisions in accordance with experiences gleaned from explosions, risk assessment and manual handling lifting. An the practice of OHS, SOP and instructions, to ensure compliance average of at least 12 hours of OHS training is organized for each with safe job rules in the departments they represent, to evaluate employee each year. (Appendix: Table 43: 2014 OHS Trainings). OHS bulletins, to participate in internal inspection activities, and to plan and execute activities for areas open to development. Job-Related Accidents and Improvement Practices At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, the performance of applications related to occupational health and safety is evaluated through the KOA Regular medical screenings are performed to protect (Accident Weight Rate) basic performance indicator. While the the health of employees weighting of job-related injuries covers accidents which result in the loss of more than one working day, it indicates how many hours were lost in correlation to every 100 hours of actual working time during a calendar year. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 43 When any job-related accident occurs, we notify and report workers in the reference group in the same year and multiplying the accident and keep related statistics in accordance with the the value obtained by 100. “Procedure for Occupational Health, Safety and Environment Related Notices”. AWR = (total of work hours lost due to work accidents / total working hours) x 100 Within the scope of OHS, the following No accidents resulting in the loss of life or permanent incapacity were recorded at Bilim Pharmaceuticals. The Year Based Weight additional improvements and activities to Rates of Accident and figures for the Number of Accidents Based the current practice were undertaken in on gender are given in detail in Tables 44 and 45. 2013 and 2014; • The security level of the IBC mixing machine was Severity Rate of Occupational Accidents by Year (%) increased with the revisions. 2013 2014 • Foil loading equipment is provided for the blistering machines in order to eliminate ergonomic Accident Severity Rate (%) 0,027 0,036 risks during foil loading. Gebze 0,094 0,04 Çerkezköy 0,001 0,148 Subcontractors’ accidents are also included in calculating the Head Office and Regions 0,002 0,00 accident weight ratio. Bilim Pharmaceuticals is responsible for the occupational safety of subcontractors as the principal employer. Table 44: Severity Rate of Occupational Accidents Training related to safety before starting work for the subcontractors are arranged; the subcontractors are required to fulfill the relevant Gün Gün Yıl Kadın Erkek requirements related to job security. Moreover, sub-contractors Kaybı Kaybı are audited at specific intervals for compliance with occupational 2013 0 0 0 0 safety rules. As a result the inspection of subcontractors, it was Head Office 2014 0 0 0 0 found that no serious work accident occurred in 2013 or 2014. 2013 0 0 2 8 Field Regular medical scanning is performed to protect the health of 2014 0 0 0 0 employees. Beyond legal requirements, the scope of scanning 2013 13 63 14 131 covers measurement of the body-mass index, eye health, Gebze 2014 8 1 19 66 audiometric measurements, respiratory tests as well as other areas. The service is available to all employees who request it, 2013 0 0 1 3 Çerkezköy not only those in the risk group. 2014 3 99 5 83 Table 45: Number of Accidents Based on Gender Medical scanning includes scanning procedures that are compulsory by law and carried out under the supervision and instruction of our office doctor, as well as scanning procedures Illness Rates by Year which are needed at the end of the risk evaluation process. With 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 H this practice, we aim to reduce the rate of absence and illnesses by supporting our employees in a scope that goes beyond the legal Disease (%) 0,75 0,72 0,62 0,84 0,50 framework. Regular medical check-ups of our field employees, Male (%) 0,49 0,76 0,52 0,59 on the other hand, are carried out within the framework of “private Female (%) 1,87 0,48 1,00 1,82 health insurance”, as these facilities are some distance from the medical unit in our company. Table 46: Illness Rates by Year The illness rate includes maternity leave. The illness rate of our Absence Rates by Years female employees therefore appears higher. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 H There is no serious occupational illness within Bilim 2015 H 0,63 0,49 0,43 0,60 0,50 Pharmaceuticals. Absence (%) Severity Rate of Occupational Accidents by Year Male (%) 0,42 1,27 0,33 0,43 Female (%) 1,43 0,83 0,86 1,29 This is calculated dividing the total of work hours lost due to work accidents within the calendar year by sum of working hours of the Table 47: Absence Rates by Years BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 44 Lost Workforce Total Annual Working Absenteeism Total Absenteeism Illness Hours Hours Hours Hours Male 22.784,00 14.158,50 36.942,50 2013 Female 1.066.476,00 10.642,50 9.164,50 19.807,00 Total 5.417.419,50 33.426,50 23.323,00 56.749,50 Male 3.466.714,50 14.814,50 20.495,50 35.310,00 2014 Female 896.683,00 11.556,50 16.296,00 27.852,50 Total 4.363.397,50 26.371,00 36.791,50 63.162,50 Table 48: Lost Workforce • OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System standards. Occupational Health and Safety and Social Benefits – • Building security system that works with CCTV Çerkezköy • Office doctor, rest room, counseling services, nursery room • Cafeteria for employees, recreation areas, libraries and the The Bilim Çerkezköy Facility has been designed with a peopleinternet login area oriented perspective with a view to enhancing the living standards • Gym of our employees. In this respect, the occupational health and • The outer environment walking areas safety and social opportunities offered to employees in the Bilim Çerkezköy Production Facility are as follows: • OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT System standards. • Office doctor, rest room, counseling services, nursery room • Cafeteria for employees, recreation areas, libraries and an internet login area In the supply chain’s resource direction and sales oriented flow, • Gym Bilim Pharmaceuticals is at the second rung in terms of the • The outer environment walking areas downward flow of materials and the third rung in the upward flow from customers. Occupational Health and Safety and Social Benefits Gebze Suppliers Of Raw Pharmaceutical End User Materials Warehouses Bilim Gebze Production Facility has been designed with humanoriented perspective in the direction of enhancing the living standards of our employees. In this respect, occupational health Bilim Pharmaceuticals Pharmacies and safety and social opportunities offered to employees in the Bilim Gebze Production Facility are as follows: Figure 14: Supply Chain In our organization, activities within the scope of supply chain management are carried out through the upper processes for which Marketing, Foreign Markets, Resource Planning, Business Administration and Quality Departments are responsible for and are mentioned below, and through the parent processes defined within the scope of these upper processes; BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 45 • Customer Management Upper Process The Collaboration and Supply Chain Policy (CSC) • Supply Chain and Collaborations Management Upper Process • Operation Management Upper Process Our Collaboration and Supply Chain Policy contains six main • Physical Assets and Technology Management Upper Process elements, taking both the strengthening of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ • Sustainability Management Upper Process business processes and the development of our suppliers into consideration; The agreements of cooperation that are outside the scope of • We act with the awareness that the collaborations depend on our organization and our suppliers were defined and classified to working together for a long period of time and are contingent on manage them with the intention of obtaining sustainable benefit, sustainable value creation; we take the corporate and strategic and to plan them in a manner which supports our strategies and needs and our complementary strengths and capabilities as a policies. basis when determining strategic and operational collaborations. • In order to achieve mutual benefit with the organisations that Supplier: This is a business relationship with a term of less than we cooperate with and to achieve common goals, we form 3 years, where we purchase materials, products or services that and develop the structure that supports each other in terms of are necessary to perform our core business. expertise, resource and knowledge. • We establish a sustainable relationship based on mutual trust, Cooperation: This is a business relationship with a term of more respect and openness with the organisations that we cooperate than 3 years, where we give at least six orders in a year, or with. • We develop approaches for the organisations that we cooperate where this working relationship creates value for both sides in the so they are involved in the generation of ideas and innovation organization and the areas in which it is in cooperation. activities. • We develop processes to measure and evaluate the Project Cooperation: This is a project based working performance of the collaboration relationship and at the same relationship that adds value or creates value for both sides in the time, we understand the short and long-term expectations organization and the areas in which it is in cooperation. of the organisations that we cooperate with and manage their perceptions. Strategic – Critical Supplier Agreements and • We provide the necessary information flow and generate the Collaborations include all suppliers and collaborations where synergy needed to create added value in the customer supplier critical materials and services are procured within the scope of the chain. To this end, we monitor our stocks and exits in the Current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) and those suppliers distribution channels on a product basis and draw up production and supply plans according to the moving six-month demand and cooperation agreements that have the quality of making a plans. In this context, we also support our suppliers’ supply plans. leap-frog contribution to the Main Business Goals (MBG) at the same time and carry high importance to implement the strategies. Selection of Suppliers The Supply Chain and Collaboration Board (SCCB) that is Competence criteria are implemented through the use of the composed of the process owners who manage the collaborations Supplier Collaboration Selection Preliminary Assessment Form specifies the opportunities of supply and collaborations in (SCSPS). Organisations that meet at least 60% of the competence accordance with the Collaboration and Supply Chain Policy in line criteria specified in the SCSPS form are selected. Work is started with the collaboration needs covered in the Strategic Plan (SP) with the approval of the concerned director and The Supply Chain and Annual Budget Plan. and Collaboration Board is informed. This procedure does not apply to monopolies or formal/semiformal institutions. Goods and services are procured from a number of organisations The general criteria sought for all suppliers are specified below, (suppliers) in order to perform our manufacturing and services with the required subject specific competencies are as follows; and to manage our processes. Appendix: Table 49: Distribution of purchases according to amount (EC9). • Compliance with laws and regulations • ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 certifications Suppliers are divided into 3 categories such as approved, qualified • An appropriate approach to the articles with regard to Human and certified. This classification is reviewed in the assessments Rights and Working Conditions specified in the UN Global carried out every year and the suppliers that are upgraded to Compact Principles the next level are identified. Those organizations demonstrating • A competitive price a consistently good performance over time become the supply • Reference company list collaborations. • A satisfactory company history • New product / innovation capability BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 46 Field visits The prerequisite for sustainable success is to ensure sustainable supply. Making a difference in this sense is possible by increasing The UN Global Compact efficiency and quality. We have been evaluating the materials we criteria has a 10% weighting supply and our processes from these aspects through our source in the supplier selection and visits. Given its usefulness in managing demand and supply, the evaluation. Procurement Department plans regular visits to our suppliers. The Department carries out these visits by placing priority on manufacturing companies. Audit and Development of Suppliers The supply structure of the organization; 1. Demand and order management Suppliers are periodically monitored where their compliance to 2. Planning the Bilim Pharmaceuticals standards is checked. Monitoring is 3. Purchasing carried out in two ways. 4. Production 5. Inventory (stock) management • Audit 6. Warehouse Management • Annual Assessment We create and develop the supply structure that has the flexibility The evaluation of any changes in the suppliers’ processes, to immediately respond to constantly changing market conditions facilities, organisations and cGMP compliance is performed resulting from global competition. Within the framework of our through periodical audits to be carried out and / or with the risk-based approach, we continued to place the usual importance suppliers’ questionnaire. This covers the answering of questions on alternative supplier activities in the years of 2013 and 2014. in the questionnaire (ref.: cGMP, ISO 9001, Occupational Health This is also important in terms of backing up cooperation with the and Safety (OHS) and environmental impacts) and a site tour. The critical suppliers. (Appendix: Table 50: Number of Suppliers and requirement of a re-audit is decided according to the results of the risk assessment. Alternative Suppliers) The Quality Assurance Department is authorized to disqualify When it comes to the distribution of our suppliers, 35% of our a supplier or remove it from the reduced test position on the suppliers were foreign suppliers and 65% were domestic suppliers basis of rejection decisions, unsatisfactory historical data or audit in 2013; and this distribution changed in 2014 when 40% were results, or unacceptable cGMP nonconformities. foreign and 60% domestic. In the domestic market, consolidation was made only in technical purchases and the number of suppliers was reduced. • The purchasing monetary value stood at 211.4 million TL including imports / domestic raw material, packaging and technical No significant non-conformities on purchases; 78% of which were supplied as direct imports and 22% the issues of Occupational Health of which were procured from the domestic market. and Safety, environmental impacts or Human Rights were found during the supplier audits. These issues are included in the questions in the supplier audit question list and quality questionnaires and are within the scope of the audits. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 47 Country Based Supply Distribution Number of Suppliers Visited/Audited 2013 2014 %2 Total suppliers: 398 Total suppliers: 439 % 18 Planned audit number Planned audit number Turkey 55 = 13.81% 35 = %7,97 Far East Actual audit number Actual audit number % 45 Europe 35 = %8,79 8 = %1,82 USA Cancelled audit number % 35 20 = %5,02 Table 52: Number of Planned and Actual Supplier Audits In accordance with the strategy of increasing the effectiveness Table 51: Country based supply distribution of the GMP (Good Manufacturing Process) and IMS (Integrated Management System), critical suppliers and collaborations that were included in the audit plan by being assessed for risk Sustainability Performance are audited under the responsibility of the Quality Directorate. Authorities from the related departments (Quality Assurance We have a system in place for planning, implementation and Manager, Procurement Manager, Quality Control Manager, following up of audits to check the performance and competence Production Directorate) participate in these audits. As required by of the quality systems of the companies that are suppliers the audit systematic, any company -specific issues and solution who provide raw materials and packaging materials to Bilim suggestions are discussed together with the standard question Pharmaceuticals; contract manufacturing companies, and the list included in the relevant instruction of Quality Assurance companies from which other services are purchased. Manager. The company’s compliance with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 standards is investigated during these audits and the company is encouraged to implement them. Bilim For performance evaluation of raw material suppliers, packaging Pharmaceuticals’ mission, vision, values are shared with suppliers materials suppliers, contract manufacturing companies and during the investigations. The audit report prepared once the the companies from which other services are purchased, their audit is completed is given to the concerned parties by the Quality competencies in the fields of cGXP, ISO 9001, ISO 14001, Assurance Manager. Findings and corrective actions are shared in OHSAS 18001, ISO 17025, HACCP are checked according to Quality Directorship Department meetings, Quality Management the supplier company’s operation field. Systems Board meetings and the Supply Chain and Collaboration Board meetings. A Supplier / Contract Manufacturing Audit plan is prepared by the Directorate of Quality Assurance in the first quarter of each year The assessment activity is carried out for all strategic-critical (January-March period) and approved. Once a Quality Assurance suppliers and the collaborations that extend for more than 3 years and that are commissioned with at least 6 orders a year. System risk score is obtained after the supplier evaluation, the Root cause investigation is carried out on the basis of supplier action to be taken is determined for evaluation of the supplier’s in order to identify areas for improvement for the suppliers and quality assurance system. collaborations that are placed in the B and C categories under the Supplier Evaluation Procedure. The annual audit plan covers Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Gebze and Çerkezköy plants. The audit performed by a plant is considered The evaluation reports are reviewed in the Supply Chain and to be valid for the other plant. Collaboration Board (SCCB); the actions to be taken, which were 2 The audit plan is planned after the supplier evaluation activity; the plan does not include the total decided in the board, are shared with the suppliers. number of suppliers, but it includes those suppliers who are under evaluation. On the basis that the Technical support is provided, trainings are scheduled for audit realization percentage is calculated based on the number of actual / planned audits, the audit them to be upgraded to a level up and the progress is realization rate stood at 64% in 2013 (it was 100% according to what must be audited, but 36% of it was cancelled based on the evaluation performed). The audit rate stood at 23% in 2014. Given the monitored. current workload, firstly the companies needed to be audited was audited; when the 2015 audit plan was prepared, the audits not performed in 2014 was included in the plan. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 48 Ending a Collaboration and Supplier Relationship Bilim Pharmaceuticals sees “people, quality and the future” as its most important elements and attaches importance to them. Bilim As a result of the Annual Supplier Evaluation and / or when Pharmaceuticals takes all necessary measures for the drugs that necessary, supplier or collaboration relationship is ended upon it offers for use the recommendation of the Supply Chain and Collaboration Board that is held every 3 months and with the approval of the Board • to be at the defined international quality, of Directors. • to be used safely, • to demonstrate the expected effectiveness. Creation of Common Relation Networks That Will Facilitate the Identification of Possible Collaborations Our management and all of our employees ensure that these Training and all sharing mediums organized or supported by the goals are achieved with the responsibility and awareness of serving suppliers and various organisations provide important ground for human health. creation of relation networks. The current literature is followed up by buying online subscriptions. Relationships are established with the new companies to identify potential business collaborations A pioneer in the quality by participating in CPhI and/or Achema fairs. Related web sites are constantly scanned and necessary contacts are provided. In journey... addition, information is gathered from events, meetings and visits organized by the companies for promotion purposes. PRODUCT Bilim Pharmaceuticals was the first national company to have obtained “EFQM Competency Approval in Excellence” in 2004 EXCELLENCE, given by the European Quality Association. This was followed by Bilim Pharmaceuticals being the first organization in the PATIENT HEALTH pharmaceutical sector in Turkey to receive the “National Quality Grand Award” in 2006, awarded by TÜSİAD-KalDer. Bilim AND SAFETY Pharmaceuticals received the “Sustainability in Excellence Award” in 2010, which is considered the most prestigious award of the Excellence Model. In 2011, Bilim Pharmaceuticals was awarded Bilim Pharmaceuticals, directs its operations under the basic the “European Quality Award”, an award that no organization had understanding of “people first”, with an awareness that capturing qualified for in the proceeding 3 years in Europe, and was deemed excellence for patient health and safety is achieved through worthy of achievement awards in four different categories. product excellence. Accordingly, it concentrated on two main elements; (1) Quality Management and (2) Access to Medicine. The quality system implemented in our organization is at the level of and based on international standards. The system is based on A. Quality Management current regulations and guidelines (cGMP Good Manufacturing Practice, GLP-Good Laboratory Practice , GCPGood Clinical Acting on the principle of executing all its operations by placing Practice, and so on) and the principles of Quality Management priority on “quality”, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has continued its System (ISO 9001) as part of the integrated system. activities by adopting the EFQM Excellence Model since 1998. The model is an institutionalization and management model aimed The basic elements of our Quality Management System are at ensuring stakeholder satisfaction. The goal is to achieve results explained in the “Quality Policy” published by our company. Our that will ensure satisfaction among shareholders, customers, website provides further information concerning our Quality Policy employees and the community, to be a “pioneer” in the quality (http://www.bilimilac.com.tr/tr/bilimilac/politikalarimiz.html) and journey and to assume the role of guidance. Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 can be visited from (http://www.bilimilac.com.tr/tr/dosyalar/kurumsalsorumluluk/kurumsal-sorumlulukraporlari/1_55366647_bilim_ ilac_ks_rapor_2012.pdf) and details of the practices that we have implemented in this context. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 49 Product Safety Management surveys conducted every two years and plans to increase the satisfaction of customers have being implemented. We continuously check and evaluate the safety and effectiveness of all of our products for which we have a license and report to Sustainability Strategy for Patient Health the relevant authorities to enable healthcare professionals to recommend our products to consumers in confidence. When Bilim Pharmaceuticals is an industry-leading organization with required and after obtaining the official approvals, we send 100% Turkish capital which aims to provide unconditional support informative letters to healthcare professionals, organize meetings for public health and plays informative role between essential and convey the developments through our head office and field stakeholders patients and diseases for this purpose. staff within the Marketing Directorship. In the context of the diagnosis of diseases particularly, starting the The safety of our medicinal products for human use is treatment right and given the right treatment, Bilim Pharmaceuticals unwaveringly followed up by “Product Safety Representatives” that aims to establish sustainable collaborations in different therapeutic consist of doctors and pharmacists under the Pharmacovigilance areas strategically as a priority. Management established within the Medical Support Directorate. All kinds of information concerning the effectiveness and safety of Among the most important of these collaborations include the our products are continuously researched from both domestic and following; foreign sources. • Bilim Pharmaceuticals-sponsored professional development We inform personnel at all levels, particularly the marketing, head courses aimed at Emergency Medicine Interns and EMAT office and field staff, on how to handle, direct and follow up issues (Emergency Medicine Association of Turkey) and AEP (Association that may be raised by consumers or healthcare professionals of Emergency Physicians). The interns who complete the course concerning the safety of our products in line with the legislation are given training certificate. through in-service training. • We contributed to both communicating the current treatment algorithms to the doctors and increasing the awareness of diabetes Following the order to refer our products to safety personnel, based on the “Stop Diabetes” slogan throughout Turkey with personnel undertake the necessary initial assessment, receive Algorithm Meetings that we started together with the Algorithm additional information by reaching out to the person / persons Meetings Association. who had notified them, if necessary, and report to the authorities • In 2013 and 2014, we walked together in the Intercontinental within a maximum of 15 days in accordance with the urgency Eurasia Marathon as Bilim Pharmaceuticals and the Turkish and importance of this issue. If additional measures to be taken Diabetes Foundation on World Diabetes Day. We supported within the company, we inform the relevant department / division both the “Stop Diabetes” and the “Take a Step” projects with this and follow up on the issue. We evaluate whether there is a risk project. associated with product safety we share this assessment with the • We performed asthma training for 1st Step doctors through the relevant authorities in line with the risk analysis that we carry out doctors in the projects of educating patients in the field of Asthma periodically. and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) together with Turkish Respiratory Society (TRS). We complete our training concerning product safety, that has always been at the heart of our way of doing business, within B. ACCESS TO DRUGS the orientation period of newly employed personnel and repeat them at regular intervals. When measuring the performance of our At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, in order to ensure our drugs reach as marketing staff, who are continuously in contact with our customer many people as possible, we work with all major pharmaceutical group, we also evaluate these training programs as a criterion. warehouses (which make up 98% of the volume of pharmaceutical warehouses) with the aim reaching all areas of Turkey and all Customer Focus pharmacies. Bilim Pharmaceuticals serves Turkish medicine with economical products in order to support Turkish public health. “Customer Focus” is part of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ strategy of (Appendix: Table 53: Box Prices /TL). producing and offering economical products and the principle of “being respectful to society”. The performance of Bilim Pharmaceuticals team that performs marketing and sales activities with 8 different teams and nearly 1,000 field employees in 11 regions throughout Turkey is measured with customer satisfaction BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 50 We undertake promotional visits to the pharmacies throughout Turkey through our Medical Promotion Officers and Regional Directors to ensure that the products we bring to market are placed on the shelf in an organized manner and to encourage their use in the right way. Due to our position of being able to The level A is down to the reach the Departments of Health and pharmacies extensively, consumer level; first-class we have the advantage of solving all problems that may arise recalls are made at this level. regarding our products on the site in a timely manner. Also, the B level refers to the retailer feedback that we receive supports us to improve our products level (pharmacies, hospital and promotion activities. pharmacies, institutions, etc.), and second class recalls are Drugs Recalled from the Market made at this level. The C level is One of our products, the 1 series Enfexia 500 mg film-coated down to the level of wholesalers, tablet, which was produced by a manufacturing contractor on our and third class recalls are defined behalf in 2013, was recalled from the market on the request at this level. of Turkey’s Ministry of Health due to foreign substance nonconformity. The recall of the Enfexia 500 mg film-coated tablet in 2013 was at the level of “second class, B”. In 2014, the 1 series Momeco with 0.05% nasal spray was recalled from the market on the request of the Ministry of The official complaint made by Turkish Ministry of Health in 2013 Health as it was found to contain the preservative substance, and 2014 was at the level of second class, B. Benzalkonium Chloride. The 1 series Largopen 1000 mg tablet and 1 series Largopen 500 mg tablet was also recalled from the The recalled series were recollected from all the pharmaceutical market on request from the Turkish Ministry of Health due to the warehouses and pharmacies that the product had been distributed non-conformity of the tablet’s appearance. The recall of Momeco to. (Appendix: Table 54: Recalled Products in 2013 and 2014). with 0.05% nasal spray, the Largopen 1000 mg tablet and the Largopen 500 mg tablet in 2014 were at the level of “second The non-availability of the products in the market disrupted the class, B”. public access to the product, thereby having a negative effect on society, due to the suspension of the product’s manufacture during the period when the work was being carried out to eliminate the issues that caused the recall and recollection. The equivalent products are available in the market because our First class recall is a case when company is a generic drug company. This has had no effect on patient health; the only negative effect was that our own product serious and life threatening health was not available. problems have occurred and there are accepted reasons this may A total of TL 31,727.56 fine was imposed for the drugs recalled occur. A second class recall is in 2013. ordered when temporary, treatable A total of TL 208,023.95 fine was imposed for the drugs recalled health problems have occurred in 2014. and there are cases where this is possible. In a third class recalls, use of the product would not be harmful to health. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 51 INFORMING Promotion Principles and Ethics CUSTOMERS, As a license holder, we hold patient safety PROMOTION at the forefront and monitor closely all developments relating to our products. PRINCIPLES AND ETHICS We plan and implement all the promotional activities that we do for our customer groups according to the relevant regulations, rules Sharing the Product Information and Experience and directives of T. R. the Ministry of Health and the Pharmaceutical Industry Employers Union (PIEU). While continuing our activities, Bilim Pharmaceuticals monitors the benefits and risk profiles of all we pay attention to act in accordance with whichever is more its licensed products carefully and periodically and ensures their restrictive of T. R. the Ministry of Health Promotion Regulation, the protection. PIEU Promotion Guide or Bilim Pharmaceuticals Business Ethics Principles. We repeat our internal trainings on these issues. Within the limits permitted by current laws and regulations, utmost care is taken to deliver the product information to the users (and / The promotion principles’ training is given to all the personnel or practitioners), healthcare personnel or official authority on time who are responsible for promotion during basic training processes and thoroughly. and/or orientation period; we conduct periodical reminder trainings. We approve all kinds of materials and activities for All persons concerned both in Turkey and the countries which we the promotion of our products by passing through a series of export to are trained and informed about the use of our products, checkpoints within the marketing team. We receive support from their safety, the cases where the products must not be used, our separate structure that is completely independent from our specific use cases (pregnancy, lactation period and so on) and marketing team, when we need and to obtain internal feedback. side effects. The promotional materials must be approved by our science In accordance with applicable laws and regulations, this information service officers as required by both existing regulations as well as is offered to customers through different means as follows: Bilim Pharmaceuticals ethical principles. We comply with all the relevant regulations and voluntary codes regarding the promotion • Package contents (prospectus or instructions for use) and marketing of our products and services. No cases of violation were found in terms of compliance with the promotion principles • “Dear Healthcare Professional” letters sent to doctors, in 2013 and 2014. pharmacists and other healthcare professionals, As a license holder, we hold patient safety at the forefront and • Education and / or printed promotional materials, monitor closely all developments relating to our products. We • Presentations by our representatives, including medical have formed a separate unit that consists of our product safety promotion officers, representatives in order to monitor any side effects that may occur • Ministry-approved product promotion meetings with the use of our products and to take additional measures if • Sharing of relevant scientific publications (literature, conference necessary. papers, etc.) • Reports that are submitted to official authorities We begin to give related training (pharmacovigilance training) to (pharmacovigilance reports, stability results, etc.) staff who will be responsible for the promotion of products when they are still candidates, and we make sure we inform them of This information shared should be consistent with scientific whether their candidacy will continue or not, and thus aim to raise knowledge and should be not be misleading. Therefore, in the social awareness. event that there is a change in the available information (or is likely to be), steps are taken to ensure that the information remains The total number of cases of non-compliance continuously up to date and shared by quickly completing with the regulations and voluntary codes on the necessary legal procedures. subject of marketing communications including advertising, promotion and Full compliance with the regulations and voluntary codes is sponsorship is 0. provided with regard to product and service information and labeling. There is no case to the contrary. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 52 CUSTOMER 99,36 PRIVACY 98,38 98,44 97,5 97,5 97,5 97,58 97,5 Some of our activities may require the revision and evaluation of patients’ medical records or personal medical information. The patient’s medical information obtained during our operations Hekim Eczacı Ecza Deposu Genel Memnuniyet or delivered to us is kept confidential. This information cannot be used and shared with others unless required by the law and Target Actual regulations or without the patient’s consent. Table 55: Rate of Customer Satisfaction (%) All of our employees, our suppliers and the companies working The survey carried out in 2013 was completed by 1915 doctors, with Bilim Pharmaceuticals are careful to protect the confidentiality 501 pharmacists and 186 pharmaceutical warehouses. The of the information entrusted to us and to ensure the safety of level of customer satisfaction in 2013 stood at 98.44% as the it. No breaches of confidentiality were encountered during the overall average, higher than the 97.50% target and exceeding reporting period. expectations. CUSTOMER 98,38 98,44 SATISFACTION 97,5 96,31 96,5 96 The organisations that truly achieved excellence are those which have the skill to create outstanding results for stakeholders and 2009 2011 2013 have the ability to sustain them. The stakeholders who will assess the quality of products and services in the end are the customers. Target Actual We regularly carry out the Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSS) to Table 56: Year-based Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSS) General Satisfaction learn our customers’ expectations and perceptions. Rate (%) The purpose of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Customer Satisfaction Foreign Markets Customer Satisfaction Survey, which is sent to doctors, pharmacists and pharmaceutical warehouses every two years is; Our Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSS), which consists of 10 sub-headings and 39 questions, was submitted to 29 distributors • To learn the degree of satisfaction that the organization has working actively. The results are provided in the following table by achieved with its customers, year. The improvement plans have been created for areas that • To identify the strengths and the areas needing improvement, need improvement that are open for every customer. • To form a basis for the improvement activities to be carried out. 0,81 The questionnaire forms are divided into three separate sections. 0,8 0,8 0,8 0,8 0,8 0,79 0,79 0,79 The first section investigates expectations; the second section investigates perceptions; the third section provides means to learn the customers’ other suggestions and requirements with the help 0,75 of open-ended questions, in addition to the survey questions. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Target Actual Table 57: Foreign Markets CSS Results (%) BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT 54 ENVIRONMENTAL The conformity assessment of the environmental legislation which includes legal authorizations, approvals and licensing documents is carried out in line with the “Compliance to Occupational Health MANAGEMENT and Safety, Environmental Regulations and Other Requirements Monitoring Procedures”, based on the “Compliance Assessment Grid”. We refer to the sections on “Waste Management We consider the environmental aspects and impacts of our Procedures” and “Energy Management Procedures” as a guide activities at all stages of our operations from the development in the activities we undertake with the aim of protecting the of new products and filing the license application to the ecological environment. procurement, production, delivery to the recycling of packages of marketed products, which are conducted in conjunction with the We dispose of such products, materials and semi-finished environmental aspects and environmental impacts in a manner products as waste where a decision has been taken to dispose of consistent with the protection of natural resources. them due to expiry or non-compliance with quality specifications. We have structured our Environment Management System We have set up Environmental Management Units at our Gebze on the basis of Bilim Pharmaceuticals Environmental Policy, and Çerkezköy processing facilities in accordance with the Environmental Aspect and Impact Analysis and ISO 14001 legislation on permits and licenses that must be obtained in line standards as set out by the Integral Management Systems (IMS). with environmental law, and an environmental permit has been The environmental aspects and impacts of our activities are acquired for both of our facilities. identified in consideration of legal and local requirements, inputs and outputs over process, routine and exceptional management No misconduct took place in connection with the activities at either circumstances, emergency situations, the findings of external and of our production facilities in 2013 or 2014, and accordingly no internal audits and feedback from stakeholders, and are evaluated penal action was taken. No environmental accidents / chemical numerically by the ISO 14001 working teams. spillage or leakages were recorded either. We determine and review our annual environmental targets in line Our Environmental Management Model with the results of the ‘Environmental Aspect and Impact analyses. A sustainable ecological environment requires effective governance We draw up and apply the Annual Environment Management Action Plan to reduce the identified environmental risks and to that needs to be coordinated with all other processes. Within the keep them under control. framework of our sustainability management process, and in line with our strategy of “protecting the environment and reducing We implement procedures and directives derived from the results consumption of natural resources”, we set up the Environmental of the ‘Environment-Dimension-Effect Evaluation’ as a reference in Management Board, the Energy Management Board and the a bid to reduce the environmental impacts or to keep them under ISO 14001 Environmental Work Teams, which play an active control. All applied procedures and instructions are associated role in processes such as evaluating our environmental impacts, with the requirements of the ISO 14001 standard and defined in the planning and performance of necessary activities to minimize the Environmental Management Handbook. determined impacts and in reducing the consumption of natural resources. The Environmental Management process is carried out We comply with the environmental legislation encompassing the receipt of legal permits, approvals and licenses, in line with the with the participation of all our employees and in conjunction with “Procedure of Monitoring Compliance with the Legislations on other processes. Occupational Health & Safety and Environment, as well as Other Requirements”. The Environmental Management Board and the Energy Management Board were established under the umbrella of the Sustainability Board to evaluate and review management, planning and implementation processes, while Environmental Work Teams were established to execute and disseminate activities in practice. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 55 OUR 2015 Due to the nature of our sector, we cannot use recycled products in our raw materials or primary and secondary packaging materials. All materials in production processes are for single use only. ENVIRONMENTAL Due to the nature of our sector, we are unable to use recycled products in our raw materials or primary and secondary packaging TARGETS materials. All the material used in the production processes are for single use only. ENERGY Environmental Targets for the Gebze Processing Facility for 2015 • To realize electricity consumption of a maximum of 0.17870 kWh/box. CONSUMPTION • To realize natural gas consumption of a maximum of 0.16066 Bilim Pharmaceuticals expends maximum effort on keeping kWh/box. the environmental impact resulting from its operation under • To realize water consumption of a maximum of 1.11163 lt/box. control, and to eliminate these effects. With the awareness that • To keep the volume of hazardous waste to less than 1.5 gr/box. energy consumption plays an important role in minimizing the • To provide at least 4 hours of training to each of our employees environmental impact of our activities, we continuously explore on the Sustainable Environment. new ways to conduct our operations in the most efficient way in energy consumption and we are improving our existing methods Environmental targets for the Çerkezköy Processing with our experienced team. Facility for 2015 Electricity Consumption • To realize electricity consumption at 0.12772 kWh/box. • To realize natural gas consumption at 0.08764 kWh/box. Reasons why electricity consumption at our Gebze facility • To realize water consumption at 0.54984 l/box. exceeded the target in 2013 and 2014: • To realize the amount of hazardous process waste at 0.3350 g/box. • The total number of free-cooling days between January and • To provide at least 4 hours of training to each of our employees April 2014 amounted to 3 weeks less than in previous years. on the Sustainable Environment. • The increase in the cooling needs, and thus the increased load and use of air handling units compared to the previous year due to the higher average temperatures experienced during the INPUT MATERIALS summer when compared to previous years. Reasons why electricity consumption at our Çerkezköy facility exceeded the target in 2013 and 2014: • The increasing need for cooling due to temperatures exceeding 2013 2014 the seasonal norm, especially during the summer, when compared to the previous year resulted in electricity consumption Glass 3.411.425 kg 3.535.745 kg being higher than the budgeted level. Labels 83.507.686 adet 80.368.829 adet 5.019.190 kg & 4.903.874 kg & Raw materials 82.709 lt 85.723 lt Parcel 582.248 kg 554.699 kg Box 3.065.111 kg 2.907.771 kg Plastic 49.996 kg 47.631 kg Prospectuses 176.001.927 adet 167.674.219 adet PVC foil 421.027 kg 413.497 kg Table 58: Input Materials Used in 2013 and 2014 BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 56 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual Target Electricity Consumption 0,14467 0,14889 0,13816 0,14293 0,13177 0,13713 0,12129 0,13713 0,12903 Per Box (kW/ box) Gebze 0,17491 0,17633 0,16052 0,17788 0,1682 0,17161 0,15751 0,178 0,1787 Çerkezköy 0,16698 0,19219 0,18911 0,15384 0,12204 0,13256 0,1273 0,13216 0,12772 Head Office and Regions 0,3273 0,02876 0,02686 0,0277 0,02822 0,02043 0,01479 0,01949 0,01521 Table 59: Electricity Consumption Natural Gas Consumption 2013 2014 Reasons why natural gas consumption exceeded the target in 2014: • With a total capacity of 110,000 m3/h, the three dehumidification kWh Mj kWh Mj air handling units operate with a very high steam consumption. Gebze 17.435.732 62.768.635 17.017.218 62.768.635 When low moisture type products were worked and when set Çerkezköy 4.455.333 16.039.199 4.537.894 16.039.199 entered from BMS automation the daily steam consumption in the summer was calculated as 3,000 m3 / day. Head 586.262 2.110.543 614.588 2.110.543 Quarter Reasons why Natural Gas consumption at our Çerkezköy facility exceeded the target in 2013 and 2014: Table 60: Total Electricity Consumption in 2013 and 2014 • The winter was colder than expected, increasing the need for heating to beyond the projected amount. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual Target Natural Gas Consumption 0,1274 0,1319 0,1228 0,1251 0,1176 0,1159 0,1011 0,111 0,1083 per box (kWh/box)* Gebze 0,1577 0,1588 0,1479 0,1554 0,1545 0,1526 0,1433 0,1539 0,1607 Çerkezköy 0,1268 0,1086 0,0965 0,0892 0,0754 0,078 0,0799 0,0882 0,0876 Head Office 0,034 0,0692 0,0639 0,0639 0,0432 0,0303 0,0014 0,0058 0,0048 and Regions Table 61: Natural Gas Consumption *1 m3 ≅ 10 kW BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 57 2013 2014 water source also provides water to residential areas in the region. Within the scope of plan B, we drew water from the Denizli Pond, kWh Mj kWh Mj an artificial pond maintained by the Gebze Organized Industrial Zone Gebze 15.500.254 55.800.914 14.716.162 52.978.183 for use in reserve, for a period of one week in 2011. Likewise, this pond provides water not only to the Gebze Organized Industrial Çerkezköy 2.655.787 9.560.833 2.622.853 9.442.271 Zone, but also to residential and cultivated areas in the region. Head Office and 869.259 3.129.332 181.334 652.802 The Gebze Organized Industrial Zone is currently carrying out a Regions preliminary project to provide garden irrigation water to industrial establishments by installing an advance treatment system at the Table 62: Total Natural Gas Consumption in 2013 and 2014 exit point of its current central water treatment facility. When this project is implemented in the coming year, we will have the chance to obtain our garden irrigation water from the outflow of the Gebze Work to reduce energy consumption Organized Industrial Zone’s central water treatment facility. As part of the efforts to reduce our energy consumption, the flow In our Çerkezköy processing facility, water is provided from 17 and return temperature of the cooling tower is kept between 20deepwater wells within the boundaries of the organized industrial 25°c, ensuring the efficient operation of the cooling system on COP regional directorate. Moreover, the use of the Yoncalı reservoir is 12. Under the free-cooling working scenario, more than 300,000 allocated to the Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone, and a tender kW in energy savings were achieved by cooling with outdoor is planned for the construction of the dam. air in the free cooling mode. By using the method of ultrasonic measurement in compressed air systems, 77,000 kWh in annual Water Consumption energy savings were achieved. Reasons why water consumption exceeded the target in 2013and Steps were taken to ensure that work is executed according to 2014: the minimal energy expenditure scenario with the Automated Logic Due to the high temperatures during the summer, the four cooling Tower condenser automation. All pumps are set by selecting speed towers worked at maximum capacity (300m3/ day) and annual drive according to the scenario that will spend the least energy to water consumption therefore reached 35,000m3. work, which ensures they will work. WATER WASTE CONSUMPTION MANAGEMENT Our waste is collected according to the process as shown in the As in every field, we are plan our operations on water consumption example process flow diagram in Table 64. We separate the with a view to ensuring optimal protection of the environment and recyclable waste at the source under categories such as hazardous minimizing our environmental impact. We conduct prevention and wastes, industrial wastes, recyclable wastes and recoverable wastes follow-up work to minimize or keep the environmental impacts as summarized in the Table and dispose of them, attaching priority identified in this area under control. With an awareness that water to recycling and recovery, through collaboration with accredited is the most important resource on Earth, Bilim Pharmaceuticals firms licensed by the Ministry of the Environment and Forestry in a provides awareness raising and informative meetings regarding manner that does not harm nature. water consumption on special occasions in its workplaces. Accordingly, our employees develop an awareness about water, The volume of produced waste, including their category, is both in the workplace and in their homes. continuously recorded at their source and their monthly trends are followed closely. All hazardous waste that may be produced as a Within the scope of the improvements in this area for the purpose of result of our activities is monitored as “amount of hazardous waste cooling 6,000 liter liquid manufacturing tanks enclosed type cooling per box”, a performance indicator. towers are commissioned. The enclosed type cooling saved 7,000 m3 of water when compared to the direct cooling with water. We continuously keep our employees, suppliers, business Water Usage in Our Production Facilities partners and visitors informed about waste management in order to increase the effectiveness of our waste The water needs for the Gebze facility are provided from the Yuvacık management system. resevoir, which is a superficial pond, through the municipality’s water supply network. As well as the Gebze Organized Industrial Zone, this BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 58 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual Target Water Consumption per 0,00099 0,00087 0,00082 0,00079 0,00076 0,00082 0,00072 0,00074 0,00075 box (m3/box) Gebze 0,00124 0,0011 0,00103 0,001 0,00098 0,00107 0,00098 0,00102 0,00111 Çerkezköy 0,0001 0,00082 0,0008 0,00075 0,00065 0,00062 0,00057 0,00055 0,00055 Head Office and 0,0002 0,00018 0,00018 0,00019 0,00017 0,0002 0,0001 0,0001 0,00008 Regions Table 63: Water Consumption Raw Materials Weighing (In the weighing room in the warehouse) Weighing Control (Solid area) Sieving Wash water Blending Sieving Filtered air passing through dust collector Tablet Compressing Wastewater Film Coating Treatment Plant Red Powder (If necessary) Purified Water+ coating solution Incineration Plant Waste water Blistering Packaging Waste (PVC + aluminium foil, cardboard, paper) Boxing Wooden pallets, cardboard parcel Solid waste Recycling Finished product Product Quarantine Depot Product Sale Approval Dispatch Table 64: Tablet Production Dry Granulation Process Flow Chart BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 59 No Waste Definition/Content Waste Name Disposal Method Blister containing residues of hazardous substances or which has been contaminated with hazardous substances; paper / cardboard, plastic packaging Contaminated Waste wastes; laboratory wastes (HPLC and GC According to the Regulation on the Control of column wastes, TLC plate, capillary tubes, Contaminated Glass Waste Hazardous Waste, they are subjected to the etc.); ink rollers and boxes; injector needles recycling process in companies licensed by the 1 (used in laboratories); contaminated wood, Ministry of the Environment and are transferred in glass or plastic paint cans vehicles licensed by the Ministry of Environment or Tin plate, plastic raw material barrels Contaminated tin plate packaging are sent to incineration plants. and IBC (intermediate bulk container) tanks containing residues of hazardous substances or those which have been Contaminated plastic packaging contaminated with hazardous substances According to the Regulation on the Control of Hazardous Waste, they are subjected to the Filter materials which have been incineration process in companies licensed by the 2 contaminated with hazardous substances, Filter waste Ministry of the Environment by being transferred oil filters in the vehicles licensed by the Ministry of the Environment. Vacuum Raw material dust wastes, Dust wastes, TabletTablet-Capsule wastes Capsul wastes Shelf samples, Stability products, Semi-finished product/ semi-finished products Product (Finished product) Product (Finished product) According to Regulation on Control of Hazardous Raw materials to be disposed of (liquid Raw Materials to be disposed of Wastes, they are subjected to the incineration powder wastes of raw materials released process in the companies licensed from the 3 during the production and those raw Ministry of Environment by being transferred materials separated for disposal). Finished (Liquid Powder Pomade etc .) with the vehicles licensed from the Ministry of goods to be disposed of. (Expired, recalled product ( finished product ) to be Environment. from the market, finished products that are disposed of to be disposed of for quality defects) Oil cleaning solvent Oil cleaning solvent waste Coating solution Coating solution In accordance with the Regulation on the Control of Hazardous Waste, they are subjected to the Waste acid incineration process in companies licensed by the 4 Laboratory chemical wastes (acid, alcali) Waste alcaline Ministry of the Environment and are transferred Other chemical wastes in vehicles licensed by the Ministry of the Environment. In accordance with the Regulation on the Control of Hazardous Waste, they are subjected to the incineration process in companies licensed by 5 Plasticizer resin Waste resin the Ministry of Environment and are transferred in vehicles licensed by the Ministry of the Environment. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 60 In accordance with the Regulation on the Control Waste printing toner and printer cartridges of Hazardous Waste, they are subjected to the containing dangerous substances, wastes “Waste toner incineration process in companies licensed by 6 with ink (Pens, ink boxes, Phosphorus Waste cartridges” the Ministry of Environment and are transferred glass pens , Boardmarker pens, etc.) in the vehicles licensed by the Ministry of the Environment. Batteries, wireless and phone batteries Waste batteries In accordance with the Regulation on the Control of Waste Batteries and Accumulators, they are subjected to the incineration process in companies 7 licensed by the Ministry of the Environment and are Expired accumulators Waste accumulators transferred in vehicles licensed by the Ministry of the Environment. In accordance with the Regulation on the Control of Waste Oil, they are recycled by companies 8 Waste oil Waste oil licensed by the Ministry of the Environment and are transferred in vehicles licensed by the Ministry of the Environment. In accordance with the Regulation on the Control 9 Tires of vehicles and Forklift Waste Tires of Expired Tires, they are recycled by companies licensed by the Ministry of the Environment. Electrical and Electronic Wastes (IT and Telecommunication Wastes, Monitoring In accordance with the Regulation on the Control of and Control Devices and Equipments, Hazardous Waste, they are recycled by companies 10 Vending machines, Lighting Devices Electrical and Electronic Wastes licensed by the Ministry of Environment and are and Appliances, Big White Goods, transferred in vehicles licensed by the Ministry of Small Domestic Appliances, Consumer the Environment. Appliances , etc .) In accordance with the Regulation on the Control of Hazardous Waste, they are recycled by companies Fluorescent Lamps and Other Mercury Fluorescent Wastes 11 Containing Wastes Wastes Containing Mercury licensed by the Ministry of Environment, and are transferred in vehicles licensed by the Ministry of the Environment. In accordance with the Regulation on the Control of Medical Wastes, they are disposed of in the Syringes, Blood, Body Fluids and wastes incineration plant licensed by the Ministry of 12 contaminated with drugs from the Medical Wastes Environment, and are transferred with the medical Occupational Physician room waste transporting vehicles licensed from the Ministry of Environment. In accordance with the Regulation relating to the General Principles of Waste Management and Wastes from the garden, cafeteria/ 13 restaurant, wash room and toilets Domestic Waste Regulation on Control of Solid Wastes, they are disposed of in the landfill sites licensed by the Ministry of the Environment. In accordance with the Regulation on the Control of Packaging Wastes and within the framework Glass Paper -CardboardMetal Wood 14 wastes, clean PVC , Aluminium Foil Recycling Wastes of the Communiquè on the Recycling of Certain Non-Hazardous Wastes, they are recycled in the companies licensed by the Ministry of Environment. In accordance with the Regulation relating to the Back of Adhesive Labels, Clean bonnets, General Principles of Waste Management, they are 15 shoe covers Industrial Waste disposed of in the incineration plants licensed by the Ministry of Environment. Table 65: Waste Name and Disposal Method (EN23) BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 61 Amount of waste recycling The central wastewater treatment system of the Gebze Organized Industrial Zone is comprised of chemical and biological treatment In the scope of the Regulation on the Control of Packaging units. Our wastewater is analyzed by the Gebze Organized Wastes, we have been collaborating with ÇEVKO, an authorized Industrial Zone twice a month for compliance with the criteria of institution in recycling activities, since 2005 for the collection of water admittance to the central wastewater treatment system of our packaging wastes at a specified quota. The recycling rate the Gebze Organized Industrial Zone. The results of the analysis for packaging wastes we have been offering to the market rose of our wastewater, performed by the accredited environmental from 40% to 42% in 2013. In 2014, 44% of the packaging laboratories as per the request of the Gebze Organized Industrial materials used in the products we sell were collected for recycling Zone in 2013 and 2014, are given below. by ÇEVKO on our behalf. Chemical Suspended The Amount of Waste Recycled (kg) Date Oxygen Sulphur Solids PH Demand (mg/lt) (mg/lt) (mg/lt) (COD) 2013 2014 09.01.2013 1094 0,006 7,1 Recyled Packaging Wastes 18.01.2013 1956 0,007 75 6,75 119.471 kg 86.568 kg / Plastic 01.02.2013 209 0,002 11 7,23 Recyled Packaging Wastes 25.02.2013 2037 75 7,18 0,095 378.678 kg 359.980 kg / Paper – Cardboard 07.03.2013 1250 0,003 7,38 30 Recyled Packaging Wastes 26.03.2013 1778 0,07 170 7,01 26.950 kg 12.260 kg 12.04.2013 2141 0,09 200 7,21 / Glass 25.04.2013 3094 0,01 240 7,34 Recyled Packaging Wastes 218.727 kg 139.100 kg 06.05.2013 905 0,004 140 7,33 / Scrap Palette 27.05.2013 1030 3,5 14 7,2 Table 66: Amount of Waste Recycled 04.06.2013 1525 5 128 7,1 14.06.2013 960 0,03 61 7,45 Amount of Waste Collected Back (kg) 10.07.2013 1688 0,002 182 7,74 15.07.2013 394 0,003 40 7,83 2013 2014 01.08.2013 1692 0,002 128 7,61 Plastic 15.907 12.481 20.08.2013 1320 0,03 189 8,26 05.09.2013 787 0,11 36 7,87 Paper – Cardboard 1.206.431 645.917 19.09.2013 847 0,676 <11 7,68 Table 67: Amount of Waste Collected Back 08.10.2013 1348 0,085 142 7,17 24.10.2013 514 0,231 506 7,46 Waste water 19.11.2013 800 0,002 51 7,51 26.11.2013 1687 0,16 75 6,96 As the central treatment facility was commissioned in the Gebze 13.12.2013 1808 0,002 339 6,87 Organized Industrial Zone in early 2011, the industrial wastewater 24.12.2013 669 0,0887 40 7,2 treatment works and the domestic wastewater treatment system installed at our Gebze Plant were closed in April. We began to Table 68: Waste Water 2013 collect the industrial and domestic wastewater produced as a result of our activities in the reservoirs of our old treatment facility, which is no longer used, and to canalize it directly to the central treatment system of the Gebze Organized Industrial Zone. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 62 Chemical In accordance with the discharge criteria of the central wastewater Suspended Date Oxygen Sulphur Solids PH treatment system of the Gebze Organized Industrial Zone for the Demand (mg/lt) (mg/lt) receiving environment of the exit water, the wastewater at our (mg/lt) (COD) Gebze processing facility is first discharged into the Yumrukaya 14.01.2014 950,4 <0,1 138 7,51 stream, then into the Dil stream that the Yumrukaya stream 22.01.2014 521,92 <0,1 28 7,14 merges with and finally into the Kocaeli Gulf. 10.02.2014 862 <0,1 148 8,37 27.02.2014 315,6 <0,1 30 7,4 In accordance with the discharge criteria of the central wastewater 08.03.2014 900 <0,1 214 7,51 treatment system of the Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone for the receiving environment of the exit water, the wastewater at our 22.03.2014 1020 <0,1 67 7,46 Çerkezköy processing facility is discharged into the Çorlu Stream, 07.04.2014 1374,4 0,23 112 7,2 Ergene River, Meriç River and finally into the Saroz Gulf. 24.04.2014 1507,2 <0,1 123 7,28 08.05.2014 892 <0,1 34 7,54 The amount of wastewater discharged by our Gebze and 23.05.2014 625,6 <0,1 415 7,51 Çerkezköy processing facilities and our headquarters in Ayazağa 09.06.2014 1143,2 <0,1 82 7,4 to the receiving environment is given in the following table: 24.06.2014 912,8 <0,1 230 6,33 Water Discharge (m3) 08.07.2014 1338 <0,1 89 6 25.07.2014 327,6 <0,1 55 7,06 08.08.2014 509,6 0,17 125 7,19 2011 2012 2013 2014 21.08.2014 411,2 0,71 58 6,77 Gebze 37.734 34.072 20576 30218 05.09.2014 336 <0,1 169 7,71 Çerkezköy 7494 6235 9301 9778 23.09.2014 882,8 <0,1 96 7,36 Head Office 5.392 5.950 4607 3265 02.10.2014 1791,2 <0,1 115 7,23 20.10.2014 1319,2 <0,1 362 6,87 Table 70: Water Discharge m3 11.10.2014 336 <0,1 70 7,12 19.11.2014 1017,6 <0,1 61 7 Management of Hazardous Waste 03.12.2014 3788 <0,1 728 7,36 If a decision is taken to destroy material and products which 17.12.2014 778 <0,1 101 6,53 were rejected by our Quality Control and Quality Assurance Departments, a destruction form is filled in. Based on this form, Table 69: Waste Water 2014 products and/or materials are transferred to project inventories, In our Çerkezköy processing facility, domestic and industrial provided that they are kept at the warehouses of rejected wastewater is processed at our wastewater chemical pre-treatment materials within the SAP system. Later, the related information facility and drained into the Çerkezköy Organized Industrial is conveyed to the Cost Accounting Department. Meanwhile, Zone’s Chemical and Biological Treatment Facility. Similarly, our informing correspondence is forwarded to the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Health, and officials from the tax office wastewater is analyzed by the Çerkezköy Organized Industrial and the Ministry of Health check destruction amounts and the Zone for compliance with the criteria of water admittance to the reason for the destruction. Following the official compliance central wastewater treatment system of the Çerkezköy Organized letter, the products and materials are destroyed by the Industrial Zone. authorized institution (Izaydaş) in the presence of the Notary and officials from the Ministry of Health. In addition to this process, if a material can be delivered to any recycling company, it is sold as scrap. The Ministry of Health is not notified of such products and materials. We have not encountered any spills caused by our operations. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 63 Based on this new approach, the amounts of hazardous waste per box and targets for 2014 are given in the following tables: 2013 2014 Total amount of Samples on Shelf and Hazardous Waste 0.028 gr/box 0.536 gr/box to be Disposed of (g/box) Total amount of Shelf Sample Hazardous Waste 0.023 gr/box 0.109 gr/box (g/box) Total amount of Hazardous Waste to be Disposed of 0.005 gr/box 0.427 gr/box (g/box) Table 71: 2013 and 2014 Shelf Sample Waste with No Financial Value Amount of Hazardous Waste per Box Performance 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Indicators Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual Target Process Induced Hazardous 0,78 1,084 1,093 1,042 1,019 0,9 0,1201 0,18 0,12 Waste Amount (g/box) Gebze 1,1 1,625 1,617 1,58 1,56 1,19 0,1182 0,224 0,118 Çerkezköy 0,52 0,382 0,38 0,333 0,33 0,98 0,1091 0,064 0,109 Head Office and 0 0 0 0,03 0 0 0 0 0 Regions Table 72: Amount of Hazardous Waste per Box BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 64 GREENHOUSE Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions / SCOPE 1 Emissions and suspensions resulting from Bilim Pharmaceuticals GAS EMISSIONS own activities are calculated. Energy Indirect GHG Emissions/ SCOPE 2 AND OUR CARBON Greenhouse gas emissions generated in the production of steam, heat or the electricity Bilim Pharmaceuticals has purchased FOOTPRINT externally. Other Indirect GHG Emissions / SCOPE 3 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions based on target usage such as At Bilim Pharmaceuticals we are aware of our responsibility the business travel by air, service vehicles, diesel fuel quantity and to tackle global warming. Therefore, as a first step we started the amount of diesel consumed during the transfer of pharmaceutical measurements to reduce our carbon footprint. products to the stores by truck. Greenhouse gas emissions caused by our company’s activities in 2009 and 2010 were reviewed under the consultancy of an independent institution. We calculated our greenhouse gas emissions in 2013 and 2014 based on the metrics set forth herein. The scope covers companywide direct and indirect energy consumption, company vehicles, air miles, personnel transportation services and transportation that is outsourced to third companies between our warehouses and distribution outlets. Greenhouse gas emissions arising during the supply of What is a carbon footprint? input materials, which are used in our production and distribution services in the supply chain within the Scope 3, are excluded. The carbon footprint is a term Due to the new regulation covering reference prices in the which reflects the burden left pharmaceutical industry, changes in repayment lists and as a result by a product / service on the of the increase of input costs do the changes in the exchange world in terms of greenhouse rate, despite moves by the Ministry of Health to fix the reference gasses and is a term that refers exchange rate, we were forced to limit the investment to below to tracing the trail. the level we had aimed for in our work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We expect the regulation covering reference drug prices to continue to be applied in the years to come. This definition includes all individuals, communities, governments, companies, organizations, processes and industrial sectors. Products include both goods and services. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 65 EMPLOYEES BUSINESS CO2 SF6 CH4 N2O HFC5 PFC5 TRAVELS SCOPE 1 DIRECT SCOPE 2 INDIRECT SCOPE 3 INDIRECT ENERGY PURCHASED PRODUCTION OF FOR SELF USE PURCHASED MATERIALS BURNING FUEL SUBCONTRACTED/ SUBCONTRACTOR VEHICLES OUTSOURCED OPERATIONS COMPANY VEHICLES PRODUCT USE Figure 15: Carbon Footprint 2013 CO2e 2014 CO2e 2011 2012 2013 2014 (tonnes) (tonnes) tCO2e tCO2e tCO2e tCO2e Flights for Business 3.243,45 595,16 Scope1 13.333,18 14.839 12.391 8.916 purposes Scope2 11.555,07 11.896 11.884 11.725 Personnel Vehicles (diesel) 403,54 390,17 Scope3 3.297,32 2.240,29 4.068 1.444 Transfer of Products from Factory to Pharmaceutical 420,62 458,48 Total 28.185,57 28.975 28.342 22.085 warehouses (diesel) Table 73: Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Year Table 74: 2013 and 2014 Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Emissions of Ozone consuming substances by weight (EN20) In the Table on Emissions of Ozone consuming Substances by Weight, no ozone-depleting substance emissions were recorded in 2014 since no maintenance and fault-induced refrigerant charge was made to our system. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 66 Added gas GEBZE Cooling CO2e Location amount in Gas (tonnes) Parameter Hot Water Hot Water Steam Steam 2014 (kg) (kg/hour) Boiler 1 Boiler 2 Boiler 1 Boiler 2 Head Quarter R410 It has It has It has It has Air-Cooled,1x1, 45 SOx not been not been not been not been Mwatt identified identified identified identified 134 A NOx 0,428 0,362 0,213 0,299 Gebze Plant (NO+NO2) R410 A Water Cooled Chiller Group, 3x3 Mwatt ÇERKEZKÖY 134 A Parameter (kg/hour) Steam Boiler 1 Steam Boiler 2 Çerkezköy Plant R410 A It has not been It has not been SOx identified identified Air Cooled Chiller Group, 1x1,45 Mwatt NOx (NO+NO2) 0,450 0,490 Table 75: Emissions of Ozone Consuming Substances by Weight HEAD OFFICE NOx and SOx emissions caused by natural gas, gas oil Parameter (kg/hour) Boiler or LPG in our facilities SOx It has not been identified In accordance with Ministry of Environment legislation, the NOx (NO+NO2) 0,01 emission volume of exhaust containing organic pollutants and Table 76: 2013 NOx and SOx Emissions resulting from the use of Natural Gas, emission volume of exhaust containing volatile organic compounds Gas Oil and LPG in the Gebze and Çerkezköy Plants and the Headquarters is measured every 2 years. Accordingly, a measurement was performed in 2013. Carbon Monoxide (mg/Nm3) Gebze max.10 0 max.10 18,5 max.10 max.10 max.10 max.10 Çerkezköy max.10 0 max.10 0 max.10 max.10 max.10 max.10 Sulfur Dioxide (mg/Nm3) Gebze max.10 0 max.10 0 max.10 max.10 max.10 0 Çerkezköy max.10 0 max.10 0 max.10 max.10 max.10 0 Dust (mg/m3%3Ref.O2) Gebze max.1 <5 <5 2,27 <5 max.10 <5 max.10 Çerkezköy max.1 7,2 <5 1,82 <5 max.10 <5 max.10 Table 77: Flue Gas Emissions BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 67 OUR ENVIRONMENT • It was found that 29 m3 of water was consumed by the new 6,000 liter liquid manufacturing boiler for each series. A closed-loop cooling FRIENDLY PRACTICES system has been installed. The realization of production plans will reduce consumption of cooling water by 4500 m3 per year. Reduction of Emissions Energy Savings • We reduced solvent consumption and VOC emissions through • Savings have been achieved in levels of energy consumption by improvements to the film coating process at the Çerkezöy Processing using high efficiency lamps in the Company›s environment lighting Facility. system. • We raised thermal efficiency by replacing the conventional heat exchanger with a plate type heat exchanger at the Çerkezöy • Energy losses were reduced by using ultrasonic measurements Processing Facility. in the scope of predictive maintenance operations and as a result • To promote the use of video conferencing, improve the performance of action taken following the detection of leaks in compressed air of data lines and to ensure uninterrupted communication, we points, a 23% improvement was achieved, paving the way for established MPLS VPN infrastructure in all of our locations during TL13,931.49 in electricity savings. 2013. We have conducted all in-house training, monthly and periodic routine meetings and product launch advertisements through the • All desktop computers with CRT monitors were replaced with LCD video conferencing system. screens in 2013, moving on from the tube technology that negatively affects human health, while also reducing energy consumption. Raising the environmental awareness of employees Waste Reduction We prepared a training module for the environmental management system within Bilimk@mpüs – our electronic training environment – • An environmental project carried out by our employees at the and ensured that each of our employees participated in this training Çerkezköy Processing Facility lowered the consumption of solvents program. (solvents are used in the film coating boiler) by 35 tonnes per year. Other Environment Friendly Practices • We began to recycle non-hazardous blister packaging waste – which is non-recyclable since it is composite waste – in cooperation • In the Bilim Campus platform, e-Learning applications were with a company licensed by the Ministry of Environment and implemented and a learning environment was set up for all Urbanization. Hence, we recovered nearly 12.4 tonnes of PE/PP and employees with remote access. This practice reduces the need for 645,917 kg of paper-carton materials in 2014. face to face training from external training services, saving money on coaching and, in particular, travel, accommodation and other • With the work on tablet coating machines, a 30% saving was expenses for foreign workers. At the same time, online training and achieved in the amount of solvent used by reducing the amount of testing applications increased the control and efficiency and spread solution used in the process. of education. • A total of 1,500,000 A4-sized paper sheets were saved through the Document Management System (DMS), which was actively used • Requests for changes in the system forwarded to the Information in 2014. Technology Department from all departments with a signed form can be performed in a digital format with the installation of the ‘Solution • In 2013, we started to develop private software with MOBİLİM Manager’ module in the SAP system without the need for paper. software. Bilim Pharmaceuticals ended product promotions with leaflets, instead only distributing the printed brochure; and then • Infrastructure and systems were established between the IT began to use tablet PCs. This saved a significant amount of paper. systems of the Ministries and Bilim IT systems in order to manage switching to the use of e-signatures in all documents which have been Water Savings created within the company and presented to the official authorities, intercompany billings (e-Invoice), and the mandatory statutory books • We installed a photocell control system at our Çerkezköy Processing (e-books), as a legal obligation. Facility, which uses domestic water. The implementation of e-Signature, e-book and e-Invoice • Work was carried out to use the water obtained by RO waste water projects has contributed to the national economy by recycling in the cooling towers, saving 12,400 m3 of mains water reducing the use of natural resources. per year. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 OUR SOCIAL INVESTMENTS 70 OUR SOCIAL Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers have reached more than 51,000 children and young people by performing 36,101 hours volunteer work within the scope of 12 different INVESTMENT projects and 420 activities so far. Cooperation was entered into with more than 160 organizations and institutions such as NGOs, universities, public institutions, primary, secondary and high Bilim Pharmaceuticals undertakes public information and schools, municipalities and governorships in these projects. community investments, not only in Turkey but in all regions where it operates, with an awareness that it is a global corporate citizen. We organise conventions and conferences by coming together with physicians and pharmacists with the aim of increasing their knowledge in many countries where our teams have entered, The Bilim Pharmaceuticals especially in countries where we have representatives; we provide briefings to raise awareness among children and young people Community Volunteers has through the social investment activities that we organize. operated with its 6,221 members and 20 teams in Turkey’s 11 provinces since the day it was 2013 2014 established. 995 990 The objective of all the projects carried out is not to provide Table 78: Number of BICV Members financial gain to the needy, but rather to provide them with them with the support that will help them to build their own future and Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers (BICV) feed themselves in a spiritual sense. The Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers was formed Bilim Pharmaceuticals personnel are part of in 2005 as a platform in which volunteering personnel share the solution their individual competencies, intellectual capital, time, labour and experience with people in need with the support of Bilim The projects carried out by the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Pharmaceuticals “to be a part of the solution...” Volunteers are not limited to the projects developed by our personnel, but also consist of projects developed by the NonIf the projects prepared by our volunteers are accepted in Governmental Organizations’ and associations’ suitable projects. the supreme board made of team leaders, the projects are implemented with the support of Bilim Pharmaceuticals volunteers, Our organization works to promote the concept of volunteering their families and other stakeholders. by coming together with all other institutions with the same perspective which serve the same aim in these projects. The Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community had approximately 1,000 In determining the projects created under the platform, their volunteers between 2013 and 2014. compliance with BICV voluntary principles is evaluated. Our main criteria are that the most important source of the project is the Our aim at Bilim Pharmaceuticals is for our corporate social volunteers (the project cannot progress when labour, knowledge, responsibility approach to be an unwavering principle in our skills and time are removed), that the project is appropriate for company, not limiting it only to our personnel’s sensitivity, and we being carried out on a voluntary basis, that it involves teamwork work in this direction. We believe we can provide sustainable benefit in which volunteers are able to develop their leadership skills, that to the community when every company acts in the same way. it is sustainable, that it is effective and focuses on measurable results, that the project is planned in detail and that it fosters an atmosphere of sharing and solidarity. 2013 2014 4.316 1.125 Table 79: Number of People Reached in Volunteering Projects BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 71 HELPING CULTURE VOCATIONAL HIGH BILIM SUPPORTING CHILDREN AT SCHOOL VULTURES SCHOOL COACHES CHILDREN IN THE THEATRE I instil an awareness of I help vocational high culture and history in I overcome the physical condition school students when it children so they can obstacles in education by helping comes to choosing their I stage plays that will be supporting protect their cultural the schools in need with items career paths, and give the mental development of children heritage. such as stationery, clothes and them support and by establishing a volunteer books. guidance. dramatics team with my family and colleagues. REMOVING BILIM’S OBSTACLES ACTORS FOR THE I develop environmental I would like to read books to WITH AUDIO ENVIRONMENT awareness in children through creative drama the visually impaired, and I lend my voice to them. BOOKS and reading theatre. INSTILLING I read books with children to BILIM ILAC COMMUNITY VOLUNTEERS Holidaying is also the right of the disabled! At the same time as REMOVING A LOVE OF encourage a love of reading books. giving them the chance to relax and enjoy themselves, I am also OBSTACLES contributing to my personal READING development. WITH THE AMONG ALTERNATIVE CHILDREN While university students prepare for working life, I offer If children understand I ensure that all my colleagues CAMP inspiration to them on matters of the concept of climate are aware of safe driving I research change and grow up personal development, career techniques and they receive first sustainability issues, with an awareness of aid training that allows them to planning and seeking role I raise awareness and the issue, I can models. perform early intervention in a I create new awareness contribute to making moment of accident. with new practices. the world a different place. I AM IN CONTROL SAVING OF MY CAREER ECOSCIENTISTS ENVIRONMENTALIST LIVES PENGUINS Figure 16: Community Volunteer Projects Bilim Pharmaceuticals Management Commitment 12 12 12 12 12 12 11 With the commitment of our Chairman, the CEO and the senior 9 management, Bilim Pharmaceuticals is committed to supporting each employee’s right to use two hours a week of “orange hours” (during working days). This applies to those employees who 2011 2012 2013 2014 take part in the BICV platform under logistical support, with an allocated budget. Target Actual Table 81: Project Number of BICV 70 70 70 64 60 57 61 54 2013 2014 3.601 1.219 2011 2012 2013 2014 Table 82: Orange Hours Target Actual Table 80: Activity Number of BICV BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 72 BICV Management Platform is governed by an autonomous management team The most important task of our Committee is to determine the consisting of employees. So far, the projects coming from NGOs scope of the projects to be implemented and to check their or employees have been evaluated in the BICV Committee compliance with our principles. The projects are evaluated by consisting of 20 team leaders and 12 project managers and Bilim Pharmaceuticals delegates, including the General Manager. have been implemented. We are updating the manner of work Sponsorship approval for the projects that require budget and and the structure of the Supreme Council in accordance with logistical support is also provided by the delegates. the knowledge and experience that we have garnered from the projects and NGOs in the committee meetings held throughout the year. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS COMMUNITY VOLUNTEERS (BICV) ORGANIZATION CHART PROJECT COUNTRY LEADERS HELPING CHILDREN AT SCHOOL, BITG (BICV) COORDINATOR ENVIRONMENTALIST PENGUINS, BILIM SUPPORTING BILIM’S ACTORS FOR THE INSTILLING A LOVE OF I AM IN CONTROL REMOVING OBSTACLES REMOVING OBSTACLES CULTURE VULTURES, ECOSCIENTISTS SAVING LIVES CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS VOCATIONAL HIGH SCHOOL COACHES CHILDREN IN THE THEATRE ENVIRONMENT READING AMONG CHILDREN OF MY CAREER WITH AUDIO BOOKS SPECIALIST CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST KADİR GÖKBAKAN SELİN ATLI İŞCEN GÖZDE ÖZKAMER BİRCE PİRİNÇ NİHAN ALTUNSEVEN FERAY ATAÇ DİLEK METE EVREN DUMAN BEYOĞLU İSTANBUL ANKARA ERZURUM DENİZLİ ANTALYA ÇERKEZKÖY BURSA TRABZON SEHER KILIÇGÖZ DUYGU KARAHAN ZAFER YALÇIN FUAT KAÇAK MEHMET TANER AKBULAT AYTAÇ AKYOL ŞEHRİBAN ERDEM KENAN KIZGIN FARUK TUFANÇLI ERHAN TUNÇ TEAM LEADERS Erhan Baş CORPORATE DELEGATES GEBZE KADIKÖY İZMİR SAMSUN KONYA ADANA VAN DİYARBAKIR STARS TEAM PELİN ŞAFAK SİNAN KIR OGULCAN CELEP HASAN ÇALIŞKAN İLHAN YURTSEVENYENER ERHAN AKIN MUHAMMET ALİ GÜNDÜZ METİN ERMAN DİLEK METE Dilek Mete 2008 2010 2012 2009 2009 2011 2011 2013 PERYON CSR KSSD (Turkey People (Corporate social (Corporate Social Management responsibility) Association) ÖSGD KSSD Europe Turkey ÖSGD ÖSGD Responsibility CSR Europe (The Corporate (Corporate Social (The Corporate (The Corporate Association) Special Award Representative Volunteers Responsibility Volunteers Volunteers Association) Marketplace Turkey Association) Association) Association) Most Creative Project Stakeholder Championships Most Successful Marketplace Most Successful I am in control of my Championship Volunteer Program Championship Volunteer career Figure 17: Community Volunteers Awards BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 73 A. DOMESTIC Within the scope of the “my career is in my hands” project, courses are provided under different topics, which will contribute to the personal development of students with our volunteers and PROJECTS volunteer instructors visiting universities in Anatolia, especially in the east of Turkey. Students who took part in the training programs in the congress and who have the right qualifications successfully My Career is in My Hands As the Bilim Pharmaceuticals completed gained the opportunity carry out internships in Bilim Community Volunteers, we share our experience and knowledge Pharmaceuticals as well as in some of Turkey’s other leading with university students in 4-day long congresses with the aim companies from various sectors. of supporting quality education in our country. We create an opportunity that will take the students a step further, in which each STAKEHOLDER OPINION – MEHMET ÖZEL student can receive at least 4-5 different courses and have these courses certified by going to universities with some of Turkey’s leading lecturers through the “my career is in my hands” (ICC) Personal Development Congress. As part of this conference, we provide courses on an array of different subjects such as “Effective Presentation Skills,” “Teamwork,” “Resume Creation and Success in an Interview,” “Career Planning”, “Personal Behaviour Models,” and “Personal Image”. I am honoured to take part in the “my career is in my hands” program, which is held throughout Turkey every year under the leadership of Bilim Pharmaceuticals. What gives me such pride is that if you are looking for that humanity of the Village Institutes, and if you want to look to the future hopefully from the universities and through the hearts and minds of the young who are at university, and if you believe that everything begins with one small step, we are just talking about such a development journey. There are people in the leading role, there is meaning, there is awareness – and there hopes and dreams. You look to your right and look to your left and you will see hundreds of young and beautiful people. There is such a strong life that is ready to be explored and ready to act in these young people. The “my career is in my hands” program exists to give Figure 18: The ‘I am in control of my career’ Poster light and meaning to those lives... BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 74 A total of 1,740 students took part in the 4-day congress in 2013 which was held in Elazığ Fırat University. Our program, which has been held for six years in succession, reached approximately 3,500 students in the congresses held at Adıyaman University In 2013, a total of 61 activities between 30 September and 3 October 2013 and at Harran with 995 volunteers were University between 2 and 5 October 2013. carried out, while 54 activities with 990 volunteers were carried out in 2014. Vocational High School Coaches The Vocational High School Coaches program that has been carried out in cooperation with the Association of Private Sector Volunteers (ÖSGD) is aimed at encouraging the volunteers who received coaching training to share their experiences with young people studying at vocational high schools, to apply various personal development modules and thereby help the students gain Figure 19: My career is in my hands at Dicle core competencies that they will need and develop themselves. In this context, the students who take part in the project are visited In a departure from other years, in 2013 the congress’s impact regularly for 3 years at the specified Vocational High Schools; on students was analyzed through the research conducted before accordingly, they receive support to prepare for life after school. and after the congress by the independent research company GfK as a volunteer. According to this study, the rate of satisfaction at the last congress that we held was measured as 97%. The university students who took part in the courses provided during the congress at the highest level won special internship opportunities in some of Turkey’s leading companies. The companies supporting the project included ATOS, Borusan Enerji, Borusan Mannesman, Borusan Otomotiv, Coca Cola, E&Y, Humanica and TEB. We meet young people with the personal development congresses, through the ‘my career Figure 20: MLK is in my hands’ project, and we are helping them to shape their future. Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers succeeded in reaching more than 51,000 children and young people by performing 36,101 hours of volunteer work within the scope of 12 different projects and 420 activities. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 75 Figure 22: Curious Books Creative Reading Project Fellows of Science – Environmentalist Penguins The Green Penguins Project is implemented in cooperation with ÖSGD through a variety of classroom applications and activities in order to raise awareness of global warming, environmental problems and the protection of nature among primary school pupils. Figure 21: Supporting Blood Donation to the Kızılay (Red Crescent) Books for creative Reading We aim to encourage our children to get into the habit of reading by instilling an enjoyment of reading, in our project that we implement in order to nurture the imaginations, creativity and personal development of primary school children. Figure 23: How to Save the World Under the project, our volunteers go to schools and read books to school pupils and contribute to the development of expression and presentation skills by helping children to develop a picture Remove obstacles “Audio Book” Project from the story in their minds through various games while reading. The project scope carried out in collaboration with Boğaziçi University We have fostered a love of reading among children by Center for the Visually Impaired (GETEM) offers our visually impaired implementing our project with 2,161 school pupils in 23 schools. citizens the opportunity to listen to the books, which are transformed into audio-books by our volunteers. Audio-books are offered to the visually impaired in the visually impaired library archive. We want all of our employees to gain a sense of achievement and positivity by providing benefit to the community. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 76 The Step by Step event, which was established to promote and spread collective charity run in Turkey in March 2008, was our first non-governmental organisation. It provides financial means and promotion support for the social responsibility projects of associations and foundations that take part in it. The income obtained from the donations collected by our volunteers who ran for TEMA that takes part in this event was used to implement “the Step that Save the World” project. This project was intended to support local awareness, which is the most important factor in determining and resolving the problems facing the environment and young people’s capacity to tackle the problems. Figure 24: Audio Book Reading Project Within the scope of the project, 100 university students in 50 of Turkey’s provinces participated in a comprehensive environmental education and leadership program. The aim of the program was 3X Company Program for young people participating in the program would transfer the knowledge and skills they acquired in the program to a 50-person In order to prepare high school students, who are our “future”, group of university students, which they will create in their for business life, to help them gain vision and share experience universities. They will select a local natural problem and develop through the 3X Company Program, we have been helping them an action plan and / or a project that will be a solution to this to learn to establish and manage a business by experience problem. Thus, the program was aimed at giving young people a through carrying out company meetings in the academic year and say in protecting the environment and their future, and be active developing students’ “entrepreneurship” skills. participants in the solution. Figure 25: 3X Company Program We have been running for a good cause – The Runtalya Marathon Figure 26: Runtalya Marathon We took part in the Runtalya Marathon, which is Turkey’s 2nd largest marathon held in Antalya each year, and also attracts The Bilim Pharmaceutical Community attention internationally, within the Step by Step project with our Volunteers, who helped Step by Step volunteers. In 2014, we became the corporate supporter of the come in 4th place in the “Companies TEMA Foundation by running 10 kilometres in the 9th International Runtalya Marathon, in which a total of 4,985 athletes took part, with the Best Heart” ranking including 1,100 athletes from 35 countries outside Turkey. because of the number of runners, will continue to provide benefit to the society. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 77 B. OVERSEAS Istanbul Marathon PROJECTS Accepted three times in the Gold Category by the International Association of Athletics Federations, the Istanbul Marathon one of the world’s top 22 marathons, one of Europe’s top 11 marathons and is Turkey’s largest marathon. The only marathon which crosses two continents, it is held every year in Istanbul. In MOLDOVA this marathon Bilim Pharmaceuticals volunteer athletes also run in pursuit of helping those less fortunate than themselves. Rezina Disabled Children School As part of our social responsibility project in Moldova in 2013, we hosted a friendship tournament at the Rezina Children with Tuberculosis School with the participation of the FC Dacia Football Club, which competes in the Moldova Football League. In each team, there was one player from the Bilim Pharmaceuticals team, two professional football players from the Dacia team and four players from the children with disabilities. Figure 27: AÇEV (Mother Child Education Foundation) Donation Run 2014 İstanbul Marathon In the marathon, 2,500 volunteers are involved in various duties at all levels from the starting line to the finish line. Activities were Figure 28: Foreign Markets Rezina Children with Tuberculosis School initiated for the Istanbul Marathon’s candidacy as the Green Marathon. A record number of participating countries and participants took part in the 6th year of the Istanbul Marathon. Our volunteers became the corporate supporter of AÇEV (the MotherChild Education Foundation) by completing a 10 km run. The income raised from donations helped AÇEV open a literacy course for women within the scope of “You also run after this Dream (Sen de Bu Hayalin Peşinden Koş)” project. The Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers contributed to the improvement in social awareness through this project implemented in order to support women through AÇEV. Figure 29: Foreign Markets Rezina Disabled Children School BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 78 BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA “Multiply Love, by sharing it!” When Bosnia and Herzegovina was being ravaged by war in 1994, the war was the only reality in the country. We then launched the “Multiply Love by sharing it” project to address the needs of children in this difficult process. With this project carried out in 2013, we tried to make the children in Bosnia Herzegovina feel that we were always with them as the Bilim family. In other words, we increased our love by sharing it... Figure 30: Foreign Markets “Multiply Love, by Sharing It!” Being a Bilim Pharmaceuticals Volunteer means increasing the value of time! BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 APPENDIX: TABLES 80 Pharmaceutic Form Annual Capacity* Tablets 13 million boxes (182 million tablets) Capsules 4.8 million boxes (48 million capsules) Dry Powder Suspension 12 million boxes Enjectable 20 million boxes (*) The amount of products that can be produced in one shift at the plant. Table 1: Products and quantities manufactured in the Çerkezköy Plant 2013 2014 Gebze Production Plant 101,602,296 95,601,705 Çerkezköy Production Plant 33,610,093 34,528,370 Contract Manufacturing 28,700,038 31,535,512 Total 163,912,427 161,665,587 Table 2: Box Production Volume Pharmaceutical Form Annual Capacity* Tablets 72 million boxes (3 billion tablets) Capsules 18 million boxes (0.5 billion capsules) Syrup 18 million bottles Sachets 7 million boxes Dry powder suspension 10 million boxes Cream / Pomade 7.5 million boxes (*) The amount of products that can be produced in one shift at the plant. Table 3: Products and quantities manufactured in the Gebze Plant BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 81 Human Rights , Ethics, Introduction Principles Training Area / Number of People Total Training Hours Training Employee Rate (%) 2013 1774 932.13 57 2014 1590 808.53 96 Table 8: The number of People and Training Hours of Communication and Trainings pertaining to Anti-Corruption Policies and Procedures 2011 2012 2013 2014 Revenue (Gross) 30,923,281 $ 39,994,937 $ 48,421,814 $ 48,904,015 $ Growth Rate 10.33% 29.34% 21.07% 1.00% Table 12: 2011-2014 Revenue Growth in Foreign Markets Turkey General 2011 2012 2013 2014 Turkey's Imports of Pharmaceutical Products 5,093 4,354 4,498 4,743 Turkey's Exports of Pharmaceutical Products 620 720 775 871 Export Import Coverage Ratio 12% 17% 17% 18% Table 13: Turkish Pharmaceutical Industry Foreign Trade Deficit Bilim Pharmaceuticals 2011 2012 2013 2014 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Imports of 80.60 86.60 96.40 74.62 Pharmaceutical Products Bilim Pharmaceuticals Exports of 29.80 38.50 46.20 45.43 Pharmaceutical Products Export Import Coverage Ratio 37% 44% 48% 61% Table 14: Bilim Pharmaceuticals Foreign Trade Deficit BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 82 Country 2013% 2014% Iraq 12% 15% Moldova 37% 39% Chile 25% 20% Bosnia and Herzegovina 30% 21% Yemen 65% 75% Afghanistan 16% 7% Philippines 68% 50% Albania 30% 37% Hong Kong 52% 41% Macedonia 31% 13% Kosovo 19% 6% Turkmenistan 23% 28% Croatia 68% 69% Malaysia 58% 58% Somalia 25% 34% Ethiopia 100% 100% Equador 37% 17% Sudan 42% 65% Table 15: Bilim Pharmaceuticals Exports (%) in the total exports of Pharmaceutical Products made to the relevant countries from Turkey 5% Discount 6% Discount Disability TL R & D Incentive Total Amount Amount Incentive 2013 4,832,784 72,028 165,461 45,201 5,115,474 2014 3,991,862 114,522 110,484 55,075 4.271.944 Table 16: Financial assistance received from the state 2013 2014 Tax Cuts 9,881,122.07 514,777.30 R&D Discount 9,823,026.97 514,777.30 Investment tax credit 58,095.10 Table 17: Tax Cuts BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 83 Support Applications Start Year Legal Status Beneficiaries Overtime pay to all our employees Legal Rights BC-WC Bonus to all employees 4 times a year BC-WC-FIELD For all our employees fuel, birth, marriage, religious BC-WC-FIELD festival and annual leave allowance payments In case of Overtime, Transportation Facility BC-WC Dinner for the employees who do overtime BC-WC Lunch BC-WC Since the Vehicle Allocation to the Company Executives and Establishment WC-FIELD Field Staff Shuttle vehicle for employees who serve in Head BC-WC Quarters, Çerkezköy and Gebze Clothing Vouchers FIELD Bonus System Application FIELD Daily Allowance Payments for the employees who Fringe Benefits WC-FIELD leave the city for duty requirement Personal accident insurance to all employees 2001 BC-WC-FIELD Health insurance 2004/2006 WC-FIELD Mobile Phone Line and Laptop 2001/2005/2010 WC-FIELD Advance Payment Support in case of Need 2003 BC-WC-FIELD Emergency Patient Transfer System 2004 BC-WC WC Head Quarter Credit card for field staff 2005 MARKETINGFIELD Breakfast for employees who work in the Head Office, 2005 BC-WC Çerkezköy and Gebze plants Nursing room application for employees working in 2010 BC-WC the Head Office, Çerkezköy and Gebze plants Psychological Counseling Unit 2005 BC-WC Table 21: Scope of Compensation Obligations of the Organisation (*BC : Blue Collar WC : White Collar ) BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 84 Employees Employees Proportion Proportion taking maternity Returning taking maternity Returning returning returning leave leave 2013 24 20 83.30% 2013 24 19 79,20% 2014 24 24 100% 2014 24 16 67% Table 22: Rate of Postnatal Return to Work Table 23: Rate of Postnatal Remaining at Work Number of Employees Number of Women Number of Men Average Age Moldova 29 19 10 34 Albania 13 7 6 30 Bosnia 12 7 5 35 Total 54 33 21 Table 28: 2013 and 2014 Number of Local Employees in the Representative Offices In-class E-Training Total No of Category Man Man Persons Grand Total Grand Total Man/ Hour Total Hours Hours Hours Total Quality System (Integrated Management 1774 9,582.71 5.4 993.65 0.56 10,576.36 5.96 System-IMS) Personal Development 1774 3,468.19 1.96 1,995.94 1.13 5,464.13 3.08 Professional 1774 58,886.14 33.19 2,802.59 1.58 61,688.73 34.77 Development Leadership 1774 21,005.93 11.84 566.8 0.32 21,572.73 12.16 Grand Total 1774 92,942.97 52.39 6,358.98 3.58 99,301.95 55.98 In-class E-Training Total No of Category Man Man Man Persons Grand Total Grand Total Total Hours Hours Hours Hours Occupational Health and 1774 2,982.40 1.68 3,287.20 1.85 6,269.60 3.53 Safety and Environment Table 32: 2013 Categorized Employee Training (Total Time Man Hours) BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 85 No of Classroom E-Education Total Category Persons Total Hours Man/ Hour Total Hour Man/ Hour Total Hour Man/ Hour Total Quality System (Integrated Management 1590 18,123.11 11.4 12,233.37 7.69 30,356.48 19.09 System-IMS) Personal Development 1590 4,477.54 2.82 14,606.52 9.19 19,084.06 12 Professional Development 1590 24,756.38 15.57 3,393.78 2.13 28,150.16 17.7 Leadership 1590 14,485.62 9.11 267.04 0.17 14,752.66 9.28 Grand Total 1590 61,842.65 38.89 30,500.70 19.18 92,343.35 58.08 Table 33: 2014 Categorized Employee Training (Total Time Man Hours) Average Hour per Person Employee Groups No of Persons Total Hours ( Man Hours) All Employees 1774 99,301.95 55.98 Women Employees 362 23,698.47 65.47 Men Employees 1412 75,603.49 53.54 Blue Collar Employees 324 8,807.22 27.18 White Collar Employees 1450 90,494.73 62.41 Table 35: 2013 Annual Average Training Hours allocated per employee by gender and employee category Average Hour per Person Employee Groups No of Persons Total Hours ( Man Hours) All Employees 1,590 92,343.35 58.08 Women Employees 354 15,430.32 43.59 Men Employees 1,236 76,913.03 62.23 Blue Collar Employees 341 12,829.62 37.62 White Collar Employees 1,249 79,513.73 63.66 Table 36: 2014 Annual Average Training Hours allocated per employee by gender and employee category BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 86 Individual Business / Role and Experimentation Work Environment Corporate Culture Training & development system (implementation of standard professional development Our Values ​​and The Bilim Family plans, BilimKampüs online training, classBİ’s Leadership Model Principles room trainings, to take advantage of Open house trainings) Technological InfrastrucBilim Child World Performance Assessment System Wage and Benefits Systematics ture and R-D Studies Project and Team Work (Quality ImproveDepartment Motivation Practices Bilim Pharmaceument Projects, Quality Circles Process Systematics; practices carried out ticals Community EFQM Excellence Model Improvement Teams, Key Process Improvein cases of marriage, birth and Volunteers ment Teams) death Talent management system (Defining transparent assignment criteria, to be Defining Social Life Areas in all plants ( Diversity Career Paths, Mentor Mentee application, Fitness Center , Library, Science Sustainability Activities Management Stars Team entry criteria, Masters and Cafe, Cafe Beta, Internet room, PhD application systematic, Evaluation of dry cleaning service) Individual’s Potential meetings) Psychological Reputation Management Creative Idea Platform Counseling Center Model Social and Sports Instant Honouring and Awards Systematics Ethical Management Activity Team Individual Performance Management Employee Support Masters and PhD Application Systematic Programs Career Management System Table 40: Our Applications that Create Employee Brand BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 87 Classroom E-Education Total No of Category Man Man Persons Grand Total Grand Total Grand Total Man Hours Hours Hours Occupational Health and Safety and 1590 10,087.94 6.34 9,326.90 5.87 19,414.84 12.21 Environment Table 43: 2014 OHS Trainings Commodity Group No of Suppliers Share in the Purchases Raw materials 45 20% Packaging 35 70% Consumables and 200 10% Technical Material Total 280 100% Table 49: Distribution of purchases according to amount 2013 2013 No of 2014 No of 2015 No of Target No of No of Alternative Alternative Alternative Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Total Number of Suppliers 398 19 439 27 41 Domestic (Raw Material & Packaging) 82 14 83 11 25 Imported API (active pharmaceutical 5 (alt. in 12 16 (10 suppliers in 108 115 16 ingredient) & Excipient & Packaging molecules) 16 molecules ) Imported Technical Material 30 46 Domestic Technical Material 178 195 Table 50: Number of Suppliers and Alternative Suppliers Scope 2013 2014 Turkish Pharmaceutical Market 69.73 73.03 The Markets We Are in 18.27 19.26 Bilim Pharmaceuticals 10.26 10.55 Table 53: Box Prices /TL BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 88 2013 No of Product Product Name Recall Cause Recalled Response Letter No/Date Lot No. Products ENFEXIA 500MG FILM 2280016C Foreign Material Detection 8,032 MM.566 / 05.07.2013 TABLET 2014 No of Product Product Name Recall Cause Recalled Response Letter No/Date Lot No. Products GLIFOR 1000 MG FILM 1220458A Foreign Material Detection 0 MM.513 / 07.01.2013 TABLETS LARGOPEN 1 G 16 TABLETS 3177075A Appearance Disorder 1836 ÇKG.14 / 014 Paying AdministraLARGOPEN 500 MG tive Fine Letter 4176001A Appearance Disorder 13531 Letter Date 16 TABLETS Detection of out of Limit MM.695 Paying Administrative MOMECON 0.05% 3445007C Benzalkonium Chloride 4196 Fine Letter NASAL SPRAY Amount Letter Date: 10.07.2014 Table 54: Recalled Products in 2013 and 2014 BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 89 GRI G4 INDEX for ‘IN ACCORDANCE’ CORE General External Standard Content Explanation/Page Assurance Disclosures STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the Chairman of the Board 1-2 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization 4 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 5 Bilim Plaza Piyalepaşa Bulvarı Kaptanpaşa Mah. G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters Zincirlikuyu Cad. No:184 34440 Beyoğlu İSTANBUL The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either G4-6 the organization has significant operations or 4 that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form 6 G4-8 The markets served 23 G4-9 The scale of the organization 3, 30 G4-10 The total number of employees by employment type, employment contract, gender, and the 30 region they serve The percentage of total employees covered by G4-11 30 collective bargaining agreements G4-12 The organization’s supply chain 44-45 Significant changes during the reporting period G4-13 regarding the organization’s size, structure, 6 ownership or its supply chain Addressing the precautionary approach or G4-14 18-19 principle Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives G4-15 20 to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses Memberships of associations c and/or national G4-16 20 or international advocacy organizations BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 90 IDENTIFYING MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES List of the entities included in the organization’s G4-17 consolidated financial statements or equivalent 13 documents which are covered by the report The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries and how the organization G4-18 13 has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content The material Aspects identified in the process G4-19 13-14 for defining report content For each material Aspect, report the Aspect G4-20 14 Boundary within the organization For each material Aspect, report the Aspect G4-21 14 Boundary outside the organization Report the effect of any restatements of There are no major changes in the statement of G4-22 information provided in previous reports, and the the information in Corporate Responsibility reasons for such restatements Report 2013-2014. Report significant changes from previous There are no major changes in the content of G4-23 reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Corporate Responsibility Report 2013-2014 in Boundaries terms of the limits and scope. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT List of the stakeholder groups engaged by the G4-24 9 organization The basis for identification and selection of G4-25 9 stakeholders with whom to engage The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement , including the frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder G4-26 10-12 group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and the G4-27 10-12 organization’s approach to responding to those key topics and concerns through its reporting REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 4 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 4 BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 91 G4-30 Reporting cycle 4 The contact point for questions regarding the G4-31 4 report or its contents G4-32 GRI Content Index for ‘In accordance’ Core 87-95 This report contains data which has been subject to external auditing. Bilim Pharmaceuticals is inspected by independent auditing organizations in terms of Environment Management and Quality Policy and current practice with regard to Systems and Occupational Safety and Health. G4-33 seeking external assurance for the report The financial data provided has undergone independent auditing and been approved. The decision makers at the auditing organizations and Bilim Pharmaceuticals, including high level management, have no personal connections to each other whatsoever. GOVERNANCE The governance structure of the organization, including the organization’s highest governance G4-34 body and committees responsible for decision6, 9 making on economic, environmental and social impacts ETHICS AND INTEGRITY The organization’s values, principles, standards G4-56 16 and norms of behavior GRI G4 INDEX-PERFORMANCE INDICATORS DMA AND PAGE / LİNK External MATERİAL ASPECTS CONTENT OMİSSİONS INDİCATORS EXPLANATİON Assurance ECONOMIC Economic Performance DMA 27 Financial assistance received EC4 27-28 from government Market Presence DMA 31 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared EC5 to local minimum wage 33 at significant locations of operation BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 92 Proportion of senior management hired from the EC6 32 local community at significant locations of operation Indirect Economic DMA 25 Impacts Development and impact of EC7 infrastructure investments and 25-26 services supported Significant indirect economic EC8 impacts, including the extent 25-26 of impacts ENVIRONMENTAL Materials DMA 54 Materials used by weight or EN1 55 volume Due to the nature of Bilim Pharmaceuticals sector, it cannot be used recycled products in the raw materials or primary and secondary Percentage of materials packaging materials. EN2 used that are recycled input materials All materials in production processes are for single use only. Therefore, percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials is 0. Energy DMA 55 Energy consumption within the EN3 55-56-57 organization Water DMA 57 Total water withdrawal by EN8 57 source BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 93 Water sources significantly EN9 57 affected by withdrawal of water Emissions DMA 64 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) EN15 65 emissions (Scope 1) Energy indirect greenhouse EN16 gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 65 2) Other indirect greenhouse gas EN17 65 (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Emissions of ozone-depleting EN20 65-66 substances (ODS) NOX, SOX, and other EN21 66 significant air emissions Effluents and Waste DMA 57 Total water discharge by EN22 61-62 quality and destination Total weight of waste by type EN23 57-58-59-60, 62 and disposal method Total number and volume of EN24 54 significant spills Products and Services DMA 54 Percentage of products sold EN28 and their packaging materials 61 that are reclaimed by category Compliance DMA 54 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Monetary value of significant has not been fines and total number of nonpenalized for any EN29 monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental noncompliance with laws and regulations any environmental laws or regulations. Supplier Environmental DMA 45,46,47 Assessment Percentage of new suppliers EN32 that were screened using 47 environmental criteria BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 94 Significant actual and potential negative environmental EN33 46 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, Number of grievances EN34 addressed, and resolved about environmental through formal grievance impacts is 0. mechanisms SOCIAL LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment DMA 30 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee LA1 32 turnover by age group, gender and region Benefits provided to fulltime employees that are not LA2 provided to temporary or part31,83 time employees, by significant locations of operation Return to work and retention LA3 rates after parental leave, by 31,84 gender Occupational Health DMA 41 . and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health LA5 and safety committees that 41-42 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, LA6 43-44 and total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 95 Workers with high incidence or LA7 high risk of diseases related to 43 their occupation Training and Education DMA 36,37 Average hours of training per LA9 year per employee by gender, 36,84-85 and by employee category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the LA10 36-41 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing their career endings Percentage of employees receining regular performance LA11 and career development 37-38,40-41 reviews by gender and by employee category Diversity and Equal DMA 31 Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee LA12 category according to gender, 30,34-35 age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for DMA 31 Women and Men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to LA13 men by employee category, 33 by significant locations of operation Percentage of new suppliers LA14 that were screened using labor 47 practices criteria HUMAN RIGHTS Investment DMA 17 BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 96 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human HR2 17 rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination DMA 31 Total number of incidents of HR3 discrimination and corrective 31 actions taken Child Labour DMA 31 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child HR5 31 labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour Forced or Compulsory DMA 31 Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced HR6 or compulsory labour, and 31 measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Suppliers Human DMA 45-46 Rights Assessment Percentage of new suppliers HR10 that were screened using 45,46,47 human rights criteria Human Rights DMA 17 Grievance Mechanisms BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 97 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, HR12 addressed, and resolved 17 through formal grievance mechanisms SOCIETY Local Communities DMA 49 Percentage of operations with implemented local SO1 community engagement, 49 impact assessments, and development programs Anti-corruption DMA 17 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for SO3 17,18 risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified Communication and training SO4 on anti-corruption policies and 16,17,18 procedures Confirmed incidents of SO5 17 corruption and actions taken Anti-competitive DMA 17 Behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, SO7 17 anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance DMA 16,17,18 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of SO8 non-monetary sanctions for 17 non-compliance with laws and regulations Grievance Mechanisms DMA 49 for Impacts on Society BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 98 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, SO11 addressed, and resolved 50-51 through formal grievance mechanisms PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer Health and DMA 48 Safety Percentage of significant product and service categories PR1 for which health and safety 48 impacts are assessed for improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary PR2 codes concerning the health 50-51 and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle by type of outcomes Product and Service DMA 51 Labelling Results of surveys measuring PR5 52 customer satisfaction Marketing DMA 51 Communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 51 communications including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer Privacy DMA 19 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches 52 PR8 of customer privacy and losses of customer data BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 99 The UN Global Compact 10 Principles Indicators Human Rights Page Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 8,17 proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 16,17,45,46 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 31 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory 31 labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 31 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of 30,31,33,34,35,37,40 employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approache to environmental 54,55,57,64,66 challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 54,55,57,64,66 responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 54,55,57,64,66 friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion 16, 17, 18 and bribery. BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013-2014 www.bilimilac.com
