COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Implementing UN Global Compact 10 principles in the N-STAR Company Limited 2016-2017 . N-STAR COMPANY LIMITED Introduction I am pleased to confirm that N-STAR Company Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour , Environment and Anti Corruption. In this our annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely , Managing Director N-STAR CO.,LTD. N-STAR Company Limited N-STAR CO.,LTD was founded in July 2005, in order to making the growth of Retail Business in the Country , our stakeholders , employees and to support the society with our newest technologies. The Company has two main tasks • To support our clients , customers with excellent service who are not getting full service in retail business in the countryside. And to develop the business sector in the region . • To help and support our employee , young people , our members to meet their current challenges and the challenges of the future with fair competition, new technology , services and other essential things to be successful in their business and lives. Our approach to the 10 principles In August 2015 N-STAR CO.,LTD become a member of UN Global Compact program. At that point we could define three major stakeholders, which could guide the direction of our CSR policy where we wanted to make a difference within the natural context of our business. These are: • People (employees and members) • Society (locally) • Society (globally) In this connection we decided to implement our initiatives in two stages. The first stage would thus concentrate on implementing initiatives within the Secretariat to ensure that all members of staffs understood UN basic principles and ensure the willingness to implement sustainable solutions throughout the organization . The second stage would hereafter be directed at initiatives outside the secretariat, first towards our members, and later toward society, locally and finally globally. To make sure that all initiatives were employee borne, we set up a CSR committee, which became responsible for choosing and implementing the internal initiatives within stage one. And here is some activities of our CSR program for our Society . We also contributed to some Orphanage as much as we can. 1. Human Rights N-STAR goal is to influence that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. Based on our commitment we have set up a code of conduct, published on our website, to make our position clear for all our suppliers, employees and partners. Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations.We have published and actively informed all our suppliers, partners and employees of our commitment and encouraged them to commit as well. An internal system is in place were the employees are trained in regards of our commitment. 2. Labour N-STAR Co.,Ltd believes that all employees have the right to individual freedom of expression and opinion. This is upheld by regular meetings between management and employee groups and monthly meeting. We have conducted a work place assessment, which showed a few areas of employee discontent. The findings were acted upon immediately to improve the satisfaction of the employees. In having a good working environment, lies also having good health. A bad working environment affects the health of the individual and vice versa and both have an impact on employee well being and motivation. Some of the initiatives we have implemented thus aim at promoting and protecting our employees’ physical well being. The employee rights therefore include home working, ergonomic work place assessment, a private health insurance, and annual sports and social activities. We also create the future benefits of our employee.The company will welcoming the new share partners from our excellent employee in future . So , they have the brightest future in our company. 3. Environment N-STAR support the UN Global Compact principles on the Environment.Our company is only Retailing and Services company so we are not highly effect to the environment. But anyway , we always scope for prevent our environmental. We have therefore adopted a green purchasing policy, in which environmental considerations are essential. With regards to lighting, we chose low-energy solutions wherever possible, buying energy efficient light bulbs and purchasing electricity. Also we use a lot of Solar system in our Main Showrooms. 4. Anti-Corruption We work strongly against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our CSR guidelines and Code of Conduct include our policies on anticorruption and respond to incidents. We have a system in place for whistleblowing for any Code of Conduct or CSR guideline violation. Measurement of outcomes We have create a system in place that encourage employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our CSR guidelines , Our Human Rights policy , Labour , Environmental process and Code of Conduct. We are proudly produce that “No” reports have been filed since the system has been implemented . We commitment that we will keep this forever in our company. THIS IS OUR REPORT FOR 2016-2017 COMUNNICATION ON PROGRESS . N-STAR COMPNAY LIMITED. 1/A , BLOCK (3) , MDY-LASHIO ROAD , PYIN OO LWIN TSP , MANDALAY, MYANMAR.
