UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2017 DLA PIPER DENMARK MANAGING PARTNER STATEMENT In DLA Piper Denmark, we care about the environment and the corporate sector to which we belong. Ethics and social responsibility are of great importance to us, and we contribute actively to society. In 2018 we celebrate our 150th anniversary, and we have a long-standing tradition for taking on pro bono cases and cases of societal impact. We have always made a point of contributing actively to society by influencing the development of the legal sector as well as emerging legislation and regulation. We have now officially supported the United Nations Global Compact for the last five years and are thus committed to aligning with the ten principles on human rights, labour, environment and climate as well as anti-corruption. We are proud to publish our fifh Communication on Progress. Earlier this year we joined the global law firm DLA Piper, which has broadened our international horizon, and we have now even stronger focus on achieving our CSR targets both on a local and a global scale. We refer to DLA Piper’s Global Compact Communications on Progress, which are available on www.dlapiper.com. Our Communications on Progress follow the structure of the ten universal principles set out in the United Nations Global Compact and describe some of the activities related to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption that we focused on in 2016. For each of these four areas, we also describe planned initiatives for 2017. Hence, our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact also serves as a tool for the continuous setting of new goals for ourselves and our social responsibility. Henrik Puggaard Managing Partner August 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS As a law firm, we can achieve our business goals only if we provide a healthy working environment to our staff to ensure their well-being and job satisfaction and to enable them to develop as individuals. We therefore take good care of our people by respecting one another as humans, irrespective of gender, race, nationality, religion, faith, sexual orientation, age or disability. We aim to have the most committed and satisfied staff of the entire Danish legal profession. GOALS AND ACTIVITIES IN 2017 More internal secondments As a result of joining DLA Piper, we have launched a secondment programme for our lawyers which involves short-term, internal secondments to other Nordic offices to promote and strengthen cooperation in the Nordic region. THE PROFESSIONAL WORKING ENVIRONMENT The greater part of the professional development in DLA Piper Denmark takes place via the cases and assignments which each individual staff member solves in his or her daily work after having received instruction, consultation and feedback from his or her immediate superior. This ‘learning by experience’ is supported by more formal learning activities, including supplementary training and professional networks, internal and external lectures, secondments and stays abroad. Career prospectus In 2016 we launched a career prospectus for our present and future lawyers. The career prospectus gives a step-by-step account – from student to partner – of the professional and personal development opportunities we offer our lawyers as well as clear performance expectations associated with each step. Performance management The pivotal tool for supporting and planning the ongoing development of staff members is an individual performance plan describing initiatives and activities which each staff member is expected to carry out during the year, and the key performance indicators used to measure their performance at year-end. Our junior-lawyer programme Our junior lawyers follow the programme for junior lawyers operated by the Danish Bar and Law Society. We supplement this programme with a course programme that is tailored to the needs of our own business. In recent years, we have added new courses to the programme – one that is to provide our junior lawyers with an understanding of basic business principles, which is an important tool to have in their future careers, and a course which is to enhance their ability to communicate and to impart knowledge. Business School In 2016 we launched an educational concept – Business School – for our experienced lawyers. The concept is based on a cooperation with reputable business schools in Denmark and abroad and encompasses various business-training opportunities that can be adapted to the career, the area of law practiced and the personal interests of the individual lawyer. Secondment and training An increasing share of our assignments are international, and it is therefore important to us that our lawyers gain international experience early on in their careers. In 2016 nine of our experienced lawyers and 10 of our trainees were on secondment abroad or on educational leave to pursue international studies. PHYSICAL WORKING ENVIRONMENT DLA Piper Denmark complies with the rules, guidelines and standards for occupational health and safety and indoor climate laid down by the Danish Working Environment Authority. To ensure high job satisfaction and good health among our staff members, we offer numerous supplemental solutions, which include health insurance, a massage-therapy solution, flu vaccines, sports activities as well as a healthy and nutritious breakfast and lunch arrangement, etc. Health and Safety Committee As required under the Danish Working Environment Act, we have a Health and Safety Committee consisting of representatives elected by our employees as well as management representatives. Their tasks are to plan, manage, advise and inform on as well as supervise the work related to health and safety within our area. In 2016 the committee again held in-house courses in basic firefighting and in how to use a heart defibrillator. In the autumn of 2016, the mandatory workplace assessment was conducted. Work-life balance As in previous years, our work-life balance activities were aimed at the health and well-being of our staff members. There is constant focus on food and exercise as well as job satisfaction and personal well-being. We cooperate with Falck Healthcare A/S, which offers massage therapy, acupuncture and zone therapy. Moreover, our staff members have access to a health-care portal where doctors, nurses, sports physiologists, dieticians, coaches, etc., have answered questions about health. In 2016 we added an exercise triathlon to our range of sports activities and, as every year, we participated in the Danish “We bike to work” campaign, which focuses on being physically active during transportation to and from work. Our canteen continued in 2016 to focus on healthy and nutritious food and to maintain and further develop its high standards. As part of our work-life balance activities, the canteen held cookery-club activities in 2015 for staff members in both Copenhagen and Aarhus for the purpose of increasing job satisfaction. At these activities, staff members jointly prepared and ate dinner in an informal setting and have, thereby, created new relations with their colleagues. Joint trip abroad As a special event in 2016, we arranged a joint trip for all our staff members to the sports resort Club La Santa on the Canary Island of Lanzarote. The theme of the trip was work-life balance, and the agenda focused on the prerequisites for health and well-being as well as performance. For three days, we worked with the work-related, personal, and physical aspects of physical and emotional well-being via presentations, group assignments and discussions in the various departments. In addition to the official programme, a summer party and a wide range of sports activities gave ample opportunity to socialise with colleagues and to reinforce the corporate culture and values shared by all our staff members. The daily activities and discussions were an important step in supporting development towards a stronger performance culture, and the trip helped foster a general understanding that we all share responsibility for ensuring collective well-being, and that it is necessary for ensuring the well-being of the individual members of our staff that we make regular adjustments to our expectations as to what we demand of each other and ourselves. MENTAL WORKING ENVIRONMENT DLA Piper Denmark expects everybody to contribute to a sound working environment. Therefore, we expect that nobody bullies or harasses any colleague. Should anyone encounter problems of this kind or become aware that bullying or harassment is taking place, we expect that person to take immediate action to deal with the problem by contacting our Managing Partner, HR Manager, or a similar person in DLA Piper Denmark whom he or she trusts. Workplace stress Our stress-management policy allocates responsibility in situations of stress – whether you are a manager, a colleague or the staff member suffering from stress. We have a certified stress coach in our HR department who deals with situations which require tools to manage stress, a clarification of the individual stress level and giving advice to the staff member suffering from stress.Via our health insurance policy, all staff members in DLA Piper Denmark have access to psychological counselling, etc. To enhance awareness of our stress-management tools among our staff members, we held in-house meetings about stress at both of our locations in 2016. The agenda for our trip to Club La Santa contained several long presentations about the prevention of stress and our firm’s stress-management plan and tools. LABOUR DLA Piper Denmark respects and promotes diversity amongst our staff and in our daily relations. We believe that diversity makes us strong, and we encourage everybody to apply for the advertised jobs, irrespective of background. And we clamp down on inappropriate conduct such as bullying and harassment. GOALS AND ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Retaining women lawyers In 2014, our goal was to have an Executive Committee consisting of 20% women within a five-year period and of 40% women within a ten-year period. Recruitment Committee The Recruitment Committee continues to work together with our HR department and ensures a consistently professional approach to the assessment of new lawyers and junior lawyers as well as law students. In DLA Piper Denmark, staff are employed and treated on the basis of their professional skills, competencies and conduct. We do not discriminate against anyone because of their gender, race, ethnicity, religious beliefs or sexual orientation. We have comprehensive Human Resource policies in place, including policies regarding stress, pregnancy, illness, health, etc. Recruitment Committee The main objective of our Recruitment Committee is to provide consultation to and collaborate with our HR department on the recruitment of trainees and junior lawyers in our offices in Copenhagen and Aarhus. Together with our HR department, the Committee ensures a consistently professional approach to the assessment of new lawyers and junior lawyers as well as law students. The Recruitment Committee also participates in the planning of employer-branding activities and links recruitment with outwardoriented activities in order to raise DLA Piper Denmark’s profile in university circles. Gender composition of our lawyers At the end of 2016, 41% of our legal staff were women. This represents a 5% increase from 2015 and a 10.8% increase from 2014. We consider this to be a very positive development as it is our intention to have an equal gender composition of our workforce. Retaining women It is one of our declared goals to retain a higher number of female lawyers and junior lawyers throughout their entire careers. Our efforts have primarily focused on proactive management initiatives and offering increased flexibility, including reduced working hours during a period of their employment where it can otherwise prove difficult to balance work and family life. We are pleased about the positive development from 2014 to 2016 which confirms the validity of our efforts directed at creating work-life balance. This positive development will be crucial to achieving our goal of having more women in managerial positions and on our Executive Committee. Openness and dialogue DLA Piper Denmark acknowledges that all employees have the right to individual freedom of expression and opinion, and we encourage all our employees to express their opinions individually or in groups at performance reviews, at meetings with the management and specified staff groups, at general department and office meetings and, in writing, in company climate surveys. Legal staff meetings In 2016 we again held in-house meetings between our legal staff in Copenhagen and Aarhus to supplement the departmental meetings and the legal staff meetings at the individual locations. The purpose of the joint legal staff meetings is to strengthen the professional and social network in our firm and to heighten the corporate spirit across our locations. Staff Associations In DLA Piper Denmark, our junior lawyers have their own association, which arranges work-related as well as sociable events and activities for them. A corresponding association exists for our secretarial staff, which also arranges work-related and sociable events and activities. In 2016 a student association was established for our law students for the same purposes. ENVIRONMENT DLA Piper Denmark pays attention not to cause more environmental harm than absolutely necessary. As a service business, any harm caused to the environment by us is first and foremost connected with our office buildings and office operations as well as transportation. We are committed to minimising our environmental impact across our operations, and our approach is based on the 3 R’s – reduce, reuse, recycle. GOALS AND ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Less food waste We continuously work on reducing food waste, and in 2017 we will continue taking significant steps to cut our collective carbon footprint. REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE DLA Piper Denmark complies with all relevant environmental legislation and guidelines. We continue our efforts to reduce our energy consumption and CO2 emissions and to focus on selecting more environmentally-friendly and energy-efficient products and solutions – for instance in relation to light sources, cleaning agents, and stationary. Part of the electrical power consumed by us is generated by wind turbines. We respect and support measures for reducing our environmental impact, including fat elimination, two-flush toilet functions, lower night-time temperature settings, and cleaning by use of environmentally-friendly products and water-saving methods. Our reduction and recycling initiatives lie with our operations and service function, which makes a cost-benefit assessment of new measures. In cooperation with the two cleaning companies in charge of the daily cleaning of our offices, we focus on environmentally-sound solutions that reduce our consumption of energy, water and chemicals in the cleaning process. We are continuously looking for new and better solutions. We respect and support measures for recycling, including waste sorting and the collection of cardboard and paper waste, scrap metal, household glass jars and bottles, returnable plastic bottles and batteries. We continuously intensify our paper sorting efforts, and we now reuse and recycle more paper than previously. As regards electronic appliances, DLA Piper Denmark has a broker arrangement, meaning that used laptops, printers and wireline telephones are sold to an enterprise which prepares the appliances for re-sale or reuses individual components as spare parts. Like in previous years, in 2016 we sold a large number of used mobile phones to staff members in accordance with the tax rules in force at the time. New environmentally-friendly office building in Aarhus In 2016 our Aarhus office moved to a new location, the newly-built DOKK. DOKK1 was built with special focus on the environment, and the compact structure of the building reduces its surface area and the resulting heat loss. The building also features a 2432 square metre photovoltaic power system on the roof, a seawater cooling system to provide air conditioning and ventilation inside the building, and both indoor and outdoor LED lighting to significantly reduce energy consumption. Focus on reducing transportation between our offices Since the implementation of our Skype for Business solution on all staff computers, the need to be physically present at meetings has been reduced immensely. Since we have locations in both Aarhus and Copenhagen, the reduced need for transportation between our offices translates into savings in working hours, environmental impact, costs and safety. To supplement our Skype for Business solution, in 2016 we implemented new smart boards for video conferences, etc. to further reduce the need for being physically present at meetings between our offices and with our clients, and not least with our global colleagues. Focus on less food waste In recent years, our canteen has focused on reducing food waste. Some of the initiatives that have been carried out are adjustments of the selection on the daily lunch buffet, individual serving sizes and improved planning of menus and purchasing. In 2016 we implemented a new waste sorting system, and we now use smaller plates in a further attempt to reduce food waste. ANTI-CORRUPTION DLA Piper Denmark is subject to the Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society, and regular supervision serves to ensure that the Code is being observed. Our firm is subject to Danish anti-money laundering regulation – including measures to prevent financing of terrorism – and we have prepared an internal set of rules and established a new procedure to ensure our full compliance. GOALS AND ACTIVITIES IN 2017 New Anti-Money Laundering Act In 2017 a new Act on measures to prevent money laundering and financing of terrorism came into force, and one of our focal points is therefore on compliance with the new rules. Ethics and Pre-Conflict Committee DLA Piper Denmark has an Ethics and Pre-Conflict Committee, whose terms of reference cover complaints, matters concerning staff conduct, conflicts of interests relating to the Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society, and business-related conflicts of interests. Ethics partner Martin Lavesen has been our ethics partner since 2013. The ethics partner is consulted by the Ethics and Pre-Conflict Committee when needed to decide basic ethical issues. He acts as an excellent consultant and sounding board to both the Committee and to the firm in general. Induction programme All new members of DLA Piper Denmark’s staff must take part in an induction programme which ensures that they are introduced to the relevant working tools, business procedures, etc. Updated anti-money laundering material In 2016 we held in-house brush-up courses concerning our anti-money laundering material consisting of two guides – one for lawyers and one for secretaries – which have been updated so as to serve as quick reference tools for more frequent use. OUR CSR STRATEGY DLA Piper Denmark is proud to subscribe to the United Nations Global Compact. However, our social responsibility goes beyond that. We wish to contribute to sustainable development and improvement where we can make a difference. As a law firm, we firmly believe that we can make the greatest difference through efforts rooted in our core competency the practice of law. The four focus areas of our CSR strategy are legal assistance, legal research & knowledge sharing, investing in our staff’s well-being and development, and environmental sustainability. We support and run several activities which enable us to use our legal competencies to contribute towards a sustainable future. Over the years we have made it a point to be active in the legal community, both in Denmark and abroad, by holding fiduciary positions and appointments to various official bodies and associations, such as the International Bar Association, the International Chamber of Commerce, the Danish Institute of Arbitration, the Danish Standing Committee on Procedural Law, the Danish Press Council, the Danish Bar and Law Society and the Association of Danish Law Firms, where we make a valuable contribution towards influencing the development of the legal sector as well as emerging legislation and regulation. In 2016 we devoted significant resources to pro bono legal assistance and other pro bono work. Research and knowledge sharing We are deeply committed to educating lawyers. In terms of recruitment, we have a natural interest in being visible and approachable to law students, and several of our lawyers lecture at university and business schools and hold seminars and exam cram sessions for law students. But our involvement goes further, as we also think that we have a societal obligation to put our fingerprint on the making of future lawyers. Given our long-standing tradition of being a litigation law firm, we feel compelled to contribute to spotting and cultivating talented litigators. We therefore invest considerable time and energy in participating in moot trials, such as the moot trials arranged by the Legal Debate Society, an apolitical association for law students at the University of Copenhagen, and the Vis Moot court competition in Aarhus. Investing our time and energy into the teaching of our young people is something which brings us much pleasure and value, and we will continue to do so in 2017. LEGAL ASSISTANCE In 2016 we handled several cases of societal impact which involved a risk that we would not be paid for our services – i.e. group actions concerning issues of public importance affecting a large number of people. For instance, one of our junior lawyers was on a three-month secondment at Justitia, Denmark’s first judicial think tank. Justitia aims to promote the rule of law and fundamental human rights and freedom rights, both within Denmark and abroad. Justitia’s work is entirely dependent on private funding and support. During those three months, our junior lawyer, who ordinarily works with public law in Copenhagen, was dealing with legal issues relating to freedom rights and human rights, surveillance and the rule of law. OTHER ACTIVITIES Some of our lawyers are involved in legal aid work, and several of our partners in DLA Piper Denmark serve in fiduciary positions as administrators or on committees concerned with cultural activities. In 2016 we signed up with Goodwings, a socially responsible hotel portal which has teamed up with a number of non-profit organisations whose daily work supports the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals. Half their commission on hotel bookings is donated to any one of these good causes – at the choice of and at no extra cost to the customer. We find this to be an important and highly relevant initiative for global sustainability. The project we have chosen to support is the Plastic Changes project, which addresses ocean plastic pollution and aims to provide the next generation with plastic free oceans. DLA Piper Denmark Law Firm P/S is part of DLA Piper, a global law firm operating through various separate and distinct legal entities. Further information can be found at www.dlapiper.com.
