Nourishing Families So They Can Flourish And Thrive 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report We Are A Company with a Heart and Soul. Every day, Kellogg employees work together to fulfill our vision of enriching and delighting the world through foods and brands that matter. The reason they matter is that we don’t just make delicious, high-quality foods. We’re also focused on making a difference. That’s why we are dedicated to nourishing with our foods, feeding people in need and nurturing our planet, all while living our founder’s values. Our Vision Enrich and delight the world through foods and brands that matter Our Purpose Nourishing families so they can flourish and thrive A Diverse and Inclusive Community of Passionate People Making a Difference Nourishing Feeding People Nurturing Living Our with Our Foods in Need Our Planet Founder’s Values Culture for Growth 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 2 Contents OVERVIEW Message From The CEO 4 About Kellogg Company 6 Corporate Responsibility At Kellogg 6 About This Report 7 Nourishing families Our Commitments 9 so they can flourish NOURISHING WITH OUR FOODS and thrive Inspired By Our Food Beliefs Supporting Health And Well-being 12 12 Increasing Transparency 14 Ensuring Food Quality And Safety 15 Marketing Responsibly 15 FEEDING PEOPLE IN NEED Fighting Hunger, Feeding Potential 17 Charitable Donations 20 NURTURING OUR PLANET Conserving Natural Resources And Protecting Against Climate Change 22 CORPORATE Sourcing Responsibly 26 RESPONSIBILITY LIVING OUR FOUNDER’S VALUES REPORT 2016/2017 Operating Ethically 29 Protecting Human Rights 30 Embracing Diversity and Inclusion 31 When W.K. Kellogg gave away virtually all his wealth to the Kellogg Foundation in 1930, he created Message from the CEO a legacy that lives on today. Not only does one of the world’s largest charities bear his name, but his legacy – and his values – also live on in the heart and soul of our company. A legacy like ours is empowering and inspiring. Mr. Kellogg instilled in us his commitment to serving others and it’s been part of our DNA ever since. We’ve always viewed Kellogg as much more than a business…we’re a company with a heart and soul, here to make positive contributions to society. But it’s not enough to want to do good. We must hold each other accountable to passionately work to make a difference. That’s why we’re as dedicated to fighting hunger and feeding potential as we are to delivering business success. Nowhere is this more evident than our global commitment to create 3 billion Better Days by the end of 2025 as part of our Breakfasts for Better Days purpose platform. Together with our employees, customers, consumers and other partners, we’re donating 2.5 billion servings of food to people in need, making sure 2 million children start the day with healthy breakfasts and supporting farmers around the world who grow our ingredients. Through Breakfasts for Better Days, we’re continuing Mr. Kellogg’s legacy by addressing critical sustainability issues like food insecurity, inequality and the dangers posed by climate change. Because the current and future challenges presented by climate change to our company and the world are significant, we’re engaging with world leaders at events like the COP21 and COP22 meetings to learn more about how our global food company can make a difference. Our ambitious, science-based greenhouse gas reduction targets are one way we are doing so. Committing to introducing climate smart agriculture practices to 500,000 farmers – many of them women and smallholders in developing and emerging countries – is another. These developing and emerging nations are especially important to Kellogg as we continue responsibly growing our business. We know that we can only support our corporate responsibility o­ r Heart and Soul ­priorities if we also continue to succeed as a company. To ensure we do so, we are pursuing four key business strategies articulated in our 2020 Growth Plan: “We recognize that our voice is stronger and actions Win in Breakfast Be a Global Snacking Double Our Emerging Market Win Where the more beneficial when we Shopper Shops Powerhouse Business partner with others.” John Bryant Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 4 In the past two years, our acquisitions in Brazil, Egypt and Nigeria/Ghana, as well as our joint venture in Africa, expanded our footprint in emerging markets. Message from the CEO They also created new opportunities for us to engage with local leaders on important corporate responsibility initiatives and give us new ways to deliver on our purpose of nourishing families so they can flourish and thrive. Since our founding, we’ve striven to be a responsible corporate citizen. We understand that the decisions we make have far-reaching consequences, and we work hard to make a positive impact on the people and places we touch. For example, we’ve surpassed our goals to reduce the sugar and sodium in our cereals, and we continue removing artificial colors and flavors from our foods. We also are especially proud to be ranked as the top U.S.-based company on the Corporate Human Rights Benchmark for our dedication to protecting and advancing the cause of human rights throughout our operations and value chain. We’ve been sharing our progress against our corporate responsibility commitments in this global report since 2008. Over this time, we’ve forged numerous partnerships with similarly committed organizations and we’ve learned a great deal along the way. Through this work, we recognize that our voice is stronger and actions more beneficial when we partner with others. That’s why, as a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we’re protecting human rights, abolishing forced and child labor, protecting the environment and eliminating corruption. Our work also contributes to four U.N. Sustainable Development Goals: #2 – Zero Hunger, #5 – Gender Equality, #12.3 – Food Loss and Waste, and #13 – Climate Action. : Food Loss & Waste We look forward to updating you on our continued progress nourishing families so they can flourish and thrive in this and future Corporate Responsibility reports. John Bryant “If you want to go quickly, go alone. CONTINUED Chairman and Chief Executive Officer June 2017 If you want to go far, go together.” African proverb 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 5 Corporate Responsibility at Kellogg About Kellogg Company People have high expectations of food companies. They want to know where their food comes from and how it’s made. They also want assurances that companies 2016 SALES: 1,600 share their values, including making sure there is enough food for everyone. FOODS Kellogg is more than a company. It’s a diverse and inclusive community of pasUS $13 BILLION sionate people making a difference by: LEADING Nourishing With Our Foods CEREAL COMPANY 33,000 Feeding People In Need EMPLOYEES Nurturing Our Planet 2ND LARGEST CRACKER, LEADING Living Our Founder’s Values NORTH AMERICAN COOKIE FROZEN FOODS & SNACK COMPANY With this approach, we are confident that we will continue to grow our business responsibly and sustainably. To ensure we do so, the Social Responsibility PRODUCER and Public Policy Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our corporate responsibility strategy. Our Senior Vice President (SVP) of Global Corporate Affairs, who reports to our Chairman and CEO, is responsible for successfully implementing the strategy. This involves regularly sharing information with and MARKETED IN FOODS MADE IN gaining input from the Board Committee and other senior executives. 180 21 COUNTRIES COUNTRIES* Within our company, numerous leaders are accountable for achieving specific corporate responsibility goals, based on their roles, such as our Chief Sustainability Officer, who reports to the SVP mentioned above. These leaders have annual performance goals tied to the company’s Corporate Responsibility metrics. *In 2016, Kellogg acquired Parati, a leading Brazilian food group. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 6 This report has been prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and Food Processing Sector Standards introduced in October 2016. About this Report We are reporting in accordance with the “Core” option. We also included additional information that addresses some Comprehensive reporting disclosures. While the report primarily covers calendar year 2016, it also includes developments from early 2017. Our most recent, full GRI-based report was published in 2015. In 2016, we issued a Corporate Responsibility update without a GRI Index, while transitioning to the new GRI Standards. We intend to continue providing an annual report and Index. In preparation for this report, we used the guidance provided by GRI to assess the reporting topics that are material to our business. We identified material topics as those that are of current and potential social, ethical, environmental and economic impact to the company that: • Align with the company’s vision, purpose, strategy, brand portfolio and geography; • Intersect multiple areas of the company’s value chain that Kellogg can impact; and, • Affect consumers, customers, employees, communities, regulatory agencies or other stakeholders in regions where we operate and source. The material topics serve as the foundation of the four sections of this Corporate Responsibility Report. Materiality at Kellogg Food quality and safety Health and well-being Hunger relief IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Natural resource conservation Sustainable agriculture Climate change Transparency Responsible Marketing Human rights Food loss and waste Business ethics and compliance Diversity and inclusion Nurturing Our Planet Feeding People In Need Nourishing With Our Foods IMPACT TO KELLOGG COMPANY’S VALUE CHAIN Living Our Values 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 7 We have also evaluated the boundaries of these material topics, identifying where the impacts of each occur in our value chain. About this Report Our Value Chain CONTINUED A cross-functional team of senior leaders of our company led this process. Their work was informed by a survey of and ongoing conversations with multiple stakeholders with whom we regularly engage, including employees, investors, customers, consumers, suppliers, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), community members, regulatory and elected officials and others. These stakeholder groups include Oxfam; CDP; our headquarters community of Battle Creek, Michigan; Action For Healthy Kids, Feeding America, the Global Foodbanking Network, World Wildlife Fund and many others. Our GRI index provides additional information on numerous economic, environmental and social topics, as well as topics specific to the food processing sector. We welcome your feedback on this report and our overall commitment to corporate responsibility at corporateresponsibility@kellogg.com. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 8 The following dashboard summarizes our progress against the commitments we have made to nourish with our foods, feed people in need and nurture our Our Commitments planet. Additional information on our progress against each of these commitments is outlined in the respective sections of this report or the GRI Index. We’ve provided this at-a-glance look for those interested in a specific focus area or in quickly understanding our overall performance against our goals. Section Priority Focus Area Commitment 2016 Progress By 2020, ensure that 90% of our cereals have 10 grams or less of sugar per 30-gram 90% = Complete serving. By 2020, ensure that 85% of our cereals have 150 mg or less of sodium per 30-gram 88% = Exceeded serving. Cereal Achieved 30% reduction in 2015; total By 2020, reduce the sodium in our cereals on average by more than 30%. reduction of 44% since Nourishing 2007. Inspired by our With Our Food Beliefs By 2020, include one or more positive nutrients or ingredients in every snack food in Foods the convenient nutrition category. Developed in 2016. By 2020, reduce sugar on average by 10% per serving, excluding fruit, in our conveWe will begin reporting nient nutrition snacks. our progress in our Snacks 2017/2018 report. By 2020, at least 85% of convenient nutrition snacks will have 150 or fewer mg of sodium per serving. Continue to ensure that at least 75% of our cracker portfolio has 230 mg or less of Complete sodium per serving. By 2025, donate 2.5 billion servings of food to people in need. Announced in 2016. Feeding Breakfasts for By 2025, expand breakfast programs to reach 2 million children. Alleviating We will begin reporting People In Better Days – Hunger By 2025, commit to 45,000 volunteer days by Kellogg employees. our progress in our Need Hunger Relief By 2025, engage 300 million people around the issue of hunger relief. 2017/2018 report. Energy: 0.1% $ By 2020, reduce energy and GHG emissions by an additional 15% 1, 2 Conserving Natural GHG emissions: 1.8% # Nurturing Resources And By 2020, expand the use of low-carbon energy in our plants by 50% 30% Energy Our Planet Protecting Against By 2050, reduce Scope 1 & 2 emissions in our operations by 65% 2 0.2% Climate Change By 2050, work with our suppliers to reduce Scope 3 emissions by 50% 2 Establishing baseline 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 9 Our Commitments Section Priority Focus Area Commitment 2016 Progress By 2020, implement water reuse projects in 25% of our plants. 9% Conserving Natural Water By 2020, reduce our water use by an additional 15% 2.7% $ 1, 2 Resources And Continue watershed quality support. Ongoing Protecting Against Waste By 2020, reduce total waste by an additional 15% 1, 2 Establishing baseline Climate Change Continue adding value to foods and the planet by increasing our use of resource Packaging Ongoing efficient packaging. 70+ priority ingredient suppliers are engaged in measuring continuous improvement or Nurturing By 2020, responsibly source our 10 priority ingredients: cocoa, sugar cane, vanilla, Ingredients investment in sourcing Our Planet palm, corn, wheat, rice, potatoes, beet and fruit. communities. Learn Nurturing more about our Our Planet methodology and prog(cont.) ress here. Sourcing Breakfasts for Responsibly Better Days By 2020, improve sustainable agriculture by enabling 500,000 farmers to imple294,000 farmers Sustainable ment more sustainable farming practices using climate smart agriculture. Agriculture By 2020, support 15,000 smallholder farmers in our direct supply chain to increase Smallholder CONTINUED adoption of climate smart agriculture and help improve their livelihoods and climate Complete Farmers resiliency. 10,000 women directly Women FarmBy 2020, develop programs to help women farmers/workers improve their livelihoods, engaged thus far; work ers/Workers families and communities using climate smart agriculture. is ongoing 1 Per metric ton of food produced. 2 From our 2015 performance. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 10 Nourishing • WITH OUR FOODS • Millions of families across the globe – including our own – count on Kellogg for great-tasting foods that meet their needs. And these needs vary greatly. That’s why we are constantly listening, learning and evolving, and why we’ll always offer a variety of foods with diverse ingredients. But no matter which of our foods people select, they always can count on us for delicious, high-quality products. For example, we’re working to remove artificial colors and flavors from our Kellogg’s® branded cereals, a variety of Kellogg’s® branded snack bars, and Eggo® waffles, by the end of 2018. We’ve already completed our work with Eggo® and continue to make progress with our cereals and snack bars. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 11 Inspired By Our Food Beliefs Yet, around the world, our work continues. For examSupporting Health And Well-Being ple, we recently removed half the fat from our Granola In 2015, we set out to articulate our Global Breakfast in Japan and added oat fiber to the food. Our teams We continue to make progress increasing the nutrition Food Beliefs. We did so to convey our aspirations and continue to make progress against our Breakfast Food education and active lifestyle communications that we inspire our team of employees worldwide to keep the Beliefs and expect to share similar results against our provide to families around the world, a goal we stated consumer at the heart of everything we do. These new Snack Food Beliefs in our next Corporate Rein our Global Breakfast Food Beliefs. Much of this beliefs proved so motivating that we created a similar sponsibility Report. work is accomplished in partnership with health proset of Global Snack Foods Beliefs in 2016. fessionals, through ongoing dialogue and collaboration. While we planned to achieve our Breakfast Food Belief targets to reduce sugar and sodium by 2020, we’re pleased to share that we achieved the following Benefits of • Kellogg EMEA hosted a Nutrition Summit that brought together experts from across Europe and the Middle East to discuss the role that our comresults four years ahead of schedule1: • CEREAL • pany, and the entire food industry, can play in enhancing public health through nutrition. Approximately 90 policy makers, NGO representatives and health professionals attended. Cereal is a low-fat, nutrient-dense, • Kellogg Mexico’s Nutrition and Health Institute cholesterol-free food that adds delicious continued its highly successful symposium series. nutrition to breakfast. This year’s session focused on chrononutrition and obesity with top international speakers, reaching more than 2,000 health professionals and Diets with higher levels of cereal fiber, students onsite in Mexico City and virtually across which is found in cereal grains like bran, the country, as well as from the U.S., Colombia, whole oats and whole wheat, are associatGuatemala and other Latin American countries. ed with the lowest risks of cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes.2 • To help physicians in India have more meaningful conversations with their patients about the role nutrition plays in overall health, Kellogg India proCereal with milk is a leading source of 10 vided information on the importance of breakfast nutrients in children’s diets2 — bringing to more than 3,000 physicians. The company also essential vitamins such as A, B6, B12 and partnered with the Indian Dietetic Association on D to the breakfast table each morning.3 continuing nutrition education programs on the role of cereal fiber in health and disease prevention that reached more than 2,000 nutritionists, dieticians and students at key scientific confer1 Data are an average of our six core markets, which represent the majority of our worldwide sales. ences. 2 Richardson Centre for Functional Foods and Nutraceuticals, University of Manitoba, Canada. 3 Berner, et al. JAND, 2014. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 12 In addition to education initiatives like those discussed above, our foods have always been key to supporting health and well-being. In emerging markets, especially in Asia Pacific and Latin America, our smaller, “sachet” packages help improve access to affordable foods in areas where food security is a challenge. We also regularly introduce new foods to respond to people’s increasing interest in positive nutrition. Our reformulated Special K™ Nourish cereals in the U.S. and new Special K™ Nutty Chewy Bars in Europe are two examples of foods created for those who want wholesome ingredients that they can see. In India, our Ragi Chocos include ragi, an ancestral grain that is gluten free and high in protein, calcium and fiber. In addition to providing a wide variety of food choices, we also understand that people have different preferences for the ingredients used in their foods. Because we know that some U.S. consumers prefer foods without genetically modified (GM) ingredients, many of our U.S. brands offer Non-GMO Project Verified options, including Bear Naked®, Pure Organic®, Stretch Island Fruit Co.™ and MorningStar Farms®. Our Kashi® brand is now 100 percent Non-GMO Project Verified. We do not use GM ingredients in our foods made in Europe, Australia, Asia and Brazil based on input from our consumers and local availability. The majority of all field corn and soybean seeds used in the U.S. are genetically modified for optimal production. GM ingredients have been used in the U.S. for the last 20 years and authorities that have studied these crops—including the World Health Organization and the American Medical Association—have found them to be safe. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 13 Increasing Transparency The following infographic on Every day, millions of families around the world welthe importance of breakfast come our company and its foods into their homes. is the most viewed content We do not take this trust lightly. We understand that, on Open For Breakfast. as a global publicly owned company, we have many stakeholders and we look for regular opportunities to More than 444,000 people engage with these important groups. For example, we have viewed this information recently sought input from stakeholders when we updated our Materiality Matrix (see About This Report) since the site launched. and we continue to do so regularly. Another way we are increasing transparency is by sharing information and engaging with stakeholders through Open For Breakfast, launched in the U.S. in early 2015, and expanded to Australia and Mexico in 2016. Open For Breakfast is a digital and social storytelling platform where we go “behind the scenes” to show where our ingredients come from, how our foods are made and how, as a company, we are advancing nutrition, sustainability and philanthropy. The program also is forum for people to submit any questions they have about our company and its foods. Since the site premiered, we’ve answered thousands of questions and engaged millions of consumers and stakeholders in multiple countries on Facebook and Twitter. This platform augments Consumer Affairs teams that support each of our regions and are accessible via phone and online. Kellogg is also participating in the U.S. SmartLabel™ initiative that gives consumers real-time detailed product information. This information is available by simply scanning QR codes on packages or can be accessed via smartphones, tablets, desktop computers and mobile phones. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 14 Ensuring Food Quality And Safety GLOBAL FOOD SAFETY INITIATIVE AUDITS The quality and safety of our foods is of utmost importance to Kellogg. Providing safe, high-quality foods To ensure compliance against these high stan31 is one of the ways we earn the trust of millions of people around the world every day. To do so, we have dards, in 2016 GFSI conducted third-party audits on our behalf of 453 suppliers and 68 68 comprehensive and continuously improving systems in contract manufacturers. We also conducted place that comply with government regulations in the internal audits of 31 of our countries we operate, plus our own strict standards. own manufacturing facilities. Our Kellogg Food Safety System details our comprehensive approach to global food safety. It includes programs, procedures and practices that make sure Suppliers 453 we produce safe food that meets or exceeds the reContract Manufacturers quirements of multiple regulatory agencies around the Internal Manufacturing world. In addition, the Global Food Safety Initiative Facilities (GFSI) certifies all our company-owned and contract manufacturing facilities, and our facilities in North America are also SQF (Safe Quality Food) certified. All our ingredient suppliers are also required to be GFSI certified. Since our last Corporate Responsibility Report, we about our foods, we also adhere to our company’s have updated our U.S. Kellogg Food Safety Plan to high, uniform standards detailed in our Worldwide To ensure compliance against these high standards, align with the new U.S. Food Safety Modernization Marketing and Communication Guidelines. These in 2016 GFSI conducted third-party audits on our Act requirements that began going into effect in Guidelines are augmented by 20 global, regional and behalf of 453 suppliers and 68 contract manufactur2016. We also work with every supplier to ensure that country-specific pledges we have taken to responsibly ers. Our Global Quality and Food Safety team also their food safety plans meet our requirements before market to children, including the following: conducted internal audits of 31 of our own manufactheir ingredients are allowed inside our manufacturing turing facilities. In addition, we invested nearly US$40 facilities. • International Food and Beverage Alliance and million in new equipment and other improvements in Consumer Goods Forum global pledges; our operations to support continuous advancements Marketing Responsibly of our food safety systems and processes. • European Union and Gulf Cooperative Council Communicating in an informative and responsible regional pledges; and Because the global food industry is constantly learning manner about our foods is a company priority, whethmore about food safety, we also rely on the expertise er we are discussing Kellogg’s Corn Flakes® cereal in • Local pledges in Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canaof our Kellogg Food Safety Advisory Board of five Ireland, Kellogg’s Zucaritas® cereal in Mexico, Pringda, India, Malaysia, Mexico, Philippines, Portugal, external experts for the latest trends, information and les® crisps in Japan, Cheez-It® crackers in the U.S. or Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Switzerland, recommendations to strengthen our procedures. Eggo® waffles in Canada. In addition to following all Thailand and the United States. local labeling requirements when sharing information 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 15 Feeding People • IN NEED • At Kellogg, we are passionate about fighting hunger and feeding people’s potential. That’s why we recently committed to creating 3 billion Better Days for people around the world by the end of 2025, through our global purpose platform, Breakfasts for Better Days. This 2016 commitment is the second generation of Breakfasts for Better Days. We’ve already almost doubled our initial goal and helped provide nearly 1.9 billion servings of food to those in need since 2013, and we’ve supported the livelihoods of thousands of farmers. Now we’re taking our efforts to a whole new level, integrating our hunger relief and sustainability work. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 16 Fighting Hunger, Feeding Potential In a world where there are more people and increasingly limited natural resources, we are working hard to help ensure that there is enough food for everyone. We’re fighting hunger every day, as well as feeding the potential of people who are creating solutions to these challenges for generations to come. 5 Ways We Are Breakfasts for Fighting Hunger, Better Days Feeding Potential Alleviating Hunger breakfast pioneer and leader for 110 years, we know 1 Donating 2.5 billion servings of food to people in need Millions of people worldwide enjoy our great-tasting how vital it is that children start their days with a full stomach, ready to learn and be active. foods. These foods also play an important role in our 2 Expanding breakfast programs to efforts to reduce hunger. By the end of 2025, we will • Partnering with Food Bank of Russia, Kellogg proreach 2 million children donate 2.5 billion servings of food on six continents vides a nutritious breakfast to about 600 children through hundreds of food banks and other programs. in 18 schools, every school day, across five regions These donations help those in need, either due to of the country. In a recent study, 75 percent of 3 Supporting 500,000 farmers with climate smart agriculture practices* short-term or chronic hunger, or natural disasters. Donations like these also go a long way toward reschool staff surveyed said the breakfast helps students be more engaged and 99 percent asked ducing food waste and achieving the United Nations us to continue the program. 4 Committing to 45,000 employee Sustainable Development Goal #2 to achieve Zero volunteer days Hunger and Goal #12.3 to reduce food waste and loss. • The Kellogg Australia Breakfast Buddies program helps provide breakfast to the one in seven kids in School Breakfast Programs Australia who otherwise go without by providing 5 Engaging 300,000 people in the issue We’re deeply concerned about reducing child hunbreakfasts to schools, outback and indigenous communities, sporting clubs and other community ger and will reach 2 million children by starting and groups that serve children. * This work is addressed in the Nurturing Our Planet growing school breakfast programs in more than 25 section of this Report countries including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Colom• Kellogg Spain now has more than 1,000 children bia, Egypt, Italy, the U.K., Russia, and South Africa. participating in 15 breakfast clubs around the At the same time, we’re continuing to help expand country. U.S. school breakfast program participation. As the 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 17 • Even in the U.S., where government-funded school breakfast programs are in place, reaching children through these programs is a challenge. Kids don’t want to be singled out as needing free breakfast and schools often lack the infrastructure to provide breakfast to all students. Kellogg U.S.’s partnerships with Action for Healthy Kids, Food Research and Action Center and Share Our Strength No Kid Hungry help provide resources to bring a much-needed breakfast to 63,000 students through breakfast-in-the-classroom and grab-and-go models in 250 schools. • In Colombia, Kellogg supports breakfast programs in nine cities, reaching 3,400 children in 55 schools and other community settings. • In Egypt, Kellogg Company Fund provided support for a kitchen and catering facilities at a primary school in Cairo. Previously unemployed mothers of children at the school were trained to cook breakfast for 600 students each school day. Creating 3 billion Better Days for people around the world isn’t something we can do alone, so we’re workOn World Food Day 2016, thousands of Kellogg ing with our employees, customers, suppliers, partners employees in nearly 30 countries stepped up to and inviting others to join us. fight hunger in a big way – volunteering at local school breakfast programs and food banks, and Employee Volunteerism organizing food collection drives that benefitted more than 55 food banks globally. We’re especially excited to see our employees around the world helping to reduce hunger through Here’s just one example, although there are hundreds their volunteer efforts. Employee volunteerism is an more. In Ireland, Kellogg volunteers donated breakessential part of Breakfasts For Better Days. It allows fasts to commuters in Dublin in exchange for donaour employees to see the great work our partners do tions to the CrossCare Food Bank. Over five days, and provides tangible help our partners need to deliver the team raised awareness of hunger in Ireland and services. donations to help feed those in need. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 18 Engaging People In The Issue We’re also partnering with people who enjoy our foods to actively fight hunger. Kellogg’s U.S. Give a Child a Breakfast campaign is donating up to US$1 million to No Kid Hungry to support school breakfast programs for specially marked boxes of Kellogg’s® breakfast cereals sold through the end of 2017. Kellogg Russia’s Lenten campaign similarly encouraged people to purchase Kellogg products to support donations to children in need. Breakfasts for Better Days is our signature cause plat“ The truth is, form. We’ve found that by focusing our efforts and resources on one priority – fighting hunger and feeding you receive potential – we can make the biggest difference. And because we know that a strong food banking network much more plays a key role in this issue, we recently supported a project that facilitates the sharing of best practices with members of the European Food Bank Federation. than you give.” This, and our ongoing support of the Global Foodbanking Network, help our partners operate effectively and make a difference to as many people as possible. Jose, Kellogg Spain We also continue to support the U.S. United Way campaign in the communities where we have operations. In 2016, Kellogg and its employees pledged US$5.5 million, nearly half of that – US$2.6 million – to our Battle Creek, MI headquarters community. Since United Way is a key partner with us in the fight against hunger, 25 percent of our corporate match goes toward this purpose, in support of our Breakfasts for Better Days commitment. We’ll report on our progress against these new 2025 commitments in future Corporate Responsibility Reports. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 19 Charitable Donations Our charitable contributions are made through Kellogg Company and Kellogg Company Fund. In the past five years, we have donated US$278.5 million. 2012-2016: $278.5 Million Product Donation (COGS) Cash Brand Philanthropy ($ in millions) 2016 41.8 7.9 4.1 $53.8 2015 44 9.8 3.9 $57.7 2014 40.4 11.2 2.1 $53.7 2013 47.6 10.8 2.6 $61 2012 39.1 11.1 2.1 $52.3 “Use the money as you please so long as it promotes the The W.K. Kellogg Foundation (WKKF), established health, happiness in 1930 as an independent, private foundation, is among the largest philanthropic foundations in the and well-being of U.S. As legally separate entities, WKKF receives its income primarily from the W.K. Kellogg children” Foundation Trust, and the Trust is Kellogg Company’s largest shareowner. In 2016, – Will Keith (W.K.) Kellogg Kellogg Company paid nearly US$140 million in dividends to the Trust to support the Foundation’s work with children, families and communities. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 20 Nurturing • OUR PLANET • A key element of fighting hunger and feeding potential is our support for those who grow our ingredients. That’s why we’re helping improve the livelihoods of farming families and communities around the world. In 2016, we announced that we’d achieved our goal – four years early – of providing information on climate smart agriculture to increase yields and improve climate resiliency to more than 15,000 smallholder farmers in our direct supply chain. And in 2017, we announced similar support for 10,000 women farmers. We’re excited about these outcomes and our ongoing work to reach 500,000 farmers around the world by the end of 2025, including women who play important roles in global agriculture. This commitment is part of our overall sustainability strategy that includes conserving natural resources and sourcing responsibly. It also aligns with our support of U.N. Sustainable Development Goal #2 to help end hunger by addressing food security and sustainable agriculture, Goal #5 to ensure gender equality, Goal #12.3 to reduce food waste and loss, and Goal #13 to take climate action. Our progress is highlighted below. Additional details are also available in our 2016 Year-End Sustainability Milestones. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 21 Conserving Natural Resources and Protecting Against Climate Change Annually, Kellogg reports it environmental data to the CDP. This global organization assesses our data and determines a rating for our performance. Our 2016 performance is summarized below. Our full Doing all we can to protect the long-term availability CDP rating can be accessed at www.cdp.net. More information can also be found here. of the ingredients we use in our foods, and the livelihoods of the people who grow them, is vitally important to the continued success of our company. That’s why we are taking action to help tackle the inter-connected issues of hunger and robust food systems in the face of a changing climate. We are helping to conserve natural resources and have specifically committed to reducing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions, reducing the water we use and waste we generate, reducing food loss and waste, and using resource-efficient packaging. Environmental Data This data includes Pringles®, which was not included in our 2015/2016 Corporate Responsibility Update ENERGY USE GHG EMISSIONS WATER USE Per metric tonne Total Per metric tonne Total Per metric tonne Total of food produced (in millions of of food produced (in millions of of food produced (in millions of (in gigajoules) gigajoules) (in metric tonnes) metric tonnes) (in cubic meters) cubic meters) 1.1750 1.1831 13.6516 14.3128 14.1397 13.1314 5.8706 5.8646 4.9900 0.4820 0.4907 0.4097 5.5994 5.4464 4.7595 2015 2016 2020 2015 2016 2015 2016 2020 2015 2016 2015 2016 2020 2015 2016 GOAL GOAL GOAL 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 22 In 2016, we struggled to make significant progress We did make progress in some areas: REDUCING toward our energy and GHG emission reduction goals; decreasing energy use by 0.1 percent and increasing GHG emissions by 1.8 percent (per metric tonne of • Three of our plants reduced their energy use this year by more than 10 percent, including LinEnergy Use & food produced). ares, Mexico; Kutno, Poland; and Springs, South Africa. Greenhouse Gas GHG • Pringles® plants in Kutno, Poland and Jackson, 1.8% Tennessee, U.S. reduced their energy use by 17 Emissions in 2016 and 10 percent, respectively, by replacing more than 9,000 lights with newer LED technoloENERGY gy and operating more efficiently as a result of By 2020, we intend to expand the number of our 0.1% in 2016 increased production. plants using low-carbon energy by 50 percent; already we’ve done so by nearly 30 percent. We also Numerous factors contributed to our increased GHG • Our Blue Anchor Eggo® plant in New Jersey are committed to reducing energy and greenhouse emissions: installed fuel cells in late 2016 that are expected gas (GHG) emissions in our plants by an additional to reduce emissions by approximately 8 percent. 15 percent (per metric tonne of food produced) from • In several countries where we operate, drought Like those also used at our San Jose, California our 2015 performance. This latter commitment was conditions have decreased the generation of clean plant, the fuel cells use natural gas to cleanly and further strengthened when we set a science-based energy from hydropower. efficiently produce electricity that is powering reduction target for reducing Scope 1 and 2 emission some of the facility’s manufacturing operations. in our own operations by 65 percent by 2050. In the • The decreasing prices of fossil fuels has encourfirst year of this commitment, we’ve reduced absolute aged some countries to generate more electricity • Our Linares, Mexico cereal plant reduced their Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 0.2%. 4,5 from these non-renewable sources. energy use by more than 20 percent and GHG emissions by nearly 18 percent through numerous Because our own manufacturing and upstream agri• Our growing Pringles® business requires more initiatives. Additionally, they began to convert culture are the largest sources of GHG emissions in energy (and water) to produce than other Kellogg away from propane to natural gas, which is a lower our value chain, we also are asking our direct material foods. carbon source, as the main source of fuel for the suppliers to report their emissions through the CDP plant. Supply Chain platform. This data will inform our baseWe are working with partners and utilities to help line against which we’ll track our collective progress green the electrical grid. We also are investing in intoward our 2050 commitment to reduce Scope 3 frastructure, training and system enhancements in our emissions by 50 percent.4,5 operations to reduce our energy and water use. Oxfam – which works to create lasting solutions 4 Manufacturing energy use and GHG emissions, along with Scope 3 GHG emissions, have received independent verification against the to poverty, hunger, and social injustice – reported World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol. that Kellogg “exceed its industry peers in setting 5 These additional commitment targets for Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions were announced at the 2015 COP21 Climate Conference and were and implementing robust science-based emission reviewed and approved by the Science-Based Targets Initiative, a joint effort of CDP, UN Global Compact, World Resources Institute reduction targets.” and World Wildlife Fund. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 23 We are on track to deliver our 2020 commitment to In 2016, World Wildlife Fund and Ceres, as part of reduce our global water use by 15 percent (per metric their joint AgWater Challenge, recognized our work REDUCING tonne of food produced) from our 2015 baseline, and to support water conservation. Kellogg, along with six to implement water reuse projects in 25 percent of other companies, was selected as one of their first our plants. In 2016, we reduced our water use by 2.7 AgWater Stewards. Water Use percent and have implemented water reuse products at 9 percent of our manufacturing facilities. • IMPROVING • Around the globe, fresh water resources are under Watershed Quality pressure from climate change, population growth, 2.7% industrial and agricultural uses, and aging or inefficient in 2016 infrastructure. Increasingly, businesses and communities are recognizing the critical importance of Within in our facilities in 2016: For some time, we’ve been working with farmers, preserving and protecting water supplies. We respect • Seven plants reduced their water use by more NGOs, governments and others to improve the the human right to water as defined by the United than 20 percent including: Kutno, Poland; quality of watersheds in the regions in which we Nations Committee on Economic, Social and CulSprings, South Africa; Pskov and Severskaya, source our ingredients. Most recently we have: tural Rights and General Assembly. As a member of the communities where we source ingredients and Russia; and the following plants in the U.S. – Chicago, Illinois; Rossville, Tennessee; and Allyn, • Joined ten companies and NGOs to form make our foods, we work to reduce water use and our Washington. the Midwest Row Crop Collaborative to help impact to community water sources. address local and macro water challenges like • Our cereal plants in Linares, Queretaro and hypoxia in the Gulf of Mexico and groundWe use a combination of internal knowledge and exToluca, Mexico have reduced water use through a water quality in the Upper Mississippi River ternal sources to determine an overall water risk score number of efforts, including increasing dry-cleanBasin. for each of our manufacturing facilities. Based on this assessment, our locations with the highest water ing methods and replacing a steam boiler with a new, more efficient model. • Partnered with the Sustainable Agriculture risk are in Brazil, India, Mexico, Russia and Spain; and Initiative Platform and the Italian GovernNebraska and California in the U.S. While all Kellogg • Our Manchester, U.K. cereal plant began using ment’s National Rice Research and Agronomanufacturing facilities have established water-efprocessed water that has been treated through my Centre to help rice growers nestled at ficiency goals and are implementing water-saving the onsite reverse osmosis plant. Since October the base of the Italian Alps improve water initiatives, we are paying especially close attention to 2016, 20m3/day of treated water is being reused use, productivity and achieve greater water use in these locations6. in the cooking process. climate resiliency. 6 Water use data from our top ten highest-risk manufacturing locations has received independent verification against the CDP Guidance for Companies for Corporate Reporting on Water on Behalf of Investors and Supply Chain Members. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 24 Within our facilities in 2016, 12 plants reduced their Through our Postharvest Loss Reduction Program, waste to landfill by more than 20 percent including: Kellogg research and development teams, scientists REDUCING San Paulo, Brazil; Belleville, Canada; Taloja, India; Linares, Queretaro and Toluca, Mexico; Vyazma, Russia; and sustainability team members work collaboratively to reduce food loss at the farm. We have funded Waste and in the U.S. – Florence, Kentucky; Atlanta and research and partnered with others worldwide to Rome, Georgia; Chicago, Illinois; and Muncy, Pennidentify ways of reducing food loss, often in conjuncsylvania. tion with sustainable agriculture practices. Focusing On Food Loss And Waste Edible food is donated to people in need; in cases where this is not appropriate, food waste is used for During our first-generation of sustainability commitAs a global food company, we take a holistic view of animal feed. The chart below indicates the volumes ments from 2005-2015, Kellogg reduced waste to waste across our value chain. Doing so aligns with our and destinations of food waste from our global manlandfill (per metric tonne of food produced) compacompatible priority of reducing hunger. As a member ufacturing operations in 2016. This 2016 data will ny-wide by 62 percent. In 2014, as we launched our of the Consumer Goods Forum, we are doing our part serve as the baseline against which we will continue to second-generation of sustainability commitments, we to reduce per capita global food waste at the retail report. set a target to ensure that 30 percent of our plants and consumer level, and to reduce food losses along send zero waste to landfill. Going forward, we are the production and supply chains, including post-harAdditional information about our food loss and waste committed to reducing total waste by 15 percent (per vest losses. To support these 2030 efforts, Kellogg methodology and its alignment with the World Remetric tonne of food produced) by 2020, using 2015 was one of the first U.S.-based companies to join sources Institute Food Loss and Waste Standard can as our baseline. Champions 12.3 and to become a U.S. Food Loss and be found here. Waste 2030 Champion, signing onto a joint initiative In 2016, we saw solid progress against our waste between the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency reduction goals. Twenty-five percent of our plants and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. sent zero waste to landfill. While this fell slightly short of our target, we are proud of our progress. Overall, KELLOGG 2016 FOOD WASTE BY DESTINATION we reduced our total waste to landfill by 6.1 percent in 2016 (per metric tonne of food produced). Animal Feed 83% Biomaterial/Processing 2.6% 2 016 Codigestion/Anaerobic Digestion 1% 6.1 % in Compost/Aerobic processes 1.9% Controlled Combustion 0.4% Land Application 0.5% Landfill 1.5% Sewer 9% 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 25 Packaging Sourcing Responsibly Around the world, 100 percent of the timber-based The quality of the ingredients in our foods are measured in different ways by different people. Some focus on packaging Kellogg uses comes either from recycled taste, others focus on nutrition profile, yet others focus on convenience. All of them are important. We also – content or certified sustainable sources. We also like more people today – care deeply about how our ingredients are grown, where they come from and the peocontinue to look for opportunities to introduce more ple who grow them. That’s why we’ve committed to responsibly sourcing 10 priority ingredients by 2020. We resource-efficient packaging that includes more believe we can have the greatest impact by concentrating our work on the farmers who grow these ingredients. recycled content, is more recyclable and/or reduces Our intent is to support continuous sustainable agriculture improvements in the growing practices of farmers in food-to-package ratios. the regions from which we source. For example, we recently reduced the size of cereal Our first step is to gather benchmarking data using either our Kellogg Grower Survey or other tools such as the boxes in the U.S., while maintaining the same amount Field to Market® Fieldprint® calculator, Cool Farm Alliance’s Cool Farm Tool, and Sustainable Agriculture of food in each box. As a result, also reduced the size Initiative’s Farmer Self-Assessment. Once we have this data identifying the needs of local farming communities, of the shipping cartons that hold these packages, we partner with stakeholders including suppliers, farmers, scientists and NGOs, as appropriate, to provide: reducing packaging material by up to 1 million pounds. • Research and technical assistance on climate smart agriculture; We also are members of packaging covenants in Australia and Singapore, working with other companies • Training on farm management and agronomic practices; and, to design more sustainable packaging and increase recycling. • Access to markets and financial resources. These sustainable agriculture projects are part of our global Kellogg’s Origins™ Program. Operating in 21 countries, the program currently benefits 294,000 farmers in regions from which we source, including some not necessarily in our direct supply chain. Kellogg’s Origins projects provide farmers with support on climate smart agriculture practices (help improve resilience, increase yields, optimize fertilizer and water irrigation, improve soil health and reduce GHG emissions), as well as projects that support farmer and worker livelihoods (research, training, market access and financing). Rita A Michigan, U.S. wheat farmer and member of the new Kellogg’s Origins™ Great Lakes Wheat Program, Rita still works on the farm where she grew up. Here, she shares her perspective on the importance of sustainable farming practices, both for her family and families worldwide. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 26 Improving Sustainable Agriculture Around the world, the adoption of sustainable agriculture practices is helping to improve the environment and the lives of farmers and farming communities, especially smallholders and women. These practices are also critical to making sure there is enough food for everyone. Though our Breakfasts for Betters Days commitment LESS THAN 1% to create 3 billion Better Days for people around the world by the end of 2025, we are committed to supporting of farmland in the U.S. 500,000 farmers, their families and communities with climate smart agriculture practices to increase yields, is certified organic improve climate resiliency and reduce post-harvest food loss and waste. We’re especially looking at how we can support smallholders and women around the world who play significant roles in agriculture, but often face challenges of injustice and inequality. This work aligns with our support of the U.N. Sustainable Development Goal #5 – Gender Equality, and Goal #2 – Zero Hunger. We’ve already seen some early successes and look forward to many more. Richard sources the certified transitional almonds in our Chewy • In the U.S., where less than 1 percent of all farmland is Certified Organic, transitioning conventional farmNut Butter bars from his farm in land to organic takes up to three years and requires more costly farming practices, but crops have historicalTurlock, California, U.S. He is now ly been sold at conventional prices. To help farmers make the shift, Kashi® pioneered the Certified Transitransitioning 50 acres of land, tional Standard (identified with an on-pack seal), purchasing ingredients from farmers at a premium to help with another 20 slated to them offset the costs of moving to organic. transition in 2017. • In Thailand, we helped introduce a new medium-grain rice variety for Kellogg’s Rice Krispies® and Special K® cereals, not previously grown in the region. This work engaged 700 farmers, 60 percent of whom are women, who now have a long-term market for a non-GMO rice variety that is also high-yielding and pest resistant. Improving The Sustainability of Palm Oil Although, at Kellogg, we use a small amount of palm oil, we have been working since 2009 Introducing to improve the overall sustainability and our a new medium-grain responsible sourcing of this ingredient. World rice variety in Thailand Wildlife Federation recognized our work in their 700 engaged Palm Oil Scorecard, and our new partnership with ProForest gives us greater traceability data 60% FARMERS to support the goals outlined in our Global Sustainable Palm Oil Policy. A RE WO MEN 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 27 Living Our • FOUNDER’S VALUES • Our founder, W.K. Kellogg, was a true visionary. He aspired to “make quality products for a healthier world,” and established what is today one of the world’s leading food companies – Kellogg Company. He also aspired to make a difference in the lives of children and founded one of the largest philanthropic foundations in the U.S. – the W.K. Kellogg Foundation. Mr. Kellogg’s values continue to inspire us today. They are the cornerstone of our K Values™, the high standards to which we hold ourselves accountable. As we grow, it is paramount that these fundamental beliefs remain at the core of all we do. To ensure that this is the case, all our employees recently participated in refreshed K Values™ training. We believe that Mr. Kellogg would be proud of how his company has expanded and continues to serve families on six continents. Kellogg has received numerous honors and recognitions, including: • Ethisphere Institute World’s Most Ethical Companies; and • Corporate Human Rights Benchmark – ranked highest U.S.-based company. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 28 Operating Ethically clarify risk. Any suppliers that demonstrate “high risk” are asked to provide or complete a third-party audit In today’s interconnected and interdependent world, for verification of compliance with the Kellogg Global the actions of one person can easily affect many. Of Supplier Code of Conduct. We also internally assess course, we follow all applicable laws and regulations all in-scope direct and indirect suppliers based on in the countries where we operate, but we believe we inherent risks of their product, service and/or country. must do more. SEDEX GLOBAL SUPPLIER PROGRESS To guide our employees in the important decisions they make daily, our Global Code of Ethics details how employees are expected to live our values in the workWe act with integrity place, with our consumers, in the marketplace, in our and show respect. communities and for investors. The Code addresses 13% important topics like anti-corruption, anti-competitive behavior, data protection and human rights. We conduct ongoing training on the Code for all employees We are all accountable. and regularly review and update it as appropriate. For Registered with Sedex; data available to Kellogg example, in 2014 we hired outside experts to assess 20% our anti-corruption compliance program. They helped Registered with Sedex; We are passionate about us identify and address gaps that improved the due diligence we conduct of potential acquisitions and joint Kellogg awaiting data Have not yet registered our business, our brands ventures in geographic locations known for higher risks with Sedex 67% of corruption. and our foods. We hold our supplier partners to the same level of accountability to which we hold own employees and We have the humility and facilities. Similar to our employee Code, our Global Supplier Code of Conduct communicates our expechunger to learn. tations for the companies that provide ingredients, packaging, premium items, and other products and Should we find incidents of non-compliance, we first services to Kellogg. It covers all our expectations from work with the supplier to understand root causes and protecting human rights to prohibiting child labor to process improvements, hoping to implement longWe strive for simplicity. respecting the right to organize. term solutions. The Code states that Kellogg may cease doing business at any time if a supplier is found All suppliers are expected to follow the Kellogg Global to be in violation. In 2016, we did so once after learnWe love success. Supplier Code of Conduct. Additionally, the top 80 ing of human rights violations in the palm industry. percent of our ingredient and packaging suppliers in each region, by spend, are asked to join Sedex (the largest collaborative platform for sharing ethical supply chain data) and complete a self-assessment to further 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 29 Protecting Human Rights Within Our Operations Working together to make sure people are safe at work is a priority. Every Kellogg workplace has an EnvironKellogg is committed to respecting and protecting Just as we have a responsibility to support those ment, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee and our the rights of those affected directly and indirectly by impacted by our value chain, we also have a responcomprehensive EHS Management System provides us our operations. In addition to being addressed in our sibility to those within our company. We strive to be with important information we use to make continuemployee and supplier codes referenced above, these a responsible employer, offering competitive benefits ous improvements across our operations. We believe commitments are outlined in our Human Rights Posiand rewards packages, an environment where sucall workplace accidents are preventable and are striving tion Statement and our Policy Statement Prohibiting cess is celebrated, and policies that support a healthy to achieve a zero incident rate. In the past year, Involuntary Labor. workplace. While we have made strategic business dewe’ve continued to make progress toward this goal cisions necessary for the future of our company that against our two primary metrics. Our Total Recordable Across Our Supply Chain resulted in some roles being eliminated, these deciIncident Rate fell to 1.16 and our Lost Time Incident sions were difficult because of the impact on affected Rate dropped to .57. Both are significantly below the We have continued to expand our human rights issues employees. We did everything we could to help our industry benchmarks of 4.7 and 1.3, respectively, and monitoring and compliance verification process by: employees manage through these transitions. near or lower than our interim goal to be a world-class company with rates of less than one. • Forming a cross-functional team of leaders that 1.4 meets monthly to asses and track our global 1.2 1.16 activities and inform our human rights policy and strategies. 1.0 1.0 • Integrating third-party economic, environmental and social risk ratings into our overall risk management process. Suppliers determined to have Total Recordable Incident Rate high-risk potential are asked for additional details to fully assess how they are managing these risks. TRIR industry average = 4.7 • Addressing human-right risks through Sedex 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 self-assessments and third-party social compliance audits referenced above. Sedex self-as0.6 0.6 sessments for our own manufacturing facilities 0.57 also ensure proper internal implementation of our Human Rights Position and procedures. 0.4 0.3 Lost Time Incident Rate LTIR industry average = 1.3 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 30 Embracing Diversity And Inclusion Having a diverse and inclusive workforce that represents the people around the world who enjoy our foods is Top 50 Companies the right way to run our company. It also helps ensure that we are immersed in the preferences and mindsets of consumers. For this reason, we strive to build a culture that invites and embraces one another’s differences. for Diversity We’re especially honored to have been named to DiversityInc’s Top 50 Companies for Diversity for the sixth year, and to have been recognized as a Top Company for Executive Women by the National Association of Female Executives, a Winning Company by 2020 Women on Boards, Working Mother Best Companies for Top Company for Women in India, and a Top 50 Employer by Equal Opportunity Publications. Additionally, Forbes identified Kellogg as a World’s Most Reputable Company and Fortune included us as a World’s Most Admired Company. Executive Women Of course, our D&I efforts don’t focus on our workforce alone. We also purchase from small and diverse suppliers, help to support nonprofit organizations that promote diversity and inclusion, and work to develop products Winning Company that nourish and delight a diverse range of people around the world. More information on our efforts in this important area is available in our most recent Features Diversity and Inclusion Annual Report. Top 50 Employer INDIA Kellogg employees in North and Latin America, with 12 of the company’s marque brands, participated in globally supporting Spirit Day, taking a stand against bullying, particularly of LGBTQ youth. 2016/2017 Corporate Responsibility Report | 31 THANK YOU for your intertest in Kellogg Company’s corporate responsibility efforts to nourish families so they can flourish and thrive. We welcome your questions and feedback at corporateresponsibility@kellogg.com. Connect with us |
