GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS: 3rd Report, 2016 ShiftIN Partners – Consulting Firm Strategy & Innovation from withIN CONFIDENTIAL This report is solely for the use of client organisation’s personnel. No part of it may be circulated, quoted, or reproduced for distribution outside the client organization without prior written approval from ShiftIN Partners Statement of Continuous Support It is our pleasure to confirm, for third year in a row, ShiftIN Partners’ continuous commitment to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication ShiftIN Partners conveys and manuscripts its determination in evolving those principles within its sphere of impact. ShiftIN Partners has embedded Global Compact’s principles within the company’s Strategy, Culture, and dayto-day operations. Furthermore, we have engaged in collaborative projects that advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the 17 Goals for Sustainable Development. ShiftIN Partners has announced to its stakeholders and general public adhering to this commitment. In recognition of the key requirement, being part of the Global Compact, ShiftIN Partners submits this third Communication on Progress (COP) illustrating its efforts in implementing the 17 Goals for Sustainable Development. Moreover, as per our original commitment and according to the Global Compact COP Policy, ShiftIN Partners commits through its culture of public transparency and submits this report on yearly basis. Sincerely, Mr. Amancio Torres CEO, ShiftIN Partners UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 2 1. Our CSR Policy 2. Communication on Progress 3rd Report 3. Our Next Steps UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 3 About ShiftIN Partners Our team accumulates a combined experience of advising +250 organisations across 5 continents 15+ years experience making strategy and innovation happen WAVESTONE Digital Transformation Partner Offices in Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Riyadh, Lisbon, Chicago, Tehran Paris, France ShiftIN Learning Solutions, our training arm, has trained more Lisbon, Portugal than 1,500 managers across 250+ organisations worldwide European Office Middle East Partners of Jeroen De Flander, WAVESTONE, and the IXL Center for Innovation Tehran, Iran Local Office Boston, USA Abu Dhabi, UAE Innovation Center of Head Office Excellence Dubai, UAE Associated Office Riyadh, KSA Local Office Bahrain | China | Egypt | Jordan | Kuwait | KSA | Netherlands | Nigeria | Portugal | Poland | Qatar | UAE | USA | Iran | Venezuela | Brazil| Mexico | Haiti | Mozambique | Spain UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 4 Our Values These values are what makes ShiftIN’s professionals the people they are. They unite us and inspire us to go above and beyond... Putting the Client First Creativity Our clients’ challenges are our obsession. We constantly Talent, versatility, and the insights derived from widestrive to do what is best for them. First and foremost, that ranging experience are a given. To that mix of ShiftIN’s means ensuring that they obtain the greatest possible return qualities, we add creativity. Among our professionals, we on their investment. Where appropriate, we demonstrate encourage the free flow of knowledge and ideas, encourage our conviction by linking our compensation to clients’ our people to challenge existing paradigms, and believe in performance. Putting the client first also means having the approaching issues with a fresh perspective and new ideas. flexibility to be able to adapt our direction to our clients’ We believe this fresh approach is what makes us successful changing needs and realities, because a rapidly changing as individuals, and also collectively, as a firm. environment is a great challenge in every business. Fellowship Transparency ShiftIN’s partnership approach imbues every facet of our We prize transparency at all levels, and believe our working environment and working relationships, not only transparency helps us establish a level of trust and with our clients but also internally within our team. We communication with our clients that facilitates problem believe that achievement requires an environment of solving and progress. By pursuing a climate of openness, we cooperation, collaboration, camaraderie and strong personal can more readily get to the root of a problem, address any and professional relationships. All are critical to success, and weaknesses, and correct any mistakes. A problem is only a make work rewarding for everyone. problem if we do not solve it. UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 5 Our Stakeholders Our shared values are the basis of our relationships with all our stakeholders… Our Society Business Our Partners Community Our Clients Our Our Employees Environment Our Values Creativity Putting the Client First Fellowship Transparency UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 6 Our CSR Policy Working towards a positive shift for all… Our Clients Our Employees We are committed to ‘Put the Client First’ and provide the best level We offer our employees a unique opportunity to enhance their of service to our clients, with high flexibility, helping them achieve professional development and accelerate their career advancement. better performance which in turn reflects on their communities. They work in a highly challenging, non-hierarchical environment. We We also promote ethical best practices and CSR to our clients, believe in making the most out of their capabilities, and make it a support their initiatives, and engage their stakeholders towards a priority to mentor and guide them all along the way. positive impact whilst creating shared value. Our Partners Business Community At ShiftIN, partnership is our guiding philosophy: it is how we As we are an entrepreneurial company within the business assemble the finest expertise available to deliver optimal solutions. community we also support entrepreneurship as a main block in any And as we forge strategic partnerships and relationships with the country’s economy. We value creativity and innovation and we are foremost experts in specific disciplines, we always base our committed to building capabilities as well as continuously generating partnerships on respect and transparency ensuring ethical practices. and sharing knowledge. Our Society Our Environment We are responsible towards the society we live in, and we are We act responsibly towards our environment, within our facilities committed to contributing to the society and to creating a positive and team. Moreover, we promote environmentally responsible impact, whether through our clients promoting CSR within their behaviours with our stakeholders and work with others to enhance strategies, always advising on ethical practices, or directly through innovation in sustainability. our own social initiatives and engagements. Our Values Creativity Putting the Client First Fellowship Transparency UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 7 Our CSR Policy Working towards a positive shift for all… Our Clients Our Employees Build Capabilities Our Partners Instil Commitment Business Community Our Society Create Value Our Environment Our Values Creativity Putting the Client First Fellowship Transparency UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 8 1. Our CSR Policy 2. Communication on Progress 3rd Report 3. Our Next Steps UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 9 Project 1: Grow Movement Devoted time of our consultants to coaching and mentoring entrepreneurs from Uganda Sustainable Development Goals Alignment Contributing to equal rights to economic resources including microfinance. Ensuring mobilization of a variety of resources through enhanced cooperation to provide adequate means for entrepreneurs in diverse communities. Ensuring that both men and women have access to professional, vocational coaching and mentoring. Ensuring that all learners acquire knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development. Supporting growth of local businesses focused on maximizing economic impact on communities, employment, and education and training. Building long-term, professional partnerships focused on domestic resource mobilization and capacity building. Project Description Impact Our consultants empower entrepreneurs from Uganda by sharing their business skills over Skype, phone, and email. Total in-kind contribution: This knowledge injection enables them to run their 95,000 USD (equivalent to the professional businesses more effectively, increasing their profitability hours allocated) and creating jobs in their communities. UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 10 Project 2: in5 Devoted time of our consultants to coaching and mentoring young entrepreneurs in Dubai Sustainable Development Goals Alignment Supporting growth of local entrepreneurs focused on maximizing sustainable economic impact on youth, employment, and education and training. Promoting and actively developing innovation capabilities of young entrepreneurs and thus enhancing the sustainable growth, development, technology development, and scientific research. Building long-term, professional partnerships focused on domestic resource mobilization and capacity building. Project Description Impact We have provided coaching services for young Dubai Total in-kind contribution: based entrepreneurs as part of our collaboration with 45,000 USD (equivalent to the professional in5, the incubation program of TECOM. hours allocated) UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 11 Project 3: Learning Solutions Provided pro bono technical learning and coaching for professionals from diverse backgrounds Sustainable Development Goals Alignment Supporting growth of local entrepreneurs and businesses focused on maximizing sustainable economic impact in the region, employment, and education and training and thus supporting sustainable development and economic growth. Promoting and actively developing innovation capabilities across private and public institutions within GCC region and thus enhancing the sustainable growth, development, technology development, and scientific research. Project Description Impact We provided access to learning and coaching in our Learning Number of seats allocated: Solutions programs throughout the year for professionals 16 from a variety of private, public, and non-profit organisations; Total in-kind contribution: allocating pro bono seats for selected NGOs and individuals who meet the requirements. 48,000 USD UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 12 Project 4: Reading Nation Participated in the Reading Nation campaign focused on distributing books abroad where needed Sustainable Development Goals Alignment Ensuring that both men and women have access to professional, vocational coaching and mentoring. Ensuring that all learners acquire knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development. Building long-term, professional partnerships focused on domestic resource mobilization and capacity building. Project Description Impact We took part in an educational campaign, part of Number of hours allocated: Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum Global Initiatives, in 24 hours Ramadan aiming to distribute 5 million books to children Total participants: in refugee camps and schools in need around the world. 3 UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 13 Project 5: Volunteer Globally One of our team members travelled to Senegal on a mission to build a school in a local community Sustainable Development Goals Alignment Contributing to equal rights to economic resources through funding of the development of the community. Ensuring mobilization of a variety of resources through enhanced cooperation to provide adequate means for the community’s ongoing sustainable development. Ensuring that both men and women have access to basic education. Ensuring that all learners acquire knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development. Ensuring social inclusion within the community irrespective of age, sex, disability, ethnicity, or religion. Providing equal opportunities to basic education to the entire community. Building long-term, professional partnerships focused on domestic and international resource mobilization, knowledge transfer and capacity building. Project Description Impact A member of ShiftIN Partners joined forces with Dubai Cares on a trek in Senegal to build a school in the village of Keur Moussa Hann, as part of Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum Global Number of hours allocated: Initiatives. The mission included performing basic construction 56 hours activities as well as cultural development and exchange activities with the community. UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 14 Project 6: Volunteer Emirates Spent a weekend in a local UAE community improving physical facilities of an elementary school Sustainable Development Goals Alignment Contributing to equal rights to economic resources through funding of the development of the community. Ensuring mobilization of a variety of resources through enhanced cooperation to provide adequate means for the community’s ongoing sustainable development. Ensuring that children from the local community have access to quality facilities and education. Providing equal opportunities, to boys and girls in the community, to basic education. Building long-term, professional partnerships focused on domestic and international resource mobilization, knowledge transfer and capacity building. Project Description Impact Number of hours allocated: We dedicated a weekend volunteering with Dubai Cares to 16 hours improve the facilities of a local community school for children with special needs in Ras Al Khaimah. Total participants: 2 UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 15 Project 7: Carbon Emissions Offset Scheme (CEOS) We offset our mobility footprint by investing in projects in developing countries around the world Sustainable Development Goals Alignment Project Description Impact We take a holistic approach to calculation of our mobility Total Mobility Footprint: footprint, considering all elements, i.e. energy, mobility, board, 184.9 t material and waste. In return, we offset our carbon emissions by investing in a variety of projects in developing countries through Compensation in climate projects in developing myclimate.org. Given the size of our business, we are currently and newly industrialized countries: offsetting 22.5% with a plan to offset 100% in 5 years time. 3,869 AED (22.5%) UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 16 Project 7.1: Biogas for Rural Households in India Through our CEOS, we have contributed to the program to install biodigesters in 6,900 households Sustainable Development Goals Alignment Project Description Program’s Impacts & Benefits 19,291 people benefit from better air and from having to spend The overall objective of the programme of activity is the less time for collecting firewood installation of domestic biodigesters as a clean, sustainable 87 jobs have been created energy source throughout India. The biogas generated from cow 65 people have been trained dung will replace fuels that are currently used for domestic 3,209 biodigesters have been installed so far energy needs such as fire wood and kerosene. Each biodigester avoids about 9 t CO₂ and 5,5 t of wood per year UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 17 Project 7.2: Community Reforestation in Nicaragua Through our CEOS, we have contributed to the program to reforest communities in Nicaragua Sustainable Development Goals Alignment Project Description Program’s Impacts & Benefits In this community-based reforestation initiative in the Platanares 296 smallholder families have reforested and area of 1,170 ha watershed, smallholder farming families collaborate to reforest These families planted 1,605,633 trees underutilized portions of their land. Thanks to better land-use 2,645 jobs have been created management and more sustainable use of forest resources the 68 participating communities forest cover of the nearby watershed will be increased and the 346,000 t CO₂ issued, this equals the annual emissions of over 90,000 cars quality of life of Limay residents will be improved. UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 18 Project 7.3: Affording Efficient Cooking Stoves in Kenya Through our CEOS, we have contributed to the program to furnish women in Kenya with stoves Sustainable Development Goals Alignment Project Description Program’s Impacts & Benefits Traditionally the rural communities cook on open fires, which Over 177,000 people benefit from better air require huge amounts of firewood. Thanks to community savings 165 permanent jobs have been created in the local community 150 artisans have been trained over the years (48% women) and loaning groups, however, women can now afford more 36,300 cook stoves have been installed so far efficient stoves. This reduces the demand for firewood and thus Air quality improvement in the kitchen protects the local forests, which leads to reduced CO₂ emissions. Each stove avoids about 2,2 t CO₂ and 1.4 tons wood per year UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 19 1. Our CSR Policy 2. Communication on Progress 3rd Report 3. Our Next Steps UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 20 Next Steps As a company committed to sustainability and advocating it through our practice, we intend to support the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals Continue in our commitment to seek higher purpose in our day-to-day 1 business and support CSR activities where we and our clients operate Provide ongoing support to the internal role of The UN Global Compact Custodian, ensuring ShiftIN Partners’ compliance with The 10 Principles 2 and 17 Goals for Sustainable Development and our adherence to and continued reporting on them in 2017 Continuous development of our approach to CSR and sustainable 3 development offering to our clients within our framework Actively work towards offsetting our Mobility Footprint by minimizing our emissions and investing in development projects around the globe in 4 developing and industrializing countries to support improvement of environmental and life conditions also directly impacting and supporting the 17 Goals of Sustainable Development UNCOP Report 2016 © ShiftIN Partners | January 2017 21 www.shiftinpartners.com Abu Dhabi Dubai Riyadh Europe USA abudhabi@shiftinpartners.com dubai@shiftinpartners.com riyadh@shiftinpartners.com europe@shiftinpartners.com usa@shiftinpartners.com T +971 2 656 5866 T +971 4 319 9343 T +966 11 215 4442 T +351 211 212 198 T +1 312 803 0135 P.O. Box 46400 P.O. Box 31303 P.O. Box 19970 Lisbon, Portugal Chicago, IL 60654
