Ceridian (Mauritius) Ltd Level 9, Wing B, Cyber Tower 1 Ebene Mauritius Tel: (230) 454 4036 Fax: (230) 4664151 Email: Ceridian.Mauritius@ceridian.com Communication on Progress Year: 2017 Statement of continued support by the Managing Director Dear Stakeholders Ceridian Mauritius has been supporting the ten principles of the Global Compact since 2010. As a member of the Global Compact, our business policies revolve around the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the programme forward on human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. In our report we summarised the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future. We are today happy to confirm our continued support for the Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Sincerely Yours, Vidia Mooneegan Managing Director Ceridian (Mauritius) Ltd Contact: Vasish Ramkhalawon Email: vasish.ramkhalawon@ceridian.com Phone: 00230 4019789 Fax: 00230 4019789 P 1/9 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year 1: Businesses should support and Ceridian prides itself to be an equal opportunity employer. In 2015 we have worked on new values and as respect the protection of such Ceridian’s culture is shaped by our values. Our behavior drives our actions and, ultimately, our internationally proclaimed human results. rights; Our core values are: Customer Focus: We listen to our customers with empathy and we care about them. We win when our customers win. We focus on delivering employee engagement, satisfaction and productivity to our customers. Transparency: We are open in the way we communicate and do things. Integrity and accountability drive our behavior. Diligence: Preparation and planning is vital to our success. We establish goals and standards to measure our success against. We focus on repeatability and reliability. Optimism: We deliver optimism to our clients by making work life better. Optimism is about expecting success. It is planned behaviour. Preparation leads to knowledge, knowledge builds confidence and confidence creates success. We celebrate team success. Agility: We are flexible and innovative. We confront all challenges with enthusiasm. We encourage change in order to achieve success. Our Brand Promise is Makes Work Life Better. Our promise defines who we are;  Drives behaviour, thinking and communication  Core of our culture – it’s our way of life  Basis for making decisions  We act/think in this way consistently over time, with every single customer, every single time. P 2/9 2: and make sure that they are not Ceridian values all its employees and sees to it that there is no human rights’ abuse. The company has complicit in human rights abuses. different policies which cater for this aspect such as: 1. Ceridian Code of Conduct 2. Dignity in the workplace policy 3. Leave policy 4. Finger print & Leavers Notification policy 5. First aid procedures 6. Grievance policy 7. On call policy 8. Cyclone Policy 9. Dispute Resolution Policy 10. Overtime Policy 11. Work From Home Policy 12. Promotion Policy 13. Rehire Policy 14. Sickness Absence Policy 15. Time Off In Lieu of Overtime Policy 16. Affirmative Action and Equal Employment Policy 17. Discrimination and Harassment Policy In March 2014, we worked with the Ministry of Gender Equality, Child Development and Family Welfare to organise sensitisation campaigns on Gender based violence. The aim is to have employees who are happy to come to work, are respected and also enjoy working in an environment where their rights are not violated. Other activity that we often plan for are: Blood donations Talks on Kinetic Treatment – Back Pain, Neck pain, Nerves Compression etc… Talks on General Health Fire Drill Fire Safety Program First Aid program P 3/9 In May 2017, we have organized a Live Well, Work Well Program. Employees had the opportunity to attend wellness sessions throughout the day. They were also offered a healthy fruit salad and snacks on that day. The main aim of this event was to help our employees nurture own sense of well being. 3: Businesses should uphold the Ceridian fully uphold the right of each individual in the organisation to form associations and also to freedom of association and the collective bargaining. This is in line with the Employment Relations Act and is also in accordance to the effective recognition of the right to constitution of Mauritius as well as the International Labour Organisation (ILO) standards. Yet, Ceridian collective bargaining; employees have not felt the need to be unionised so far as our salary and benefits level are always kept above the market median (we participate every year in the Mauritius Capfor Salary Survey exercise, to ensure that we understand the market and following benchmarks) In 2014, we participated in the HAY Group survey. In 2016, we participated in the Capfor, Mercer and HAY group survey as well. We also, continuously strive to provide a conducive working environment to all of our employees and we employ a full time dedicated Health and Safety officer to ensure that we have the best work environment for our people. Ceridian is also considered to be an employer of choice in the ITO/BPO sector in Mauritius. At Ceridian we have a Fun@work committee (members are employees of Ceridian), we also have regular team meetings (all managers meet with their department), all hands meeting with employees every month. Learning and development is essential for our current and future prosperity. We develop our workforce capabilities, skills and competencies to create a sustainable, successful organisation, and this is an important part of our organisation's overall business strategy. As part of our learning and development, we also conduct workshops which are participative and allow participants to voice out concerns and opinions and propose solutions. All have access to both team development and personal development programmes. On a quarterly basis, Ceridian conducts employee an engagement survey as the voice of our employee is important. The engagement survey is seen as one of the most critical bottom-up feedback mechanisms. Survey results and action points are then incorporated into the company’s business planning process. 4: the elimination of all forms of forced Being a fair employer, Ceridian condemns all forms of forced labour. All employees have a clear contract and compulsory labour; of employment and job description. All our policies and procedures are in accordance with ERA and other laws in Mauritius. We are also an active member at the MEF (Mauritius Employer Federation). Male and female ratio: Favorable working environment means safe working conditions, decent P 4/9 compensation, career opportunities and inclusiveness into decision-making processes. The management is responsible for achieving such objectives. Currently, we have 545 employees including 36 % women. The average age of our employees is 29 years. Medical facilities provided to employees: we believe that staff health is as important as their skills and experience, so medical benefits make an integral part of our corporate culture, improve motivation and create the conditions that help generate excitement, energy and commitment. Due to the nature of our business, there is a requirement for people to work non-standard hours. Additional compensation is provided to employees working these hours. 5: the effective abolition of child Ceridian is against child labour and does not employ children. Only individuals having attained the age of labour; 18 years old are eligible for employment in the company. Ceridian PayBack Foundation is Ceridian’s registered charity for giving something back to children in the communities in which we live and work. The charity focuses on raising money and giving grants to children or institutions for children that live or attend school within a ten-mile radius of one of our offices throughout the UK, Republic of Ireland and Mauritius. Ceridian PayBack Foundation exists to financially assist deserving and disadvantaged youngsters and we support individual children, as part of an ongoing and long-term relationship to help them develop and improve their lives. Ceridian also supports institutions that work for the benefit of children. As per our government of Mauritius (Finance Bill), every company is required to set up a CSR Fund equivalent to 2 per cent of its book profit derived during the preceding year to finance an approved NGO. As such, Ceridian has funded several NGO institutions catering for the children development and education of deprived children. 6: and the elimination of discrimination Ceridian prides itself to be an equal opportunity employer and is against any forms of discrimination. in respect of employment and As a company, Ceridian is dedicated to ensure that our recruitment and selection policy: occupation.  Is fair and consistent  Is non-discriminatory on the grounds of gender, race, age, religion, marital status, sexual orientation or disability  Conforms to statutory regulations and agreed best practice. P 5/9 The company acts affirmatively to ensure that persons hired will be treated equally in all aspects of employment and employee relations matters, including but not limited to: promotions, demotions, transfers, work force reductions, terminations, salary increases, rates of pay, training, participation in any company sponsored programs, and all conditions or privileges of employment. As a company, Ceridian is committed to providing a productive working environment, where all employees are treated with dignity and respect. All employees are required not to behave in such a way as to cause offence to others whether employees or customers in respect of their color, race, religion, beliefs, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or nationality. The welfare of our employees is a prime concern for Ceridian. As such, we have a zero tolerance to harassment in the workplace. Our Bullying and Harassment Policy provides strict guidelines to ensure that our workplace is free from prohibited discrimination or harassment. Everyone is expected to avoid any behaviour or conduct that could reasonably be interpreted as prohibited discrimination or harassment; no employees, not even the highest-ranking executive in the company, are exempt from the requirements of this policy. The company does not tolerate any form of discrimination or harassment that violates this policy. Disciplinary actions range from warnings in mild cases to dismissal in severe cases. Ceridian Women's Network (CWN) was launched in Ceridian Mauritius in October 2009. The goals of CWN are as follows:  Provide a forum for the professional improvement and personal development of Ceridian employees, focusing on the interests of women.  Provide women at Ceridian with opportunities to connect with and learn from each other, develop contacts and strengthen business relationships The Mauritius Ceridian Women’s Network has organised a number of successful events for both male and female colleagues since its institution. These events have not only helped Ceridian employees to further strengthen their leadership traits but have also contributed towards creating a healthier lifestyle and a better work-life balance. Guest speakers and practitioners have delivered talks on Project Management, Leading and Managing people. Some fun activities were also scheduled around leadership where participants had the opportunity to learn about managerial and leadership qualities like risk, time P 6/9 management, resource planning, influencing people, customer focus and so on by going through a series of games in teams. On the occasion of the International Women’s day in March 2017, Ceridian Women’s Network organized a ‘Learn to Code’ event. Our main focus to raise awareness that coding is the future and Learn to Code is part of our celebration honouring International Women’s Day. Our focus was to offer woman:  Better career opportunities with better pay hence reducing salary inequality.  Be prepared for jobs of the future which will require more knowledge of coding. 7: Businesses should support a Ceridian being a multinational business is conscious about the degradation of the global environment. In precautionary approach to line with this, a team was setup in 2007 at Ceridian headquarters in the US named “Green Team” to environmental challenges; primarily work on ways to be more environmental friendly. In June 2014, the Mauritius team kick off certain initiatives to mark the World Environment Day. We still ensure that we keep these initiatives. 8: undertake initiatives to promote One of the initiatives included changing the use of Styrofoam throughout the US building to recyclable or greater environmental responsibility; biodegradable to go ware and to build awareness about recycling and the environment. The approach to environmental issues is guided by a simple principle: We will conduct our business in ways that protect, preserve and enhance the environment. Ceridian is active in initiatives organised by the industry and associations on environmental protection. In June 2015, the Mauritius Office organised a Tree Planting Ceremony to mark the celebration of the World Environment Day. This event was all the more meaningful in that it also marked the kick-off of the company’s long-term Go Green Project. The project contributes towards the transformation of the company into a more environmentally-responsible one. As part of the Go Green initiative, colleagues did some housekeeping around the office on June, 06 and over 40 bags of paper were collected and sent to recycle. Recycling bins have been placed around the office and an internal campaign has been launched to further educate colleagues on the importance of recycling. Ceridian Initiative Reduce, Reuse and Recycle P 7/9 The key actions were:  Managers to talk about ‘Reduce, Reuse and Recycle’ with their team members.  Involve all team members in the disposal of:  Old notebooks,  Paper,  Magazine,  Training materials (out-dated)  Flipcharts  Newspaper  Cardboard  Unused papers from all drawers and the storeroom All good environmental practices within Ceridian are communicated internally through the “Great News” magazine on a monthly basis. 9: and encourage the development and Ceridian Mauritius has established and implemented an Environmental Policy to demonstrate the diffusion of environmentally friendly commitment to go green in its business operations: technologies.  Energy savings Ceridian Mauritius has implemented several measures which help in reducing the energy consumption within the company as follows: o Each member of the staff has the responsibility to ensure that all lightings are switched off when there is no one working in a particular. Recently, Ceridian took over a second floor at the Cyber Tower to run all its night shift operations. The lighting and air conditioning will run on each floor to match the duration of the shift thus leading to energy efficiency. o The company has also gradually substituting the Cathode Ray Tube (CRT) computers which use more power to LCD ones which consume less energy. The plan is to replace all CRTs within 18 months. Furthermore, more and more laptops are being used which consume less energy. o Solid waste Management: Paperless operations In line with the solid waste management requirements, Ceridian Mauritius has established several guidelines to go paperless. As far as possible, the Company has digitized most processes thus reducing the need to print and thus use les paper. The organization has also implemented duplex printing and provides dual screens for viewing thus reducing paper usage. The Ceridian Mauritius also encourages reuse of P 8/9 printed copies as draft paper. Refilling of toners Purchase of refilled printer toners ensures that we minimize the disposal of cartridges. E-waste disposal Ceridian is engaging with other stakeholders regarding setting up the facilities for ewaste disposal which has become a hazard for our environment. Ceridian helps customers reduce their paper consumption through our cloud software enabling them to save electricity (server rooms) and paper (Ceridian produces electronic payslips and reports). 10: Businesses should work against all Ceridian has in place an effective ethics policy which is provide clear guidelines against corruption, fraud forms of corruption, including extortion as well as extortion and bribery. There is also an online ethics training which all Ceridian employees need and bribery. to go through which pertain to areas such as fraud, corruption. Any employee found guilty to be part of any form of corruption is subject to disciplinary actions and exit from the organisation. P 9/9
