MS V 2015 2016 Velatia’s Sustainability Report Velatia’s Sustainability Report contents 2015 2016 Corporate Social ... con nuestros accionistas: ... con nuestros empleados: 05 Letter from the President Getting Closer Responsibility PROMOVER las mejores prácticas de gobierno corporativo que aseguren la PROMOVER un entorno de trabajo satisfactorio en el que se garantice to the Customer transparencia y ética en los negocios, in Velatia la igualdad de oportunidades y 09 We are Velatia 73 la adecuada gestión de riesgos y la se asegure la aportación personal confianza de los accionistas. continua y el desarrollo profesional. 11 Velatia 39 … con nuestros socios: ESTABLECER una relación de colaboración basada en la confianza, la transparencia en la información y la puesta en común de conocimientos, MANTENER 27 33 ... con nuestros clientes: 39un alto nivel de Governing structure Ethics and integrity Corporate Social Responsibility in Velatia satisfacción y servicio al cliente, incrementando la calidad experiencias y capacidades, para la en dicho servicio, la flexibilidad consecución de objetivos comunes y beneficio mutuo. 43 y la garantía de suministro. Our commitment to … 45 People … con la sociedad: APOYAR el desarrollo social ... con nuestros proveedores: EXTENDER los aspectos sociales, 59 Health and safety de la comunidad en la que opera ambientales y de prevención Velatia, participando y promoviendo proyectos de riesgos laborales a nuestros proveedores. 67 Quality and service de interés social, cultural y medioambiental. 77 Innovation 87 Our suppliers 93 Environment 101 Society 111 Parameters of the report 113 Scope and coverage of the report 115 Index and GRI indicators 121 GRI Indicators in relation to the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Our Main Our commitment Donations and to people Sponsorships 48 103 Letter from the President Letter from the President It is a pleasure for me to present the Corporate Social ResIn relation to sustainability, it must be said that it is of great ponsibility Report corresponding to 2015-2016. Through importance to Velatia, because we align the company’s this report, which follows the Global Reporting Initiative strategic development with the concerns and needs of our guidelines, I would like to provide stakeholders with a detaistakeholders, hence combining economic profit with social led report of our challenges, objectives and achievements commitment and environmental friendliness. Therefore, over these past two years, and to reaffirm our commitment our commitment to continue doing so in the future, will be to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. to further the incorporation of the interests and needs – in terms of sustainabilityof our stakeholders into our orgaFor Velatia, this period has been exciting as we have continisational strategy and the daily management of Velatia. nued to grow. Both our turnover and results have increased, 2017 will once more be a year of challenges and opportuhence confirming that the return to our DNA is the most nities that will put our talent and resistance to the test, but effective of our strategies. I am convinced that effort, ambition and modesty will lead Performance throughout 2015-2016 highlights our leaderus to another 50 years full of success. ship and innovation skills and confirms the strengths and I would like to conclude this report by thanking all those values that impregnate our business strategy and reflects people whose work, commitment and involvement in the our ability to pragmatically adapt to new environments. It company has enabled us to fulfil the established objectimust be pointed out that in order to make all this possives. Thank you. ble, we have relied on the skills of all of Velatia’s human resources, the support of our suppliers and the trust of our customers and partners in a permanent example of the support value. Javier Ormazabal Echevarria President 7 We are Velatia We are Velatia Velatia Velatia (S.L.), with its headquarters on the Bizkaia Science Made up of companies totalling over one hundred years of and Technology Park (Spain), is a family-run, industrial, techexperience, we are committed to innovation in order to adnological, benchmark and global group. We are a multicultudress the present and future needs of our customers, offeral team made up of around 3,000 people from 20 countries. ring solutions that help make the world a better connected, We have offices in 19 countries, 15 manufacturing centres more sustainable, smarter, better communicated and more and a world class Research and Technology Centre. We carry human place. out our activity in the field of electrical networks, electronics and communication networks, as well as in the security and aeronautics sectors, where safety, efficiency and reliability are highly valued. MISSION VISION Velatia is a group specialised in network optimisation that We aspire to be an innovative group that inspires trust and provides reliable and innovative solutions through our incontributes positively in all areas where we are present, tegration capacity and personal commitment to our custoensuring a high level of performance and the creation of mers, partners and suppliers, our people, our environment value for all our stakeholders. and society in general. Our mission is based on excellence, technology and sustainability. 11 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Structure and Companies Shared service unit Corporation Electrical Communication Networks Shared Network and System Integration Services OTHER BUSINESSES MALL MALL STADIUM STADIUM MALL MALL Centres of Excellence Aerospace STADIUM Telecommunications STADIUM Energy services Centres Businesses Prefabricated housing of excellence Mechatronic engineering MALL STADIUM Turnover 5% Aerospace Telecommunications Energy services Prefabricated housing Mechatronic engineering Centres of excellence 30% Electrical Network 65% Communication Networks ORMAZABAL and Systems Integration IKUSI 12 13 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Global supplier of solutions for the electrical distribuComponents for aircraft engines Energy Demand Management Solutions Mechatronics for smart machines tion network At Wec, we design, develop and manufacture components At Stratenergy, we specialise in optimising the energy exAt Smarmec, we are specialised in the design and indusOrmazabal is one of the world’s leading companies provifor aircraft engines, collaborating with leading global plapenditure of organisations through the provision of specific trialisation of mechanical, electronic and computer ending high added value products and services for the elecyers in the sector. services and solutions, managing and constantly optimising gineering solutions in the field of smart machines with trical network. the energy assets of our customers, helping them to create the capacity to manufacture prototypes and short series. Thanks to our extensive experience in manufacturing technodifferential value and improve their competitive position. Our commitment to reliability and our in-depth knowledge logies for aerospace propulsion applications, we can offer our From Smarmec, we provide added value in differential, teof the sector and the markets where we operate enables us customers solutions that are tailored to specific demands. We have specialist teams to identify specific initiatives that chnologically advanced processes, in additive manufactuto respond to the present and future needs of the electrical add value to the entity in terms of improving efficiency, linked ring and joining technologies. Our active presence in this sector is a clear sign of our comnetwork, contributing to its development with innovative with the energy plan included in its own business model. mitment to quality, robustness and technological innovation. Smarmec is the result of Velatia’s specialisation, innovasolutions and in-house technology. We offer comprehensive, flexible and replicable solutions tion and customer approach. These qualities make SmarSince 1967, innovation has been the driving force behind based on a process of efficient management, from primary mec the key partner in added value processes for highly our growth and that of our customers. All the people that energy management to end use. We also implement energy complex technologies. make up Ormazabal are dedicated to this objective. We service projects in organisations, seeking to optimise energy, are a highly qualified team of professionals involved with from the contracting phase to consumption in installations. our customers with whom we establish long-term relationTelecommunications infrastructure solutions ships of mutual benefit. This experience places us at the At Knock, we work on the engineering, design and sale of Precast concrete forefront of the electrical sector. solutions for telecom infrastructures, which facilitate the Uniblok focuses its activities on the development, manuReliable innovation. Personal Solutions. deployment of fixed and mobile networks. facture and supply of integrated solutions in precast conThese include our RDS Rapid Deployment System, a moPrefabricated concrete houses crete buildings. dular solution that eliminates the need for any type of civil Homm came about from our experience and in-depth Over 20 years’ experience in the manufacture of concrete engineering work and enables solar panels and a wind turknowledge of concrete and its integration with technoenclosures for transformer substations have provided us bine to be integrated for power supply, reducing environlogy, energy and functionality, in a constant search for with an outstanding knowledge of materials and processes mental impact. Integrated solutions in the field of Electronics and Informainnovation and the fulfilment of our customers’ wishes to suit any requirement in this area. tion and Communication Technologies Due to its installation time (eight hours compared with a and needs. month previously required), its design and modularity, the Experience and, above all, experiences have made us what The innovative production process, which highlights RDS system increases the efficiency and robustness of siwe are. Velatia’s technological development, is carried out entirely tes. Furthermore, its independence from the mains power at its factory, later assembling the home that has been coAdministration and finance For years, we have specialised in technological solutions and supply network makes it the ideal solution for any location. designed with the customer on the plot. Homm seeks to This is the Velatia internal shared services unit working applications that provide greater intelligence and efficiency Innovative proposals to anticipate the needs of such a demake the experience of purchasing and living in a Homm in the areas of administration and finance. Its accounting, to areas such as security in infrastructures, road mobility, manding and changing sector as telecommunications. home complete for the customer, generating a degree of personnel administration, treasury, insurance and property railways, airports and cities; we design, develop and manuhappiness and absolute satisfaction. management activities for the Group are carried out unfacture products aimed at multimedia and remote control environments and we are a recognised integrator of telecomder the criteria of quality and cost optimization, thereby munications and IT networks. providing support for the objectives set out in the Group Strategic Plan. In this process, we have opened up to the world. We have incorporated travel companions and we have joined new projects. We have always looked ahead because we like to imagine the future and help to build it. 14 15 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Our economic performance OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2015 2016 TOTAL CAPITALISATION (€M) 557 563 Subscribed capital 325 325 Assets 269 238 MALL Financial debt 121 132 Gross fixed assets 389 392 Accumulated depreciation -184.5 -194 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED (€M) 552 557 Sales and other operating income 563 567 Financial income 0,9 1 Results of disposal of fixed assets -11.761 -11 DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE (€M) 550 568 Purchases and other operating costs and training 410 421 Staff costs 140 147 Velatia World In relation to the path and changes in the companies that Finally, it must be added that the Tecnichapa and Polsa cenmake up the Velatia Group, it can be seen that the portfotres of excellence moved from the diversification area to the lio of the Diversification businesses was reorganised during electrical business in 2016 in order to focus efforts on increathe 2015 – 2016 period, based on the evaluation of the value sing Ormazabal’s competitiveness and strengthening its leageneration potential of each business. Consequently, we disdership position, maintaining its own identity, structure and invested in Tecnoexpress and RBT Consulting, whilst three values that are common to the whole group. new companies emerged, as a result of current needs, namely Stratenergy, Homm and Smarmec. 16 17 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Participation in external initiatives ENTITIES Business Association for the development of Smart Cities Velatia Basque Business Circle Association of Basque Companies for Sustainability The Union of the Electricity Industry Velatia belongs to several associations linked to its activity, as it wishes to be a key player in the sectors it is involved in. The Spanish Business Association for the Boosting and Development of the Electric Vehicle Market most significant of these associations are shown in the box on the right (p. 19). European Association of the Electricity Transmission and Distribution Equipment and Services Industry Electromechanical Industrialist Association European Committee for Electrotechnical Standarization Ormazabal Spanish Association for Standardisation and Certification Vizcaya Federation of Metal Companies Spanish Association of Electrical Capital Equipment Manufacturers French Electrial Equipment Manufacturesrs` Association German Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers' Association European Engineering Industries Association Association of Electronic and Information Technologies in the Basque Country Association of Electronics, Information and Communications Technologies, Telecommunications and Digital Content Companies Spanish Association for the Internationalisation of Electronics, Information Technology and Telecommunications Companies Ikusi Business Association of Gipuzkoa Also in Velatia we actively participate in the development This position, on the regulatory side, has led us to the Federation of Telecommunications Installation Companies and Integrators in Spain of public policies of regulatory agencies related to electriadoption of solid, consistent precepts regarding the critecal distribution networks. This work is conducted through ria and concepts applied to the design, manufacture and Basque Business Association in Mexico and Colombia our proactive involvement and in many cases leadership commissioning of the products, equipment and services we in business associations linked to the sector in all areas of offer to the market. Leading Brands of Spain Forum action at Spain and at European level. In pursuing activities for institutional relations and those Basque Aerospace Cluster We at all times maintain a position of defence of regulation related with business associations in general, everyone in Wec conducive to the fundamental principle of sustainability of Velatia maintains a strict watch and enforcement of the Business Grouping for Development of Advanced Aerospace Manufacturing Techniques the electricity system, through development, commissioregulations laid down in the “Rules of Competition Law”. ning and maintenance of a standard grid of reliable, duraStratenergy Association of Energy Efficiency Companies ble, efficient and environmentally-friendly distribution. Uniblok Scientific-Technical Association for Structural Concrete 18 19 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Prizes and awards received 2015 2016 Cisco continues rewarding Velatia receives the the work of Ikusi Sabino Arana award With the recognition in the IoT (Internet of Things) field This prestigious award, granted by the Sabino Arana Founand in architectures for Service Providers, Cisco rewards dation, rewards people and organisations that stand out due the potential of Ikusi in these sectors, in which it has a reto their desire to serve society. It represents acknowledgelevant advantage by having the capacity for the integration ment of the company’s commitment, since it was founded, of communications networks and solutions and services in to people, employment and the creation of wealth in the the same company. Basque Country. Javier Ormazabal Echevarria, President of Velatia, received the award at a ceremony held at the In addition to “Gold Partner” in Colombia, this year Cisco Arriaga Theatre in Bilbao. Other award winners, along with has awarded Ikusi a further two prizes: “Partner of the Year Velatia, were important personalities such as former Scoin Enterprise Networking” and “Partner of the Year in Serttish First Minister Alex Salmond, U.S. Congressman John vice Provider in Mexico”. It is a relationship of mutual trust Garamendi, Olympic slalom canoeist Maialen Chorraut, that is growing year after year. cultural promoter Leopoldo Zugaza and CEAR Euskadi. 20 21 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia “Bizkaia Saria” award Recognition in Deia newspaper awarded Velatia the “Bizkaia Saria” prize Advanced Management for being “an economic reference in Biscay/Bizkaia,” as well Ormazabal Corporate Technology, Ikusi Electronics and These organisations use the Advanced Management Model as “one of the companies offering most employment in the Polsa were presented with the Advanced Management as a benchmark to assess and improve their management Historical Territory”. This award, presented during the 9th EdiAward 2016 in the “Industry” category, granted by EUSKAsystems and they received these awards following an extion of the Hemendik Sariak prizes, organised annually by this LIT, a foundation promoted by the Basque Government to ternal assessment by independent experts not related to it, newspaper to acknowledge different personalities and institufoster the application of Advanced Management elements members of the EUSKALIT Assessment Club, which is made tions in BIscay, was collected by Germán Ormazábal, Director in Basque organisations, during the gala organised by Eusup of around 2,000 people, mostly in management or exeof the President’s Office and Institutional Relations at Velatia. kalit at the Europa Conference Centre in Vitoria-Gasteiz. cutive positions, who collaborate selflessly with EUSKALIT Germán Ormazábal, who praised the “commitment and sharing their knowledge and management experience. More specifically, Polsa won the Gold A Award in Advanced efforts of the people who make up Velatia”, clarified that Management, and Ikusi and Ormazabal Corporate TechnoThe awards were presented at a gala held on Tuesday 14th this award “belongs to the work and values” with which logy won the Silver A award, respectively. Through these December at the Europa Congress Palace in Vitoria-Gasteiz. the group, now approaching its 50th anniversary, first beawards, the Basque Government recognises the most adgan. Moreover, he emphasised Velatia’s constant desire to vanced organisations in management practices and those improve and “remain a reference both in the future of elecwhich seek the balanced satisfaction of all their stakeholtrical networks and in telecommunications”. ders, customers, workers and society in general. 22 23 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Ormazabal commitment Ikusi Mexico obtains WORLDCOBawards CSR Social Responsibility certification The work of Ormazabal has been recognized this year with Ikusi Mexico gets WORLDCOB-CRS Social Responsibility several awards, among them three in particular: certification from World Confederation of Businesses Organization, which is proof that Ikusi has a Social Respon• Ormazabal Polska received the Grand President’s Cup sibility management system that meets the requirements given by the Polish Energy Transmission and Distribuof Labor, Social relations and Environmental Responsibility. tion Association (PTPiREE) at the ENERGETAB trade fair held in Bielsko-Biała in September. The cms.p system for This was made possible due to Ikusi’s codes of ethics and Smart Grid applications presented at the fair was chosen social responsibility policies, environmental commitment among 54 candidates as the most innovative. policies, constant training to members of the company as well as health promotion as required by the CRS norm. • The Chamber of Industry and Commerce of Mittlerer Niederrhein (Germany) also awarded Ormazabal the prize for the This certification is valid for three years. During this peBest Vocational Training in the Technical-Commercial Sector riod, Ikusi is commited to be continuously evaluated by for the development of young workers. the certifying company to guarantee the sustainability of the programs. • Finally, Ormazabal’s primary distribution team has received the Kaizen Lean Award from the institute named after it in the category of “Excellence in Productivity”. Expansion Award for Homm’s The award recognizes good practices in continuous improvement. innovation and design In October, Homm received the ‘Remarkable Award for Innovation and Design’ in the category of housing, awarded Cisco Latin America and by the newspaper Expansion. This award is a recognition Mexico Best Partner Award to the team which, driven by their passion, has completely changed the concept of prefabricated concrete housing Ikusi has been given a total of seven awards by Cisco, inand is beginning to revolutionise the customer experience; cluding the Best Partner of the Year Award in Latin America it is also a recognition of Velatia’s commitment to effiand the Best Partner of the Year Award at the Cisco Partner ciency, quality, safety, the environment and people. Summit held in San Diego. Juan Pablo Andrio, general director of Homm and Alejandro The award recognizes its commitment to aligning the techOrmazabal, vice president of Velatia, collected the prize in nology and business needs of its clients, acquiring specialian event that took place in the Museum of Contemporary zed knowledge in key technology and achieving a very high Art in Barcelona. level of satisfaction and quality in the projects developed. The Cisco Partner Summit Global Awards are intended for exemplary partners who demonstrate best business practices and serve as a model for the industry. 24 25 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Governing structure The highest governing body is the Board of Directors, team. In this regard, the Board has attributed functions whose regulatory framework is composed of the Company related to strategic management, organisation, financial Statutes, the Regulations of the Shareholders’ Board, the control, risk management, information policy and legal Regulations of the Board of Directors, the different Regumatters and auditing. lations of the Board committees and the Code of Ethics. The current structure of the Board allows it to implement The Board focuses its activity on the general function of the recommendations of the Code of Good Corporate Goguidance, supervision and control and it delegates the vernance and the Capital Companies Act in matters of the daily management of the Company on the management size and type of the Board. The Board of Directors at 31st December 2016 comprised: POSITION DIRECTOR RANK President Mr. Javier Ormazabal Echevarria Executive Vice-president Mr. Alejandro Ormazabal Echevarria Non-executive Member Ms. Ana Ormazabal Echevarria Non-executive Member Mr. Pau Molinas Sanz Independent Member Mr. Luis Tejada Dunes Independent Member Mr. Ramón Sotomayor Jauregui Independent Member Mr. Jose Galidez Zubiria Independent Secretary Mr. Javier Bicarregui Garay Non board 26 27 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Audit and compliance committee The President assumes the duties of the Chief Executive, recate any situation of conflict, direct or indirect, that may exist The Audit and Compliance Committee, governed by a Re• To validate the effectiveness of the policies, systems and presenting a significant concentration of power. However, with the interests of the Company to the Board. The board gulation approved by the Board, is made up of four direcprocedures that ensure the identification and proper masteps have been taken to limit the risks of this concentration members who are in this situation do not interfere in thotors: two independent and two proprietary directors. nagement of the risks faced by the organisation. of power, including: the existence of committees with a mase matters where a conflict may arise between the interests The objectives of this committee are mainly: • To ensure absolute compliance with the applicable rules, laws jority of independent members, whose agreements are subseof the company and its managers or related parties. In the and regulations that apply to the organisation’s activities. quently ratified by the Board; the delimitation of the functions Annual Accounts, transactions with related parties are listed • To ensure the transparency, accuracy and timeliness of of the President in the Board Regulations, etc. so they are known to all directors and shareholders. financial information. The figure of Secretary (non-Director) ensures that the Board’s • To evaluate and constantly supervise the internal conactions comply with the law and comply with the Board’s StaCommittees of the Board of Directors in Velatia are: trol system. tutes and Regulations. Regarding the procedure in place to avoid conflicts of interest in the highest governing body, the Administrators communiPOSITION DIRECTOR RANK President Mr. Luis Tejada Dunes Independent Member Mr. Alejandro Ormazabal Echevarria Non-executive Member Ms. Ana Ormazabal Echevarria Non-executive Member Mr. Jose Galidez Zubiria Independent Adviser Ms. Iciar Marquinez Beñaran Non board Strategy committee Appointments and remuneration committee The Strategy Committee is made up of two independent sessing and advising on the group’s strategy in the medium This committee has powers of information, advice and prodirectors, the President and the Vice-President. All its agreand long term and monitoring the implementation of the posal on the appointment, removal and remuneration of ements must subsequently be ratified by the Board of Distrategy approved by the Board. Board Members and Senior Management of the company. rectors, whereby its main functions include reviewing, asPOSITION DIRECTOR RANK POSITION DIRECTOR RANK President Mr. Pau Molinas Sanz Independent President Mr. Javier Ormazabal Echevarria Executive Member Mr. Luis Tejada Dunes Independent Vice-president Mr. Alejandro Ormazabal Echevarria Non-executive Member Mr. Alejandro Ormazabal Echevarria Non-executive Secretary Mr. Jose Galidez Zubiria Independent Member Ms. Ana Ormazabal Echevarria Non-executive Member Mr. Ramón Sotomayor Jauregui Independent Secretary Mr. Germán Ormazabal Artolazabal Non board 28 29 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Mexico Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Committee The Mexico Committee is a consultative and advisory body choose to submit or putting forward any proposals deemed Made up primarily of members of the Board of Directors Social Responsibility and the definition of the objectives and its nature is purely for the purpose of consultation and appropriate as a result of its experience and due analysis. (with those deemed necessary due to expertise in the and commitments assumed by the Company in the specific strictly professional advice. The main role of this Commitmatter attending as guests), this Committee has the unfield of Social Action. The committee is comprised: tee is to support Velatia’s business in Mexico, in the field of derlying purpose of ensuring compliance with the objectiits own competencies, providing collaboration and advice ves, commitments and key performance lines in Corporate and basically acting to resolve issues raised by the Board and the General Directors with regard to any matters they POSITION DIRECTOR RANK POSITION DIRECTOR RANK President Mr. Javier Ormazabal Echevarria Executive President Ms. Carmen Echevarria Vizcargüenaga --Member Mr. Alejandro Ormazabal Echevarria Non-executive Vice-president Ms. Ana Ormazabal Echevarria Non-executive Member Mr. Luis Tejada Dunes Independent Member Ms. Carmen Ormazabal Echevarria Non-executive Member Mr. Alfonso Gonzalez-Migoya Non board Member Mr. Javier Ormazabal Echevarria Executive Member Mr. Francisco J. Garza Zambrano Non board Member Ms. Begoña Ormazabal Echevarria Non-executive Member Mr. Joseba Jayo Gogenola Non board Member Mr. Alejandro Ormazabal Echevarria Non-executive Secretary Mr. Alex Otaegui Furriel Non board POSITION DIRECTOR RANK Secretary Mr. Patxi Zabala Goiricelaya Non board Vice-secretary Mr. Germán Ormazabal Artolazabal Non board Adviser Ms. Alaitz Macías Blanco Non board 30 31 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Ethics and integrity Los valores que definen Velatia In Velatia we distinguish ourselves by having values deeply rooted in our culture: The values • F lexibility: the will to understand different opinions and adapt to different situations. that define us • L eadership: showing the will to succeed in everyday F L I activity that might act as an example and motivation for others. • Innovation: dynamic attitude to create and anticipate new, successful processes, products and/or services. •P  ragmatism: orientation towards results in an effecFlexibility tive way. Innovation •S  upport: willingness to offer and request help in order to Leadership develop persons and achieve goals. P Pragmatism S Support 32 33 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Assumption and development of the ten principles of the United Nations Our Code of Ethics Global Compact Our Code of Ethics sets out the general guidelines of ethi• Provide a direct form of communication with all those cal conduct that govern all Velatia employees both in the involved to inform of any breach of the code of ethics. Since 2002, we have been members of the United Nations • Spanish Global Compact Network: performance of their duties and in their professional reGlobal Compact, assuming the commitment to aligning our http://www.pm-old.globalincubator.net/component/ ethics@Velatia.com lationships with peers, managers, subordinates, customers strategies and operations with the ten universally accepted consultarinformes/?Itemid=599 and suppliers, always acting according to the laws of each Velatia. Parque Científico y Tecnológico de principles based on universal declarations and conventions • United Nations Global Compact: country and respecting the ethical principles of their resBizkaia. Edificio 104. 48170 Zamudio. Bizkaia. applied in four areas: human rights, labour standards, envihttps://www.unglobalcompact.org/participant/4649-Velatia pective cultures. ronment and anti-corruption. Since January 2016, an Ethical Channel has been The foundations of this code of ethics are the ethical prinset up on the Velatia Intranet for all workers in As a result of this commitment, since 2005 we have been ciples of the United Nations Global Compact, which are Spain, with the aim of providing them with a publishing the annual “progress reports”, in which we lay based on: channel through which they can report any conout the progress made by Velatia in each of these princiduct that is contrary to the principles and vaples, proceeding to their publication on the intranet for the • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights. lues set out in our Code of Ethics. To ensure the information of all our employees as well as on the websi• The Declaration of the International Labour Organization strictly confidential handling of the information te of “The Global Compact” for the information of all our on fundamental principles and rights at work. provided, it is managed through an independent stakeholders externally: company. • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. • Evaluate and report on compliance with the Code of Ethics. • The United Nations Convention against Corruption. • Within the field of workplace harassment, manage and As a result of the commitment of Velatia to promote and resolve any reports, complaints, claims, suggestions or comply with the code of ethics, the Ethics Committee consultations that are not resolved by means of an in(made up of members of the following areas: Velatia Huformal procedure. man Capital General Management, Legal Advice and Internal audit), is designed to: •D  isseminate the code of ethics for the knowledge of all employees of Velatia. • S olve any issues that may arise concerning its interpretation and act as a guide in case of doubt. 34 35 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Acting against harassment Working against corruption in the workplace True to the assumption of the tenth principle of the United donations are made to entities of rigour, honesty, great Nations Global Compact to work against corruption in all prestige and transparency in their actions and abstaining We are pleased to note that, we published the “Protocol for its forms (including extortion and bribery) and in order to from making donations to political parties, representatives Prevention and Action against Harassment in the Workplastand firm on transparency, rigour, honesty and reliability or candidates in any country of the world, or from sponsoce” in June 2015, in line with our commitment to guaranof all our actions, in Velatia we have assumed various comring any event intended as political propaganda. tee the protection of an individual’s fundamental rights as mitments expressed in the “Anti-Corruption Policy”: assumed in our Code of Ethics. • TO PRESENT information and perform accounting records • TO GUARANTEE compliance with anti-corruption and so that they reflect the payments, expenses, transactions Our protocol aims to establish the necessary measures bribery laws in all countries where Velatia operates. and disposal of assets by Velatia with rigour, transparency to ensure the prevention and action against any type of and accuracy. harassment in the workplace: sexual, discriminatory and • TO ENSURE compliance by all employees, officers and psychological (mobbing). directors of Velatia, with the measures against corruption • TO SPREAD knowledge of this policy to all our stakeholand bribery set forth in our code of ethics. ders by making it public and available to them. This protocol is available in 10 languages on our Intranet. • TO COMPLY with the commitments made in our social action policy, mainly ensuring that our sponsorships and 36 37 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Corporate Social Responsibility in Velatia In November 2016, we reviewed our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, renewing and confirming our commitments: ... to our shareholders: ... to our employees: TO PROMOTE the best corporate TO PROMOTE a satisfactory governance practices to ensure working environment for all business transparency and ethics, employees in witch equal appropriate risk management and the oppotunities, continued personal trust of our shareholders. contributions and professional development are ensured. … to our business partners: TO ESTABLISH a collaborative ... to our customers: relationship based on trust, information TO MAINTAIN a high level of transparency and the sharing of satisfaction and customer service, knowledge, experiences and skills in increasing the quality of this service, order to achieve common goals and the flexibility and the guarantee of mutual benefit. supply. … to society: ... to our suppliers: TO SUPPORT the social TO EXTEND the social, environmental development of the community and occupational risk prevention in witch Velatia operates, aspects to our suppliers. participating in and promoting projects of social, cultural and environmental interest. 38 39 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia In line with our commitments, we have continued to work Flexibility -products tailored to customer needs-; Assu6. Management Model: Boost the implementation of the For the proper management of the Master Plan and full on the lines of action defined in our “Corporate Social rance of on time supply and delivery; ESG Aspects in the Velatia Management Model at all levels of the organialignment with Velatia’s strategy and the needs and perResponsibility Master Plan 2014 – 2016”, which has been contracting process. Relevance of the company’s R&D&I sation and ensure their effective deployment and moniformance of each business, we have updated the manageextended for another year to 2017, in order to develop the to its market position; Partnerships to promote R&D&I; toring by defining a monitoring system and monitoring ment model for the Corporate Social Responsibility area, next one in line with the Velatia Strategic Plan. New business -e.g. SmartGrid-; ESG Criteria in the approof KPIs. which includes: Corporate Social Responsibility Commitval, classification, selection and evaluation of suppliers; tee, Velatia Management Committee which is involved in For the development of this Plan: Effective internal communication to employees; Attrac7. Risk control: Ensure that Velatia meets legislation applithe direct management of the Corporate Social Responsition, retention and management of talent), on which the cable to it in all countries in which it operates and ensure bility area and Social Action as well as the Corporate Social 1. First of all, a map of stakeholders was developed, upmain lines of action in Corporate Social Responsibility that the risk function identifies and manages the most Responsibility Director who carries out traction and coorgraded to the new Velatia reality in accordance with the were finally decided and which are the contents defined significant reputational risks. dination functions in all areas. VMM (Velatia Management Model). as essential and selected for the preparation of this Sustainability Report. 2. The expectations of each of the Velatia stakeholders were identified. These lines of action are as follows: 3. In order to identify relevant issues in terms of Corpo1. Communication and Brand: The objective of this line is rate Social Responsibility that could have a significant to position Velatia brands so that they coexist and thrive Chairman Board of Directors impact on the activities and operations of Velatia, an in different markets through more effective communicaanalysis of the following areas was carried out (taking tion favouring, as far as possible, a Group culture. into consideration the most important businesses and Ethics Committee CSR Committee countries where Velatia has a significant presence): 2. Customers: Improve management of relationships with key customers through the systematisation of custoCSR strategic orientation • The requirements of the main Velatia customers. mer relations and manage reputational risks in countries Social Action Management • The relevant issues, initiatives, developments, risks and without a subsidiary. opportunities in relation to Corporate Social ResponsiVelatia Management Committee 3. Product Innovation: Optimise Velatia’s innovative capacibility of Velatia’s main competitors worldwide. ty and enhance its market position as an innovative comCSR Social Action Management • The main regulatory trends in this field, by repany by identifying partners who can add value to Velatia viewing the public information of regulators and in the development of new products or technologies. sectoral associations. 4. Supply Chain: Strengthen and adapt the procurement Head of CSR 4. With the information obtained in this analysis and taprocesses of the organisation by establishing flexible Coordination of CSR & Social Action king into account the expectations of stakeholders, 78 and adaptable corporate criteria to each business/counrelevant topics were identified for Velatia, which were try with a triple objective: ease of implementation in the grouped into 13 categories. different centres, effective management of social and Business / Corporate Management Commitee environmental risks of suppliers and management of the 5. In meetings held with those responsible for the busireputational risk associated with them. nesses and areas, these topics were evaluated in terms of importance (Determined by the impact of the topic 5. Human Capital: Strengthen the management of the area on the business – area challenges for the forthcoming of human capital through better identification of critical years) and Velatia’s vulnerability in each of the issues (Inareas and the professional development of people, thus versely proportional to the level of preparation), in order creating a better working environment and increased to draw up the materiality matrix, identifying a series of efficiency and productivity of employees. material aspects (Branding; Quality in customer service; 40 41 Our commitment to … Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… People COMMITMENT TO PEOPLE TO PROMOTE a satisfactory working environment for all employees in which equal opportunities, continued personal contributions and Corporate Social Responsability Policy professional development are ensured. TO ENSURE the deployment of the communication to all the organization. Internal Communication Policy TO PROMOTE and TO DEVELOP the principle of equal oppotunities between professionals in relation to promotion, as well as to professional People Developmente Policy and personal development. TO gradually INCREASE employee knowledge and skills. Training Policy TO ENSURE objectivity in processes with the undertaking not to discvriminate on grounds of age, gender, race, ideology, religiom, sexual Employment Policy orientation, nationality, disability or any other personal, physical or social condition; promoting cultural differences as a source of mutual benefit. 45 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… Our team Velatia had a workforce of 2,921 people in December 2015 The average age of the group is 40, distributed as follows: and 2,970 in December 2016, spread throughout the world as shown on the map: 2016 EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY* Women Men Total Germany 100 177 257 China 127 240 367 Colombia 10 39 49 2,075 Spain France 332 17 1,314 88 1,646 105 PEOPLE 391 Mexico 84 274 358 NORTH PEOPLE *Note: AMERICA We are also present in the following countries: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Unite 478 Arab Emirates, USA, Hong Kong, Poland, Portugal, Turkey, United Kingdom, South Africa and Switzerland. 12% PEOPLE 2016 13 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE* Women Men Total PEOPLE Permanent 536 1,929 2,465 Temporary 141 364 505 13 *Note: Permanent contract: Employment contracts without a pre-determined time limit for full-time or part-time work. PEOPLE Temporary contract: Employment contracts with a pre-determined time limit or which end on completion of the works or service, the duration of which was planned. EMPLOYEES BY TYPE 2016 OF WORK Women Men Total Blue-collar employees 180 1,108 1,288 White-collar employees 497 1,185 1,682 46 47 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… Relations with our People Employment Rights Communication Channels Velatia Community Employment rights are respected and applied to all worAware of the importance of internal communication, we In recent years, our unique Intranet has been implemenkers providing a service in Velatia, regardless of the type of have developed various channels at Velatia to pass on neted throughout Velatia: “Velatia Community”, which facontract or position. cessary information to all people in our organisation, of cilitates internal communication, corporate identity and which the following can be highlighted: documentation management for all companies of the It must be highlighted that at Velatia, we favour the rights Group, whilst also maintaining the essence and identity of workers to organise themselves collectively in organi• Annual Directors’ Day: Each year, we address the problems of each company. sations of their choice and, for example, there is a room and challenges of each of the organisations, so that the indedicated exclusively for this purpose at our companies formation can be passed on to their teams and it is also a In December 2016, a new access page to the personal site depending on the size of the workforce, as well as specific driving force for change. was introduced to facilitate user access to the most popubulletin boards. lar documentation. In 2016, 4 internal blogs and one ex• Distribution of leaflets to all Velatia workers each year with ternal blog (“Velatia Network”) were also started, in which the main messages deployed at the Annual Conference, as articles are published and diverse social networks are used well as documents explaining Velatia’s own strategy. It must for promotion purposes. be highlighted that a leaflet explaining “our commitment to sustainability” was distributed to all Velatia workers in 2016. At the close of 2016, the “Velatia Networks” external blog had accumulated a total of 107 articles with an impact of • Internal communication plans at business company level, 5,500 sessions and 12,500 visits to the pages. in which actions, dates, deadlines and managers are detailed; At Ormazabal, compliance with the Annual Communication Plan is monitored monthly (standing at 91% in December Breakfast with the President 2015 and 87% in December 2016). Another initiative is “Breakfast with the President”. The • Internal magazine: Ikusi Magazine. This points out the main objective is to transmit strategic messages from the Predevelopments that have taken place in recent months. sident, generate a Group culture (as people from different businesses have the opportunity to meet), enable the or• On the other hand, it must be pointed out that we regulate ganisational climate to be detected in a relaxed atmospheand establish the minimum period of notice due to signifire and make contact with people who do not usually have cant organisational changes that may affect the group involthe opportunity to interact with the President in order to ved in accordance with the Collective Agreements, Company understand their concerns and work on them. Agreements or the applicable labour regulations for each company in each country. They have taken place more or less monthly, attended by 8 to 10 people with varied profiles and from different organisations. From January to December 2016 10 Breakfasts with the President were held, in which a total of 103 people participated. The Breakfasts took place in different Velatia companies and geographical locations: Ormazabal GmbH – Krefeld (Germany), OCEX Getafe (Madrid), at the headquarters of Ikusi in Miramón, at SCD in Boroa, at the corporate headquarters in Zamudio, at WEC and at Smarmec. 48 49 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… Committed to the continued development of our people Talent Management Management of the work climate Throughout 2015 and 2016, we worked mainly on two • Preparation of the Velatia Talent Management Model: • Assessments: This is a tool that enables us to carry out an In order to increase the satisfaction of our people, we have areas of talent management with the aim of ensuring that What is talent in Velatia has been defined and talent external evaluation of the skills of our people (based on defined the methodology to conduct satisfaction surveys and we have sufficient talent in order to successfully address committees have been set up for each business to identithe Velatia Skills Dictionary). it has been made available to those organisations that decide the challenges that Velatia faces: fy key people, analyse their situation and see how develoto measure the satisfaction level of their people. Furthermore, pment can be fostered. •G  ood Guide: It must be pointed out that the GOOD GUIduring the first half of 2016, with the launch of the people 1. Talent Attraction DE 2.0 was implemented in 2016, which maintains the • Development Programme: Efforts have focused on improprocess map, the Velatia “satisfaction evaluation process” has traditional philosophy of the Good Guide (tool we use for ving the implementation and quality of the management been defined. We consider it necessary to work on talent attraction not people development), but allows for better monitoring only from the perspective of covering the current needs of of the processes and tools that make up the Talent Model at an individual and global level. Monitoring of the fulBering in mind the VMM requirements, satisfaction and climathe organisation, but also to address the needs in the medeployed the previous year. At the same time, the devefilment of the Good Guide in December 2016 was 79%. te surveys are starting to be carried out in the different group dium-long term. Our brand as an employer is an important lopment plans of the people who form part of the talent companies. For example, a survey was carried out at Ikusi in aspect to work on in the long term (and it is closely related group have been considered through the Good Guide and • ATRAE Programmes. The “Values in Motion”, “Customer 2015. A climate survey was conducted at Ormazabal Corporato Velatia’s activity in terms of institutional relations and the Development Programme. Focus” and “Opportunities Management” ATRAE prote Technology in June 2016 and at Polsa in July 2016. External Communication). Improving the implementation of the Good Guigrammes have taken place with diverse people from de, particularly in relation to the Development the organisation and in different locations, developing In addition to the climate analyses that were previously caWe have analysed our need to incorporate people within values at an internal level and strengthening the corPlan, so as to appropriately identify the training rried out, the analysis of the Corporate organisational cultuthe framework of the different strategic plans, and we have porate identity between our teams. In the first half of and individual development actions in accordanre (Velatia SL) was carried out in July 2016 and an external pooled our level of relations, contacts etc. with different 2016, work was carried out on the Velatia Leadership ce with the profile of each person. comparison was made by Euskalit in October 2016, in which, sources of talent attraction (universities, business schools, style with different Group Directors, with the aim of esamong other aspects, the Velatia system of finding out the institutions…). A more complete Development Programme has tablishing a common focus and deployment framework general satisfaction of its employees was evaluated, as well as We then established an action plan which covers immediabeen proposed with contents adapted to the that facilitates the fulfilment of individual and business the associated performance indicators. te needs and those that respond to a longer timeframe, and different groups by means of different developchallenges for them and their teams and fosters the dewhich allows us to prioritise and identify which actions to ment itineraries, so that individual development velopment of their management skills. The results were carry out (from a Velatia and a business perspective). plans for the Talent Group can be drawn up, fahighly satisfactory and 4 new groups have been created cilitating progress in the performance/contributo give continuity to the programme in 2017. FurtherDuring this period, we have renewed and established retion of people, whilst Velatia professionals are more, within the ATRAE framework, work has also been lations with different Talent providers (Engineering School satisfied and feel that their personal/professiocarried out on different initiatives (Customer Focus and of Bilbao, Deusto Business School, Novia Salcedo Foundanal development is being taken into account. Effective Communication in France – and Consultative tion, IESE, Bizkaia Talent, Mondragon University, Unitech, From the methodological point of view, patterns Sales), with a high level of satisfaction. TECNUN, Monterrey TEC…). of needs within the group have been identified, 2. Definition and deployment of the Talent Model bearing in mind the different talent profiles, and a catalogue of resources for each profile has In order to manage the development of our people probeen drawn up, which will facilitate the preparaperly, different initiatives have been introduced that facilition of development plans for each person. tate their follow-up and monitoring: 50 51 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… Improving the training of our people Diversity and Equality at Velatia At Velatia, diversity management and support for equal opportunities are intrinsic to our management. Because of this, Over these years, we have developed training plans tailored to the company has ratified its commitment to Principle 6 of the the needs of our people around the world: United Nations Global Compact, which supports the abolition of discrimination in employment and occupation, constantly working on keeping clear indicators of diversity and its proper management (taking into account the needs and requireHOURS OF TRAINING 2015 2016 ments of our business): Social Skills 6% 12% Languages 41% 34% IT 3% 7% EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY Total 2016 H&S, Quality, Environment 12% 13% Management 2.86% Product and Technical knowledge 37% 34% Support Areas 12.46% Others 0% 0% Production 55.59% Averange training hours per employee 27 20 Sales 16.97% Research and Development 10.74% COST OF TRAINING 2015 2016 Others 1.38% Social Skills 8% 14% Languages 39% 29% IT 2% 9% H&S, Quality, Environment 9% 10% Product and Technical knowledge 44% 39% Others 0% 0% Averange training cost per employee 307 € 273 € We have invested mainly in product and technical knowledtraining satisfaction surveys revealed that most people were ge, as well as languages, in order to improve our professional extremely satisfied with the knowledge acquired. skills. It must be added that after the training provided, the 52 53 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… Composition of the workforce by gender Composition of the workforce by age Management Support Areas Production Management Support Areas Production 12% 13% 13% 19% 29% 32% 49% 38% 32% 68% 51% 81% 59% 49% 55% Sales Research and Development Others Sales Research and Development Others 15% 13% 15% 17% 20% 25% 33% 36% 46% 80% 85% 83% 52% 51% 29% Men Women 18-36 37-51 >51 It must be pointed out that we do not have any staff under the full use of the established periods for maternity and pathe age of 18 at any of our companies and that we support ternity leave, and we have a 100% rate of return to work after the abolition of child labour. these periods. Furthermore, in our constant promotion of equal opportunities, we are pleased to highlight that at Velatia, we encourage 54 55 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Working for the insertion of people with disabilities in the workforce Regarding support for staff with disabilities, it must be pointed out that diverse Velatia companies have collaborated with Lantegi Batuak (a non-profit organization that aims to promote and achieve social and labour integration for people with disabilities) since 1986, creating jobs for over 100 people with disabilities in different production activities both nationally and internationally. The turnover figures (€) in recent years reflect our commitment and high level of satisfaction with the work done. 26,961,185 21,756,895 20,522,949 14,648,188 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 56 Velatia. Memoria de Sostenibilidad 2015 2016 Our commitment to… Health and safety COMMITMENT TO HEALTH & SAFETY TO ENSURE a safe working environment, developing a preventive culture in Corporate Social Responsability Policy terms of occupational health and safety. TO PROMOTE respect for people´s health & safety by preventing accidents, illnesses or damage to health. Quality, Environmental and Health & Safety Policy TO ACHIEVE and MAINTAIN the internationally recognised certificates for hazard prevention systems. 58 59 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… Our certificates Our main indicators OHSAS 18001 is the most important technical specification for the implementation and management of occupaments in all aspects related to the health and safety of the people in the organisation. Work-related Accidents tional risk prevention systems. It specifies the requirements As a result of this commitment, we can say that at Defor an occupational health and safety management system cember 2016, several of our companies worldwide held this WITH LEAVE WITHOUT LEAVE so that organisations can control occupational risks and certificate: LABOUR ACCIDENTS hence improve their performance and results in this area. 2015 2016 2015 2016 Obtaining this certificate, which is entirely voluntary, Velatia 84 80 116 123 shows that the company is pro-active in exceeding the Ormazabal 66 51 64 78 legal requirements and achieving excellence in terms of health and safety at work. The certificate entails improveIkusi 6 4 11 5 Polsa 2 2 7 4 Uniblok 7 6 9 11 Wec 1 7 17 15 OHSAS 18001 VALIDITY DATE Tecnichapa 2 3 10 6 Ormazabal Distribución Secundaria 2017 Tecnichapa Kunshan N.A. 7 N.A. 0 Spain Ormazabal Media Tensión 2018 Smarmec N.A. 0 N.A. 4 Ormazabal Beijing Switchgear 2018 Ormazabal China Ormazabal Zhuhai Switchgear 2017 Ormazabal Kunshan Switchgear 2019 France Ormapost 2019 Frequency Rate Ikusi 2017 This indicator expresses the number of work-related accidents with sick leave per million hours worked. Spain Ikusi-SIS 2017 Ikusi Ikusi Electronics 2017 Colombia Daxa Colombia 2018 FREQUENCY INDEX 2015 2016 Uniblok Spain Prefabricados Uniblok 2018 Velatia 20.6 16.1 Ormazabal 29.5 17.5 Ikusi 4.6 3.0 Polsa 24.5 18.9 Uniblok 48.5 42.5 Wec 7.8 51.9 Tecnichapa 11.6 22.1 Tecnichapa Kunshan N.A. 49.0 Smarmec N.A. 0.0 60 61 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… Absolute frequency rate Incidence rate This indicator expresses the number of work-related accidents (with and without sick leave) per million hours worked. This indicator expresses the number of work-related accidents (with and without sick leave) for every thousand workers. ABSOLUTE FREQUENCY INDEX 2015 2016 INCIDENCE INDEX 2015 2016 Velatia 49.1 40.9 Velatia 7.1 5.9 Ormazabal 58.0 44.1 Ormazabal 8.4 6.4 Ikusi 13.0 6.8 Ikusi 1.9 1.0 Polsa 110.3 56.6 Polsa 16.0 8.2 Uniblok 110.8 120.3 Uniblok 16.1 17.4 Wec 140.4 163.1 Wec 20.4 23.6 Tecnichapa 69.7 66.2 Tecnichapa 10.1 9.6 Tecnichapa Kunshan N.A. 49.0 Tecnichapa Kunshan N.A. 10.2 Smarmec N.A. 70.4 Smarmec N.A. 7.1 Severity rate This indicator expresses the number of days missed due to a work-related accident per thousand hours worked. SEVERITY INDEX 2015 2016 Velatia 0.31 0.28 Ormazabal 0.45 0.38 Ikusi 0.07 0.02 Polsa 0.31 0.14 Uniblok 0.91 0.36 Wec 0.04 0.79 Tecnichapa 0.03 0.18 Tecnichapa Kunshan N.A. 0.37 Smarmec N.A. 0.00 62 63 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… Working to increase safety ORMAZABAL OCCUPATIONAL RISK PREVENTION MILESTONES IKUSI OCCUPATIONAL RISK PREVENTION MILESTONES 2015 ODS: Passed Audit of the Occupational Risk Prevention Management System (OHSAS 18001) 2015 Spain: Passed Audit of the Occupational Risk Prevention Management System (OHSAS 18001) 2015 ODP: New production lay-out that reduces excess effort 2015 Spain: Increased internal occupational risk prevention inspections at ISS and Ikusi Electronics 2015 IBERIA: Passed Audit of the Occupational Risk Prevention Management System (OHSAS 18001) 2015 Colombia: Passed Audit of the Occupational Risk Prevention Management System (OHSAS 18001) 2015 ASIA: Passed Audit of the Occupational Risk Prevention Management System (OHSAS 18001) in OBS and OZS 2016 Spain: Obtained OHSAS 18001 certification in Ikusi, S.L.U. ODS: Passed Audit of the Occupational Risk Prevention Management System (OHSAS 18001) without any 2016 Mexico: Obtained Socially Responsible Company Certification from the World Confederation of Businesses 2016 non-conformities ODS: Action Plan as a result of the psychosocial risk assessment 2016 Colombia: Passed Audit of the Occupational Risk Prevention Management System (OHSAS 18001) 2016 2016 ODS: Improved SR results with respect to 2015 2016 ODP: consolidation of the KAIZEN methodology also for Occupational Risk Prevention incidents 2016 ODP: Improved FR and SR results with respect to 2015 2016 OP&A: Regular audits with 5S implemented 2016 Cotradis: Improved results of all the indicators with respect to 2015 OTHER OCCUPATIONAL RISK PREVENTION MILESTONES 2016 Cotradis: consolidation of the KAIZEN methodology also for Occupational Risk Prevention incidents 2015 Wec: Risk communications as a means to involve workers in Occupational Risk Prevention IBERIA: Passed Audit of the Occupational Risk Prevention Management System (OHSAS 18001) without 2015 Tecnichapa: Improved FR, AFR, SR and IR results with respect to 2014 2016 any non-conformities in Spain 2015 Polsa: Improved AFR and IR results with respect to 2014 2016 LATAM: Establishing Occupational Risk Prevention management at subsidiaries in Mexico, Argentina and Brazil 2015 Uniblok: Passed Audit of the Occupational Risk Prevention Management System (OHSAS 18001) 2016 LATAM: OHSAS 18001 implementation projects in Mexico and Brazil 2015 Uniblok: Improved AFR and IR results with respect to 2014 2016 EMEA : Obtained OHSAS 18001 certification in Ormapost 2016 Wec: Better ergonomics project 2016 EMEA: Improved FR, AFR and IR results in Ormapost 2016 Polsa: Improved FR, AFR, SR and IR results with respect to 2015 2016 ASIA: Obtained OHSAS 18001 certification in OKS 2016 Tecnichapa: Improved AFR and IR results with respect to 2015 2016 ASIA: Passed Audit of the Occupational Risk Prevention Management System (OHSAS 18001) in OBS and OZS 2016 Uniblok: Improved FR and SR results with respect to 2015 2016 ASIA: Passed Government Audits in OBS 64 65 Velatia. Memoria de Sostenibilidad 2015 2016 Our commitment to… Quality and service COMMITMENT TO QUALITY AND SERVICE TO MAINTAIN a high level of customer service, increasing the quality of Corporate Social Responsability Policy this service, the flexibility and the guarantee of supply. TO ACHIEVE and MAINTAIN the internationally recognised certificates for our quality management systems. Quality, Environmental and Health & Safety Policy TO PROMOTE training, innovation and continuous improvement through excellence criteria. 66 67 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Our certificates Standardising criteria for the segmentation of customers and markets Standard ISO 9001 specifies the requirements for a tinuous improvement. At Velatia, we are convinced of its In order to focus on those markets and those customers company’s quality management system, including a strong importance and true to our commitment, we have certified to which Velatia companies can supply more attractive customer focus, motivation and the involvement of top companies around the world: products and services, Ormazabal and Ikusi have launched management, the approach based on processes and coninitiatives that aim to segment customers and markets and also to identify those customers who are key for the busiISO 9001 VALIDITY DATE ness. Ormazabal Cotradis 2018 To do so, Ormazabal defined and unified its strategic market segments in the Strategic Plan 2015-2017 and has proOrmazabal Distribución Primaria 2018 ceeded to identify its key customers. Ormazabal Distribución Secundaria 2017 Ikusi has carried out the segmentation of its customers Spain Ormazabal Media Tensión 2018 and markets within the scope of its Strategic Plan corresponding to its businesses. Ormazabal Protection & Automation 2018 Ormazabal Corporate Technology (*) 2017 Ormazabal Anlagentechnik 2018 Germany Ormazabal Vertrieb Deutschland 2018 Ormazabal Ormazabal Beijing Switchgear 2018 China Ormazabal Zhuhai Switchgear 2017 Ormazabal Kunshan Switchgear 2017 Turkey Ormazabal Electromekanik 2018 Poland Ormazabal Polska 2019 France Ormapost 2017 Brazil Ormazabal do Brasil, 2017 Mexico Ormazabal México 2018 Ikusi 2017 Spain Ikusi-SIS 2017 Ikusi Electronics 2017 Ikusi Ikusi Mexico 2018 Mexico Micronet 2018 Colombia Daxa Colombia 2018 Polsa Spain Aislantes Solidos 2018 Uniblok Spain Prefabricados Uniblok 2018 Wec Spain Wallair Engine Components 2018 Tecnichapa Spain Tecnichapa 2018 (*) IEC 17025 accreditation 68 69 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Developing the relations map with key customers Improving customer satisfaction As a result of learning from the experience of other orgastrategic objectives agreed for them, providing evidence of As in previous years, Ormazabal has continued to gain a On a general level, Ikusi has worked hard and evolved from nisations, particularly Ikusi with its CRM commercial mathe good performance of these teams at the end of the better understanding of the needs and expectations of a system of measurement at the project close to a system nagement tool, Ormazabal has launched its own and has year, particularly in the renewable segment. its customers over the past two years through customer of measurement of key accounts (commercial / decisionbeen working on the creation of the organisation chart of satisfaction surveys. We use them to measure specific asmaking level) and to representative projects carried out In its ISS business, Ikusi has established criteria for the its five Global Key Accounts (GKA) in terms of companies pects that help us detect what our response is to the needs (technical / execution level). Therefore, customer surveys classification of accounts in accordance with an account and people. This will help to define the communication expressed by our customers, and which areas for improhave been conducted in the ISS, Remote Control and Netmanagement model. The criteria has been applied, the map plan and the relations map with these customers bearing vement require further work. These aspects include the works businesses with favourable results. of key/target accounts has been obtained for which an acin mind their reality. treatment they receive from our staff, meeting deadlines, count service group is configured, led by an AM (Account Wec, Polsa and Tecnichapa conduct surveys of leaefficiency, the quality of our products and services, trouWork has also been carried out on the launch and fostering Manager). Account monitoring is carried out monthly at ding customers either annually or bi-annually. It must be bleshooting and technical assistance. of specific actions that will help towards the objective of the commercial committee meetings, which establish the highlighted that the Tecnichapa surveys include an open increasing knowledge of our key customers and their nedaily tasks of the group led by the AM in order to fulfil the In recent years, these Ormazabal customer surveys have section in which the customer can specify all kinds of comeds. In this respect, specific technical seminars were held objectives. been conducted in diverse countries, such as Spain, France, ments. After each survey, a meeting is held with the custowith customers throughout 2015 and 2016, providing acGermany, China and Poland, where there is not only commer to analyse the results obtained. cess to their different areas and “Supplier Open Days” were mercial presence but also our own industrial activity. also held. In order to improve our efficiency, specific tools were used within the Key Account Teams (GKA) throughout 2016, measuring our performance in the fulfilment of the 70 71 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Increased quality of service Getting closer to the customer for our customers Within Ormazabal’s history spanning almost 50 years, our issued a communication in order to update their knowledMILESTONES FOR ORMAZABAL CUSTOMERS customers have been and remain one of our biggest stimuge of our products and services. li, to continue working in order to better meet their needs 2015 SP Energy Networks chooses Ormazabal reliability In parallel and within the framework of the CRM strategic each day. 2015 Ormazabal technology reaches the highest point in Mexico on the BBVA Bancomer Tower project, a dynamic has been established to keep this inTherefore, in order to improve the service to our customers formation updated and certain distributors are trained in 2015 With the leading wind power projects in Latin America in those countries in which Velatia itself is not present, we Ormazabal products each year. 2015 Turning towards solar power in the United Kingdom use distributors. In recent years, both Ormazabal and Ikusi At Ikusi Telecontrol, we have been developing the relationhave pursued initiatives to improve relations and service to 2015 Ormazabal and Vestas move in synch ship with certain distributors in the United States in line the distributor. 2016 The Bosch Advanced Research and Development Centre is illuminated with Ormazabal equipment with the constitution of Ikusi USA. As a result of this, we can highlight that Ormazabal has 2016 Ormazabal at the Rafa Nadal Academy updated its database of international distributors and has 2016 The Guadalajara light train moves with Ormazabal 2016 Ormazabal in the highest hotel in Latin America 2016 In the Oyala Twin Towers, Equatorial Guinea 2016 Over 100 pieces of equipment for renewable energy in USA 2016 First offshore wind farm in China 2016 At the hydroelectric power station on River Escondido in Argentina 72 73 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia MILESTONES FOR IKUSI CUSTOMERS OTHER MILESTONES FOR CUSTOMERS 2015 Smart networks project for the Mexican Federal Electricity Commission 2015 Wec: Long distance contract with ITP 2015 Ikusi and Pepsico extend their collaboration 2015 Knock: Rapid Deployment Systems advance in Saudi Arabia 2015 Increasing the efficiency of the Mexican tax authority 2015 Knock: Vodafone and Telefónica protect their fibre optic with Knock solutions 2015 Televisa trusts in Ikusi to increase its competitive advantage 2015 Stratenergy: EMS project for Desigual fashion company 2015 Megacable, one of the leading operators in Mexico, chooses Ikusi 2015 Stratenergy: EMS project for OHL Ingesan 2015 Ikusi accompanies the Modelo Group in its growth strategy 2015 Tecnichapa: with Sener in the world’s largest thermosolar plant 2015 Ikusi distributes the television signal for the European Games in Baku 2015 Tecnichapa: Production begins in China for the new HP printer 2015 Airport solutions reach cruising level 2016 Wec: Manufacturing for the new General Electric and Safran engines 2015 The new subsidiary in the United States takes off 2016 Smarmec: supply of solar receptor panels for the Sener plant in Morocco 2015 Madrid-Barajas T4 chooses the Ikusi information solution 2016 Smarmec: new collaboration with HP for its new large format printer 2016 Ikusi continues its deployment at national and international airports 2016 Stratenergy: new experience in the telecommunications sector 2016 Ikusi and iZZi grow together 2016 Stratenergy: leading an ambitious energy efficiency project in the Basque Country 2016 Voice and data network for the corporate offices of Banorte in the KOI Tower in Monterrey 2016 New digitalisation development for Sky Italia 2016 Line 1 of the Guadalajara Light Rail train (Mexico) connected with the Ikusi loudspeaker and CCTV system 2016 Opening of the revamped operations centre in Mexico 2016 Integration of the Kansas City Southern security systems 2016 Strategic alliance with Effer, world reference in truck mounted cranes 74 75 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Innovation COMMITMENT TO INNOVATION TO MAINTAIN a high level of customer service, increasing the quality of Corporate Social Responsability Policy this service, the flexibility and the guarantee of supply. TO PROMOTE innovation and continuous improvement through excellence Quality, Environmental and Health & Safety Policy criteria. From the very beginning, innovation has been part of our Therefore, in order to be at the technological forefront, we DNA. We must be a technological benchmark in the marparticipate with the leading European industrial and techkets in which we are present, for our customers and for nological players in research projects to face the challenges society. We think that our own technology and research is of the development of our planet. a fundamental strategic activity to face the challenges of tomorrow. We therefore spend a substantial part of our resources on the development of R&D&I projects in all our business lines. 76 77 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Our main milestones in technological innovation We want to be a reference, particularly due to the high ORMAZABAL TECHNOLOGICAL MILESTONES level of innovation applied to each project. This is translated into the search for competitive and differentiated so2015 OPTIMUS Project: diagnosis of electrical distribution networks lutions that satisfy the needs of our customers in priority 2015 MVS Project: Medium voltage sensors areas, such as electrical networks and Smart Grids, electro2015 GRID4EU Project: Smart electrical networks nics, information technologies and communications. 2015 New vacuum bottle: Vacuum electrical cutting Through the different projects and with the reference framework of our Velatia Strategic Technological Plan 2015 MEAN4SG Project: Promotion of experts in metrology of smart networks (VSTP), the organisation has implemented initiatives ERIGRID Project: Development of technologies for the deployment of proposals, solutions and concepts of 2016 throughout 2015 and 2016 which have enabled us to smart networks reach different milestones in the field of commitment 2016 MONICA Project: Advanced monitoring and control of distribution networks to technological innovation. 2016 AMI4UDEX Project: Environment for testing technologies for smart metering and communication 2016 SMARTTRAFO Project: Transformer with smart regulation IKUSI TECHNOLOGICAL MILESTONES 2015 Smart networks project for the Mexican Federal Electricity Commission 2015 Spider Smart City Platform: Transformation of data to information with Business Intelligence tools 2015 Ikusi Flow Platform: Management of contents designed for the hospitality sector 2015 Dolphin Solution: Integration of systems and services for the airport sector 2016 Spider Smart Cities: Urban management for the government of city subsystems 2016 Ikusi Flow Header: Device Manager for the hospitality sector OTHER TECHNOLOGICAL MILESTONES 2015 Uniblok: Industrial adaptation and manufacture of the first pilot of an industrialised home 2015 Tecnichapa: CMT welding technology 2016 Smarmec: New company specialised in smart engineering and mechatronics 2016 Homm: Launch of the prefabricated concrete housing business 2016 Wec: Implementation of the Advanced Manufacturing Centre in the aeronautical sector 2016 Wec: Signing of a technological collaboration agreement 78 79 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Integrated Technological Innovation Management System This commitment to innovation has obtained diverse As a result of our permanent commitment to innovation awards from customers and different entities, such as the and supported by the Integrated Technological Innovation Cisco Award for the Best Partner in Latin America and MexiManagement System (SIGIT), Velatia has monitored the co for Ikusi, the award granted to Ormazabal by the Polish leading indicators that enable the deployment of its tePower Transmission and Distribution Association (PTPiREE) chnological strategy throughout the organisation in 2015 for innovation in its products, or the “Outstanding Innovaand 2016. tion and Design” Award granted to Homm by the Expansión newspaper, among other examples. These recognitions consolidate us in our innovation goal: R&D&I Employees (People) 2015 2016 R&D&I Expenses (Mil €) 2015 2016 the development of new technologies that make sustainable development possible and lead to improvements in the Velatia 182 171 Velatia 24,558 24,367 life quality of people. Ormazabal 100 96 Ormazabal 15,925 14,723 Ikusi 63 62 Ikusi 7,548 6,264 Diversification 19 13 Diversification 895 3,571 Turnover in New Patent Applications 2015 2016 2015 2016 Products (Mil €) Velatia 7 10 Velatia 153,161 131,551 Ormazabal 4 9 Ormazabal 96,574 86,924 Ikusi 3 1 Ikusi 37,308 31,413 Diversification 19,279 13,214 Patents and Industrial Industrial Property Average 2015 2016 2015 2016 Property Records Age (Years) Velatia 358 278 Velatia 8.7 9.1 Ormazabal 325 248 Ormazabal 8.8 9.2 Ikusi 25 23 Ikusi 6.7 6.2 Diversification 8 7 Diversification 9.3 9.8 In this way, information related to the workforce, R&D expenditure, investment and funding, new products launched on the market, patents and industrial property is available, not only enabling us to analyse trends in the results obtained but also to establish actions that help the future technological challenges to be fulfilled effectively and efficiently. 80 81 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Ormazabal in the Basque Science, Technology Promoting R&D&I with technological allies and Innovation Network Ormazabal Corporate Technology (OCT) is an agent of At Velatia, we give a central role to joint creativity. Joining the Basque Science, Technology and Innovation Network capacities as a way of understanding innovation, which can (RVCTI) within the category of R&D Business Units. OCT be summed up in a single concept: co-creating. joined the RVCTI in 2005 and was accredited in 2016 in Therefore, joint creativity is understood at an internal level accordance with Decree 109/2015 on the restructuring of and in collaboration with external agents from sectors in the RVCTI. which our companies operate. This accreditation enables OCT to continue holding a sigAs a result of this approach, Ormazabal, in conjunction nificant position within the set of agents that foster techwith Arteche and Ingeteam, have been participating tonological innovation in the Basque Country. gether in a project for the Provincial Council of Bizkaia. This Thanks to the annual report of the RVCTI Scorecard indicaproject aims to create a smart electric micro-network. tors and the analysis carried out by the RVCTI of the R&D It is an installation equipped with its own electricity geneBusiness Units, OCT is aware of its position, in comparison ration, power supply and distribution systems, as well as a with the set of these R&D Business Units in terms of speciaconnection to the main network to dump excess energy lisation, excellence and position in the R&D&I value chain. and have an alternative power supply, if required. Complementarily, OCT has performed benchmarking exerThe initiative aims to lay the bases for the future Energy cises with other RVCTI agents, in order to compare good Intelligence Centre and also includes the collaboration of management practices that have led not only to mutual the electricity company, Iberdrola. learning but also the strengthening of ties between similar organisations in the field of technological innovation. 82 83 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Board of the Tecnalia Foundation Responsibility for our products Between 2015 and 2016, Velatia continued to be a trustee of Tecnalia’s research activity is framed within the premises of It must be pointed out that at Velatia, safety and enviRegarding the type of information on products and services the Tecnalia Research Centre and Javier Ormazabal Echevarria excellence and expertise, contributing to the strengthening of ronment aspects are covered by the regulations and laws that are required by existing procedures and regulations and was the Chairman of Tecnalia until June 2016. economic development, social cohesion and sustainability. It applicable to our products. In this respect, our products fulthe percentage of significant products and services subject is open to collaborations, promotes relationships and establisfil the applicable regulations in the region in which they to such information requirements, it can be said that: Tecnalia is the leading private Applied Research and Technolohes agreements with other agents of innovation systems. are installed, as well as the specifications of the customers gical Development Centre in Spain and one of the most im• All the information on the results of tests to ensure product who buy them. portant centres in Europe, with 1,400 experts from over 30 conformity to the rules applicable to them is available. different nationalities focusing on transforming technology The products also comply with national regulations where • The technical documentation associated with the prointo GDP to improve the quality of life for people, by creating they exist. Specifically, in the European case with the exisducts in relation to the technical features and installation business opportunities for companies. tence of directives and regulations, the legislative elements and assembly needs is also available. that may apply to products are carefully monitored so as • 100% of our products on the market have the aforementioto ensure that the defined specifications and requirements ned documentation. The availability of the documentation are fulfilled. represents a phase in the product development process. In the case of Ormazabal, there is an internal forum that meets twice a year, where the regulatory and legislative developments that affect our products are analysed, and in which the Marketing and Engineering technical directors are involved. 84 85 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Our suppliers COMMITMENT TO OUR SUPPLIERS TO EXTEND the social, environmental and occupational risk prevention Corporate Social Responsability Policy aspects to our suppliers. TO ESTABLISH mutually beneficial and lastingly stable relationships with our suppliers by rigorously applying the Velatia ethical code. Purchasing Policy TO RESPECT the principles of sustainable development by promoting the fulfilment of human rights and the laws, rules and regulations of the countries where Velatia operates. In order to carry out the commitments acquired, it is neAs the main advances in 2015 and 2016, Velatia has cessary to consider the entire supply chain; especially concontinued consolidating and optimising relations with sidering that the company’s purchasing volume is a high its suppliers. It has reinforced its commitment with local percentage of the total turnover of the organisation. suppliers and has introduced sustainability criteria in the search and selection of new suppliers, in order to extend its This forces us to work with the management of our own commitments to the entire supply chain. suppliers in order to ensure that the principles of sustainable development are respected throughout the entire supply chain. 86 87 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Consolidating and optimising relations Commitment to local suppliers with our suppliers As a result of the reflection carried out by the corporate tive act was held at the Ormazabal Research and Technology At Velatia, we understand that our influence on the local function, the need for the development of the Ormazabal Centre. Its main objective was to establish a meeting space to economy goes beyond the generation of direct jobs and “Suppliers Forum” was identified, whereby its first edition was transmit the Ormazabal strategy for the forthcoming years the payment of salaries and taxes, indirectly generating poheld in October 2015, in accordance with a previously defined to suppliers and what Ormazabal expects from them to fulfil sitive economic impact, supporting local firms through its methodology and which was called the “Ormazabal Purchathis strategy. supplier chain. sing Conference”. 40 strategic international suppliers from the Spanish Business Units participated in this Conference, whose most representa% PURCHASE VOLUME FROM LOCAL SUPPLIERS 2015 2016 Spain 79.5% 75.3% France 76% 77% Ormazabal Germany 49% 53% China 100% 93% Ikusi Spain 88% 87% Wec Spain 49.40% 47.80% Uniblok Spain 93.09% 69.78% Smarmec Spain N.A. 99% Therefore, we maintain the commitment acquired to compaTherefore, the volume of purchases associated with each nies located in the main geographical areas in which Velatia geographical area is regularly monitored, enabling the orgaoperates. This commitment takes on greater relevance in thonisation to consolidate the percentage of local suppliers in a se organisations with production plants in different geograrelevant percentage range. phical areas. 88 89 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Integration of sustainability criteria in the selection of new suppliers Velatia organisations have been developing purchasing manaTo do so, during 2015-2016, some sustainability criteria were As a company that fosters responsible management in its gement processes that give real value to their own businesses included in the selection of suppliers, such as human rights, supply chain, the Velatia organisations have started to transand those of their suppliers, ensuring the results and fostering social repercussion and the minimisation of the environmenmit the commitments assumed and promoted by the United adaptation to the local environment, hence promoting the tal impact. Nations Global Compact or the Anti-Child Exploitation Code creation of wealth and jobs wherever it operates. to the companies that wish to work with it. % NEW SUPPLIERS TESTED ACCORDING TO % NEW SUPPLIERS TESTED ACCORDING 2015 2016 2015 2016 SOCIAL IMPACT TO HUMAN RIGHT CRITERIA Ormazabal 100% 100% Ormazabal 100% 100% Ikusi 100% 100% Wec 100% 100% Furthermore, alignment of the corporate purchasing function with each operating department has enabled the best evaluation criteria to be identified and applied in each procurement or purchasing process, staying at the forefront in terms of sustainability criteria, environmental assessment and human rights. % NEW SUPPLIERS TESTED ACCORDING TO 2015 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA Ormazabal 100% 100% Wec 18% 19% 90 91 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Environment COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT TO ENCOURAGE initiatives that reduce the environmental impact arising Corporate Social Responsability Policy from the activity of Velatia. TO PROMOTE and INTEGRATE an environmentally friendly culture. TO PROMOTE environmental protection by preventing pollution. Quality, Environmental and Health & Safety Policy TO ACHIEVE and MAINTAIN the internationally recognised certificates for environmental systems. 92 93 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Our certificates Our main environmental management indicators ISO 14001 is the most important and commonly used techin nature, it demonstrates the pro-activity of the company in As already mentioned, respect for the environment is an imnical standard to carry out the implementation and evaluaexceeding the legal requirements and achieving levels of exceportant aspect in the management of the organisation. Betion of environmental management systems. It specifies the llence in environmental matters. yond the aforementioned ISO 14001, many measurements requirements for an environmental management system so are made related to its management. At Velatia, our constant concern for the environment has that organisations can control their environmental aspects enabled different organisations to obtain UNE-EN ISO 14001 and impacts and improve their performance and results in this certification over the years: area. By obtaining this certificate, which is entirely voluntary ISO 14001 Validity Date Energy Consumption Ormazabal Cotradis 2018 The energy consumption reduction data for each year compared to the previous year is presented below: Ormazabal Distribución Primaria 2018 Spain Ormazabal Distribución Secundaria 2017 REDUCTION IN ELECTRICAL POWER Ormazabal Media Tensión 2018 2015 2016 CONSUMPLTION Ormazabal Anlagentechnik 2018 Ormazabal -6,0% 0,1% Ormazabal Germany Ormazabal Vertrieb Deutschland 2018 Ikusi 1,6% -1,0% Ormazabal Beijing Switchgear 2017 Polsa -41,0% --China Ormazabal Zhuhai Switchgear 2018 Uniblok -7,3% -36,9% Ormazabal Kunshan Switchgear 2018 Wec -2,0% -7,0% Poland Ormazabal Polska 2018 Ikusi 2017 Spain Ikusi-SIS 2017 Ikusi Ikusi Electronics 2017 During 2015, Ikusi established the reduction of electrical Ormazabal has been systematically working on the optimisaColombia Daxa Colombia 2018 energy consumption at Ikusi Electronics so a multi-disciplition of energy consumption, through energy studies at its leanary team was set up in order to analyse the reasons beding organisations in Spain. As a result of these studies, diffeWec Spain Wallair Engine Componets 2018 hind the highest consumption levels, carrying out a study rent initiatives have been implemented at Ormazabal Primary Polsa Spain Aislantes Solidos 2017 of efficient consumption on the machines with the highest Distribution, Ormazabal Secondary Distribution, Ormazabal consumption. Furthermore, individual meters were installed Medium Voltage and Ormazabal Protection & Automation, Uniblok Spain Prefabricados Uniblok 2018 for each line, in order to monitor consumption more accuamong which the implementation of technological change to rately, fluorescent lighting at the new production plant was led lighting at the work centres of these organisations can be replaced with eco-friendly fluorescent lighting and commuhighlighted. nication was issued raising awareness of good practices in the shutdown of machines. 94 95 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Direct and indirect emissions Treatment of the waste generated of greenhouse gases Over these years, the reduction of the waste generated is shown below: Within total direct emissions, we consider: the fuel consumed in production processes and boilers (fuel, gas), SF6 emissions in product manufacturing processes (Ormazabal) and fuel used in company cars for commercial and assemHAZARDOUS RECOVERY DISPOSAL REUSE LANDFILL bly work. WASTE 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 CO2 direct emissions reduction data for each year with Ormazabal 29% -15% -41% -100% 100% -0% 0% respect to the previous years is shown below: Uniblok 62% -41% -99% 53% 0% 0% 0% 0% REDUCTION IN DIRECT EMISSION 2015 2016 NONRECOVERY DISPOSAL REUSE LANDFILL HAZARDOUS Ormazabal -66.8% -10.4% WASTE 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Uniblok 3.5% 5.2% Ormazabal 1% -11% 0% 0% -12% -5% -38% -13% Uniblok 15% 51% 0% 0% 0% -96% -10% The emission factors for calculating CO2 equivalent derive the atmosphere as its activity is not considered to be poComplementarily, Ikusi reduced the waste generated in 2015 rent Ikusi business units that fall into the field of application from estimates by the IPCC for Global Warming Potential tentially polluting. by 23.2%, whilst we can highlight the initiatives implemented were reviewed. Therefore, for EEE, we have adhered to an In(GWP) over 100 years, as explained at: http://unfccc.int/ghg_ in 2016 for the optimisation of paper consumption, leading to tegrated Management System (IMS) in which we declare the As for indirect emissions, we consider electrical consumption data/ items/3825.php. a reduction of 6%. EEE that are put on the market so as to manage the waste that of the installations. the products become at the end of their useful life. As a result of a resolution by the Basque Government, In compliance with RD 110/2015 on waste from electric and Ikusi does not carry out regular controls of emissions to electronic equipment (EEE), all of the products from the diffe96 97 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Our products and the Environment Through the Centre for Research and Technology (CIT), As public documents, the Environmental Product Declarations Registration number: Drafting Rules: PCR-ed-EN-2015 04 02 Ormazabal is one of the founding companies of the Basque (EPDs) compile the information and the results of the Life ORMA-00001-V01.01-EN Supplemented by: PSR0005-ed1-EN-2012_12_11 Ecodesign Centre (innovation hub in eco-design and a pioneer Cycle Analysis (LCA) of the products, carried out in accordanInformation and reference documents: in southern Europe), promoting, along with other members ce with some specific rules (PCR, product category rules), to Verifier accreditation number: VH18 www.pep-ecopassport.org and collaborators, the application of ecodesign tools in the show the environmental impact of the product and they serve design phase of products, in order to minimise the carbon as an instrument for transparency and environmental compaDate of issue: 02-2016 Validity period: 5 years footprint in the electricity distribution network and in the inrison between products. Independent verification of the declaration and data, in compliance with ISO 14025: 2010 tegration of renewable energy. In our case, the EPDs have been issued for Ormazabal’s cgInternal: External: Under this initiative, between 2015 and 2016, Ormazabal mcosmos-2lp and cgm.3-2lp products, both of which are rebecame the first Basque company to have Environmenferences in electric switchgear for medium voltage electricity The PCR review was conducted by a panel os experts chaired by Phillippe Osset (SOLINNEN) tal Product Declarations (EPDs) under the French PEP Eco distribution networks. Passport system. The elements of the present PEP cannot be compared with elements from another program Document in compliaance with ISO 14025:2010 “Environmental labels and declarations. Type III environmental declarations” OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL MILESTONES 2015 Change from diesel to natural gas for the heating and ACS system at Cotradis 2015 Change from butane forklifts to electric forklifts at Cotradis Gradual replacement of products considered to be hazardous for non-hazardous ones (mainly paints used in 2015 the finish of concrete enclosures) at Uniblok Participation of Ormazabal in the Climate Change in the Competitiveness of Basque Firms working group, 2016 promoted by CONFEBASK and the Basque Government 2016 Collaboration of Ormazabal in the review of the IHOBE Environmental Monitoring Guide 2016 Ormazabal attended the United Nations conference on Climate Change in Paris 98 99 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Society COMMITMENT TO SOCIETY TO SUPPORT the social development of the community in which Velatia operates, participating in and promoting projects of social, cultural and Corporate Social Responsability Policy environmental interest. TO ENSURE that all our collaborations in the field of social action are performed with entities known for the rigour, honesty, great prestige and transparency of their actions. TO GUARANTEE the long-term relationships of activities and projects to Social Action Policy be undertaken, as well as the intention of their continuity. TO DIRECT our social action towards mutual benefit, ensuring the growth of local communities jointly with our business activity in those areas. 100 101 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Advancing in the management of Social Action Our main donations and sponsorships All of our sponsorships, donations and contributions in social action form part of our business strategy and are based on • Social Area: Social Area At these schools, children also learn about hygiene and how to protect themselves and their families against in-T raining and Research: Activities and projects for responsibility towards our environment and towards the idenfectious diseases. education and training of people and for social protity of Velatia, transmitting our culture in a relationship that gress through education and research. Furthermore, over these two years, Velatia’s collaboration considers the commercial and human dimension. with Unicef can be highlighted, supporting children in the Social integration and community development: In this regard we are pleased to mention our “Social Action emergency appeals as a result of the natural catastrophes that Activities and projects aimed at community proPolicy”, in which we stated that our objective in this field is to Aware of the need for support and protection of children, and have occurred. gress which promotes the integration and advancontribute to the development of the society in which Velatia after several years of collaboration, in 2007 we signed a collacement of disadvantaged social groups. In 2015, we launched a campaign through the Corporate Sooperates and/or maintains trade relations, driving innovation boration agreement with the Unicef Foundation to secure the cial Responsibility area, aimed at the entire Velatia workforce in search of a better quality of life for that society and creating • Cultural Area: Programmes or partnerships aimed at promocompany’s commitment to supporting the mission of this enworldwide, following the earthquake that measured 7.9 devalue for the organization. ting and developing the arts, which will in particular allow tity, as well as to promote the welfare, defence, protection and grees on the Richter Scale and which devastated Nepal, leaaccess to the visual, performing and/or musical arts for the development of children’s rights contained in the Convention In line with this, we also have the “Social Action Management ving over 3 million children at serious risk of suffering diseases society in which Velatia operates. on the Rights of the Child. Process”, which allows us to effectively manage contributions due to homelessness, a lack of drinking water, etc. with the to the Velatia community, minimising risks and maximising • Environmental Area: Environmental projects or activities aiFrom then and until 2013, our collaboration has focused on aim of obtaining aid to send essential emergency supplies. reputational opportunities that these contributions may inmed at preserving the environment in which Velatia operates. improving the living conditions of children, focusing our conIn 2016, we increased our direct collaboration by launching volve in accordance our policy and outlining the areas in tribution on “child survival”. Therefore, the contributions made over these years have been a campaign to all of our employees in Spain, calling on them which Velatia will focus its contributions: distributed as follows: But in order to align our work with our “Social Action Polito respond to the Unicef emergency appeal following the cy” and because Training is one of our main focuses, during earthquake measuring 7.9 degrees on the Richter Scale and 2013 we focused our collaboration on UNICEF by supporting which devastated Ecuador. a specific project: ‘Schools for Africa’, focussing our support on In this case, we informed our employees that their contribuSouth Africa (where Ormazabal has a Sales Office for Africa). tion would be doubled: “For each € donated by you, Velatia This Unicef and Nelson Mandela Foundation initiative offers will donate another €, doubling efforts in search of a common children the opportunity to access education and dream of a cause: To help children in Ecuador”. Social Action 2015 Social Action 2016 better future. The approach taken at these schools guarantees We informed all the employees of the results and the total children the right to enjoy safe and protective schools, to have amount raised, which was € 6,730. access to drinking water, facilities to wash their hands, etc. 27% 23% 37% 37% 36% 40% Social Cultural Environmental 102 103 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Social Area Cultural Area Having identified with the Foundation’s mission of accomThe Guggenheim Museum Bilbao is an artistic reference inpanying young people in the process of professional and social ternationally and is a magnificent example of the most avantintegration for more than 7 years, we have worked not only garde twentieth century architecture. This work represents an on the integration of young people into our company but also architectural landmark for its innovative design and offers a sponsoring the “Award for excellence in the professional inteunique space for the exhibition of contemporary art. gration of young people” which seeks to highlight the commitment and actions of people, companies and institutions We identify with the pioneering and innovative character of which stand out for their efforts and history in this field. the Museum and in order to assist in the development of its Mission (to collect, preserve and investigate modern and conWe have refocused our collaboration, supporting the Pegasus temporary art and exhibit it in the context of the history of art Project – “International Campaign for the Declaration of the from multiple perspectives and aimed at a broad and diverse Youth Employment Decade” audience) and to support its objective (to contribute to the The International Campaign for the Declaration of the Youth understanding and enjoyment of art and the values it repreEmployment Decade is a public-private cooperation initiatisents, as part of an emblematic work of architecture, as a corve that began in June 2013 by the Novia Salcedo Foundation nerstone of the Guggenheim Museum Network and serving and an Advisory Committee for Spanish public-private, which as a symbol of the vitality of the Basque Country), we have aim to generate an international movement for reflection, worked as an associate company with the Museum. thought, debate and action which provides ideas, contents and solutions to the situation of unemployment or undignified employment suffered by hundreds of millions of young people in hundreds of places around the world. The final purpose of this Campaign is for the General Assembly of the United Nations to declare the Youth Employment Decade as an opportunity and driving force for the economic and social transformation of the organisations and countries, as well as a tool to deploy and achieve the 8th objective of The Bilbao Choral Society was set up in the late nineteenth the Sustainable Development Objectives “Foster sustained, century to promote knowledge and dissemination of music inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and producin general and choral music in particular. This same purpose tive employment and a dignified job for all”. led the choral society in the 21st century to continue working with this lovely institution for the heritage of Bilbao and Bizkaia and for whoever enjoys music. In Velatia, this year 2012, we have shared this spirit by supporting the choir in its taste for group singing, combining voices and twinning feelings in a common effort to reach out to other people by transmitting beauty and emotions. 104 105 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Our main collaborations In 2001, we signed a collaboration agreement with the The Ormazabal Classroom at the Polytechnic School at MonThe collaboration agreement with Deusto Business School University Engineering School of Bilbao to create a Comdragon University was opened in 2007. It specialises in power can be highlighted, covering different areas such as training, pany Classroom. electronics, protection and automation and communications access to talent and other services. Through this collaboration, Velatia aims to: for the medium voltage network. It aims to train through the This agreement offers preferential conditions to access prodevelopment of projects by final year undergraduates in disci• Recruit potential students after the training and the develogrammes, executive masters’ degrees and in-company training plines of interest to the company. pment of projects in areas of interest for Velatia. offered by Deusto Business School, while we can participate The work carried out by the students is led by the lecturers, with the Business School in the design and implementation In this respect, it must be pointed out that of the five whilst the tutors who are appointed by the company for each of training programmes or joint research, as well as in certain students who started doing a project in the Classroom in project oversee their work in the classroom. subjects, seminars or workshops, so that we are able to transthe 2015 – 2016 academic year, four of them ended up mit our own professional experiences to students and foster joining Ormazábal. national and international work placement agreements with • Disseminate the image of Velatia in the School by raising Deusto Business School. awareness of the company among students of the EngineeWith this project we have once again consolidated our univerring School and increasing the prestige of Velatia therein as sity company relationship. At Velatia, we believe that such a benchmark company in the technological field. relationships are necessary to establish links with students, so Regarding this second objective, over the past two years we that they can gain experience in the workplace and so that the have carried out various communication activities directly reuniversities can become familiar with the market and adjust lated to the Classroom: The Ormazabal Classroom at the Madrid Polytechnic-Unitheir study programmes, if necessary. • Participation in the presentation of company classrooms at versity School of Engineering and Industrial Design opened in the School. 2006 and has a dual purpose: teaching and research, in order to train future engineers about transformation centres (types, • Participation in the School’s newsletter, reporting on procomponents, manoeuvres, safety enclosures, etc.), practical gress and projects developed in the Classroom itself. simulation of different faults that may arise at these facilities and the study and understanding of the protection associated with transformation centres. 106 107 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Our commitment to… We are Velatia Sharing our knowledge The technology and industrial company, Velatia, and TECNUN We are also pleased to mention that Ormazabal Corporate At Velatia, we consider that both the time devoted by the PreNavarra University Engineering School in Donostia/San SeTechnology forms part of the Euskampus Fundazioa, and Jasidency to attending acts of representation at Associations, bastian have entered into a collaboration agreement with the vier Ormazabal Echevarria is a member of the Board on behalf Foundations and Governmental Institutions, such as those aim of increasing the knowledge acquired by students through of Velatia. attended by the President and by members of the Velatia, work placements in the different companies of the Group. Ormazabal, Ikusi and Diversification Management CommitSince its establishment in 2011, Euskampus Fundazioa has set tees in the capacity of speakers at diverse organised events, The agreement was signed today by the President of Velatia, out to become a key element in the revitalization of Basque are of great value to society due to: Javier Ormazabal and the director of Tecnun, Raúl Antón, at R&D&I and internationalisation, with a clear vocation for sothe technological campus of the academic centre. They both cial responsibility and integration in the local area. To achieve • Their driving force in economic and social development. consolidate their commitment to promoting the relationship this, its mission is to design, coordinate and implement ac• The contribution of value in terms of knowledge and expebetween the university and the company, and succeed in brintions which, in collaboration with all of its partners, will strenriences and support to the organisers. ging together both agents, which will lead to better prepared gthen and accelerate this modernisation and internationalisaprofessionals and more competitive companies. tion process of the University of the Basque Country. It must be highlighted that we have dedicated over 500 senior management hours to this type of actions. Thanks to this agreement, students will have the opportuniEuskampus Fundazioa works in several areas: ty to be accompanied by Velatia professionals, who will help • Knowledge Hubs, aggregation of skills in relation to the them put their studies into practice. Furthermore, the stumajor challenges proposed in the Euskampus areas of spedents will be able to visit Velatia’s installations and produccialisation. Research, teaching and collaborative knowledge tion plants so that they can learn how the group functions transfer. firsthand. • Cross-Border Euroregional Campus of Excellence, along Likewise, in accordance with its possibilities, Velatia will incorwith the University of Bordeaux, an academic space shared porate Tecnun students on placements and final projects to between both universities and their partners. It promotes foster their practical training and the acquisition of new skills. the meeting, mobility and exchange of teachers, researchers and students. • Other initiatives of excellence, such as participation in international projects, the Master’s Degree and Doctorate School, performances with students, University-Society chairs, scientific dissemination, etc. 108 109 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Parameters of the report 110 111 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia Scope and coverage of the report Following the publication of the first Sustainability Report in •G RI Indicators and the information available for these two 2012, we have continued working with the aim of providing reporting years. reliable, complete and quality information on our progress With all this, we have defined the optimal set of specific stanin this area, developing the current report to cover the years dard disclosures to be reported. 2015 and 2016 as the publication of our reports is on a biennial basis. Regarding stakeholders, we have considered the segmentation of those defined in the materiality analysis carried out, To develop the contents of this report we have followed the focusing the Corporate Responsibility Report mainly towards GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) principles and guidelines in employees and customers as recipients. its G4 version, according to the “essential option” of conformity with the guide. In this respect, we declare our wish to For any further information about the contents of this report, progress in development of the report and its level of fulfilplease contact: ment, subject to verification by external entities. To determine the contents of this report, the Corporate Social Corporate Social Responsibility area has analysed the following points: Responsibility Area: •R elevant issues identified in the materiality analysis that sercorporate.social.responsibility@velatia.com ved to define the 7 lines of action of the CSR Master Plan 2014-2016. This Plan is, in turn, the driving force of the report as: It encompasses the relevant aspects identified It allows us to use the scorecard to assess the status and progress of the action plans associated with the lines of action and to include these advances in the report. 112 113 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Parameters of the report Index and GRI indicators PART I: GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the organisation’s most senior decision-maker 7 ORGANISATION PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation 11 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 14-15 G4-5 Headquarters 11 G4-6 Countries where there are relevant operations 14-15 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 11 G4-8 Markets served 14-15 G4-9 Main indicators 17 G4-10 Workforce 46-47 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining G4-11 48 agreements G4-12 Description of the organisation’s supply chain 87-91 G4-13 Significant changes during the financial year 16 G4-14 Precautionary principle 85 External principles or initiatives to which the organisation subscribes G4-15 34-37 or endorses G4-16 Main associations to which the organisation belongs 19 MATERIAL ASPECTS AND COVER Entities included in the financial consolidation and perimeter of this G4-17 17;113 report Definition of the contents and scope of the report application of the G4-18 113-121 GRI Principles G4-19 Material aspects identified 40-41 G4-20 Cover of each material aspect within the organisation 45-99 G4-21 Cover of each material aspect outside the organisation 101-109 G4-22 Reformulation of information facilitated in previous reports 45-109 Significant changes in the scope and cover of each aspect with G4-23 None respect to previous reports 114 115 Energy G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Emissions Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Parameters of the report G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION Effluents and Waste G4-24 List of stakeholders related to the organisation 39 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 97 G4-25 Basis for the selection of stakeholders 39-41 Products and Services Approaches adopted for the relationship with stakeholders, including G4-EN27 Mitigation of the environmental impact of products and services 98;99 G4-26 39-41 the frequency of their contacts by type and category of stakeholders. Regulatory Compliance Key questions and problems that have been raised through Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonG4-27 39-41 stakeholder participation. G4-EN29 monetary sanctions due to non-compliance with environmental laws None REPORT PROFILE and regulations Environmental Assessment of Suppliers G4-28 Reporting period 113 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened in accordance with G4-29 Date of previous report 113 G4-EN32 90,91 environmental criteria G4-30 Report presentation cycle 113 Environmental Claims Mechanisms G4-31 Contact point for questions related to the report 113 Number of environmental claims that have been presented, G4-EN34 No Claims addressed and resolved through formal claims G4-32 GRI Index in relation to the chosen “conformity” option 115-119 CATEGORY: SOCIAL PERFORMANCE G4-33 External verification of the report None LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK GOVERNANCE Employment G4-34 Governing Structure 27 Number and rate of new hires and average employee turnover, G4-LA1 47;53-55 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY broken down by age, gender and region Return to work and retention rates following maternity or paternity Description of values, principles, standards and rules of behaviour, G4-LA3 100% G4-56 33-37 leave, broken down by gender such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Employee/Management Relations Minimum notice periods for operational changes and possible G4-LA4 48 inclusion in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety PART II: SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Type and rate of injuries, professional diseases, days missed, GRI INDICATOR DESCRIPTION Page / Comment G4-LA6 absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities by region and 60-63 gender CATEGORY: ECONOMY Employees whose profession has a high incidence or risk of serious No employees at G4-LA7 Economic Performance illness serious risk Training and Education G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 17 Average hours of training per year per employee, broken down by G4-EC4 Financial assistance granted by government entities None of significance G4-LA9 50-52 gender and employee category Indirect Economic Impact Skills management programmes and continuous training that fosters G4-LA10 the employability of workers and help them manage the end of their 48-51 Development and impact of investment in infrastructures and types professional careers G4-EC7 101-109 of services Percentage of employees whose performance and professional G4-EC8 Indirect economic impact and scope 101-109 G4-LA11 development is regularly evaluated, broken down by gender and 48-51 Procurement Practices professional category Percentage of spending with local suppliers at places with significant Diversity and Equal Opportunities G4-EC9 89 operations Composition of the governing bodies and breakdown of the CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT G4-LA12 workforce by professional category and gender, age, minority group 53 membership and other diversity indicators Energy Evaluation of Supplier Labour Practices G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 95 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened in accordance with G4-LA14 90-91 Emissions criteria related to labour practices HUMAN RIGHTS G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 96 Investment G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 96 Number and percentage of contracts and significant investment Effluents and Waste G4-HR1 agreements that include Human Rights clauses or which have been 116 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method subject to analysis in terms of Human Rights 117 Discrimination Products and Services G4-HR3 Number of cases of discrimination and corrective measures adopted None Composition of the governing bodies and breakdown of the G4-LA12 workforce by professional category and gender, age, minority group membership and other diversity indicators Velatia. Sustainability Evaluation report of Supplier Labour 2016 2015 -Practices Parameters of the report Percentage of new suppliers that were screened in accordance with G4-LA14 En proceso criteria related to labour practices HUMAN RIGHTS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Investment Customer Health and Safety Number and percentage of contracts and significant investment Total number of incidents derived from non-compliance with G4-HR1 agreements that include Human Rights clauses or which have been 90-91 regulations or voluntary codes concerning the health and safety G4-PR2 No incidents subject to analysis in terms of Human Rights impact of products and services during their life cycle, broken down in accordance with the type of result of these incidents Discrimination Product and Service Labelling G4-HR3 Number of cases of discrimination and corrective measures adopted None Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations or No cases of nonFreedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-PR4 voluntary codes in relation to product and service information and compliance labelling, broken down by type of result Identification of significant centres and suppliers in which freedom of association and the right to join collective agreements may be No centres or suppliers G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 71 G4-HR4 breached or threatened, and measures adopted to defend these at risk Marketing Communications rights G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Not sold Child Labour Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations or Identification of centres and suppliers with a significant risk of child No cases of nonNo centres or suppliers G4-PR7 voluntary codes in relation to marketing communications, such as G4-HR5 exploitation and measures adopted to contribute to the abolition of compliance at risk advertising, promotion, and sponsorship child labour. Customer Privacy Forced Labour Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Centres and suppliers with a significant risk of episodes of forced G4-PR8 None No centres or suppliers customer privacy and loss of customer data G4-HR6 labour and measures adopted to contribute to the elimination of all at risk Regulatory Compliance forms of forced labour Supplier Assessment in terms of Human Rights Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with the G4-PR9 No fines Percentage of new suppliers that were screened in accordance with regulations in relation to the supply and use of products and services G4-HR10 90-91 Human Rights criteria Human Rights Claims Mechanisms Number of Human Rights claims that have been presented, G4-HR12 No Claims addressed and resolved through formal claims mechanisms. SOCIETY PART III: VELATIA’s MATERIAL ASPECTS Fight Against Corruption G4-SO4 Communication and anti-corruption training policy and procedure 37 VELATIA’S MATERIAL ASPECTS RELATED GRI INDICATOR REPORT SECTION G4-SO5 Confirmed cases of corruption and measures adopted None Branding G4, GR-PR6, G4-PR7 We are Velatia Unfair Competition Practices Quality in customer service Number of demands for unfair competition, monopolistic practices Flexibility (products tailored to customer needs) G4-PR2, GR-PR4, G4-PR5, G4-SO7 No Demands Our commitment to quality or against free competition and their results G4-PR6, G4-PR7, G4-PR8, Guarantee of “on time” supply and delivery and service Regulatory Compliance G4-PR-9 ESG Aspects (Environmental, Social and Corporate €7,000 for Risk Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonGovernance) in the contracting process Prevention nonG4-SO8 monetary sanctions due to non-compliance with laws and Relevance of the company's R&D&I to its market compliance at Cotradis regulations position (corrected) Partnerships to promote R&D&I G4-EC7, G4-EC8 Our commitment to innovation Impact on Society Claims Mechanisms for Number of social impact claims that have been presented, addressed New business (e.g. Smart Grid) G4-SO11 No claims and resolved through formal claims mechanisms ESG Criteria (Environmental, Social and Corporate G4-12, G4-EN32, G4-LA14, Governance) in the approval, classification, selection Our commitment to suppliers G4-HR10 and evaluation of suppliers Effective internal communication to employees G411, G4-LA14 Our commitment to people Talent attraction, retention and management G4-LA9, G4-LA10, G4-LA11 Our commitment to people 118 119 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 Parameters of the report GRI indicators in relation to the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact The following table shows the GRI indicators of this report that provide the most relevant information on the implementation of the 10 Principles of the Global Compact, so that it is possible to assess the progress of Velatia on these principles: RELATED GRI AREA GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES INDICATOR Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of G4-HR12 internationally proclaimed human rights Human Rights Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit G4-HR1, G4-HR10, in human rights abuses G4-HR12 Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association G4-11, G4-HR4, and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining G4-LA4 Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of G4-HR6 forced and compulsory labour Labour Regulations Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child G4-HR5, G4-HR3 labour G4-10, G4,LA1, G4-LA3, Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of G4-LA9, G4-LA11, discrimination in respect of employment and occupation G4-LA12, G4-HR3 Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN23, Environment Principle 8. Businesses should foster initiatives to promote greater G4-EN27, G4-EN29, environmental responsibility G4-EN32, G4-EN34 Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its G4-56, G4-SO4, Anti-corruption forms, including extortion and bribery G4-SO5 120 121 We are Velatia www.velatia.com 123 Velatia. Sustainability report 2015 2016 We are Velatia 124 125 www.velatia.com RECYCLED PAPER
