ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT STOCK CODE : 1299 ESG REPORT 2016 Table of Contents 2016 Sustainability at-a-glance 2 Statement from Group Chief Executive and President 3 About this Report 4 Who We Are 4 Our Approach 4 Report Scope and Boundaries 5 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Assessment 5 World-class Governance – The Right Way 7 Responsible Business Practices 7 Supply Chain Management 8 Operating Responsibly – The Right Thing 9 Energy Consumption 10 Emissions 11 Supporting People – The Right People 12 Our People 12 Our Professional Development 14 Contributing to Our Communities 16 Promoting Healthy Living 16 Our Products 16 Supporting Communities 17 Addressing Various Needs 18 Memberships and Awards 19 Memberships 19 Major Awards and Recognition 20 Key Contact 21 Global Reporting Initiative and Hong Kong Stock Exchange Guide Content Index 22 1 | AIA GROUP LIMITED 2016 Sustainability at-a-glance Corporate Community Community Governance Care Care 100% of employees Over More than received training on AIA’s anti-corruption policies and HK$30 million 135,000 procedures contributed to community beneficiaries of our community programmes programmes Human Human Emissions Capital Capital Performance Over 20,000 59% Total GHG Emissions Intensity of employees employees are female 3.4 tonnes of CO2e per full-time employee Emissions Energy Energy Performance Performance Performance 3.3% Total GHG Emissions Total Accumulated Energy Savings drop in total energy 56,551 tonnes of CO2e 2,977,000 KWh consumption since 2014 since 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 | 2 STATEMENT FROM GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND PRESIDENT It gives me great pleasure to present the Group’s first The Report would not be complete without highlighting Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) Report our commitment to the development and well-being (the “Report”). This is a milestone in our journey to of our employees and agents. Employee wellness is further improve our environmental, social, and corporate fundamentally important to us and guides all of our actions governance performance. It demonstrates our ongoing in connection to our people. Attracting and retaining talent commitment to accountability and transparency with our in an increasingly competitive marketplace remains both stakeholders. a challenge and an opportunity for AIA to distinguish itself as the employer of choice. In addition to continuous The Report reaffirms our fundamental belief that for a investment in our staff, we celebrate diversity and provide company to be commercially successful over the long term, equal opportunities to all. We are dedicated to creating it must create value for both its stakeholders and for society a constructive and healthy workplace environment and as a whole. providing avenues for our employees to shine and develop The strongest possible business ethics and sound flourishing careers. environmental decisions underpin our daily activities On behalf of the Board, I would like to convey my deepest and behaviours. The Group carefully manages our thanks to everyone involved in the positive progress that environmental footprint and use sustainability criteria we have made to-date on our environmental, social and in investment choices in order to help support the global corporate governance impact. I am very proud of the work transition to a sustainable economy. We are aware that that AIA is doing together with our customers, our staff, our investors attach a growing importance and have increasing agents and our partners. expectations with regard to how companies integrate commercial sustainability into their business strategy. The Looking ahead, we believe that sustainability will continue Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global to play a prominent role in our business. Increasing Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) G4 Guidelines and the ESG disclosure and communicating our progress will be key. Reporting Guide of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. We will continue to document our progress through regular disclosures of our sustainability strategy and performance. AIA has been in Asia for close to a century and plays I look forward to sharing these with you as our track record a leadership role in supporting economic and social of sustainable growth continues. development across the region. We serve our customers by meeting their ever-changing needs for financial security with our products and services and by focusing on helping people live longer, healthier, better lives. This commitment is expressed in our Operating Philosophy of doing the Right thing in the Right way with the Right people … confident that the Right results will come. Mark Edward Tucker As a responsible business, we are mindful of the importance Group Chief Executive and President to actively support the communities in which we operate. Our community investment activities strive to inspire and 23 March 2017 encourage positive change. In 2016, we continued to take action through volunteer service, as well as numerous corporate donations and sponsorships. 3 | AIA GROUP LIMITED About this Report AIA Group Limited (“AIA” or the “Group”) is pleased to In 2016, we became a signatory of the United Nations Global present our first ESG Report. The Report summarises our Compact (“UNGC”). We are committed to reporting on our ESG performance, accomplishments and challenges as we progress on the UNGC’s 10 principles, including human progress on our sustainability journey. rights, labour issues, environment and anti-corruption. Who We Are Having been in the life insurance business for almost a AIA and its subsidiaries comprise the largest independent century we have served many generations of customers publicly listed pan-Asian life insurance group. We have a across the region, and are subject to a wide variety of ESG presence in 18 markets in Asia-Pacific – wholly-owned risks from global and multi-jurisdictional perspectives. To branches and subsidiaries in Hong Kong, Thailand, enable us to protect generations of people for decades to Singapore, Malaysia, China, Korea, the Philippines, Australia, come, we are committed to understanding and addressing Indonesia, Taiwan, Vietnam, New Zealand, Macau, Brunei, these ESG risks and their impact on our customers, our Cambodia, a 97 per cent subsidiary in Sri Lanka, a 49 per communities, and our ongoing business. Our approach to cent joint venture in India and a representative office in managing these risks is set out in various sections of the Myanmar. Report. Our Approach We believe that effectively managing our ESG performance As a life insurer, our business is fundamentally about will deliver real corporate value by, among other things: people. We have a keen interest in the health and well• Managing risks and future proofing our business being of our communities and we are committed to taking a leadership role in driving economic and social development • Saving operating costs across the region. • Maximising value for shareholders and society Our ESG efforts are reflected in our Operating Philosophy • Positioning our business as an employer of choice of “Doing the Right thing, in the Right way, with the Right people…confident the Right results will come”. Across the • Enhancing our reputation Group, we undertake initiatives to reduce our environmental footprint, to invest sustainably and to stimulate economic growth. OUR COMMITMENT AIA is committed to growing our business responsibly and profitably in the markets we serve and to optimise returns for our shareholders over time. We firmly believe that this success must create value for society and consider the broader impact on the environment. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 | 4 About this Report Report Scope and Boundaries to carry out a stakeholder engagement and materiality The Report covers the period from 1 December 2015 to assessment. As part of this exercise, internal stakeholders, 30 November 20161 and has been prepared in accordance including the Group’s functional heads and non-executive with the “Core” option of the GRI G4 Guidelines and Chairman, contributed their perspectives on ESG risks and Financial Services Sector Supplement, with reference to opportunities affecting our business. the ESG Reporting Guide set out in Appendix 27 of the Rules The materiality assessment also took into account industry Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange and location specific ESG issues as well as global trends. of Hong Kong Limited (“HKEx”). The methodology employed referenced the GRI G4 Unless otherwise indicated, the information contained in Guidelines and other international best practices. the Report, combining environmental and workplace data, We derived our material aspects and reporting content covers our operations in Australia, Brunei, China, Hong Kong, based on the following steps: Indonesia, Korea, Macau, Malaysia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand and Step 1: Identification – Benchmarking ESG Reporting Vietnam. Practice A comprehensive GRI G4 Guidelines and HKEx content • Identifying industry standard aspects for ESG disclosure index is provided at the end of the Report. Additional details and analysing the ESG or sustainability reports of AIA’s regarding our ESG performance, including financial data local and international industry peers. and corporate governance information, can be found in our • Determining the materiality of an aspect based on Annual Report 2016. the frequency of disclosure among the selected peer Stakeholder Engagement AND companies. Materiality Assessment Step 2: Prioritisation – Stakeholder Engagement The GRI G4 Guidelines articulate a range of material aspects for a reporting organisation to disclose its impact on the • Asking AIA’s key internal stakeholders to rank each of environment, economy and society. Material aspects that the shortlisted issues according to their importance and are relevant to an organisation are dependent on the nature relevance to the Group. of its operations and stakeholder interests. To determine • Using “stakeholder preferences” as a critical factor to these material aspects as well as the scope and boundaries decide the aspects for inclusion in the Report. of the Report, we commissioned an external consultant 1 Throughout the Report, we refer to the reporting period of 1 December 2015 to 30 November 2016 as “2016”, the reporting period of 1 December 2014 to 30 November 2015 as “2015”, and the reporting period of 1 December 2013 to 30 November 2014 as “2014”. 5 | AIA GROUP LIMITED About this Report Step 3: Validation – Determine Material Issues The following table outlines the 17 material aspects relevant to our business and operations, as well as their • Identifying the most critical material aspects by impact within and outside the Group. The Report sets forth compiling summary rankings from the stakeholder our performance and approach to addressing each of these engagement and peer analysis. aspects and outlines our relevant policies, initiatives and • Asking AIA’s senior executives to validate the final performance. selection to ensure results of the materiality assessment were in line with the potential business impact. • Considering our reporting commitments to the UNGC. List of Material Issues and Corresponding Aspect Boundary Impact Location High Priority Issues (Within or outside of the Group) Within Outside Economic Economic Performance ✓ ✓ Environment Energy ✓ Emissions ✓ ✓ Product and Services ✓ Compliance (Environment) ✓ ✓ Social Employment ✓ Training and Education ✓ Diversity and Equal Opportunity ✓ Investment ✓ Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining ✓ Child Labour ✓ Forced or Compulsory Labour ✓ Supplier Human Rights Assessment ✓ Local Communities ✓ Anti-corruption ✓ ✓ Compliance (Society) ✓ ✓ Active Ownership ✓ ✓ ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 | 6 WORLD-CLASS GOVERNANCE – THE RIGHT WAY Responsible Business Practices the interests of the Group or our customers. We have Our governance practices embrace world-class business also developed a Business Quality Framework to ensure ethics and integrity. AIA believes in doing the Right Thing, compliance among AIA’s intermediaries. This framework in the Right Way, with the Right People, confident the addresses a comprehensive range of criteria, such as Right results will come. This Operating Philosophy applies recruitment, training, monitoring and assessment, that throughout to our corporate governance practices. We our intermediaries are required to comply with in order to promote a strong, collaborative culture, where employees maintain our high standards. are encouraged to act responsibly and in compliance WHISTLE-BLOWER POLICY with our Group Code of Conduct (the “Code”). The Code We provide channels for our employees to report instances provides clear guidelines for workplace professionalism they believe to be unethical or in breach of the Code. in compliance with local and international criteria and can Suspected non-compliance may be reported to a manager, be found here. AIA’s business partners including agents, department head, compliance officer or internal auditor. contractors, subcontractors, suppliers, distribution partners When a complaint is filed, dedicated compliance officers and others who act on behalf of AIA are required to apply will investigate the case using an internal or external party the same standards and to follow the same responsible as required, while protecting the whistle-blower from practices as our employees. reprisal. Employees, agents or intermediaries found to Training on the Code is carried out via e-Learning and have breached our whistle-blower policy may be subject takes about 30 minutes to complete. Employees across the to termination of contract, dismissal, sanctions or criminal region2 are requested to complete this within three months proceedings. of joining the Group. Apart from initial training, they are also ENSURING ACCURATE PRODUCT required to complete an annual re-certification. DESCRIPTIONS For further details regarding the Code, please see the To assist our customers in making well-informed decisions, complete document available here. we offer clear product descriptions in all our sales illustrations in accordance with local regulations and our ANTI-CORRUPTION internal standards. To lower the risk of misrepresentation All AIA employees and representatives of the Group are and mis-selling of products, we apply a standard set of expected to carry out their work in an honest and ethical minimum disclosure requirements across the Group. manner as outlined by the Code. We understand the Additional checks and controls are in all branches and potential risks to our business from unethical conduct, and subsidiaries to ensure compliance. adopt a zero-tolerance approach to all forms of corruption, including deception, bribery, forgery, extortion, conspiracy, CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND DATA SECURITY embezzlement and collusion. As noted above, all employees Customer privacy is of crucial importance at AIA and all our undergo training and re-certification with regard to the operations have to take appropriate physical, administrative Code which has been translated into seven languages. and technical measures to protect personal and business data. The Code outlines appropriate Customer Privacy and Our anti-fraud policy and guidelines also define a wide Data Security measures. All employees are required to range of terms related to anti-corruption and describe how respect confidentiality by observing information privacy the terms apply to various situations to ensure compliance. and security laws. Our fraud risk management framework monitors Our local compliance teams also review the privacy and anti-corruption efforts with prevention, deterrence and security policies on a regular basis, with the Group’s detection measures to uphold ethical standards. This Internal Audit system monitoring the relevant controls facilitates early detection of potential fraud that are against independently. 2 Excludes Tata AIA Life Insurance Company. 7 | AIA GROUP LIMITED WORLD-CLASS GOVERNANCE – THE RIGHT WAY OUR INVESTMENTS Supply Chain Management To maximise the long-term value of our assets and Across our business we work with an array of different investments, we incorporate ESG factors into our product and service providers. We integrate sustainability investment decisions. We assess performance against into the supply chain with our Supplier Code of Conduct criteria such as water shortage, energy supply, climate as a complement to our Code. By observing international change, environmental regulations, labour supply and conventions and addressing environmental, social, and relations, resource scarcity, management capability, governance risks, the Supplier Code of Conduct encourages integrity and financial management for close to 100 per sound ESG practices among our suppliers and requires cent of our invested assets. Where possible, AIA employs a integrity in all matters. process of engagement to both improve and clarify details OUR SUPPLY CHAIN of ESG performance before making an investment decision. Our Supplier Code of Conduct acts as a guideline to promote Our experienced local fixed-income and equity analysts are positive environmental, social and business practices while responsible for ESG matters in each market by monitoring respecting local traditions, cultures and norms. ESG criteria in the companies they cover and sharing timely As a Group we will continue to work with those suppliers updates with our portfolio managers. We also consider ESG who demonstrate best practice and encourage them to factors when selecting external third-party managers. improve their ESG standards and practices in accordance For further details please see our Responsible Investment with our Supplier Code of Conduct. Policy available here. For further details please see our Supplier Code of Conduct available here. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 | 8 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY – THE RIGHT THING With the growing concern for waste management and means reducing and recycling the waste that we produce, climate change in many countries, addressing our conducting responsible investment management, and environmental footprint is simply the right thing to do as a employing innovative technologies to reduce our resource responsible business. As a financial services provider, this consumption and emissions from business travel. REDUCING WASTE Contributing to our efforts to reduce paper usage, we have launched iPoS, an interactive point-of-sale technology. iPoS features a paperless sales process from the completion of customer’s financial-needs analysis to proposal generation, across our markets. As a result, our agents in Hong Kong, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, China, Korea, Indonesia, the Philippines, Taiwan, Sri Lanka and Vietnam are able to complete their end-to-end sales process using just their tablet devices. This process, involved in the issuance of thousands of policies, also saves additional paper by taking a simple picture of the necessary documents instead of having our customers submit photocopies. We also continue to explore opportunities to adopt realistic and effective measures to mitigate the causes of sustainable practices in our approach to underwriting and poor air quality. The goal is also to turn new knowledge into other insurance practices. This involves being mindful of policy and action. how our operations, our people and the community affect To collect and coordinate the environmental initiatives across the environment. We are also focused on understanding the Group, we developed a comprehensive Environmental the impact of the environment on the well-being of our Policy and will continue to disclose our performance on our communities. This year we partnered with the University corporate website and through annual ESG reporting. of Leeds, UK to conduct an air quality study in Hong Kong and the Pearl River Delta region. The study aims to identify For further details please see our Environmental Policy available here. 9 | AIA GROUP LIMITED OPERATING RESPONSIBLY – THE RIGHT THING Energy CONSUMPTION to more energy efficient options, such as LED lighting, As is generally the case in the Asia-Pacific region, the where possible. majority of our operations are located in markets where From 2014 to 2016, our consistent efforts have helped us electricity tends to be generated through the burning of reduce our electricity consumption by 2.9 per cent and our fossil fuels such as coal. Therefore, the electricity that we energy consumption from the use of fossil fuels and gas, use in our buildings is the single largest contributor to our for example from our corporate vehicle fleet, by 5.2 per greenhouse gas footprint, and we address this by regularly cent. Overall energy use intensity has been reduced by reporting and monitoring our carbon and energy footprints. 1.6 per cent for the same period. From 2014 to 2016, our We also aim to put in place energy conservation practices total energy intensity declined from 5,354 kWh per fullacross our markets, and continue to upgrade our hardware time employee to 5,267 kWh per full-time employee. Cumulative Savings kWh 2016 2015 2014 from 2014 Electricity usage (indirect energy use)3 74,588,681 75,647,786 76,847,554 2.9% Energy consumption from use of fossil fuels and gas (direct energy use)3 13,127,190 13,431,084 13,845,317 5.2% Total Energy Consumption 87,715,871 89,078,870 90,692,871 3.3% Total Energy Intensity (per full-time employee)3 5,267 5,275 5,354 1.6% OUR GREEN BUILDING PORTFOLIO quality, a number of our buildings spanning across Hong Leadership in Energy and Design (“LEED”) is a worldKong, Thailand, Singapore, China, Indonesia and the renowned authority governing green building certification. Philippines have been awarded various green building It defines standards to minimise resource use during awards: Gold or Silver certification by LEED for Hong Kong, construction, safeguard the well-being of occupants, and Thailand and China; LEED pre-certification for Philippines; promote energy efficiency. The Building Construction Authority (“BCA”) Green Mark for Singapore and Green Building Council Indonesia At AIA we incorporate green standards as a part of the certification for Indonesia. Through our buildings we also design concept for all our real estate development projects, provide our tenants the option of renting low carbon and ensuring environmental principles are “built in” and not resource efficient spaces, thereby reducing their carbon included as an afterthought. As a mark of their sustainable footprints. AIA SINGAPORE The BCA Green Mark is Singapore’s green building standard, and we are proud to have achieved this certification for AIA Tower in Singapore in 2016 by implementing a number of energy saving measures such as replacing fluorescent tubes with LED lighting, installing sleep modes, variable frequency motor drives in our elevators, and reconfiguring our chillers to be more efficient. We will strive to achieve the same certification in 2017 for AIA Alexandra and AIA Tampines, our other properties in Singapore. 3 Includes all markets where AIA has operational control. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 | 10 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY – THE RIGHT THING Emissions emissions of 3.5 per cent. Collecting business travel data for In 2016, we produced 56,551 tonnes of carbon emissions operations across 18 markets is not a simple task. However across the Group, with a carbon intensity of 3.4 tonnes of our data collection expertise has continued to improve, with CO2e per full-time employee. Our efforts have led to an three new markets submitting their travel data in 2016. As overall reduction in total Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas a result, our Scope 3 emission footprint has risen. CO2e (Tonnes) 2016 2015 2014 Scope 14 3,265 3,371 3,447 Scope 25 48,009 48,196 49,686 Scope 36 5,277 4,853 3,475 Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1, 2, 3) 56,551 56,420 56,609 Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1, 2, 3) Intensity (per full-time employee)7 3.4 3.3 3.3 ENABLING EFFICIENT COMMUNICATION As the quality of video conferencing technology improves, a number of our markets are able to communicate with one another promptly and the need for travel is reduced while also increasing our efficiency. For example, our colleagues in Bangkok frequently video conference with their counterparts in Chiang Mai, while at our Group Office in Hong Kong, functional team video-conferencing sessions have been held with other team members across the region, including Taiwan, Indonesia and Vietnam. 4 Emissions from the fuel burnt by our corporate vehicle fleet, 7 We calculate emissions according to the guidelines provided generators and corporate kitchens. Scope 1 emissions include all by the Environmental Protection Department of the Hong Kong AIA markets where AIA has operational control. SAR Government. We identify emission factors on electricity 5 Emissions produced as a result of the electricity that we use. Scope consumption for each operating region via the Green House Gas 2 emissions include all AIA markets where AIA has operational Protocol database, and calculate relevant resource consumption control. data based on standards outlined by the Carbon Disclosure 6 Project. As for air business travel, we calculate relevant data using Emissions produced indirectly from commercial business travel the Carbon Neutral Calculator for Short – Medium haul flights by airplane. This increase is primarily due to AIA developing its (DEFRA emission factors). reporting capacity on Scope 3 emissions by including data from more markets – 11 markets in 2016 compared to 8 in 2015. 11 | AIA GROUP LIMITED Supporting People – The Right People Our People EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY ACHIEVING SUCCESS Our recruitment policies encompass guidelines for We owe much of our success to a dedicated, talented selecting a candidate based on experience and expertise. workforce of over 20,000 employees. Our people form the We attract and retain exceptional talent by maintaining foundation on which we meet our customers’ needs, drive a dynamic, diverse and inspiring work environment. innovation, fulfil targets and take our business to new Our Operating Philosophy and the actions we take to levels of success. create an engaging culture work to foster empowerment, collaboration and innovation, which in turn strengthens our With a collective belief in our Operating Philosophy, we leadership position. care about how work is conducted as much as what work is being conducted. We believe in leading by example, We are committed to providing a harmonious and inclusive inspiring employees to strive for excellence while creating workspace, free from harassment and discrimination. The an open and accessible workplace that is responsive to the Code outlines our policies and stance against various types career needs of our employees. of discrimination. Employment, remuneration, promotion and termination are based on performance and conducted We nurture a distinct and diverse culture built around trust, through fair, transparent and accountable processes. empowerment and transparency, which also encourages local expertise and motivates teams to implement our A diverse workforce enables us to better engage with our core strategy. Incorporating local norms into our human customers and address their unique needs. In 2016 we resources policies is fundamental to all our operations. This hired a number of hearing impaired employees to assist “empowerment model” enables all our operations to enact customers with similar disabilities access our Mandatory human resources policies that would meet the training and Provident Fund (“MPF”) products. We also participate in development needs of their employees. the Hong Kong government’s “Talent-Wise Employment Charter”, where we provide job opportunities and summer Our transparent promotion practices take into account internships for students with disabilities. various factors such as business needs, increased job scope and responsibility, capability and contributions to the We support local affinity networks such as the 30% Club company, as well as endorsements by senior management. which helps to promote the inclusion of women in the We also provide mentoring and career mobility to all eligible workplace. We are proud to note that we have a total female employees to further develop their capabilities over time. executive workforce of 32 per cent, compared to the 2016 industry average of 21 per cent for the financial services Employees are compensated fairly according to their sector as indicated in a recent report on women in financial contributions and market standards. Supporting our goal services. of nurturing a performance culture, AIA’s Total Rewards Framework outlines compensation criteria based on the To provide an inclusive space for our working mothers, we performance of the Group, the individual business unit offer a nursing room at our Group Office in Hong Kong and and the employee. The framework also includes criteria for our offices in Australia, China, Sri Lanka and the Philippines. determining incentives and benefits such as bonuses and Through these measures we support our female staff and other allowances. help address the needs of their personal and professional lives. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 | 12 Supporting People – The Right People OUR WORKFORCE Percentage of Employees by Gender Percentage of Employees by Age Group 2016 2016 22% 41% 8% 70% 59% Male Female Below 30 30-50 Over 50 Turnover Rate by Gender Turnover Rate by Age Group 20168 20168 20% 19.1% 18.0% 20% 13.6% 14.4% 15% 15% 13.4% 10% 10% 5% 5% 0% 0% Male Female Below 30 30-50 Over 50 • We hired 3,346 employees across our Group in 2016. AIA’S AFFINITY NETWORKS To foster a supportive work environment, we created The • Female employees across the Group increased to 59 per NetWork. This umbrella organisation enables employee cent in 2016, compared with 56 per cent for the prior affinity groups to get together, facilitating the professional year. and personal development of our people through • Our employee turnover for 2016 was 19.1 per cent for networking and leadership programmes. those under the age of 30, 14.4 per cent for those aged The first affinity group we formed at the Group Office between 30 and 50, and 13.4 per cent for those aged focuses on creating targeted networking opportunities over 50. for our female executives. Initiatives centre on developing • The turnover rate for female employees across the professional skills, building relationships and enhancing Group decreased from 14.7 per cent in 2015 to 13.6 per engagement. Going forward we plan to expand this idea to cent in 2016. our other operations as well as our business partners. 8 We obtain turnover rates in each of the markets covered by the Report and use this data to calculate our average overall turnover rate. 13 | AIA GROUP LIMITED Supporting People – The Right People Our Professional Development AIA LEADERSHIP CENTRE IN BANGKOK EMPLOYEE TRAINING The AIA Leadership Centre (“ALC”) opened in Bangkok We tailor our training efforts to provide our staff with the in 2016, and offers a state-of-the-art learning facility to skill sets that they need, specific to the nature of each strengthen and expand our senior talent pool. With an area market and job requirements. For example, training at AIA of more than 3,100 square metres, the ALC is one of the Korea covers government mandated courses and enables largest leadership training and meeting facilities in Asia. employees to achieve local or international certification. The ALC partners with acclaimed institutions to co-develop We also promote on-the-job learning and favour the customised programmes that enhance the quality, the internationally recognised 70/20/10 approach to learning effectiveness and the professionalism of our senior and development. This framework suggests that 70 per executives, our distribution, and our technical leaders. The cent of training should be accumulated from first hand goal of the ALC programmes is to inspire learning, invention on-the-job experience, 20 per cent through activities that and the creation of ideas to ensure our sustained growth. include mentoring and coaching, and 10 per cent from The strengthening of these skills enables us to capture the classroom based training. vast growth opportunities in the region by ensuring our customers have sufficient protection while also helping Across the Group we achieve a 100 per cent completion them lead longer, healthier, better lives. rate in all of our compliance-related training programmes. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 | 14 Supporting People – The Right People ACHIEVEMENTS Average Training Hours by Gender In 2016, we held a number of customised leadership 20169 programmes that helped optimise the learning and 13.9 development process for our employees while also 15 13.4 improving communications across the Group. Key Highlights: 10 • Rolled out career roadmaps for several key functions to include a development guide and the success profiles 5 of roles. • Arranged peer networking sessions for managers from 0 Male Female different departments to share best practice and to promote cross-departmental communication. • Launched the People Manager Accelerator Programme • For 2016, the average training hours for male and for middle managers as well as the AIA Manager Series female employees were nearly equal at 13.4 and 13.9 and Best of Me programmes. hours respectively, reflecting our commitment to provide equitable training opportunities. • Revamped our Performance Development Dialogue to educate employees on “what” to deliver and “how” to MOBILE TRAINING execute key deliverables. Innovative approaches to training can increase learning interests and encourage creative thinking. Since 2014 AIA Average Training Hours by Employee Category Korea has offered online training programmes for full-time 20169 staff on iOS and Android mobile platforms. The programmes not only cover mandatory training on company-specific 25 topics and professional skills, but also offer access to 20.0 20 recreational and hobby classes and best-selling books. This 16.9 gives staff the opportunity to further their professional and 15 12.0 personal development at their leisure. 10 OUR HEALTH AND SAFETY 5 At AIA we are committed to offering a safe and secure 0 environment for our employees, agents and customers Junior Staff Middle Managers/ Senior Managers/ Function Heads Senior Executives across all our operations. Given the relatively large number of white-collar jobs in the insurance sector, creating a comfortable and safe work space involves paying attention • The average training hours for junior employees, middle to ergonomic furniture and design, while also encouraging managers and senior managers were 12.0, 16.9 and our employees to eat healthier foods and to exercise 20.0 respectively. regularly. Encouraging healthy living is a key commitment from AIA, and this extends to our staff and their families. We encourage our employees to eat healthier foods and to exercise regularly; our employees also receive comprehensive insurance coverage which they may choose to extend to their family members. Our operations in Sri Lanka, Taiwan and Thailand encourage 9 We obtain training hours in each of the markets covered by the their employees to exercise by offering discounted gym Report and use this data to calculate our average training hours. memberships. In Taiwan, we also offer counselling facilities to address the stress relief and mental health needs of our employees. 15 | AIA GROUP LIMITED Contributing to our Communities AIA is committed to serving our communities and playing a Vitality Points for completing each activity, and the more leadership role in driving economic and social development points they accumulate, the greater their rewards. We also across the region. We encourage our employees to leverage the use of wearable technology, making it easier contribute their skills and time to the community by for participants to track goals and log their activities. volunteering in our community development and outreach We leverage technology to link dynamic underwriting, programmes. pricing, premium reductions and incentivised performance, Promoting Healthy Living to create a new compelling way for us to engage customers As a life insurance company we focus on safeguarding the with healthy living. This win-win approach brings greater health and long-term financial well-being of our customers value to our customers, the local community and our and their families. business. THROUGH OUR FOCUS ON HEALTHY LIVING WE Through AIA Vitality we are striving to embed healthy living SEEK TO: practices and create sustained changes in the lives of our • Encourage, enable and empower people within our members to enable them to live longer, healthier, better markets to lead longer, healthier, better lives. lives. • Raise awareness about healthy living across Asia Pacific and to induce positive health-related behavioural changes. • Enable our customers, employees, agents and people in the communities where we operate to benefit from a wide variety of health-oriented activities and caring initiatives. During 2016, we committed to more than 60 community programmes and contributed over HK$30 million to our communities through these programmes, benefitting more than 135,000 people and over 60 schools or universities. Our products AIA VITALITY We are committed to identifying opportunities to maximise the financial and social value that we bring to our stakeholders and the local community through the products and services that we offer. AIA Vitality is a science-backed wellness programme that showcases a game-changing approach to life insurance. AIA Vitality works by rewarding members with savings and discounts for taking sustainable steps, however small, to improve their health and well-being. Beginning with an initial health review, we give members a set of personal health goals which are designed to be met by exercising, engaging in healthy activities, buying healthy food, or having medical check-ups. Members earn AIA ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 | 16 Contributing to our Communities Supporting Communities then design an online avatar to represent their distance SAFEGUARDING LIVES travelled. The more the students stayed active, the further The health and safety of our local communities is of utmost their online avatars progressed on their journeys. importance to us, and we continue to support initiatives Through this successful programme, we exceeded our that safeguard lives through innovative and collaborative target of 15,000 registrations in the first week, ultimately approaches. The AIA Poson Safety Project in Sri Lanka aims reaching a total of 50,000 participants. The campaign to address this need at a national level. reinforced our commitment to promote healthy living and Each year in Sri Lanka, over a million pilgrims visit the sacred to boost quality of life. city of Anuradhapura to commemorate the introduction of HEALTHCARE DAY Buddhism to the country. The pilgrims bathe in the many Healthy teeth are vital to a child’s growth, so we organised bodies of water around that area, which has led to many the Healthcare Day at AIA Vietnam in 2016 to teach children fatalities in the past. We join hands with local police and the about proper dental care. Collaborating with agencies, Life Saving Association of Sri Lanka to sponsor and assist teachers and doctors we visited schools in Vietnam and lifesavers to help ensure the safety of all participants. We offered dental check-ups and treatment to students. educate bathers about the hazards of swimming in large reservoirs through social media, public address systems, Teachers used films and fun games to raise awareness and with the support of our employee volunteers. Since the about oral health and dental hygiene, while dentists and programme began 23 years ago, there have been no deaths nurses provided medical care to those in need. Through this reported for most years. event we helped to build and develop an understanding of proper healthcare practices and hygiene locally. HEALTHY KIDS CHALLENGE With digital technology becoming ever more prevalent in the lives of children, we believe it is important to strike a balance between participating in a fun digital experience and providing a means for children to stay active. AIA New Zealand’s Healthy Kids Challenge campaign set out to accomplish exactly this with primary school students in South Auckland. Students were encouraged to stay active and to measure their movements with pedometers, 17 | AIA GROUP LIMITED Contributing to our Communities ADDRESSING VARIOUS NEEDS MPF DISCOUNTS FOR THOSE WITH There are approximately 180,000 working-age people DISABILITIES with disabilities in Hong Kong, and only about 65,000 of AIA Pension and Trustee Co. Ltd (“AIA MPF”) offers product them are employed. By helping the differently abled gain discounts to encourage a more inclusive Hong Kong. Our access to employment opportunities, we hope to create MPF corporate clients are provided with management a more inclusive society, one where the disabled are able fee rebates on certain funds for their differently abled to be more productive professionally and have a better employees, incentivising equal opportunity practices financial future. Our CSR initiative in Hong Kong, “Let’s locally. Work Together”, addresses this social need by focusing on We also support CareER, a local non-profit-making barrier-free customer services, career placement support organisation in Hong Kong that advocates the employment and employment incentives for the differently abled. of the differently abled, by sponsorship contribution and by PROMOTING FINANCIAL ACCESS hosting workshops that focused on providing participants As noted earlier, to facilitate access to our MPF services with the necessary skills to join the local workforce. in Hong Kong, we have in place a dedicated team to serve For further details regarding our many community customers with special needs. We also offer online sign contributions, please refer to our CSR Report available here. language services and answer queries from the hearing impaired via video conference. Our website also caters to visually impaired users, by making available at our MPF service centre text-to-speech screen readers, speakers and magnifying glasses. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 | 18 Memberships AND Awards Memberships At AIA, we play an active role in understanding the trends and best practices of various aspects of our industry through professional memberships. These memberships help us stay at the forefront of advancements within our industry. Organisation Level of Membership United Nations Global Compact Signatory Business Environment Council Corporate Member The Chamber of Hong Kong Listed Companies Corporate Member The Business and Professionals Federation of Hong Kong (BPF) Corporate Member The World Association for Social, Opinion and Market Research (ESOMAR) Corporate Member 30% Club Member Hong Kong Corporate Counsel Association Member The Law Society of Hong Kong Member The Hong Kong Institute of Chartered Secretaries Member American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Member Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Member The Hong Kong Institute of Architects Full Member Certified Public Accountants Australia (CPA Australia) Fellowship 19 | AIA GROUP LIMITED Memberships AND Awards Major Awards and Recognition AIA is proud to have received recognition for our sustainability practices and performance in our green buildings. Award Name Building Location Year Excellent Rating of the Hong Kong Building Environmental AIA Central Hong Kong, China 2005 Assessment Method HK-BEAM for New Office Designs Indoor Air Quality Certificate (Excellent Class) AIA Central Hong Kong, China 2008 to 2016 Silver Certification in the LEED Green Building Rating System for AIA Central Hong Kong, China 2012 Existing Buildings: Operations and Maintenance The LEED Gold Certification One AIA Financial Center Nanhai, China 2013 Precertification of LEED Gold Two AIA Financial Center Nanhai, China 2013 The LEED Gold Certification AIA Capital Centre Bangkok, Thailand 2014 Best Commercial Development in Thailand 2014 award AIA Capital Centre Bangkok, Thailand 2014 Best Commercial Development in South East Asia in 2014 AIA Capital Centre Bangkok, Thailand 2014 Certificate of Green Building Design Label Two AIA Financial Center Nanhai, China 2015 The LEED Gold Certification AIA Sathorn Tower Bangkok, Thailand 2015 Best Commercial Development (Thailand), Best Green Development, AIA Sathorn Tower Bangkok, Thailand 2015 Best Office Development and Highly Commended Architectural Awards in Thailand Indoor Air Quality Certificate (Excellent Class) AIA Building Hong Kong, China 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 | 20 Key Contact Thank you for your interest in the Report. Your feedback is important to us to enable improvement in our overall sustainability performance and our future reporting. Please contact our ESG team with any comments or suggestion you may have related to the Report at esg@aia.com or at the address below: AIA Group Limited 35/F AIA Central 1 Connaught Road Central Central Hong Kong 21 | AIA GROUP LIMITED Global Reporting initiative and Hong Kong Stock Exchange Guide Content Index As set out in this content index, the Report complies with the “Core” standard of the GRI G4 Guidelines. It also serves as our 2016 communication regarding the progress of our implementation of the UNGC 10 principles. HKEx ESG General Standard Reporting Guide Disclosure Reference Detail Page G4-1 – Chairman’s Statement 3 G4-3 – Name of organisation 4 G4-4 – Primary brands, products, and services 4 G4-5 – Location of headquarters 21 G4-6 – Countries of operation 5 G4-7 – Nature of ownership and legal form 4 G4-8 – Markets served 5 G4-9 – Scale of the organisation 5 G4-10 KPI B1.1 Employee statistics 12 UNGC 6 G4-11 – Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 25 UNGC 3 G4-12 KPI B5.1 Supply chain description 8 G4-13 – Significant changes during the reporting period 25 G4-14 – Report how the precautionary approach is addressed 7 G4-15 – Charters 20 G4-16 – Memberships 19 G4-17 – List entities included in financial statements; mention those not covered by the Report 5 G4-18 – Process for defining report content and aspect boundaries 5 G4-19 – List material aspects 5 G4-20 – Aspect boundaries within the organisation 5 G4-21 – Aspect boundaries outside the organisation 5 G4-22 – Effect of any restatements in previous reports 25 G4-23 – Significant changes in scope and aspect boundaries from previous reporting period 4 G4-24 – List of stakeholders engaged by the organisation 5 G4-25 – Report basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 5 G4-26 – Stakeholder engagement approach and frequency 5 G4-27 – Report any key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders 5 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 | 22 Global Reporting initiative and Hong Kong Stock Exchange Guide Content Index HKEx ESG General Standard Reporting Guide Disclosure Reference Detail Page G4-28 – Reporting period 5 G4-29 – Date of most recent Report 4 G4-30 – Reporting cycle 4 G4-31 – Contact point for questions regarding the Report and its contents 21 G4-32 – GRI “in accordance” option chosen; GRI Content Index 5 G4-33 – External assurance 25 G4-34 – Governance structure of the organisation 5 G4-56 – Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour such 7 UNGC 10 as codes of conduct and codes of ethics HKEx ESG Reporting GRI G4 Guide Material Issues Indicator Reference Detail Page Economic Economic DMA KPI B8.2 Direct economic value generated and distributed 16, Performance G4-EC1 115 of Annual Report 2016 Environment Energy DMA GD A2 Energy consumption within the organisation 10 UNGC 7 G4-EN3 KPI A2.1 Energy intensity per full-time employees UNGC 8 G4-EN4 KPI A2.3 Reduction of energy consumption UNGC 9 G4-EN5 G4-EN6 Emissions DMA GD A1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) 11 UNGC 7 G4-EN15 KPI A1.1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) UNGC 8 G4-EN16 KPI A1.2 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) UNGC 9 G4-EN17 KPI A1.5 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity G4-EN18 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4-EN19 Products & Services DMA GD A3 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products 8, 9-11 UNGC 7 G4-EN27 KPI A3.1 and services UNGC 8 UNGC 9 Compliance DMA GD A1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 25 UNGC 8 G4-EN29 sanctions for non-compliance with 23 | AIA GROUP LIMITED Global Reporting initiative and Hong Kong Stock Exchange Guide Content Index HKEx ESG Reporting GRI G4 Guide Material Issues Indicator Reference Detail Page Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment DMA GD B1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by 12, 25 UNGC 6 G4-LA1 KPI B1.1 age group, gender, and region G4-LA2 KPI B1.2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operations Training and DMA GD A3 Average hours of training per year per employees, by gender, and by 14 Education G4-LA9 KPI A3.2 employee category UNGC 6 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the G4-LA11 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning Diversity and Equal DMA GD B1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees according 12,13 Opportunity G4-LA12 KPI B1.1 to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of UNGC 6 diversity Human Rights Investment DMA – Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures 7 UNGC 1 G4-HR2 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Freedom of HR4 – Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of 8 Association and association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, Collective Bargaining and measures taken to support these rights UNGC 3 Child Labour HR5 – Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of 8 UNGC 5 child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour Forced or Compulsory HR6 – Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of 8 Labour forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination UNGC 4 of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Supplier Human HR10 – Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Human Rights criteria 8 Rights Assessment UNGC 2 Society Local Communities DMA GD B8 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 16 UNGC 1* G4-SO1 KPI B8.1 impact assessments, and development programme KPI B8.2 Anti-corruption DMA – Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 25 UNGC 10 G4-SO4 Compliance DMA – Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and 25 G4-SO8 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services * Total resources contributed in community programmes disclosed in lieu of the percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement to align with the HKEx requirement. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 | 24 Global Reporting initiative and Hong Kong Stock Exchange Guide Content Index HKEx ESG Reporting GRI G4 Guide Material Issues Indicator Reference Detail Page Product Responsibility Active Ownership FS10 – Percentage and number of companies held in AIA’s portfolio with which AIA 7 FS11 has interacted on environmental or social issues Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening GRI G4 & HKEx Commentary Table Any GRI disclosure that is not covered in the Report is explained in the following commentary table. ESG Reporting GRI G4 Indicator Guide Reference GRI Content to Cover Comments G4-11 – Percentage of employees covered by collective No formal collective bargaining agreement is in bargaining agreements place, however, channels for communicating grievances are in place G4-13 – Significant changes during the reporting period There were no significant changes during the regarding the organisation’s size, structure, reporting period ownership or its supply chain G4-22 – Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of There were no restatements of content or data information provided in earlier reports, and the for the reporting period reasons for such re-statements G4-33 – Policy and current practice with regard to Report was subject to an internal assurance seeking external assurance process. No external assurance was conducted this year G4-LA1 – New Employees Hires by Gender and by Age By Age Group: Group • Below 30: 1,677 • 30-50: 1,601 • Over 50: 68 By Gender: • Male: 1,500 • Female: 1,846 G4-SO4 – Communication and training on anti-corruption • Total number of governance body members policies and procedures that AIA’s anti-corruption policies and procedures were communicated and explained to (training): 11 • Total number of employees that AIA’s anti-corruption policies and procedures were communicated and explained to (training): 19,285 G4-SO8 – Monetary value of significant fines and total There were no significant fines or non-monetary number of non-monetary sanctions for nonsanctions for non-compliance with laws and compliance with laws and regulations regulations during the reporting period. G4-EN29 GD A1 Monetary value of significant fines and total There were no significant fines or non-monetary number of non-monetary sanctions for nonsanctions for non-compliance with compliance with environmental laws and environmental laws and regulations during regulations the reporting period. 25 | AIA GROUP LIMITED AIA Group Limited 友邦保險控股有限公司 AIA.COM
