ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DKG GROUP UN GROBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) 2 WELCOME 1 STATEMENTS From President & Executive Director In this report, DKG Group describes its efforts, progress ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE and plans in relation to sustainability and Global Compact Principles. All information in the Report is reliable and 2 About the DKG Group . properly reflects the feasibility of Group's targets, 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE expectations and ambitions. Structure of the Group, mechanism for stakeholders. This report focuses on the results of activities in fiscal 2016 but includes some activities continuing from before and more recent ones. 4 HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR Workplace, equal opportunities and rights, anticorruption 5 ENVIRONMENT Good Agricultural Practices, certificates, awards SOCIETY 6 Practices that assets the impacts of operations on communities. 7 INFORMATION ON THE REPORT Closing, the committee DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 01 Section One STATEMENTS 4 Message At DKG GROUP we strongly believe in the principles of Corporate Responsibility of achieving success in ways that honor ethical values and respect people, communities and the natural environment. Equal to protecting the health and safety of our employees, we consider environmental stewardship among our most important business responsibilities. This belief is only reinforced as our operations extend to virtually every corner of the globe. Actions to protect our employees and preserve the environment for those who follow are based on more than a moral impulse, initiatives such as these help ensure the short-and long-term viability of our Group. Working in harmony with the environment and supporting those in our communities that need support provides our stakeholders with a real sense of DKG GROUP's values. We operate globally in ways that honor our values and respect the people, communities, and natural environment in which we work and live. With over 20 years of operating businesses in community settings, we know the importance of backing words with responsible actions that support our stakeholders. At DKG GROUP we strongly believe in the principles of Corporate Responsibility EVANGELOS N. DRIMTZIAS PRESIDENT DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 5 “WE DO BUSINESS IN A CULTURE THAT IS CHRACTERIZED BY SOCIAL TRANSPARENCY” Transparency wins, because transparency engenders trust. Social media is a new way to be transparent. People express themselves more openly and in a more public way than ever before. Although some of this transparency is carefully engineered to place us in the best possible light, the reality of transparency is still there. PEOPLE TRUST COMPANIES WHO ARE TRANSPARENT In order for a business to be transparent, its people need to be transparent. A culture of transparency takes shape when leaders intentionally manifest their own personal transparency, and encourage it in the attitudes and behaviors of their team members. In other words, transparency starts with people. Transparency and trust combine, in turn, to support sustainable growth. By putting credible social, environmental and ethical data in people's hands, they are more informed which is good for them – and good for sustainable companies too. We are proud that we are more social than ever. We daily inform our stakeholders with updated info about our actions through the CHRISTOS D. KATSANOS EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 98 Group's Social Platforms. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Section Two About the GROUP DKG Group is a diversified international group of companies and initiatives with operations in various sectors. The activities of the Group conducted principally in Balkan and Southeast Mediterranean Countries (Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, Serbia, FYROM, Bosnia, Montenegro, Albania, Cyprus, Egypt and Turkey). Maintaining business success for more than 20 years is not easy. But each of DKG Group's companies has proven its ability to adapt and prosper in ever-evolving needs and deliver long-term growth. The Group's success and its unique business model, based on sustainability, innovation and flexibility, have made DKG one of the biggest consulting, inspection, urban farming, foliage based architecture, intelligent crop supplies and training facilitator bodies, offering specialized sustainable solutions to individuals, professional groups and corporations within the fresh produce and agro supplies trade industry creating value through people, and for people, all driven by a brand-centric philosophy. C O M PA NY 1 No problem can be solved from the same level of consciousness that created it. PH IL O SO PHY To add true quality of life to our collaborators 2 ‐customers & stakeholders via our sustainable way of working. It's not how many times you fall down 3 that matters, it's how many times you get back up. If the facts don’t fit the theory, change 4 the facts. 5 Things should be made as simple as possible, but not any simpler (1+1=2) 6 Imagination is more important than knowledge of TERRITORY Included: 10 ICELAND FINLAND NORWAY SWEDEN ESTONIA RUSSIA LATVIA DENMARK LITHUANIA GREAT BRITAIN NETHERLANDS BELARUS IRELAND GERMANY POLAND BELGIUM CZECH REPUBLIC SLOVAKIA UKRAINE AUSTRIA FRANCE HUNGARY SWITZERLAND ROMANIA MOLDOVA CROATIA BOSNIA SERBIA & HERZ. KOS ITALY OVO MONTE BULGARIA NEGRO GEORGIA FYROM AZER PORTUGAL ALBANIA BAIJAN GREECE SPAIN ARMENIA TURKEY CYPRUS 11 GROUP Members DKG CONSULTING Consulting on greenhouse and farm activities IQ CROPS 6 Intelligent agricultural supplies MEMBERS TROPOS BRANDING A one stop creative shop, design brands.. IRTC Training facilitator organization FINANCE DRIKA FARM Fresh Hydroponic products ASK ME Translation and Localization Department DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 12 DKG CONSULTING www.dkg-consulting.com Offers specialized sustainable solutions to individuals, professional groups and corporations within the fresh produce industry creating value through people, and for people, all driven by a brandcentric philosophy. DKG Consulting services are focused on greenhouse and farm activities include general advice regarding hydroponic techniques, crop or product selection, cultivar (variety/ies) selection, plant propagation processes, general cultivation practices, distance crop monitoring, feeding solutions recipes, harvesting, packaging and post-harvest practices based on Total Greenhouse Management ®and Total Farm Management® methodologies. DKG Consulting Ltd is also a service provider for quality, environmental & food safety systems and brand building. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 13 IQ CROPS www.iqcrops.com IQ CROPS Ltd provides intelligent agricultural supplies to the agricultural sector. In general, IQ CROPS Ltd promotes innovative solutions based in new technologies and scientific results offering safety to the consumers and the environment towards natural systems and biological solutions that promote plant health and growth. More specific: INTELLIGENT • Trade (wholesale – retail level) and distribution of various agricultural products such as special types of fertilizers, growth agents and pesticides for professional growers as well as hobby market. SUPPLIES • Alternative forms of energy solutions (e.g. photovoltaic systems, geothermal heat, alternator of heat, wind generators, etc.) 14 TROPOS Branding www.tropos.gr SOCIAL TROPOS BRANDING Co is a one stop creative shop (member of the DKG Group since 2013), led by Christos D. Katsanos and Dimitris Gartzonikas. We design brands from the ground up (big B), and help existing companies present themselves better (little COMMINICATION b) by applying Zero to Low Budget Branding Methodology. PLATFORMS What exactly do we do? Identities, Copywriting, Art Direction, Web & Interactive, Product & Packaging Design, Advertising -Whatever it takes. We're always interested in joining forces with Startups and established businesses alike through mutually beneficial Collaborative Marketing. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 15 IRTC www.irtcs.org International Research & Training Centre for Sustainability The International Research & Training Centre for Sustainability (IRTC) DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 16 ’’ The production Company “ of the DKG Group. Cultivation hydroponic short cucumber. DRIKA FARMS www.drikafarms.com FRESH HYDROPONIC PRODUCTS DRIKA Farm was founded in 1996 by Evagelos N. Drimtzias and Katerina Kaparaki. DRIKA Farm's facilities are located in an area of 0,5 Ha on the site Ammoudares -Ierapetra, Crete,Greece, 200 meters from the sea side.Its production focused in Mini Cucumber. In 2006 the second level of investments was implemented (upgrading heating oil to LPG, a thermal, freezer, packing). In 2008 the enterprise was awarded the GLOBALG.A.P. Certification by TUV HELLAS (TUV NORD) Certification Body. In 2011 DRIKA FARM became a proud member of The DKG Group of Companies and Initiatives in order to complete the whole chain from the farm to the shelf . DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 17 The AskMe Translation and Localization Department of the DKG Group was formed with the objective to undertake complex translation projects, offering a complete range of translation and localization services in the Greek market. Over these years, it has specialized in the development and implementation of advanced quality-driven Greek-specific localization techniques and the provision of turn-key localization solutions (from planning to postproduction) for the Information Technology sector. As a result, significant framework-contracts and long-term collaborations have been established between DKG and FOODPLUS , GRODAN GROUP and EUROPEAN COMMISSION DIRECTORATE. Today AskMe offers a full range of technical translation and localization services almost 6 man-years in total greenhouse management, inspection –certification and Project Management tasks AskMe www.askmein.gr DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 18 2017 2015 2015 2014 2013 ROADSHOW IN AUSTRALIA During October 2014, Mr. We participated at the FRAOULABEST AWARD GLOBALG.A.P Documents Evagelos TROPOS BRANDING Sustainable Greece 2020 Our Integrated System of Ver.5 Drimtzias, President of the a one stop creative shop led initiative, that aims to raise Hydroponic Strawberry The Askme® Translation DKG Group will visit various by Christos D. Katsanos awareness among the (FraoulaBest) solution is and Localisation Division of places in Australia in order and Dimitris Gartzonikas . Greek business community awarded in the Green the DKG Group translate to explore the possibilities of We design brands from the and society at large, on Business Innovation the GLOBALG.A.P collaboration with many ground up (big B), and help issues of Sustainable Awards.Our client documents Version 5,0, Australian based existing companies present Development, Responsible TSACHALOS GREEN achieving more than companies. The areas of themselves better (little b) Entrepreneurship and TRADE SA was awarded 200,000 words up to now importance will be the by applying Zero to low Social Responsibility. for contribution to green Branded Solutions, Budget Branding business but especially for hydroponic application, Methodology. its innovative hydroponic Total Greenhouse www.tropos.gr system Fraoula Best . Management and Training www.fraoulabest.com needs. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 19 2013 2012 2012 2011 2011 IQ CROPS TOMACCINI AWARD COLLABORATION WITH Hydroponics.gr IQ GREENING provides intelligent 1st place in the award KOREAN ATEC is a web tool where all the provides foliage base agricultural supplies to the category Research & The Gyeongsangnam-do experience and practical architecture practices for a agricultural sector. In Development has been Agricultural Research & application of knowledge of healthier and more general, IQ CROPS Ltd taken by TOMACCINI as Extension Services has DKG on hydroponic sustainable urban living promotes innovative the first Snack Tomato in been making efforts to cultivation is available for its environment. The following solutions based in new the Greek market. develop the agricultural customers and to the public. green design practices such technologies and scientific Tomaccini received the technlogy and to grow the More specific, this as : Vertical Green Walls, results offering safety to the prize as a joint award for the farming industry through knowledge and experience Urban, Farming, Roof consumers and the three companies that R&D and techology is based on rockwool Gardening, Green Sound environment towards contributed to its creation; distribution in South Korea substrates (Grodan absorbent Walls natural systems and Hellenic Greenhouses SA, products) and DKG’s Know biological solutions that AB Vassilopoulos SA and How promote plant health and DKG Consulting Ltd growth. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 20 2011 2011 2009 2008 2007 ISO 9001:2008 RENEWAL ISO 14001:2004 DKG BECOME DKG SUPPORTS THE GREEN CLUB DKG Consulting Ltd also In December 2011 DKG INDEPENDENT GRODAN UNITED NATIONS DKG GROUP is a founding renewed its certificate of Consulting Ltd (member of PARTNER GLOBAL COMPACT member and has been registration for the the DKG Group of DKG will be taking on the The foundation of the appointed as the International Quality Companies and Initiatives) additional role of sales Hellenic Network Global Coordinator of The Green Standard ISO 9001:2008. achieved ISO 14001:2004 organisation and exclusive Compact for the CSR was Club®, a Reputation The management system Certification, the outsourcing partner for announced in Greece on Management Growers for the scope of certification international standard for Greece, Cyprus, the Balkan 28th of May, at a ceremony Association that consists of which this time extended to environmental management countries and Egypt with at the Caravel Hotel of 21 member companies. “Design, Implementation systems. effect from 1 January 2009. AthensThe Executive These growers who are and Support of Total The company expects to be Director of DKG GROUP, located all over Greece Greenhouse & Farm able to provide buyers of Mr. Christos D. Katsanos, grow hydponically a number Management – Training on Grodan products with an was invited to that event as of different vegetables in Total Greenhouse and Farm even better service through a member of the Hellenic greenhouses. Management”. the expansion of its range Network Global Compact for of tasks the Corporate Social Responsibility, DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 21 2006 2003 2003 2003 2001 ISO 9001:2008 GLOBALG.A.P. AGRISYSTEMS ASK ME IRTC DKG Consulting Ltd The Group's department DKG GROUP was CoThe Askme® Translation The International Research (member of the DKG Group AskMe officially translates in founder of TUV HELLAS and Localisation Division of & Training Centre for of Companies and Greek language the AGRISYSTEMS Division. the DKG Group was formed Sustainability (IRTC) is a Initiatives) achieved its GLOBALG.A.P. documents, External Lead Auditor for with the objective to training facilitator certificate of registration for related to Fruit and Quality, Environment and undertake complex organisation that provides a the International Quality Vegetables Certification Agriculture translation projects, offering greater understanding of Standard ISO 9001:2008. (Integrated Farm Lead Trainer on ISO 9001, a complete range of key issues for the The management system Assurance). Also Group's ISO 14001, ISO 22000, translation and localisation agriculture industry and for the scope of certification Executive Director Mr. GLOBALGAP & AGRO services in the Greek provide solutions for those which this time extended to Christos D. Katsanos Standards market. Head of the ASK with an interest in the “Design, Implementation become Official ME division is Eleni sector. and Support of Total GLOBALGAP train-the Mathaiopoulou Greenhouse & Farm public trainer. Management – Training on Total Greenhouse and Farm Management”. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 22 2001 2001 1996 1993 1992 1992 DKG CONSULTING DKG GROUP DRIKA FARM K INSPIRATIONS CHRISTOS D. EVANGELOS N. services are focused on On December 2011 was DRIKA Farm was founded a boutique consulting KATSANOS DRIMTZIAS greenhouse and farm established the DKG in 1996 by Evagelos N. agency that works with (AGROCONSULTANS Evangelos N. Drimtzias activities include advice GROUP led by Christos D. Drimtzias and Katerina personal brands, consumer HELLAS) as a Sales Technician regarding hydroponic Katsanos and Evangelos Kaparaki. DRIKA Farm's brands and startups led by Christos D. Katsanos and then Account techniques, crop selection, N. Drimtzias . The facilities are located in an Christos D. Katsanos has been involved as a Executive of the plant propagation, feeding headquarters of the Group area of ​0,5 Ha on the site production manager GRODAN Group for solutions recipes, is located in Thessaloniki, Ammoudares -Ierapetra, and then Greenhouse Balkan Countries harvesting based on TGM® Greece, with additional Crete,Greece, 200 meters Manager in Greece (Greece, Serbia, and TFM® methodologies, advocacy office operating in from the sea side.Its innovations such as: Albania,FYROM,Bulgar is also a service provider for Crete. production focused in Mini Branded product (Prima ia), Turkey, Cyprus, quality, environmental & Cucumber. tomatoes), Cluster type Egypt. food safety systems. tomatoes, Hydroponic cultivation method. In 1998 as a Technical/Sales Advisor for Grodan products and solutions. 03 Section Three CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 24 Consulting on DKG CONSULTING greenhouse and farm activities Intelligent agricultural IQ CROPS supplies FINANCE / ACCOUNTING A one stop creative shop, TROPOS BRANDING design brands.. Training facilitator IRTC organization QUALITY MANAGEMENT Fresh Hydroponic DRIKA FARM products Translation and ASK ME Localization Department COMPANIES IQ GREENING Foliage base architecture Hydroponic Strawberry FRAOULA BEST Solution Hydroponic Lettuce SOLUTIONS MAROULI BEST Solution A Reputation GREEN CLUB Management Growers Association Digital Knowledge HYDROPONICS.GR Diffusion EU PROJECTS & STUDIES Greenhouse Business LIVE CELL Concept THE FRIENDS OF Association of a special XINOMAVRO Greek wine variety 25 GOVERNANCE DKG Group is continuously strengthening its corporate governance system, recognizing that sound corporate governance is extremely important in operating the company effectively, efficiently, and in a way that increases corporate value over the midto long-term. The Board of Directors of the DKG Group sets high standards for the Company's employees, officers and directors. Implicit in this philosophy is the importance of sound corporate governance. It is the duty of the Board of Directors to serve as a prudent fiduciary for shareholders and to oversee the management of the Company's business. To fulfill its responsibilities and to discharge its duty, the Board of Directors follows the procedures and standards that are set forth in these guidelines. These guidelines are subject to modification from time to time as the Board of Directors deems appropriate in the best interests of the Company or as required by applicable laws and regulations. OUR CODE OUR RESPONSIBILITY Our Code is a public statement that DKG Group is committed to doing the right thing. It serves as a valuable resource to help employees and others make informed, ethical decisions. Our Code includes references to relevant Requirements, Policies, Procedures and Practices and other helpful tools and resources. We conduct business on the basis of fairness, good faith and integrity, and expect the same from parties with whom we do business. DKG Group expects its stakeholders to show the same ethical behavior in their business conduct. We believe our success depends on the trust and confidence placed in us by our customers, people, shareholders, suppliers, partners, advisers, and the community at large. The foundation principles underpin our desire to maintain that trust and form our Code of Conduct: • We act with honesty and integrity • We comply with laws and with our policies • We respect confidentiality and do not misuse information • We value and maintain our professionalism • We work as a team DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 26 We have adopted numerous governance and management practices to ensure continual improvement on sustainability issues. Our Board of Directors which comprises the President, the Executive Director, the Finance Director, the Quality Executive PRACTICES and the Project Manager, views effective corporate governance as an essential element for the ongoing sustainability of the DKG Group and its operations. We continue to develop our corporate governance practices to ensure that we meet regulatory requirements. We evaluate our mechanisms on an ongoing basis and strive to ensure our corporate governance practices provide for effective stewardship in all targeted areas of sustainability. Our corporate governance practices are described in our: Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct & Ethics. Among other topics, the Board is responsible for the following: the strategic direction of the Group the integrity of financial statements and accounting practices the contribution to sustainable development the Human Resources DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 Risk management and internal controls The president and director recognize that the Group is ambitious and seeking significant growth. The Board has in place a formal process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The president and director are responsible for the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. However, such a system can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. There is a formal process in place to regularly review the control systems across the Group to ensure that they develop to mitigate emerging risks and in anticipation of expected growth. Twice a year the Accountant presents to the Board for discussion and approval a summary of the key internal controls in place during the prior period and proposals for enhancements to these controls in the forthcoming period. Based on this process, the directors believe that the Group has internal control systems in place appropriate to its size and nature. 28 WE VALUE Safety Everything we do relies upon the safety of our workforce and the communities around us. We capability. We trust each other to deliver on our respective obligations. care about the safe management of the environment. Commitment to Excellence Respect Our commitment is to demonstrate excellence in all spheres of our work and in our interactions We respect the world in which we operate. It begins with compliance with laws and regulations. with customers, shareholders, suppliers, colleagues, partners and communities. In addition, we We depend on the relationships we have and respect each other and those we work with. We commit to exercising judgment, professionalism, rigor, self-discipline, perseverance and team value diversity of people and thought. spirit. Integrity Customer Orientation We behave with integrity and in an ethical manner in everything we do and say, thereby earning We promote a customer-centred culture that emphasizes outstanding service and meets our and maintaining the trust and respect of customers, shareholders, suppliers, colleagues, partners commitments at every level of our organization. and communities. Shareholder Focus One Team We are focused on creating sustainable shareholder value through developing profitable Whatever the strength of the individual, we will accomplish more together. products and projects, and soundly managing the business for the benefit of customers, We put the team ahead of our personal success and commit to building its shareholders, suppliers, colleagues, partners and communities. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 29 External Commitments Our greatest satisfaction is to provide our clients with exceptional value and External Standards service. Along the way, we have been honored to receive recognition for our leadership, community service and success as a sustainability consulting DKG Group is guided also by a series of firm. International codes and principles. The Group recognizes the principles enshrined in the UN Universal Declarations of Human Rights and is We were proud to receive the following certificates: a participant in the UN Global Compact, • ISO 9001 promoting its ten principles that support human rights, labor rights, environmental protection • ISO 14001 and anti-corruption. In addition, the company has adopted internationally standards for its A big part of our success has come through the sharing and learning that Quality Management System. takes place with other leaders in corporate responsibility, including: The DKG Group is committed to reporting the impacts of its business in a transparent and • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) comparable way as it is an organizational stakeholder of the Global Reporting Initiative • Global Reporting Initiative (Organizational Stakeholder) (GRI). • Quality protocol GLOBALG.A.P. (Associate Member) • Sustainable GREECE 2020 DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 30 OUR PEOPLE ELENI MATHAIOPOULOU, Head of Translation & Localization DIMITRIS GARTZONIKAS, Project Manager 2 LAMPROS PODIOTIS, Finance & Accounting Services CHRISTINA PAPAIOANNOU, Researcher & Trainer at IRTC GREGORY DARIS, IT Senior Consultant DIMITRIS VOURIS, Food Scientistic ANDREAS KIZIRIS, Researcher & Trainer at IRTC CHAROULA SPINTHIROPOULOU, Ph.D, Viticulturist & Oenologist EVAGELOS DRIMTZIAS, President DIMITRA NOTIOU, Management Assistant THANASIS MANOLOUDIS, Energy & Renewable Sources Management Executive ELENA GADONA, Visual Communication DIMITRIS DASKALAKIS, Quality Management Executive GREGORY KARAISKOS, Green Walls Expert CHRISTOS KATSANOS, Executive Director STEFANOS GIALAS, Roof Garden Expert KATERINA KAPARAKI, Production Manager MANOLIS KAPARAKIS, CRM Manager CLIENTS WE QUALITY CONSTANTLY THROUGH PRODUCTS, STRIVE TO UNPARALLELED SERVICES & EXCEED OUR COMMITMENT SUSTAINABLE CLIENTS’ TO PRACTICES EXPECTATIONS 20 PARTNERS We work with our business partners in an honest, respectful and responsible way. DKG Group gains its competitive advantages through strong performance rather than through unethical or illegal business practices. WE SEEK TO WORK WITH OTHERS WHO SHARE OUR COMMITMENTS TO SAFETY AND ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE. ANNUAL ACTIONS 34 FOOD EXPO GREECE 19.03.2017 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2017/03/food-expo-greece-19032017.html TUV HELLAS 30 years anniversary http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2017/03/tuv-hellas-30-yearsanniversary.html Euroagro Annual Meeting http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2017/03/euroagro-ae-11032017.html Radio Interview on REBRANDING GREECE AGRICULTURE on the show Leonidas Liam http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2017/03/rebranding-greecesagricutlure-fm100.html DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 35 THE ECONOMIST THIRD AGRIBUSINESS SUMMIT http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/11/the-economist-thirdagribusiness-summit.html Training Course on Total Greenhouse Management on Hydroponics at THRACE GREENHOUSES and ELASTRON AGRO 07/03/2017 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2017/03/training-course-on-total-greenhouse.html DETROP BOUTIQUE 2017 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/11/detrop-boutique2017.html Kiwi Event Galenios Agro ORA Services 24/02/2017 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2017/02/kiwi-event-galenios-agroora-services.html DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 36 BOX ΣΠΟΡΟΠΑΡΑΓΩΓΗΣ – Kilkis 14/02/2017 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2017/02/box-14022017.html NEXUR LAUNCHING / COMPO EXPERT HELLAS 03.02.2017 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2017/02/nexur-launching-compo-experthellas.html FRIENDS OF XINOMAVRO event 05.02.2017 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2017/01/o-7-05022017.html SOCIAL DYNAMO / BODOSSAKI FOUNDATION 31/01/2017http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2017/01/social-dynamobodossaki-foundation.html DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 37 ALBA GRADUATE BUSINESS SCHOOL 31/01/2017 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2017/01/alba-graduate-business-school31012017.html FIBRAN COMPANY MEETING (Brands & Social Media. A branding affair) http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2017/01/fibran-company-meeting-brands-social.html OK!THESS CHRISTMAS PARTY 21.12.2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2017/01/okthesschristmas-party-21122016.html Greek Distillates Exhibition22.01.2017 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2017/01/e-22012017.html DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 38 Τα ΒορΟινά των Χριστουγέννων 13/12/2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/12/13122016.html Διάλεξη Ελένη Γλύκατζη-Αρβελέρ στο Μουσείο Οίνου Γεροβασιλείου Μεταναστεύσεις-Μετακινήσεις-Προσφυγιές 12/12/2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/12/12122016.html Νάουσα Πόλη του Οίνου 9-11.12.2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/12/9-11122016.html Hμεριδα του ΕΛΓΟ ΔΗΜΗΤΡΑ 16/11/2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/10/h-16112016.html DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 39 New Product Το περιβόλι Launching http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/11/new-product-launching.html AGRI-FOOD MASTERCLASS 11-14 November 2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/07/agri-food-masterclass-11-13-november.html ROUT 100 MILES Forest Village 21-22.10.2016 http://calendar.christoskatsanos.com/2016/05/rout-100miles-forest-village-21.html GLOBALG.A.P. SUMMIT 2016 27-28.09.2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/06/globalgap-summit-2016-2728092016.html DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 40 CHEF'S WORLD CONGRESS Thessaloniki 24-27.09.2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/06/chefs-world-congress-thessaloniki-24.html 8th EUROPEAN SHORT-COURSE ON QUALITY OF FRESHCUT PRODUCE 14-16/09/2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/06/8th-european-short-course-onquality-of.html Νάουσα Πόλη του Οίνου 9-11.12.2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/12/9-11122016.html INNO-4-AGRIFOOD Co-creation Workshop 15.09.2016 AMSTERDAM http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/06/inno-4-agrifood-co-creationworkshop.html DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 41 International Progation Seminar of GRODAN Rotterdam 14-15.09.2016 http://calendar.christoskatsanos.com/2016/06/international-progationseminar-of.html EFTHYMIADIS GROUP 80 YEARS CELEBRATION http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/08/efthymiadis-group-80-years-celebration.html Corn Festival 29-30/07/2016 Mouries Kilkis http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/07/27-28072016.html Apps vs Browsers Inhouse Seminar on Social Platforms for Small Business Thessaloniki 05.07.2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/06/apps-vs-browsers-inhouseseminar-on.html DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 42 ORANGE GROVE THE SQUEEZE ATHENS 23.06.2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/05/orange-grove-squeeze-athens23062016.html AgriEnt Accelerator Thessaloniki 18.06.2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/06/agrient-acceleratorthessaloniki.html Haidou Trail Party 19/07/2016 Forest Village http://calendar.christoskatsanos.com/2016/07/haidou-trail-party-19072016forest.html 1ο Πανελληνιο Συνεδριο Αρωματικων & Φαρμακευτικων Φυτων Ελλαδας http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/04/17-18-2016.html DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 43 SXSW WORKSHOP & RECEPTION THESSALONIKI 10.06.2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/06/sxsw-workshop-receptionthessaloniki.html Gourmet Olive Exhibition Thessaloniki 20-22/05/2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/03/gourmet-olive-exhibition-thessaloniki.html «ΕΞΑΓΟΝΤΑΣ ΠΟΙΟΤΙΚΑ ΑΓΡΟΤΙΚΑ ΠΡΟΪΟΝΤΑ» 27-28/05/2016 http://calendar.christoskatsanos.com/2016/04/27-28052016.html ECONOMIST THE INTELLIGENT LEADERS SUMMIT 26/05/2016http://calendar.christoskatsanos.com/2016/05/economis t-intelligent-leaders-summit.html DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 44 HELLENIC SUSTAINABILITY CODE 26/05/2016 ATHENS http://calendar.christoskatsanos.com/2016/05/hellenic-sustainability-code26052016.html MALAGOUZIA MASTERCLASS THESSALONIKI 24/05/2016 http://calendar.christoskatsanos.com/2016/05/malagouzia-masterclassthessaloniki.html Advanced Hydroponic Water Management IRTC Seminar http://calendar.christoskatsanos.com/2016/05/advanced-hydroponic-watermanagement.html Advanced Hydroponic Young Plants Propagation Process IRTC Seminar http://calendar.christoskatsanos.com/2016/05/advanced-hydroponicyoung-plants.html DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 45 SOCIAL MEDIA SEMINAR THESSALONIKI 16/05/2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/04/social-media.html THESSALONIKI BOOK EXPO BORN TO RUN 14/05/2016 http://calendar.christoskatsanos.com/2016/04/thessaloniki-book-expo-born-to-run.html H TROPOS στην έκθεση FRESKON στις 21-23/04/2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/03/h-tropos-freskon-2123042016.html Rodopi Challenge 50 miles 16/04/2016 http://calendar.christoskatsanos.com/2016/03/rodopi-challenge-50miles-16042016.html DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 46 Water in March! 2016 | Arta, 23/03/2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/03/water-in-march-2016-arta-greece.html DETROP BOUTIQUE 26-29/02/2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/03/detrop-boutique-26-29022016.html AMONG THE GODS RISING UP START UPS EVENT ΣΤΗ ΘΕΣΣΑΛΟΝΙΚΗ 23/1/2016 http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/01/among-gods-rising-up-start-upsevent.html ΒΡΑΒΕΙΑ ΑΓΡΟΤΗΣ ΤΗΣ ΧΡΟΝΙΑΣ“ http://tropos-events.blogspot.gr/2016/03/blog-post_16.html DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 04 Section Four United Nations Global Compact Principles 48 10 PRINCIPLES United Nations Global Compact Principles Businesses should support and Make sure they are not complicit Businesses should uphold the The elimination of all forms of respect the protection of in human rights abuses. freedom of association and the forced and compulsory labor. internationally proclaimed human DKG Group has not been complicit effective recognition of the right Our Code of Business Principles rights. nor does ever expect to be complicit to collective bargaining states that “We will not use any DKG Group recognizes that human in violation of human rights abuses DKG Group shall respect the rights form of forced, compulsory or child rights are an integral part of whether through direct involvement of employees to associate, organize labor”. corporate citizenship and we (through beneficial involvement via and bargain collectively in a lawful respect and support the Universal third party), nor assisting other and peaceful manner, without Declaration of Human Rights and parties by remaining silent. penalty or interference. the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Implementing the United Nations' Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework'. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 49 10 PRINCIPLES United Nations Global Compact Principles The effective abolition of child Eliminate discrimination in Business should support a labor. respect of employment and precautionary approach to DKG Group believes children’s occupation. environmental challenges. fundamental human rights should DKG Group shall not discriminate in DKG Group comply with laws and be protected. DKG Group shall not hiring and employment practices, regulations as a minimum use child labor. All employees must including salary, benefits, requirement and we share best meet the minimum age for advancement, discipline, practices across divisions and sites. employment as specified by termination or retirement, on the The achievement of the ISO 14001 applicable laws and regulations. basis of race, religion, age, demonstrates that DKG has nationality, social or ethnic origin, implemented a sustainable sexual orientation, gender, political environmental management opinion or disability. strategy DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 50 10 PRINCIPLES United Nations Global Compact Principles Undertake initiatives to promote Encourage the development and Businesses should work against greater environmental diffusion of environmentally corruption in all its forms, responsibility friendly technologies. including extortion and bribery. DKG Group has a high level of Sustainable agricultural practices DKG Group fundamentally opposes environmental awareness and has are encouraged to be adopted by all any kind of corruption and bribery committed to environmentally of our clients, in order to increase and is committed to high standards friendly, resource-efficient the quality, the taste and quantity of in combating them. production as well as the their crops We ensure that all employees can development of water-saving and understand and practice the Group sustainable products. Code of Conduct in everyday Environmental criteria are working life. considered in all decision-making processes. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 51 DKG Group has taken a series of measures to ensure we comply with our responsibilities to respect and protect human rights. In particular, we aim to carefully and comprehensively manage human rights issues identified through the materiality assessment. These include issues such as HUMAN RIGHTS privacy, labor standards, health and safety. We have signed up to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principles relating to human rights, confirming and formalizing our commitment. The DKG Group respects, supports and operating in accordance with all applicable national and international 3 regulations and laws with reference to human rights. The DKG Group respects, supports and operating in 4 accordance with all applicable national and international regulations and laws with reference to human rights. We have respect for the diverse national cultures and differences in laws and traditions in countries where we 5 operate. Our core values are based on the fundamental rights of every individual, such as the protection of privacy, freedom of opinion and expression, freedom of association, non discrimination and the right to be heard. 52 LABOR POLICES We Provide a workplace that is free from harassment and intimidation We do not tolerate any form of abuse or harassment. This includes actions that can reasonably be considered as offensive, intimidating or discriminatory, as well as any form of sexual harassment. DKG GROUP DKG Group respects the privacy of its employees, and will only take an RERPECTS interest in what employees do outside of work if it affects the Group’s reputation or legitimate business interests. We label and treat personal information as ‘confidential’ and we only use personal information when POLICIES needed to operate effectively or comply with the law. 53 LABOR PRICTICES #Working Hours #Minimum Wages DKG Group does not require its DKG Group compensates its employees to work more than the employees with wages and benefits maximum hours of daily labor set by that meet or exceed the legally local laws. required minimum under the law. #No Discrimination #Freely-Chosen Employment DKG Group prohibits discrimination based on DKG Group ensures that the overall race, color, age, gender, sexual orientation, terms of employment are voluntary. gender identity and expression, ethnicity, COMPLY religion, disability, union membership or political affiliation. WITH #Health and Safety We provide our employees with a safe THE #No Harsh or Inhumane Treatment DKG Group prohibits physical abuse, harassment or the threat of either. and healthy workplace in compliance with all applicable laws and LAW regulations. #No Child Labor #Freedom of Association DKG Group complies with the We respect the legal rights of our minimum age laws and requirements employees worldwide to join labor and do not employ child labor. organizations or trade unions. #Ethical Dealings #Privacy We encourage our employees to conduct We consider the right to privacy of our business according to our Code of Ethics. We employees a core value. Employees’ data is comply with all applicable laws and regulations highly protected. Our employees are committed on bribery, corruption and prohibited business to confidentiality when dealing with third practices. parties. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 54 EMPLOYEE RELATIONS DKG Group recognizes that one of its greatest strengths lies in the talent and ability of its employees. Employees are expected to hold themselves accountable to the highest professional standards, with mutual respect being the basis of all professional relationships. Human resource goals have been established to guide the Group activities in employee relations. It is the Group’s policy: • to deal fairly with employees; • to provide equal opportunity for all in recruiting, hiring, developing, promoting and compensating without regard to race, religion, color, age, gender, disability, genetic information, military or veteran status, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity and/or expression, citizenship, national origin, or other legally protected status; • to maintain a professional, safe and discrimination-free work environment; to recognize and compensate employees based on their performance; and • to provide a competitive array of benefits. . Sexual, racial, ethnic, religious EMPLOYEE or any other type RELATIONS of harassment has no place in the Group! work environment Sexual, racial, ethnic, religious or any other type of harassment has no place in the Group! work environment. Racial, ethnic and religious harassment includes such conduct as slurs, jokes, intimidation or any other verbal or physical attack upon a person because of race, religion or national origin. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 1 2 3 4 DKG Group recognizes that one of its greatest Our Employees are in a safe environment, According to our Code of Business Conduct With the rapid evolution of the sustainability and strengths lies in the talent and ability of its protected from hazards of the job. They are which sets out guiding principles in its ethics and corporate responsibility field, we recognize the employees. Employees are expected to hold provided with ready access to clean toilet business conduct as adopted and approved by importance of continuous learning. We set aside themselves accountable to the highest facilities, potable water, adequate heat, the Management of the Group. The Code of professional development funds for education professional standards, with mutual respect ventilation and sanitary food preparation, storage Business Conduct discusses in detail the ethical and training opportunities, including conferences, being the basis of all professional relationships. and eating facilities. Procedures and systems practices which DKG Group expects from all seminars, external training and education Human resource goals have been established to are in place to manage, track and report employees, including conflicts of interest, opportunities. guide the Group activities in employee relations. occupational injury and illness. bribery, policies on corporate entertainment and All employees have access to the IRTC library It is the Group’s policy: All of our employees have medical insurance acceptance of gifts and the integrity of our record that consists of more than 1,000 books articles, to deal fairly with employees; according to the Law, and we are working on a keeping and reporting. Training in this area has offering diversity of knowledge. to provide equal opportunity for all in recruiting, program of improvements to ensure the safety of been carried out and will be refreshed on an on Employees enjoy extensive internal technical hiring, developing, promoting and compensating every employee working for the Group, promote going basis. and business skill training. External programs without regard to race, religion, color, age, better health, and create a pleasant working and seminars are also provided to develop gender, disability, genetic information, military or environment. Each and every employee must act For a series of years, cases of corruption have employees in their current roles, and to prepare veteran status, sexual orientation, gender, to cooperate with the safety and health not been recorded, neither allegations for for future roles. gender identity and/or expression, citizenship, measures that have been decided upon. suspected fraud, bribery or market abuse have We aim to create an environment where national origin, or other legally protected status; The Group's occupational health and safety been reported. everyone is encouraged to give their best and to maintain a professional, safe and management system tracks four key realize their full potential, through the provision discrimination-free work environment; performance indicators: of learning and development opportunities. to recognize and compensate employees based the number of injuries, the number of fatalities, on their performance; and the to provide a competitive array of benefits. number of illness due to work and the Sexual, racial, ethnic, religious or any other type number of other illness (e.g. flu). of harassment has no place in the Group! work environment. Racial, ethnic and religious harassment includes such conduct as slurs, jokes, intimidation or any other verbal or physical attack upon a person because of race, religion or national origin. • Employee Relations THE FACTS • • • Workplace Health and Safety Anti-Corruption Training & Education 56 Labor Force Charts Employees by Gender Employees by Age Male Female 26-35 36-45 45+ 17% 33% 28% 67% 55% Educational Level Health & Safety indicators Post-graduate degrees (Master’s, PhD) Number Days lost due University Graduates of incidents to incidents Graduates of Technical Educational Institutes Number of 0 0 persons injured 11% Number of 0 0 45% fatalities Illness due to 44% work 0 0 Other illness 5 5 DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 05 Section Five ENVIRONMENT OUR ENVIRONMENTAL CODE OF CONDUCT Our Environmental Code of Conduct is built on national and international norms and standards for environmental management. The Code sets a minimum applicable operating standard for all of the Group’s businesses. Each business is expected to implement its own Environmental Management System, tailored to suit its size and type of activity. We also monitor our customers' environmental performance on regular basis to ensure the continual improvement. We know that the importance of protecting the environment is one of the key foundations of doing business and maintains a comprehensive infrastructure for planning, managing, assessing, improving, monitoring and measuring environmental impacts. 59 Environmental Data Our Environmental data are consolidated annually, including the energy we use in our offices, the fuel consumed as we travel, and other elements necessary to calculate our environmental footprint. The data include our subsidiary companies where the Group has management control. The results are disclosed in this report and are communicated internally to employees. “We are committed to making a positive impact on the environment. We do this to prospective clients through our sustainable feasibility studies, through the support and solutions we give our customers, through our work to minimize our own impacts and through our leading role in advocating change beyond our business and out in the wider world” DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 60 FOOD SAFETY KEY ELEMENTS We strictly implement and monitor Food Safety Principles including Good Agriculture Practice (GAP), Good Hygienic Practice (GHP), Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) and Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) in our Drika Farm and clients Greenhouses, ► Controlled Greenhouse Environment: Packhouses and Storage & Distribution Produce are grown using advance Grodan hydroponic technology under fully controlled environment for increased food safety assurance in an efficient and environmentally friendly way. Centers. All facilities and operations are fully ►Integrated Pest Management (IPM): certified for Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) Greenhouses use Integrated Pest Management (IPM), an effective and environment Friendly, approach for pest control to ensuring food safety by minimizing chemical uses. standard. ► Properly Grown, Packed and Transported: Highly trained and experienced group of people. Produce are grown, packed and distributed at Controlled Temperature and Humidity in strict hygienic environment. Use refrigerated trucks for delivery to maintain the safety and integrity of the produce. ► Chemical Free Cleaning and Sanitation Technology: Use Professional Cleaning System to clean and sanitize the facilities. ► Effective Traceability and Recall System: Effective food safety management at all levels of the supply chain including Greenhouses, packing facility, distribution center, and transport operation. Can easily trace the produce consistently and efficiently from the point of origin to the point of consumption. 61 How We Grow DRIKA Farm and our clients have a responsibility to practice sustainable cultivation. 62 Advantages of Hydroponic Cultivation All year round growing, availability and consistent quality of the produce therefore, you 1 can pick at the peak of ripeness to insure optimum taste and deliver fresh. 2 Completely Non GMO varieties. 3 Greenhouse vegetables offer safe foods for your family. Ability to control temperature and humidity Greenhouses are able to regulate 4 temperatures. Therefore, we can create the perfect growing environment for our plants to thrive and become flavorful. 5 The state of the art greenhouses are controlled with the use of Integrated Pest Management (IPM). IPM is a proactive program designed to control the population of undesirable pests with the use of natural predators. IPM works by identifying potential pest problems, monitoring populations, reducing pest populations and evaluating the effectiveness of treatments. Effectively replacing the use of pesticides, IPM addresses pest issues with insects found throughout nature, which means that we use “good bugs” to help with pollination and to help eliminate the “bad bugs”. 6 The heat for greenhouses is usually created with biomass energy sources. Biomass is viewed as one of the main renewable energy sources of the future, biomass is virtually carbon-neutral and almost inexhaustible. Waste products generated from everyday living and efficiently converting them into energy while capturing the CO2 for our plants. 7 Growing in greenhouses protects your plants from adverse weather conditions and we can achieve a high caliber of cleanliness and security in facilities. 8 Recycle all of leachate irrigation water to reduce our footprint on the environment. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 63 Product Responsibility DKG Group has committed to publicly share its views on the principles that are the foundation for product safety legislation or regulation. Consistent with our commitment to the principles, we support the development of responsible, science-based laws, regulations, standards, practices and procedures that safeguard the community, workplace and environment. DRIKA Farm (member of DKG Group) and all of our clients embrace a strong commitment to growing sustainable products by applying Good Agricultural Practices (G.A.P) in order to increase the quality, the taste and quantity of their crops, and to promote safe and efficient working practice. Apart, each of our client's products has the ability to trace the history, use or location of a product by means of registered identifications that is vital for consumer’s safety. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 64 Patented & Intelligent Agricultural Supplies The products and solutions of IQ CROPS have in their DNA, what is depicted in its logo, The example text goes here withquality IQ = Cleverly products. your own Smart detailed summery. Loren opium dolor quality sit amen solutions in example text the field of line. production of fresh produce from the field to the greenhouse. The scientific basis and documentation of products / solutions in cooperation with their applicability to the business world make the people of IQ CROPS ideal partners in a wide range of everyday growing needs in a series of many crops. From patented solutions (Ηarpin) to the top hydroponics substrates (GRODAN), the exceptional efficiency fertilizers (Haifa), the multiplication products, solutions for hydroponic strawberry and lettuce are some of the products / solutions can be found to the IQ CROPS. HDKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 WE ARE ASSOCIATE MEMBER OF GLOBALG.A.P. DKG Group is focusing to meet increasingly high sustainability standards and to enable its stakeholders to positively influence their impact on environment and society. We are associate member of GLOBALG.A.P® (the global partnership for safe and sustainable agriculture), we commit to respond to its recommendations by providing advice to greenhouse growers/suppliers to apply sustainable growing practices and compliance with Good Agricultural Practices (GAP). Also Mr. Christos D. Katsanos (Executive Director of the Group) is Official GLOBALGAP train-the public trainer and in cooperation with the Training Department of TUV HELLAS (TUV NORD) S.A. & IRTC, DKG Group offers training programs for corporations and individuals in the areas of GLOBALG.A.P. protocol, AGRO 2-1 & 22 standard (Greek certification scheme for agriculture enterprises) and ISO 22000 standard (HACCPHazard Analysis Critical Control Point). Finally, the Group's department AskMe officially translates in Greek language GLOBALGAP® documents related to Fruit and Vegetables Certification (Integrated Farm Assurance). 06 Section Six SOCIETY 67 Create & Support Associations DKG Group is active in a number of associations and organizations. To share just a few, DKG Group is a founding member and has been appointed as DKG Group is also co-founder of “The the Coordinator of The Green Club®, a Reputation Management Friends of Xinomavro“, a group of people Growers Association that consists of 21 member companies. who share the same philosophy about life, These growers who are located all over Greece grow love Xinomavro (a special wine from an hydponically a number of different vegetables in greenhouses. indigenous Greek vine variety) and like to They have perfected the growing environment for tomatoes, collaborate and share their experiences. cucumbers, peppers and lettuce by giving the plants exactly Members keep regular meetings for various what they need the perfect climate, the right amount of light, events and activities, such as: Viticulture the right amount of nutrition, exact amount of water and carbon activities (pruning the vines, stretching the dioxide and the proper ventilationwhich means that plants can wires and straightening of the piles, grow strong, healthy and big. By those practices they have harvesting), Wine testing and lunches, Wine achieved a high reputation in the market. All members are exhibitions, Creative activities in nature (vine certified against Integrated Crop Management processes and wine paintings by children). (GLOBALGAP, AGRO 2-1&2-1) and Food Safety Management Systems (ISO 22000:2005). Another Project that DKG Consulting is involving since the DKG has also contributed to the idea and the inception is CRETACERT, a non profit organization created implementation of CottonBest.eu ™, a Certified for managing the high Reputation of the quality agricultural traceability program based on the Pioneer Hiproducts of Crete,Greece Bread Hellas protocol and as a reliable, realistic and flexible system promotes the cooperation among all cotton market “players” without binding any of them. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 68 Cultural Heritage DKG Group as a co-founder to the Cultural Foundation Methexis“, is founded to meet the needs and beliefs of founders and its members who place as protractor the quality, culture, participation and cooperation and aims to the universality of the individual and the art of everyday life «The daily art of living». Support and conduct events to raise awareness of the local community in cultural, sports education, environmental protection upgrade routine. The organization or creation of schools and training courses of various subjects H implementation actions of counseling, mentoring, training, education and training. Developing initiatives to assist the community The creation of the Movement Supporters Club Cooperation with other agencies to protect the flora and fauna of sensitive ecosystems Working with local and national organizations to capture, rescue, conservation and enhancement of cultural and natural resources The Memorandum of Cooperation with other organizations similar interest in Greece and abroad. The development of the Volunteer Spirit Submission cultural – tourist proposals for implementation of actions relating to the cultural and tourism promotion – development, Voluntary participation in improvement projects and maintenance and the development of corresponding studies for their implementation, Participation with other agencies on projects, activities, interventions and programs for the improvement of daily life The promotion of Greece and other countries, and the promotion of its products, which may take informal or formal and structured form. The emergence, development and protection of cultural heritage and monuments of our country and beyond. The organization of cultural activities and the actions and initiatives of cultural and social character. H production of printed and electronic promotional material activities For more please visit : www.m-f.gr & www.ekthesisyrrako.blogspot.com/ DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 69 Cultural Heritage “People of the DKG Group contributes to two television show series that aims to educate and entertain those who are seeking adventure or cultural treasure. For more please visit : www.orizontas.org & www.enxoro.gr The Orizontas specialized for six years in the broadcasting and communication support of trail running races outside classic track. In this direction included collaborations with the Rodopi Ultra Trail 100 miles, the Rodopi Challenge 50 miles, Round Lake Ioannina and 30 km Run Greece. The program is broadcast digitally by the television station Epirus TV1» via Digea. Also in the world via satellite and OTETV and online from www.epirustv1.gr. “En-Xoro” TV Show is a long term effort where through site records, citing remarkable archival materials and lodging experience and views of individuals and organizations of the wider Area of our Folk Culture, seeks to rescue and exploit the rich cultural heritage of Epirus in particular and the Greeks in general through a perspective that believes in their strength and in their ability to offer a lot in today's Greek. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 70 WELLNESS As part of our commitment, we are helping our associates to become more active participants, volunteers and supporters to physical, creative and entertainment activities. DKG Group cares about people's health and well-being and want to make a positive difference in people's lives, both physically and emotionally. We aspire to help people lead active, healthy lifestyles through our support of programs that encourage active living. The 7th anniversary ROUT 100miles AdvEnduRun was celebrated in the best possible way, since the race left the best impressions on the athletes that had the chance to compete in the beautiful forests of Rodopi. Some members of DKG Group take active part as organizers, participants and some others as volunteers and supporters. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 71 Volunteer Activities People who give their time are essential to the prosperity of any event Volunteering is a noble act of serving the humankind on freewill using one’s competitions with no cost to the final beneficiary and without accepting any profit or reward for the discharge of such competencies. The Group serves volunteerism either by providing charitable gifts to eligible nonprofit organizations or by taking active part ( some members of DKG Group) as volunteers and supporters at the ROUT 100miles AdvEnduRun event, the Rodopi Challenge (ROC), and Haidou Trail Party, Haidou Kids DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 SPONSORSHIP We are happy and proud to support the sailboat Limoncello for many years. Limoncello helps the local tourism development since it participates to water sport events like the Aegean Regatta race that is held in different Greek islands every year. Apart from the tourism development, also encourage close relationships, teamwork, solidarity and understanding among various people who join the crew. 07 Section Seven INFORMATION ON THE REPORT How we intend to make this CSR & COP available to our Stakeholders ABBREVIATIONS DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the UN AGRO 2.1 & 2.2 Standard Hellenic certification scheme for agriculture Global Compact website enterprises http://www.unglobalcompact.org DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the COP Communication on Progress DKG Group website http://www.dkggroup.com & http://www.csr-dkggroup.com/ CSR Corporate Social Responsibility DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the Group’s GRI Global Reporting Initiative social media profiles on linkedin http://www.linkedin.com/company/the-dkggroup facebook https://www.facebook.com/thedkggroup ILO International Labour Organization twitter https://twitter.com/thedkggroup slideshare http://www.slideshare.net/DKG_GROUP youtube IPM Integrated Pest Management https://www.youtube.com/user/thedkggroup DKG’s COP & CSR will be sent via e-mail to all IRTC International Research and Training Centre for our employees Sustainability ISO International Organisation for Standardisation G.A.P. Good Agricultural Practices ROUT Rodopi Ultra Trail UNGC United Nations Global Compact 75 CLOSING REPORTING In this report, DKG Group describes its FEEDBACK PERIOD efforts, progress and plans in relation to sustainability and Global Compact As part of our commitment to open This report focuses on the results of Principles. All information in the Report is and honest dialogue with our activities in fiscal 2016 and some from reliable and properly reflects the stakeholders, we invite feedback on 2017 (from January, 2016 to March feasibility of Group's targets, expectations the contents of this report, or any other 2017) but includes some activities and ambitions. COP or CSR issues of importance that continuing from before and more DKG Group will continue to be guided by we have not covered. recent ones. its core values and its unwavering focus on ethical operation and service to its Please address all feedback to Dimitra stakeholders. In 2017, we look forward to Notiou, at csr@dkggroup.com improving on the things we can control and continuing to lead the right way every day. We invite you to join us in our sustainable world, and welcome your continued support in this journey. DKG GROUP CSR & COP REPORT 2016 The committee of CSR & COP REPORT Editors: Proof readers: Photo credit: Editing: Christos D. Katsanos Evagelos N. Drimtzias Gregory Daris, TROPOS Branding Co & Dimitra Notiou Dimitrios Gartzonikas Dimitris Gartzonikas, Christos D. Katsanos Publication Current issue: March 2017 Next issue: Scheduled for March 2018 77 Thank you We value your opinions and feedback, and we would appreciate your thoughts about our initiatives and communications. contact us at csr@dkggroup.com Here is your custom footer
