FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 Fiscal Year Ended February 28, 2017 (From March 1, 2016 to February 28, 2017) FREUND’s Business CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY Contents FREUND Group consists of two business segments. ABOUT FREUND: In the pharmaceutical product field, the Machinery About FREUND FREUND’s Business 1 “Develop the Future through Creativity” Business Segment focuses on the development Challenge to Create Corporate Value 2 Machinery of machinery equipment mainly for granulation FREUND —Striving to Solve Social Issues Business and coating. FREUND’s domestic market share for CORPORATION —History of Challenge and Creativity granulation and coating equipment is about 70%. Financial Highlights 6 FREUND is also driving sales in the Asian markets —Achievements in Creating as well as in the European and American markets. Corporate Value MANAGEMENT In the non-pharmaceutical product field, the business segment VISION focuses on developing, manufacturing and selling industrial equipment FREUND’s Growth Strategy FREUND’S GROWTH STRATEGY: for various industries by integrating granulating and coating techFREUND Group’s Business nologies with grinding and classifying technologies. This value-added Foundation and Scope Overview of the 8 “Contributing to better medical care and health equipment is applied to toners, fine ceramics, catalyst processes, food, fragrance and seeds. FREUND FREUND-TURBO New Mid-Term Management Plan Message from President and CEO 9 10 for people worldwide, and creating and fostering GROUP CORPORATION Feature Topic 1: Contract Manufacturing Business technologies for fulfilling lives and food safety.” The Chemicals Business Segment provides excipiof Pharmaceutical Excipients 14 ents in its mainstay pharmaceutical product field to Feature Topic 2: Chemicals meet the needs of the industry for effective drug New Generation Tablet Imprinting/ Inspection Machine “TABREX Rev.” 16 Business formulation technologies. It is also commercializing Business Results Feature Topic 3: dietary supplements and seamless mini capsules in FREUND Group’s Overseas Expansion 18 Profile a joint development project with client companies FREUND-VECTOR CORPORATION by leveraging on FREUND’s granulating and coating technologies. FREUND Group’s Research and In the non-pharmaceutical product field, the business segment (United States) Development 20 For over half a century, FREUND CORPORATION (“FREUND” or the “Company”) provides functional food materials based on its particle processing has developed numerous granulating and coating equipment and excipient technologies cultivated over many years, as well as proprietary BUSINESS RESULTS: products using its highly unique technologies. food preservatives. Financial Data for the Past Decade 22 The foundations of our technologies originate in processing small granules Foundation Supporting Growth Management Discussion and Analysis 24 from various raw materials and coating particles and tablets. FREUND is highly Segment Information: At a Glance 27 unique in that it boasts technologies in both products (“Hardware”) and dosage Machinery Business Segment 28 formulation technologies (“Software”). We have endeavored to generate highly Chemicals Business Segment 30 functional pharmaceutical excipients and food ingredients through evolution FREUND Group Business Portfolio of both Hardware and Software. FOUNDATION SUPPORTING GROWTH: The FREUND Group (the “Group”) is currently endeavoring to achieve further Corporate Governance 32 advancements in its powder and particle design technologies, along with efforts Business Field1 Internal Manufacturing Process2 Business Operating —Directors and Audit & Supervisory to enter new technological fields outside the field of pharmaceutical products Segment Company Pharmaceutical Non-Pharmaceutical Development/ Manufacturing Testing Board Members, Honorary Chairman including mechatronics and software and thereby expanding the breadth of its Products Products Designing —Corporate Governance Structure overall business. At the same time, we are implementing measures to strengthen FREUND —Risk Management our business foundations to achieve growth in the coming age. —Message from External Director Machinery and Full-Time Audit & Supervisory FREUND-VECTOR Business Board Member With regard to FY02/17 financial results data, the Company’s consolidated subsidiaries FREUND-VECTOR Data Corporate Social Responsibility 38 CORPORATION (“FREUND-VECTOR”) and FREUND-TURBO CORPORATION (“FREUND-TURBO”) FREUND-TURBO changed their accounting periods to end in February, which led both companies to record irregular —Responsible Communications accounting periods of 14 months from January 1, 2016 to February 28, 2017. with Stakeholders (Pharmaceutical Excipients) DATA: Notes Regarding the Company’s Estimates: Chemicals This Report contains forward looking plans, estimates, strategies, earnings and other statements. Such informaFREUND Consolidated Financial Statements 40 tion is based upon the most accurate information available at the time of this document’s creation. Therefore, the Business (Functional Food Materials) Company’s actual financial results may diverge largely from statements represented in this document due to the Company and Stock Information 45 influence of various risks and uncertainties. Influencing factors include the economic environment, competitive pressures, related regulations and laws, changes in product development conditions and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates relating to the Company’s businesses. Furthermore, the factors influencing the Company’s esti(Food Preservatives) mates and other statements are not limited to the above. Note: The details of this Report are based upon the results of the fiscal year 2017 (from March 1, 2016 to February 28, 1. The “ ” marks reflect products which are supplied on a partial basis. 2017). However, new information available after March 2017 has also been included in this Report. 2. The “ ” marks reflect internal manufacturing processes of which some are outsourced. FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 1 ABOUT FREUND: Challenge to Create Corporate Value (1) PROVISION OF VALUE TO SOCIETY Better taste and health. Supporting enriched lifestyles of people. EXAMPLE 2: Striving to Solve Social Issues Food and The FREUND Group’s technologies are commonly used in peoples’ daily lives. Health About FREUND For example, our machinery and formulation technologies are used to manufacture drugs “that are not bitter” and “that do not require water to be ingested.” Furthermore, the Group provides technologies that contribute to improvements in the health and lifestyles of people in the areas of food and industrial sectors that are used every day. PROVISION OF VALUE TO SOCIETY Improving the quality of medical care by increasing FREUND’s Growth Strategy Pursuing fresh taste, Maximizing the effect of the value addition of pharmaceutical products. safety and security effective food ingredients Food preservatives are with advanced drug small pouches placed inside formulation technologies EXAMPLE 1: of packaging to protect Frontline of Along with the increased the flavor and ensure the concern for health in recent safety and security of freshly Medicine cooked pastries and breads, Japanese confectionaries years, demand for supplements and health foods is on the rise. FREUND’s and other products. FREUND Food Preservative advanced drug formulation Food Coating Agent develops food quality prolonging “Antimold” “AQ shelax” technologies are used to promote agents based on its “ethanol evaporation” technology which the function of effective food ingredients and to enable easier Business Results preserves bacteriostatic effects and freshness of products. ingestion, thereby contributing to healthy lifestyles together with health support manufacturers. PROVISION OF VALUE TO SOCIETY Taking on challenges in new technological fields to support enriched and convenient lifestyles. Foundation Supporting Growth EXAMPLE 3: Advanced Industry Tablet Coating Machine Pharmaceutical Excipients Tablet Imprinting Machine “HICOATER FZ” “Granutol F (Fine)” “TABREX Rev.” Improving drug efficacy through Improving lifestyles of elderly by Preventing medical mistakes granulating and coating technologies pursuing “easy to ingest” drugs caused by dispensing errors For over half a century, FREUND CORPOThe active ingredients of drugs account In the dispensing field, there are incidents RATION has leveraged its core competenfor only several percent of their total of medical mistakes due to patients taking cies of granulating and coating technolovolume, with the remaining portion being the wrong drugs because they appear gies, along with its creation of Hardware excipients that are used to make drugs similar*. FREUND prints on drugs to allow Data and Software, represented by products into sizes that are easy to swallow and for easy identification and contributes to and drug formulation technologies for coating of the surface to mask the prevention of medical mistakes worldrespectively, to increase the value of pharbitter taste. FREUND is strengthening wide. Therefore, FREUND has developed Creating new markets for the next generation maceutical products. At the same time, the development of orally disintegrating the industry’s first safe drug ingestion using FREUND’s unique pulverizing technologies FREUND has conducted manufacturing tablet (ODT) related products which use concept that involves a new generation For example, synthetic resin pulverizing machinery is used to manufacture that enables more people to access high a unique formulation technology and tablet imprinting/inspection machine value-added pharmaceutical products, allows for easier ingestion of drugs by and specialized inks. copying use toners to create even more clear and beautiful characters and pictures. and the Group strives to improve the assisting the swallowing process. *Source: The Japan Council for Quality Health Care The Group uses its unique fine and high-speed pulverizing technologies to take quality of medical care worldwide. on challenges in new areas such as lithium ion batteries and to contribute to Fine Pulverizer new market creation that makes peoples’ lives more enriched and convenient. with Built-in Classifier “V TURBO” 2 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 3 ABOUT FREUND: Challenge to Create Corporate Value (2) History of Challenge and Creativity The FREUND Group is a research and development based group of companies that leverages LOOKING TO THE FUTURE: 2012– About FREUND its core competencies of granulating, coating and pulverizing technologies to provide machinery equipment (“Pen”), and chemical and food products (“Ink”) to the pharmaceutical FREUND has established 2ND GROWTH PERIOD: and food industries. In the future, FREUND will continue to contribute to the health the group value of and medical care of people around the world by creating and nurturing 2004– Creating unique technologies that improve peoples’ lives worldwide “ONE FREUND” to help 1ST GROWTH PERIOD: Products including the “Negamold” technologies that secure safety of foods and enrich peoples’ lives. food preservative series and the “FLOW promote its pharmaceutical 1990– Promoting new technology development and entering COATER (12 bar)” pressure-resistant type fluid bed granulation, coating and drying and non-pharmaceutical industrial realms INNOVATION PERIOD: machine were developed. The lineup of product field FREUND’s Growth Strategy 1970– Promoting further fortification of “HICOATER FZ” new tablet coating direct compression agents for ODT has machine, “FLOW COATER Universal” been fortified to cultivate new markets, product lineup and globalization fluid bed granulation, coating and drying and “TABREX Rev.” new generation tablet businesses globally. FOUNDING PERIOD: Development of “SPHEREX” seammachine, “GRANUMEIST” high shear imprinting machine, “Granuformer” conless mini-capsule production machine, 1964– Business expansion amidst Japan’s high economic growth “NONPAREIL-105” spherical granules pharmaceutical exipients, and “GRANUmixing granulating machine, “millmeist” wet/dry process milling machine were developed. In 2010, Turbo Corporation tinuous granulation and drying system, lithium ion battery market products and other new products have been developed FREUND broadened its product lineup REX” multi-functional rotor processor for (currently called FREUND-TURBO), a as next-generation products for marketing range to include the “ROLLER COMgranulating, coating and drying machine Founded amidst Japan’s high manufacturer of machinery equipment on a global basis. PACTOR” dry granulation machine, was conducted. With regard to expaneconomic growth period for powders, joined the FREUND Group. “HICOATER” automated sugar and film sion of facilities, FREUND established the FREUND was founded in April 1964 and coating machine, “CF-Granulator” certrif“Hamamatsu Technology Development became the world’s first company to deugal-flow type granulating and coating Research Center” in Hamamatsu City, Shivelop automated film coating equipment machine and the first direct compression zuoka Prefecture in 1992. In 1996, FREUND and film coating fluids. Moreover, the pharmaceutical excipient. FREUND also listed its shares on the Over The Counter Company acquired the world’s first patent signed a licensing agreement with Vector Business Results Market (currently known as JASDAQ Secfor pharmaceutical use excipient granules. Corporation of the United States (currently tion of the Tokyo Stock Exchange). In 1997, Thereafter, “FLOW COATER” fluid bed known as FREUND-VECTOR). FurtherVector Corporation became a member granulation, coating and drying machine more, the “Antimold” food preservatives of the FREUND Group. and other products were introduced. business was started. 7th Mid-Term Marketing networks were created within 5th Mid-Term 6th Mid-Term Japan and in overseas markets. Management Plan: Management Plan: Management Plan: Expansion of Change & ONE scale, improveChallenge 3rd Mid-Term 4th Mid-Term ment of operaFREUND Management Plan: Management Plan: tions and Net Sales: (For details, please Foundation Supporting Growth Taking on Business management ¥21.1 billion refer to page 9.) challenge of restructuring and Operating Profit: globalization establishment Net Sales: ¥2.0 billion 1st Mid-Term 2nd Mid-Term ¥17.6 billion Management Plan: Management Plan: of strategic Net Sales: objectives Operating Profit: Yusho 21 Plan Gaining superior¥13.1 billion ¥1.2 billion ity over competiNet Sales: Net Sales: Operating Profit: tors through ¥13.2 billion ¥10.3 billion ¥900 million dynamism of Operating Profit: Operating Profit: FREUND Group FY02/2022 ¥600 million ¥500 million TARGETS: Net Sales: Net Sales: ¥11.0 billion Net Sales and Operating Profit Operating Profit: ¥30.0 billion ¥500 million Operating Profit: ¥3.0 billion Consolidated Data Net Sales Operating Profit Non-consolidated (Forecast) Fiscal years ended February 1964 1974 1984 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2022 4 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 5 ABOUT FREUND: Financial Highlights FREUND CORPORATION and Consolidated Subsidiaries Fiscal Years ended February 2013 to February 2017 Achievements in Creating Corporate Value (For financial data for 10 years, please refer to pages 22 and 23.) Orders received Net sales and operating profit Total assets and equity Free cash flows About FREUND Order backlog Operating margin Equity ratio 3,253 20,000 24,000 16.0 20,000 100.0 3,000 19,101 18,286 21,164 17,277 17,206 19,027 15,550 15,000 15,109 18,000 12.0 15,000 14,971 75.0 2,000 14,340 17,616 17,424 16,396 65.8% 67.0% 12,804 61.4% 63.6% 12,117 9.6% 63.8% 9.0% 11,529 12,185 10,987 10,000 12,000 8.0 10,000 10,239 50.0 1,000 8,790 7.3% 9,197 803 582 FREUND’s Growth Strategy 7,328 7.1% 6,780 6.6% 408 5,809 5,551 5,000 6,000 4.0 5,000 25.0 0 (142) 1,470 2,041 1,286 1,150 1,346 0 0 0 0 0 -1,000 FY02/13 FY02/14 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 FY02/13 FY02/14 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 FY02/13 FY02/14 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 FY02/13 FY02/14 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 Orders received (¥ million) Net sales (¥ million, left axis) Total assets (¥ million, left axis) Free cash flows (¥ million) Order backlog (¥ million) Operating profit (¥ million, left axis) Equity (¥ million, left axis) Operating margin (%, right axis) Equity ratio (%, right axis) Based upon the Japanese government’s policy of boosting the share In FY02/17, favorable demand from the generic drug manufacturers Both the Company’s total assets and equity continue to steadily In FY02/16, free cash flows turned to a net outflow due primarily to of generic drugs used to 80% of total drugs “at the earliest possible allowed both net sales and profits of the Machinery and Chemicals increase. Therefore, its equity ratio has trended stably without any increases in work in process at the year-end arising from an increase in Business Results stage between fiscal 2018 and 2020,” generic drug manufacturers Business Segments to grow. Consequently, net sales and operating large fluctuations. orders. In FY02/17, declines in notes and accounts receivables trade, are promoting accelerated capital investments to expand their manuprofit rose to new record highs. Furthermore, operating margin rose and increases in both advances received and notes and accounts facturing capacity. Therefore, the Machinery Business Segment is to 9.6% in FY02/17 and took another step closer to the Company’s payables trade contributed to a large improvement in free cash flows. seeing favorable order trends, and both orders received and order goal of 10% consolidated operating margin. backlog reached record high levels in FY02/17. Net sales by region Profit attributable to owners of parent Capital investment R&D expenses Overseas sales ratio Return on assets (ROA), Return on equity (ROE) Depreciation R&D expenses ratio Foundation Supporting Growth 24,000 40.0 1,200 16.0 600 800 10.0 564 21,164 1,064 545 687 19,027 961 477 640 18,000 17,616 5,563 30.0 900 12.0 450 600 592 7.5 17,424 5,480 16,396 4,367 4,382 765 787 28.8% 26.3% 3,596 25.1% 695 338 464 24.9% 8.7% 8.5% 9.0% 321 435 8.1% 300 303 308 12,000 21.9% 20.0 600 8.0 400 5.0 266 232 6.6% 5.6% 222 3.4% 3.6% 5.1% 5.1% 5.6% 15,601 2.7% 6,000 13,233 13,056 13,547 10.0 300 4.0 150 200 3.0% 2.5 12,800 2.6% 4.0% 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 FY02/13 FY02/14 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 FY02/13 FY02/14 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 FY02/13 FY02/14 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 FY02/13 FY02/14 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 Data Japan (¥ million, left axis) Profit attributable to owners of parent (¥ million, left axis) Capital investment (¥ million) R&D expenses (¥ million, left axis) Overseas (¥ million, left axis) ROA (%, right axis) Depreciation (¥ million) R&D expenses ratio (%, right axis) Overseas sales ratio (%, right axis) ROE (%, right axis) Overseas sales continue to steadily grow every fiscal year. In FY02/17, The Company was able to achieve record high net profit attributable Capital investment for non-current assets rose in response to expanR&D expenses rose on the back of full scale development of “TABREX net sales in North America rose by ¥1.1 billion year-on-year (yoy), to owners of parent in FY02/17. Consequently, it also achieved ROA of sion of research facilities and spending on interior furnishings associRev.” new generation tablet imprinting/inspection machine and other allowing declines in overseas sales in other regions to be offset and 5.6% and ROE of 9.0%, exceeding the Company’s management target ated with the move of the Company’s head office in FY02/17. Along new products during FY02/16 to FY02/17. The Company will conduct boosting total overseas sales yoy. The Company is implementing of 8.0% for ROE. The Company will continue to implement measures with the capital investment, depreciation also rose. Going forward, investments for anticipatory research and development including measures to expand sales channels in global markets to increase to maintain a ROE ratio in excess of 8.0%. capital investment will be conducted with a focus upon improving those for new product development as a R&D based company. its overseas sales a step further. the effectiveness of spending on both research facilities and manufacturing facilities for the Chemicals Business Segment. 6 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 7 FREUND’S GROWTH STRATEGY: FREUND’S GROWTH STRATEGY: FREUND Group’s Business Foundation and Scope Overview of the New Mid-Term Management Plan FREUND is a manufacturer of granulation and coating equipment (machinery equipment) and pharmaceutical excipients (chemical products) used in the process of manufacturing solid dosage The 7th Mid-Term Management Plan forms (tablets, granules, and others). In the pharmaceutical business field, FREUND applies a unique (FY02/18–FY02/22) About FREUND business model as the only company in the world that deals in research and development of both machinery equipment and chemical products—the raw materials from which pharmaceutical products are made. Recently, FREUND has been promoting a growth strategy with an eye toward the next half Values which the Number Creating special value century through applying its fundamental particle processing technologies to the non-pharmaceutical FREUND Group holds precious ONE Become “Number One” in each of FREUND’s businesses business fields, e.g., foods and other industrials. Through such businesses, the FREUND Group aims to contribute to the improvement in health and quality of life of individuals worldwide. Only Putting clients’ views first FREUND’s Growth Strategy ONE Become “Only One” serving both clients and society Unique Business Model and Foundation for Creating Added Value Be Networking Pen Ink Hardware Software ONE Unite to a “Be One” group Establish a business model for “Pen (machinery Create unique added values equipment)” and “Ink (chemical products)” by integrating “Hardware” and “Software” Ever since its founding, FREUND has differentiated itself FREUND not only conducts research and development of such Basic Strategy Business Results from its competitors with a business model having both “Hardware” as machinery equipment and chemical products, “Pen (machinery equipment)” and “Ink (chemical products)” but also develops “Software” of drug formulation technologies Respond to clients’ needs with technological expertise and in the pharmaceutical business field. It has established its including the particle processing technologies which enhance position as an industry leader in the pharmaceutical the performance of such “Hardware.” FREUND integrates these create a management structure to realize product manufacturing equipment industry. “Hardware” and “Software,” and provides highly unique proprietary product lineup, contracted processing and technical sustained growth in profits services, thereby driving the creation of unique added values. Innovation period Create a foundation Foundation Supporting Growth FREUND Group’s Business Scope based upon Pharmaceutical Products Manufacturing Processes for growth FREUND Group Business Fields 2021 2022 Active 2018 2019 2020 PharmaGrinding/ Blending/ Granulating Drying/ Tableting Coating Tablet Printing Packing ceutical Ingredients Classifying Kneading Grading *Fiscal years ending February Using fundamental technologies in Equipment and Chemicals Divisions to provide unique products Operating Net Sales Margin ROE Grinding/Classifying Equipment Granulating Equipment Coating Equipment Printing Equipment Important measures ¥30.0bn 10.0% 8.0% Fine Chemicals Excipient Coating Liquids Ink Data Create new businesses and Management objectives strengthen existing businesses for the next 5 years FREUND Japan FREUND-TURBO FREUND FREUND FREUND 1 Further improve profitability of the Machinery Overseas (FREUND-TURBO) FREUND FREUND-VECTOR FREUND FREUND-VECTOR FREUND FREUND-VECTOR Foundation building and Chemicals Businesses Integrate “Hardware (products) and Software 2 Develop new products (drug formulation technologies)” 3 Establish a foundation for the service business Strengthen FREUND’s global operating structure as a 3rd cornerstone of FREUND’s business Strengthen Fortify Enter into 4 Significantly alter business processes non-pharmaceutical product field global operations new business fields 8 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 9 FREUND’S GROWTH STRATEGY: Message from President and CEO Implementing our However, FREUND was able to cultivate new vendors States and European countries, but also in the emerging markets in developing markets within Asia, and start cooperation of China, Brazil, India and Russia. Therefore, the Group can cultibetween FREUND-VECTOR of the United States, responsible for vate these markets by establishing strong footholds there. “ONE FREUND” value About FREUND machinery business for pharmaceutical products, and FREUNDBased upon this operating environment, we will establish a TURBO, responsible for non-pharmaceutical applications of management vision clarifying our role as an entity serving the to create new values pulverizing equipment within Japan, while the issues of “accelerating new product development” and “fortifying product lineup” public interests with a unique business model that combines both our “Hardware (products) and Software (drug formulation Promoting borderless businesses, were left outstanding. In addition, the first order for “TABREX Rev.” new tablet imprinting/inspection machine was booked technologies).” Our goal is to contribute to the future of medicine and the health of people worldwide. and creating management foundaat the end of FY02/17. Our Group Value “ONE FREUND” tions for the next generation Overview of FY02/17 Consolidated Financial Results FREUND’s Growth Strategy FREUND will implement its group value “ONE FREUND” during Against this backdrop, demand for pharmaceutical product field the course of the 7th Mid-Term Management Plan from FY02/18 machinery within Japan trended strongly. Also, the domestic to FY02/22 and endeavor to achieve the goals to (1) become chemicals business saw strong sales of pharmaceutical excipi“Number One” by creating special value, (2) become “Only One” ents to generic drug manufacturers. Moreover, favorable sales by putting clients’ views first, and (3) unite to a “Be One” group Based upon the corporate motto “Change & Challenge,” of machinery in North America allowed FREUND-VECTOR to through networking. our 6th Mid-Term Management Plan has promoted “One achieve record-high earnings in local currency terms during Based upon these values, we will endeavor to “create a for All, All for One (management unity).” During the period the course of the 6th Mid-Term Management Plan. At the same management structure to realize sustained growth in profits” of the Plan, our business environment changed dramatitime, FREUND-TURBO was able to expand sales of new prodin global markets. In order to accomplish this, we will “create a cally due to the sudden and unexpected rise in demand for pharmaceutical product related machinery and ucts fortifying its marketing function in the non-pharmaceutical foundation for growth” over the three year period to FY02/20. equipment by generic drug manufacturers. product field. We have also identified the two year period from FY02/21 to Business Results Consequently, both consolidated net sales and operating FY02/22 as an “innovation period,” in which we will create Reviewing the 6th Mid-Term Management Plan profit rose. However, due to delays in the overseas business new businesses based upon the Group’s technologies and At the start of the current plan in FY02/15, we created a goal of deployment and new product introductions, net sales and operstrengthen our existing businesses. eliminating our high reliance upon growth in the Japanese pharating profit did not reach their respective goals of ¥23.0 billion In addition to promoting strategic business creation that intemaceutical market and called for the full-scale launch of efforts and ¥2.3 billion. grates both our “Hardware and Software” in the process of the to cultivate opportunities in overseas markets. At the same time, three year growth foundation creation, we will strengthen our we included the goal of fortifying our product lineup by effecWith a view to the disappearance of the extraordinary business execution structure on a borderless and global basis. tively leveraging the Group’s resources. demand created by the efforts to raise generic drug market Through these efforts, we expect to achieve net sales of ¥30.0 Foundation Supporting Growth In June 2015, the Japanese government made a cabinetshare to 80%, the Group is now confronted with the issue billion, operating margin of over 10% and ROE of over 8% level decision to adopt the “2015 Economy and Public Finance of creating the foundations for the next phase of growth. during the final fiscal year of the Plan. Management and Reform Basic Policy” with a goal of raising the During the coming FY02/18, the 7th Mid-Term ManageFor further details on the 7th Mid-Term Management Plan, please refer to pages 9, and 24 to 26. share of generic drugs to 80% of the total Japanese pharmament Plan will start based upon the group value “ONE ceutical product market by 2020. Along with this goal of “generic FREUND” and with a goal of implementing reforms drug 80% market share,” demand for machinery and equipment of our management structure. rose and inquiries from Japanese pharmaceutical product manufacturers to our machinery business grew strongly. Roadmap for the Creation of According to the Japan Generic Medicines Association Our Management Vision FY02/18 Consolidated Financial Forecasts (JGA) report on “Conditions of Generic Drugs” for pharmaceuWith regard to the Japanese pharmaceuFY02/17 FY02/18 yoy changes tical product manufacturing trends in the Japanese market, the tical product field, demand is expected to (¥ million) % market is expected to grow from 114.4 billion tablets in 2015 remain strong over the course of the next one to two years. However, various strucNet sales 21,164 21,000 -164 -0.8 to 125.0 billion in 2020 (growth of 9.26%). Amongst this total, Data generic drugs are expected to grow from 61.3 billion tablets tural issues such as the aging population Operating profit 2,041 2,100 +59 +2.9 to 95.0 billion from March 2015 to 2021 (growth of 55.0%), and declining birthrates, reductions in new Ordinary profit 2,097 2,100 +3 +0.1 and their share is expected to rise from 56.0% to 80.0%. pharmaceutical products will cause compeProfit attributable to tition to intensify as the maturity of the 1,064 1,400 +336 +31.5 In order to capture this extraordinary demand exceeding owners of parent the initial expectations in the Mid-Term Management Plan, Iwao Fusejima market advances a step further. At the same EPS (¥) 61.72 81.19 +19.47 +31.5 we had to shift our resources of people, goods and capital. President and CEO time, consumption of pharmaceutical prodCapital investment 564 650 +86 +15.2 Consequently, we encountered delays in implementing ucts is expanding not only in the largest drug consuming markets of the United Depreciation 338 360 +22 +6.5 efforts to create a new growth structure. R&D expenses 640 550 -90 -14.1 10 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 11 FREUND’S GROWTH STRATEGY: Message from President and CEO The creation of our next-generation management in Germany in May. In addition, we displayed a new application training programs to encourage them into becoming contributing In addition, we will conduct ongoing reviews of our internal structure will begin on a full-scale basis from FY02/18 and of our “TABREX Rev.” machine at the “Interphex Japan” Internaassets at an early stage, and implement other new measures control function to strengthen this function for the entire Group. continue for three years. New businesses will be cultivated tional Pharmaceutical R&D and Manufacturing Expo/Conference which are not merely an extension of our existing strategy. in each of our business and technological fields, with To All of Our Stakeholders About FREUND held at the end of June with a positive response. In addition to clearly identifying the characteristics of additional efforts in strengthening our existing businesses. For further details on “TABREX Rev,” please refer to pages 16 to 17. our ideal human resources, we will also implement human The Group is implementing structural reforms with a view to To achieve these goals, we will aim to create a new With regard to our non-pharmaceutical product field, we aim resources development programs in line with these characterthe business environment after the wave of capital investments foundation for growth. to strengthen the output capacity of our food preservatives and istics to raise the capabilities of our employees. Furthermore, within the Japanese pharmaceutical product field. The 7th MidFREUND-TURBO will continue to endeavor to cultivate business our management will take an active role in strengthening our Term Management Plan seeks to capture large business opporCreate New Businesses (1) Expand Overseas opportunities in industrial market applications. human resources development program structures, and actively tunities by promoting efforts to establish foundations that will Based on “ONE FREUND” With regard to research and development, FREUND and promote projects to bring about reforms of our corporate enable us to achieve the next generation of growth. With regard to our global business deployment, FREUND will be FREUND-VECTOR are collaborating to expand global sales of the culture and workstyles. The Group possesses a business network that covers a responsible for the Japanese market, while creating a managebusiness base that includes “Hardware and Software” and FREUND’s Growth Strategy global model “Granuformer” continuous granulating and drying ment structure for the Group companies to act in unity to cultisystem. Moreover, FREUND and FREUND-TURBO are promoting Strengthening Our Corporate Foundations “Pen and Ink” that have been accumulated since FREUND’s vate markets outside of Japan. efforts to create a series of products that leverage the FREUND With regard to our organization, we will implement reforms of foundation, and its highly unique technology base that From FY02/18 forward in our pharmaceutical product field, Group’s core technologies in new fields including lithium ion our business processes to establish the foundations to bring includes powder control and processing, coating, pulverizing, FREUND and FREUND-VECTOR will launch cooperative activibattery use electrode materials. about changes to the Company. First, we will strive to increase mechatronics, sensing, and software, and a wide range of ties in marketing for machinery in India and other Asian counthe visibility and reform all of our internal business process. geographic territories. tries. Also from FY02/18 forward, the “ONE FREUND” value will Important Measures: Strengthen Existing Businesses Furthermore, we will promote drastic improvements of our The Group’s “ONE FREUND” value will be reflected in our be implemented in our supply chain that covers the marketing, We remain aware of the potential for severe market conditions fundamental business process systems. promotion of cooperation between our different business design and development, manufacturing, sales and service to arise in the wake of the strong demand created by the JapaWith regard to our finances, we will prioritize strengthdivisions and the Group companies, and from the perspecfunctions to create a borderless business. nese government’s goal of raising the share of generic drugs to ening our management accounting to create a structure that tive of the aggressive global expansion of our businesses. This Furthermore, we will strengthen our new product develop80% by 2020. With regard to the direction of existing businesses can quickly assess our consolidated financial conditions. As part will serve as a key step in pursuing the goal of “contributing to Business Results ment structure to respond to the needs of markets in various within maturing markets, we need to adopt a fabless manufacof this, we have changed the accounting year ends of both better medical care and health for people worldwide to support countries and to expand the field of pharmaceutical excipients turing structure with a view to overseas business deployment FREUND-VECTOR and FREUND-TURBO from December to rich lifestyles” by promoting our philosophy to “Develop the to global markets similar to our machinery business. and conduct fundamental reviews of our product development February to align them with our accounting year. Future through Creativity.” For further details on our global business deployment, please refer to structure to increase our competitive strength. We will accelerate Furthermore, we are implementing a corporate social responWe look forward to the continued support and encouragepages 18 to 19. our efforts to establish this structure during the coming fiscal sibility program as outlined by the 10 principles of the United ment of our stakeholders in our efforts to take on new chalyear, and thereafter promote development of future generations Nation’s Global Compact in March 2016 with the goal of creating lenges and to sustain growth. Create New Businesses (2) Integrate of existing equipment based upon our new product developa steadfast ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) foundation. “Hardware and Software” ment and manufacturing structure. Foundation Supporting Growth We support our pharmaceutical company clients’ efforts in new Global Market Environment product development through our integration of “Hardware and Pharmaceutical Spending by Region and Major Countries (US$ billion) Surrounding the Group The 7th Mid-Term Management Plan calls for promoting Software” in our pharmaceutical excipients business. In addiAccording to the United States new efforts while fortifying our business foundation 170–200 tion, we are strengthening our new business model of contract 14–18 14–18 645–675 major medical information mainly for our machinery business in the Japanese 151.8 90.1 90–94 manufacturing for some of our clients’ manufacturing processes. 11.6 13.0 services company Quintiles pharmaceutical product field. We will achieve this by 140–170 461.7 IMS, expenditures for pharmaIn order to accelerate the deployment of our unique busipromoting companywide strategies for our human +1–4% 116.7 -1–+2% ceutical products are expected nesses, the sales force in Japan for the pharmaceutical product +5–8% 26–30 +3–6% +6–9% resources, organization structure and finances. to expand from US$1,104.6 field, which had been previously divided between the equip2016 2021 2016 2021 2016 2021 32–36 EU5 RUSSIA SOUTH 2016 2021 2016 2021 17.4 +5–8% KOREA JAPAN UNITED STATES billion in 2016 to some ment and excipients divisions, was unified. Through this 26.9 Strengthening Our Human Resources Function in 2016 2021 US$1,500.0 billion in 2021, but structural change, we will cultivate staff who have a deep +10–13% CHINA Response to Business Expansion growth is expected to slow to understanding for both “Hardware and Software” as 2016 2021 +7–10% In order to realize our growth strategies listed above, we need INDIA between 4% and 7% during members of our worldwide sales foundation. Rest of World 2016 2021 the period from 2016 to 2021. to focus upon strengthening our human resources foundations. 8.9–10.8% BRAZIL For further details on the new business model for pharmaceutical To achieve this, we need to review our system designs including Rest of World Pharmerging During this period, the main excipients, please refer to pages 14 to 15. 10.2% 21.6–23.2% drivers of growth are expected Data human resources evaluations and systems. to be original brand drugs Create New Businesses (3) Develop New Products and Moreover, we will adopt more strategic human resources Pharmerging US$1,455– US$1,104.6 +4–7% in developed countries, and Cultivate New Markets methods for hirings with a view to our midto long-term devel22.0% billion 2016–2021 1,485 billion generic drugs in pharmerging (2016) With regard to the pharmaceutical product field, FREUND has opment, and implement on the job training, organizational CAGR (2021) countries. expanded sales of “TABREX Rev.” Demand for this product within training and education programs. Developed Developed 67.8% 67.0–67.7% Japan has been strong, and we have already booked orders for Specifically, we will create a database for the hiring flow several units since the start of the coming fiscal year. FREUND for both new graduates and mid-career hirees, adopt a straSource: IMS Market Notes: and FREUND-VECTOR have begun collaboration for global tegic career hiring approach in accordance with the Mid-Term Prognosis, October 2016 1. US$-denominated expenditures are calculated using variable foreign exchange rates. 2. Compound annual growth rates of US$ denominations are based upon constant foreign exchange rates. 3. EU5 countries include Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom. marketing after participating in an international exhibition held Management Plan, conduct reviews of our new graduate hiree 12 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 13 FREUND’S GROWTH STRATEGY: Feature Topics Feature Topic 1: Contract Manufacturing Business of Pharmaceutical Excipients 1 Globally Deploying of Our Chemicals Business Feature Topic: Inquiries regarding our pharmaceutical excipients for direct compression process from overseas pharmaceutical manufacturers and specialist trading firms increased during the course About FREUND of the 6th Mid-Term Management Plan. In particular, the start of large projects in India, which is considered to be a growth market for pharmaceutical product manufacturing, has been New efforts in the a factor leading to changes in the overall market. pharmaceutical product During the 7th Mid-Term Management Plan, we will implement efforts to establish and strengthen our global supply chain use excipients business for pharmaceutical excipients based upon our Group’s “ONE Page 14– In March 2017, we signed a contract for long-term procurement of granuFREUND” value. And from FY02/18, cooperation with our OverFREUND’s Growth Strategy lated lactose from DFE Pharma headquartered in Germany. DFE Pharma is seas Sales Division will be strengthened, along with establisha global raw materials and excipient manufacturer that maintains two faciliment of new overseas facilities and new collaboration with ties in Holland, one in Germany and one in New Zealand for the manufacturing of lactose. FREUND contracts out OEM manufacture of granulated FREUND-VECTOR being considered. 2 Narimichi Takei, Ph.D lactose in Germany to DFE Pharma. In the future, we are considering taking on the challenge of conducting joint research with overseas raw material Feature Topic: Director, Chemicals Division Strengthening GMP Management Structure manufacturers. for Our Hamamatsu Plant We support our clients’ development of differentiated products through the provision of our drug formulation technologies, and *GMP (Good Manufacturing Practice): contribute to the increase in their competitive standing through GMP means a “pharmaceutical product manufacturing and product New efforts for the pharmaceutical provision of our unique manufacturing technologies. And in quality management standard” used to define manufacturing faciliContribute to the product use excipients business order to conduct a made-to-order contract manufacturing busities and product quality management necessary for the manufacture Business Results of high quality products. GMP is used in various countries throughout prevention of dispensing ness, it is even more important to implement GMP* managethe world and varies from country to country. Consequently, the PIC/S FREUND leverages its drug formulation technologies (“Software”) ment. We began accepting some manufacturing processes on a (acronym for “Pharmaceutical Inspection Convention and Pharmaerrors around the world ceutical Inspection Cooperation Scheme”) is a jointly implemented developed in its own machinery equipment (“Hardware”) business for contract basis from autumn 2015, but ahead of this we acquired Page 16– inspection designed to create a globally accepted common standard its own manufacturing and is striving to launch new business models GMP compliance certification from Shizuoka Prefecture for our for GMP. and strengthen its overseas business deployment through integrating manufacturing lines. We have also facilitated and strengthened our business structure to accommodate this new contract manuboth its “Hardware and Software” within the pharmaceutical product facturing business model. use excipient business. 3 Foundation Supporting Growth Feature Topic: The market recognition of our ODT-related products and our related drug formulaSTRENGTHENING GMP RESPONSES IN THE WORKPLACE: tion technologies has increased greatly due to our efforts to conduct ongoing training sessions to cultivate market opportunities. In recent years, demand for “NONPAREIL” Implementing efforts to strengthen GMP series of spherical granules and “Granutol” direct tableting diluting agent and other responses from a global perspective ODT-related products has grown favorably due to the adoption of ODTs as a Start of new global means of differentiation amongst generic drug manufacturers. Our excipients which use lactose as raw materials do not allowed us to quickly achieve have any medicinal effect, therefore not mandatorily subject compliance with GMP stanstrategies based upon Cultivating Market Opportunities for ODTs through a New Business Model to GMP standards. However, we have strengthened our GMP dards and we are thankful the group value responses along with the start of contract manufacturing of for all of the helpful advice Amidst these trends, FREUND will establish and strengthen business models that effec“ONE FREUND” tively leverage the resources of our Hamamatsu Plant which is a key facility of excipient excipients for drug formulations and joint development of new we received. Page 18– manufacturing and technology development. excipients not contained within official document for listed It is important to get We jointly developed the pharmaceutical excipient for direct compression process drugs. We have also begun providing simulated audits to everyone in the workplace to Chikako Ishigai RPh (Pharmacist) Data used in ODTs “SmartEx” together with Shin Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. in 2013 based upon validate our GMP level for pharmaceutical manufacturing adhere to the rules defined Senior Manager, our industry insight. This product is a composite excipient that is made from special clients outsourcing their manufacturing function to FREUND by GMP. With regard to the Quality Assurance Oﬃce, processes using multiple compounds to achieve high levels of storage stability. In this and have begun preparations to start GMP compliance direction and advice received Production Department, monitoring. during audits, repeated Chemicals Division project, FREUND was responsible for manufacture and Shin Etsu for sales in a new cooperative business model. Since Japan joined the PIC/S, the awareness of global training in the workplace In order for our integration of “Hardware and Software” to contribute to high valuestandards has been widely accepted. FREUND began proacand other diligent efforts will allow us to strengthen GMP added product creation, we have conducted joint new product development projects tively accepting audits by clients with high levels of specialized responses from a global perspective and to establish quality like “SmartEx,” and plan to initiate and strengthen our contract manufacturing business knowhow in GMP operations with the goal of improving our assurance systems that ensure the safety and security of for some processes with pharmaceutical manufacturers. own practices based upon their advice and directions. This pharmaceutical excipients is achieved. 14 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 15 Feature Topic 2: New Generation Tablet Imprinting/ Inspection Machine “TABREX Rev.” Contribute to Requests for testing of printing capabilities on a wide range the prevention of of shapes and sizes of tablets are increasing. dispensing errors About FREUND Flexibility to match Faster processes and Easy compatibility with 1 different production volume 2 lower operating cost 3 different type of tablets around the world 2 Days 1 Day Inspection Printing Inspection Printing Mechatronics technologies that No need for combine system design, sensing, Modular format additional inspection steps Easy maintenance Easy to switch tablet sizes control technologies, software, recognition technologies and 100,000 tablets/hour x other technical elements enabled FREUND’s Growth Strategy X modules Built-in visual Cartridge printing head inspection function the creation of “TABREX Rev.” Checks for Allows which is a unique tablet imprinting defective tablets replacement prior to printing with one-touch Guideless tablet transport machine with an external inspec“TABREX Rev.” Development simplicity Allows different number of Printing tion function. The ability to print on various types of tablets helped to make TeamMechatronics Development units to match production inspection The circumference of tablets is sucked to the Section, New Development volume requirements the development of “TABREX Rev.” possible, and is based upon the strong desire Department, Equipment Division edge of the disk to facilitate a guidless Simple mechanism of our engineers to contribute to the prevention of dispensing errors globally. with single-row transport pickup. mechanism View a Tablets are sucked to the edge of Until “TABREX Rev.” Was Born There were no conventional printing machines that offered the disk in a single row. Testing and moving image printing operations are executed FREUND produced the industry’s leading tablet printing machine in internalized inspection functions. Therefore, inspections needed as tablets are transferred from “TABREX Rev.” to be conducted on the day before printing was performed. Business Results 2013. Thereafter, demand for tablet surface printing technologies one disk to the next. has grown, and other printingand inspection-related compaHowever, “TABREX Rev.” enabled both inspections and printing to nies have introduced inkjet type tablet printing machines into the be conducted on the same day. Furthermore, the lack of the need market. While the trend has been for manufacturers to increase the for delivery allowed for better printing accuracy, and for printing printing processing output capacity of their machines, the needs of on various shapes of tablets. VOICES FROM THE FRONTLINE OF INK DEVELOPMENT: clients are varied with some calling for “machines that can respond In this manner, “TABREX Rev.” was born from our ability to to small-lot productions or tablets with low profitability.” accurately assess the needs of our clients. This type of development Developing ink for “TABREX Rev.” and At the same time, the widely used drum transport format approach has resulted in over 10 patent application filings and is requires that drums be changed to match shapes of each tablet. the source of our intellectual property. fortifying the lineup of products with Foundation Supporting Growth In Japan there are said to be some 15,000 varieties of tablets of a view to overseas markets differing shape. Therefore the cost of preparing drums for each is Leveraging Our “Pen and Ink” and “Hardware and prohibitive and unrealistic. We found that this format cannot satisfy Software” Business Models to Create New Values I am responsible for the development of particulate coating within the Functional clients’ needs. FREUND is the only tablet printing machine manufacturer that has Excipients Development Section. We create the main ODT-related product “NONPAREIL” the facility to provide a “Pen (machinery equipment) and Ink” busiusing particles and mask them with polymer base granules, then measure and evaluate Fundamental Review of Basic Concept and Basic Structure ness model. Development of ink is conducted by our chemicals the powder properties. In order to respond to the voices of our clients, we needed to come business development staff in cooperation with specialized manuFrom 2016, I have been responsible for “TABREX Rev.” use ink development, which is a up with an imprinting machine that responded to their calls for “low facturers of ink. “TABREX Rev.” uses an easy-to-replace ink cartridge Tomomi Harazaki completely new field. Unlike pharmaceutical excipient development, the prescription and cost,” “stability” and “diverse range of tablets.” Thus, we created that eliminates the need for cleaning at the time of ink replenishFunctional Excipients development functions are conducted by partners specializing in ink development, and the second generation “TABREX Rev.” machine with flexible output ment, and allows for easy change of color to be used. StrengthDevelopment Section, Chemicals Development we have proposed improvements of the ink based upon experiment results. capacity as its basic concept and used the industry’s first modular ening of tablet printing technologies is conducted through the “Hardware (products) and Software (processing technology)” Department, Chemicals Division Our current focus is upon fortifying the product lineup. We now sell only black colored ink, format. It boasts the capability of responding to the lowest output model that allows for printing within the secant and belt areas, but are in the process of developing other colors. These include pigment-based inks that use capacity of 100,000 tablets per hour. We thoroughly reviewed the basic structure of the tablet transpolychromic printing, and QR code* printing. pigments that do not dissolve but disperse into solvents. These are colorful and well suited for printing letters, and do not fade under light. At the same time, the pigment tends to settle Data port mechanism. We adopted a generally used belt format for Consequently, FREUND continues to pursue yet-to-be realized tablet inspection equipment used in the first generation machine, high levels of flexibility, low cost, high functionality, and high quality. and change in varying degrees of shade and color, so collaborative development is being since they accurately reflected images. With the addition of the This will enable us to realize our goal of high-quality printing for conducted with manufacturers that have dispersion technology to make the pigment ink inkjet printing technology, however, we had to deal with the difficult every tablet around the world contributing to the prevention of more effective. task of improving the printing accuracy. We came up with a soludispensing errors. Five different colors of dye-based type color inks that use pigments that dissolve in solvents tion to this issue that introduces a disk on which tablets are placed *QR code is a registered trademark of DENSO WAVE INCORPORATED. have been developed. However, we are fortifying the color lineup because of the diversified with vacuum absorption that allows for printing on both sides to needs of our clients. Furthermore, we are conducting research into the different types of inks be conducted. In addition, processes including external inspection, allowed for use in various countries around the world with a view to the global markets and lettering, and lettering inspection of tablets stabilized by vacuum are sharing this information with our partners to be used in our development efforts. absorption were also developed for this new machine. 16 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 17 3 Feature Topic 3: JAPAN NORTH EUROPE FREUND Group’s Overseas Expansion • Strengthening efforts to AMERICA leverage the government Expanding product usages Leveraging the Milano policy to raise generic beyond the realm of Laboratory to fortify the drug usage to 80% the Company’s FREUND brand pharmaceutical • Expanding new product business Start of new global strategy based product sales upon the Group value of “ONE FREUND” About FREUND Milan The 7th Mid-Term Management Plan calls for the FREUND Group to The United States FREUND-VECTOR Turkey leverage its group companies to cultivate business opportunities in Asia, China FREUND Marion Laboratory South FREUND-TURBO North, South and Central America, Europe, the Middle East region, and Korea Hamamatsu FREUND in the Japanese market. Efforts will also be made to realize Taiwan India the Group value of “ONE FREUND.” Areas of Focus R&D Facilities Main Sales Agents Laboratories Sweden Overseas Business Conditions SOUTH FREUND's Growth Strategy ASIA Finland The FREUND Group uses local sales agents in the markets of India and neighboring Norway and CENTRAL Brazil AMERICA Estonia regions, Korea, China, Taiwan and other Southeast Asian markets. In particular, there Latvia • Expanding business Denmark is a national strategy of strengthening pharmaceutical product exports to developed Lithuania Belarus in India and China Strengthening United nations from India, where numerous pharmaceutical product related manufacturers are Ireland Kingdom Netherlands Germany Belgium Poland • Introducing products collaboration with Czech Rep. Ukraine that match markets key sales agents concentrated. The Group is strengthening its marketing activities in the India market for Slovakia Austria Moldova France Hungary Slovenia Romania its special version of “GRANUREX” granulating coating machine developed for Asia. Italy In China, the biggest pharmerging market, pharmaceutical manuPortugal Spain Greece Turkey facturers, which had been kept busy responding to strong demand Cyprus from the local market, are now turning their attention to business Europe and Israel Jordan opportunities in Europe and North America. While the Group is The FREUND Middle East conducting efforts to cultivate future business opportunities, pricing Group is fortifyArea Egypt ing its marketing bases Business Results demands remain severe and the Group is aware of the need to FROM THE BUSINESS FRONTLINE OF through the facilitation of OUR UNITED STATES SUBSIDIARY: strengthen its pricing competitive positioning. its dealership network and Both orders and sales, including those of non-pharmaceuenhancing its demonstration centers and laboratories as part of its efforts to better assess the needs of both the market and its Leading European market tical products, are strong in the United States. The recovery in the Brazilian market is acting as a driver of growth in the South and clients in order to expand its businesses. FREUND has focused cultivation and strengthening its efforts in the Asian region on India, China, Taiwan and South Central American markets. In Europe, the main market of Turkey Korea, and is promoting a strategy of strengthening its sales global pricing competitiveness remains weak. FREUND-VECTOR has increased its staff at the agent network and developing its markets. At the same time, Milano Laboratory to strengthen its presence in Europe. FREUND-VECTOR, which operates in North America, South and Vector (currently known as FREUND-VECTOR) was established a similar capability to service Central America, Europe and the Middle East, is also strengthFoundation Supporting Growth in 1972 and conducted licensed manufacture and sales of clients in South Europe. ening its marketing capabilities in Europe and the Middle East The 7th Mid-Term Management Plan Direction machinery developed by FREUND in the United States. In 1997, We will strengthen our where there are numerous generic drug manufacturers. ConseVector joined the FREUND Group and thereafter aggressively technological support and Greg Smith In the Chinese and Korean markets, we endeavor to steadily expand quently, the company added a laboratory in its demonstration center in Milan, Italy. cultivated the European and North American markets. sales agent network a step Vice President & Sales Division sales of machinery for pharmaceutical product applications. At the General Manager same time, we are strengthening collaboration with local sales agents In 2016, the pharmaceutical product field, and the nonfurther and conduct product FREUND-VECTOR CORPORATION and establishing a laboratory in the growth market of India with a pharmaceutical product field including agricultural products, development with a keen view to local manufacturing of products to accelerate growth in our trended favorably while sales of machinery in the United States eye to market trends including an emphasis upon pricing businesses there. In the United States, which is the world’s largest Net Sales by Region (¥ million) Japan North America reached a record high. In addition to the main product of fluid competitiveness for emerging markets including India, where consumer of pharmaceutical products, FREUND-VECTOR is strengthOverseas Sales Ratio (%) South and Central America bed granulation drying equipment, the series of wet and dry many of the world’s pharmaceutical product-related manufacEurope ening its laboratory facilities as part of its Others granulating equipment based upon stirring granulation and turers are concentrated. Overseas Sales Ratio (%) coating technologies has become one of our strengths. We also play a key role in overseas development of aggressive business expansion strategy. 21,164 Aside from the United States, Brazil continued to trend at new strategic products including the “TABREX Rev.” tablet The introduction of global models with highly competitive pricing 847 19,027 830 4.1% is an important theme in the Group’s product development func1,027 553 low levels but a recovery has been noted since the start of 2017. imprinting machine and the “Granuformer” continuous granu17,424 3.9% 937 tion. FREUND is promoting globalization of its Group in response 1,246 3,331 Also, we have been cultivating the various markets including lation and drying system. In the future, we will create products 2.6% Data 450 1,325 to similar globalization trends for pharmaceutical manufacturers, 1,071 2,190 Turkey, Israel, Ireland and Southern Europe since strengthening that match the needs of various regions and promote the 1,599 regardless of business scale. Therefore, FREUND-VECTOR is 15.7% the functionality of our laboratory in Milano, Italy. diffusion of our global brand. 25.1% 28.8% Net Sales strengthening its business foundations, to create a structure that 26.3% by Region We believe that strengthening our global competitive As part of the FREUND Group, we will conduct various can respond quickly to changing needs of various markets. (FY02/17) positioning based upon our “ONE FREUND” group value and measures to cultivate new technologies and business fields FREUND is promoting globalization of the pharmaceutical excipi13,056 13,547 15,601 as part of our 7th Mid-Term Management Plan is extremely that lie beyond the scope of our current businesses and create ents business on a full scale. First, it started with the integration of important. One of our strengths is our ability to provide techbusinesses that improve the quality of health and lifestyles of 73.7% the machinery equipment and technologies at its laboratories for nological services such as monitoring of operating conditions people worldwide. At the same time, these efforts are also the development of unique products. In addition, the Group is also FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 of equipment and our ability to respond to clients’ tests. In the designed to capture sustained growth over the midand strengthening the capabilities of its sales agent functions in the future, we will aggressively invest in our businesses to establish long-term. United States, Europe and India. 18 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 19 FREUND’S GROWTH STRATEGY: Research and Development FREUND Group’s research and Machine Development for the Lithium Ion Battery Industry R&D EXPENSES: ¥640 million (6.8% down yoy) development activities to realize The value of the global lithium ion battery market is estimated With regard to technology development, batteries have the group value “ONE FREUND” to be worth some ¥2.2 trillion in 2016, and is expected to expand traditionally used electrolytes but now use an all solid state About FREUND R&D EXPENSES RATIO: 3.0% The Group boasts of the fundamental technologies of granulating, to some ¥3.2 trillion in 2020 (CAGR: 9.25%)*. While the FREUND Group already has a track record of sales battery structure. The abandonment of electrolytes allows for batteries to become more compact in size and eliminate the coating and pulverizing. Based upon these core technologies, we to the lithium battery industry, in recent years it has seen an organic materials that pose a fire risk. These changes have made EFFECTIVE PATENT IMPLEMENTATION 97% Machinery are accelerating product development in new fields including tablet imprinting machine and specialized inks, in addition to continuous increase in inquiries and requests for testing for fine pulverizer with built-in classifier of FREUND-TURBO and surface modificait possible to manufacture lithium ion batteries with high output capacity that are safe. RATIO: tion equipment used for pharmaceutical product applications of Major automobile manufacturers in particular are rapidly (As of February 28, 2017) Equipment manufacturing equipment in our traditional pharmaceutical product field (Pharmaceutical Products) FREUND. Based upon these inquiries and the growth potential of promoting development of next generation batteries. Particle of granulating and coating equipment. In the field of non-pharmaceutical 79% the lithium ion battery market, the Group believes this business creating equipment and surface processing modification equipFREUND’s Growth Strategy products, we have begun strengthening development capabilities to has the potential to become a future cornerstone of its overall ment are important for the creation of next-generation lithium Excipients business. Therefore, FREUND and FREUND-TURBO launched ion batteries. Fine powder coating technologies cultivated in our realize the “ONE FREUND” group value by applying our technologies 67% the “Battery Project” in October 2016 to realize this potential. pharmaceutical product field are used to realize such processes. to lithium ion battery and other new growth markets. Lithium ion batteries are comprised of four components The 7th Mid-Term Management Plan calls for aggressive initiaFood Preservatives of cathode materials, negative electrode materials, separators tives to be conducted for the lithium ion battery business. Based *Effective Patent Implementation Ratio (%) = Continuous Granulation and Drying System “Granuformer” and electrolytes. The Group has product applications for cathode upon the Group’s target in its group value “ONE FREUND,” we No. of Implementations/No. of Effective Patents x 100 and negative electrode materials, which see the largest demand are strengthening cooperation among our group companies and I have been involved with the development of our in volume terms. Chinese and South Korean manufacturers are promoting open innovation to swiftly create unique technologies, R&D EXPENSES, R&D EXPENSES RATIO: “Granuformer” system. European manufacturers had pursuing mass production of these products on a global basis, supporting safe and high output capacity lithium ion batteries. adopted the simple approach of attaching granuwhile Japanese materials manufacturers drive technological devel*The Company’s servey based on various data 687 640 lating equipment to fluid bed drying equipment for opment. The Group is targeting both segments of the market. batch manufacturing. However, FREUND created Business Results 592 the world’s only manufacturing system connecting 464 granulating equipment and drying equipment seri435 ally. In particular, our efforts to develop technologies The Group’s Products Leveraged in the Manufacturing Processes of for continuous drying of wet powder differentiate us Cathode and Negative Electrode Materials for Lithium Ion Batteries 3.6% from our competitors. 3.4% 3.0% We have developed equipment that can handle Positive-Electrode Material 2.7% small production volumes between 2 and 15 kiloTakashi Terada Foundation Supporting Growth 2.6% grams per hour and larger volumes of up to 50 kiloTechnology Promoting Section, Material Granulation Furnace Cracking Pulverizing Surface Screening grams per hour with a view to our clients’ needs. Powder Technology Department, charge modification Because this is a machine based upon a new Equipment Division FY02/13 FY02/14 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 To paste R&D Expenses (¥ million) concept, we have accumulated data regarding Not applicable process R&D Expenses Ratio (%) the characteristics and quality of the granules and tablets manufactured using this equipment in Turbo Roller Roller Surface Turbo Screener Compactor Compactor V TURBO Modification Screener NUMBER OF PATENT APPLICATIONS: FY02/17. We have also been gathering practical data Equipment based upon the opinions of academics obtained through academic symposiums. Negative-Electrode Material 21 Moreover, our United States subsidiary FREUND18 VECTOR has begun strategic sales of “Granuformer” 17 based upon the basic design specifications created Material charge Pulverizing Surface modification Screening “Granuformer” Global Model within Japan. In March 2017, we displayed a global model at an international exhibition held in New York and have begun overseas sales. To paste 11 process Data Going forward, we will further accelerate product development using open innovation and collaboration with specialized manufacturers of raw materials mixing Turbo Screener V TURBO Surface Modification Equipment Turbo Screener equipment, post granulation mixing equipment, and tableting equipment to create 4 automated production that includes the coordinated processes of raw powder material introduction for the manufacturing of tablets. This is not simply connecting various machines for use in the continuous manuFY02/13 FY02/14 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 facturing of solid preparations, but managing and raising the efficiency of the entire Number of Applications system. In order to achieve this optimization, I myself am striving to advance technologies on a daily basis that respond to various equipment and raw materials and meet the requirements from authorities and clients. 20 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 21 BUSINESS RESULTS: Financial Data for the Past Decade FREUND CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Ended February 2008 to February 2017 (¥ million) (¥ million) yoy change (%) FY02/08 FY02/09 FY02/10 FY02/11 FY02/12 FY02/13 FY02/14 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 2017/2016 About FREUND For the year: Net sales 13,104 13,478 12,943 13,257 15,236 16,396 17,616 17,424 19,027 21,164 11.2 (Overseas sales) 4,167 3,753 3,874 3,236 3,422 3,596 4,382 4,367 5,480 5,563 1.5 Cost of sales 8,855 9,330 8,675 9,318 10,624 11,313 12,377 11,978 12,921 14,343 11.0 Selling, general and administrative expenses 3,317 3,189 3,297 3,259 3,546 3,612 3,952 4,295 4,759 4,779 0.4 Operating profit 931 958 970 680 1,065 1,470 1,286 1,150 1,346 2,041 51.6 Profit attributable to owners of parent 943 619 563 516 608 765 787 695 961 1,064 10.7 FREUND’s Growth Strategy EBITDA 1 1,217 1,215 1,207 960 1,351 1,717 1,610 1,478 1,687 2,396 42.0 Orders received 9,981 9,444 8,049 11,005 12,200 12,117 12,804 14,340 15,109 18,286 21.0 Order backlog at end of period 4,990 4,306 3,238 5,282 6,148 5,809 5,551 6,780 7,328 8,790 20.0 Capital investment 192 190 175 469 218 222 477 545 266 564 111.9 Depreciation 248 222 212 257 264 232 303 308 321 338 5.1 R&D expenses 270 265 312 355 390 435 464 592 687 640 (6.8) Cash flows from operating activities 1,641 618 457 65 1,219 740 1,227 822 290 3,605 1,142.5 Cash flows from investing activities (76) (65) (198) (623) (154) (332) (423) (240) (432) (351) (18.7) Cash flows from financing activities (220) (146) (154) (196) (134) (164) (226) (284) (331) (277) (16.3) Business Results Free cash flows 1,565 552 259 (558) 1,064 408 803 582 (142) 3,253 2,382.4 At year-end: Total assets 12,700 12,495 12,049 12,196 14,342 14,971 15,550 17,277 17,206 19,101 11.0 Net assets 7,390 7,481 7,939 8,071 8,489 9,315 10,392 11,180 11,529 12,185 5.7 (Equity) 7,258 7,364 7,814 7,952 8,356 9,197 10,239 10,987 11,529 12,185 5.7 Foundation Supporting Growth Per share data2: Earnings per share (EPS, ¥) 54.71 35.91 32.71 29.98 35.30 44.38 45.69 40.36 55.74 61.72 10.7 Book value per share (BPS, ¥) 420.89 427.05 453.15 461.16 484.56 533.37 593.76 637.19 668.57 706.62 5.7 Dividend per share (DPS, ¥) 3 7.50 7.50 7.50 7.50 7.50 10.00 12.50 15.00 25.00 20.00 (20.0) Main indicators: Operating margin (%) 7.1 7.1 7.5 5.1 7.0 9.0 7.3 6.6 7.1 9.6 — Return on assets (ROA, %) 7.4 5.0 4.7 4.2 4.2 5.1 5.1 4.0 5.6 5.6 — Return on equity (ROE, %) 13.0 8.4 7.4 6.6 7.5 8.7 8.1 6.6 8.5 9.0 — Dividend to net asset ratio (DOE, %) 1.9 1.8 1.7 1.6 1.6 2.0 2.2 2.4 1.9 2.9 — Dividend payout ratio (%) 13.7 20.9 22.9 25.0 21.2 22.5 27.4 37.2 22.4 32.4 — Equity ratio (%) 57.2 58.9 64.9 65.2 58.3 61.4 65.8 63.6 67.0 63.8 — Data R&D expenses ratio (%) 2.1 2.0 2.4 2.7 2.6 2.7 2.6 3.4 3.6 3.0 — Price earnings ratio (PER, %) 4.43 4.39 7.41 7.35 7.10 16.67 12.95 15.36 18.16 24.24 — Price book-value ratio (PBR, %) 0.58 0.37 0.54 0.48 0.52 1.39 1.00 0.97 1.51 2.12 — Average foreign exchange rate: US$ (¥) 104.89 103.48 93.65 87.79 79.80 79.80 97.73 105.79 121.10 109.48 — Euro (¥) — — — 116.27 111.12 102.55 129.78 140.35 134.31 — — 1. EBITDA = Operating profit + Technical support fee + Interest expenses + Depreciation 2. The Company carried out 2-for-1 splits of common shares on June 1, 2009 and March 1, 2016. The “per share” calculations are based on the assumption that the stock splits were conducted at the beginning of FY02/08. 3. Dividend per share includes commemorative dividends of ¥2.50 (for FY02/08, FY02/09 and FY02/15) and ¥5.00 (for FYFY02/17). 22 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 23 BUSINESS RESULTS: Management Discussion and Analysis FREUND endeavors to create a next in advances received, and a ¥409 million rise in notes and accounts payable trade contributed to a 1,142.5% yoy increase in this cash With regard to the retained earnings in FY02/17, funds will be effectively used to strengthen the Company’s management generation management foundation by flows to ¥3.605 billion. structure for future business growth, and for investments to expand the breadth of its business in the future. financially supporting the implementation 2. Cash flows from investing activities About FREUND *The Company conducted a 2-for-1 common stock split on March 1, 2016. Acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to ¥474 of its group value “ONE FREUND.” million offset ¥38 million in income from cancellation of insurance funds, ¥37 million from sale of property, plant and equipment, ¥32 With regard to the 6th Mid-Term Management Plan, the priority million in collection of guarantee deposits, and ¥19 million from sale Progress in Mid-Term Management Plans placed upon effective business investments amongst the group of investment securities and caused cash flows to decline by ¥351 million, or by 18.7% yoy. Main Management Activities of companies and diligent efforts to facilitate a strong management the 6th Mid-Term Management Plan foundation contributed to a strengthening of the Group’s overall 3. Cash flows from financing activities I believe that there are two main elements necessary to sustain Cash flows declined by 16.3% yoy to ¥277 million due to ¥215 structure. During the 7th Mid-Term Management Plan, FREUND our corporate growth. In other words, “(1) sound cultivation of FREUND’s Growth Strategy million in cash dividends paid and ¥61 million in repayments of loss making divisions and courage to withdraw” are necessary to will further strengthen its management structure while conducting lease obligations. Norio Shiratori As a result, free cash flows (the sum of cash flows from operating make accurate management decisions and to conduct “(2) never various business activities with a view to its future growth. Managing Director ending strengthening of management foundations and corporate activities and cash flows from investing activities), which are the structure.” By making these key points of our management strategy, source of investing activities, rose by ¥3,396 from FY02/16 to ¥3,253 the Group places a high priority on the securing and training million. At the same time, cash and equivalents, which declined by Overview of FY02/17 In response to these market trends, the Group conducted ¥505 million in FY02/16, rose by ¥2,940 million to ¥6,982 million. of human resources. marketing activities with a view to increases in demand and I will introduce some of the successes of our management Financial Conditions Analysis promoted unique new product development that responds to activities achieved through the implementation of these two main Basic Policy on Distribution of Income market needs. At the same time, the Group aggressively pursued elements during the 6th Mid-Term Management Plan. Business Performance Analysis the application of granulating/coating and pulverizing/classifying and Conditions of Dividends With regard to the world economy in FY2/17, a subdued recovery technologies in fields outside of its traditional pharmaceutical The Company identifies the maximization of shareholder value as 1. March 2014: Freund Kasei Corporation absorbed in the United States economy and favorable economic trends in its most important management issue. It will fortify its corporate Freund Kasei sought to internalize production of some special product field. As a result, the consolidated net sales, operating profit, Europe led by Germany were observed. At the same time, uncerstructure with a view to being able to respond flexibly and accuproducts and manage contract manufacturing of food preserordinary profit and profit attributable to owners of parent rose by Business Results tainties arising from the departure of the United Kingdom from the rately to changes in its business environment, while at the same vatives. The transfer of this internalized manufacturing function 11.2%, 51.6%, 50.4% and 10.7% yoy to ¥21,164, ¥2,041, ¥2,097 and European Union and the instability in Syria were growing concerns. time returning profits to shareholders. allowed us to absorb manufacturing knowhow, fortify our product ¥1,064 million respectively in FY02/17. Slowing in the Chinese economy continued, with difficult conditions The Company maintains a policy of paying dividends in line with development structure with a view to satisfying clients’ needs, and Moreover, the increase in operating profit is attributed to the seen in Russia, Brazil and other emerging economies. Within Japan, its business performance, with a goal of achieving a consolidated strengthen our collaboration with partners to which we consign effect of the higher sales, lower R&D activities for tablet imprinting corporate earnings and capital investments remained strong. dividend payout ratio of 30%. The Company takes a comprehensive product manufacturing. This merger contributed to some ¥100 machine, and reductions in SG&A expenses arising from the sale With regard to foreign exchange, the yen weakened from approach to increase its retained earnings with a view to its managemillion reduction in expenses. of a European R&D subsidiary. November following a rise since the start of the fiscal year; however, ment structure fortification and future business expansion, and aims as a whole, the yen strengthened significantly against the US Dollar to pay a sustained and stable level of dividends. 2. June 2015: FREUND-VECTOR becomes a fully owned Assets, Liabilities, and Net Assets Conditions subsidiary and Euro compared with the previous fiscal year. In addition to the common dividend payment of ¥15 per share 1. Assets In order to fortify the management structure of our United States Foundation Supporting Growth The Group’s clients operating in the pharmaceutical industry saw (¥30 per share before adjusting for a stock split*), the Company Notes and accounts receivable trade declined by ¥1,260 million, operations, FREUND-VECTOR absorbed the holding company an increasingly stringent new drug approval process and encounpays an additional ¥5 per share to commemorate its 20th annibut cash and deposits and work in process rose by ¥2,940 and ¥201 FREUND INTERNATIONAL LTD. in January 2015, and FREUNDtered government efforts to restrain medical expenditures in both versary of operations for a total dividend payment of ¥20 per million, respectively, causing total assets to rise by ¥1,894 million from VECTOR was turned into a fully owned subsidiary in June 2015. developed and emerging markets. share (¥40 per share before adjusting for a stock split*) at the end the end of FY02/16 to ¥19,101 million at the end of FY02/17. Consequently, a new cooperative structure for machinery equipWith regard to Japan, the market changed dramatically against the of FY02/17, while the Company plans to pay a common dividend ment development and global sales began full-scale operation. backdrop of the government’s policy of promoting increased use of 2. Liabilities payment of ¥20 per share (¥40 per share before adjusting for a generic drugs as a means of restraining medical expenditures. Notes and accounts payable trade, income taxes payable and stock split*) for FY02/18. 3. February 2016: FREUND advances received rose by ¥338, ¥412 and PHARMATEC LTD. (FPL) sold ¥543 million respectively, and contributed In January 2010, FPL was established in FY02/17 Changes in Operating Profit (¥ million) to a ¥1,238 million increase in total liabilities Major KPIs for the Period of the 6th Mid-Term Management Plan Ireland for research and development and from the end of FY02/16 to ¥6,916 million at Please refer to Page 6 Financial Highlights for details on net sales, gross profit, operating profit and operating margin. with the goal of commercialization of small +715 (47) +246 (232) 2,041 the end of FY02/17. mini-capsules using our drug formulation R&D +38 3. Net Assets 382 390 8.5% 9.0% technologies. FPL was established with the expenses +57 (82) While foreign currency translation adjustRecordgoal of achieving commercialization within Personnel Office Other 370 5,234 high expenses supplies Rent Sales SG&A ment declined by ¥132 million, retained earnfive years. The sale of FPL to the pharmaData expenses commission expenses 1,346 expenses 6.6% ceutical product development company Positive factors Recordings rose by ¥771 million and contributed to 11,529 12,185 high Increased Sigmoid Pharma Ltd. with facilities in Ireland 3,526 10,987 gross profit a ¥656 million increase in net assets to 3,109 in February 2016 allowed us to reduce ¥12,185 million. expenses by about ¥200 million per year. Sigmoid is in the clinical trial stages of Cash Flows Conditions new drug development using our “SPHEREX” 1. Cash flows from operating activities seamless mini-capsule production machine Inventories grew by ¥382 million, while and the ability to secure staff and GMP income taxes paid declined by ¥245 million. FY02/16 FY02/17 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 (Good Manufacturing Practice) facilities At the same time, profit before income taxes Operating profit per employee (¥ thousand) Equity at year-end (¥ million) of FPL was one of the mutually beneficial of ¥1,783 million, a ¥1,243 million decline in Number of employees ROE (%) reasons behind the sale. We have been accounts receivables, a ¥571 million increase 24 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 25 BUSINESS RESULTS: Management Discussion and Analysis BUSINESS RESULTS: Segment Information: At a Glance able to form a support relationship with Sigmoid that allows us to Overview of the 7th Mid-Term Management Plan maintain the patent for our mini-capsule manufacturing technology. Also, FREUND can look forward to fee-based business and demand The successes achieved in the 6th Mid-Term Management Plan have allowed us to facilitate the capability to respond from both the Machinery Characteristics: for its equipment should Sigmoid achieve success in its new drug perspective of our management and finances in a timely fashion Business Segment Coating equipment boasting roughly 70% share of the Japanese market Accelerated deployment of business in Asia, as well as Europe and North America About FREUND development. with an adequate amount of capital. A key point for our future busivia the U.S. subsidiary Manufacture and sales of granulating and ness deployment is our ability to expand the breadth of our business coating equipment for pharmaceutical, World’s only company conducting development of equipment based on drug 4. FY02/16: FREUND-TURBO achieved profitability formulation technologies outside of our traditional fields of orally ingested pharmaceuticals food, fine chemical and other products In the non-pharmaceutical product field, the positive impact from and pharmaceutical formulation design. Integration of granulating/coating and grinding/classifying technologies to ¥14,914 the acquisition of FREUND-TURBO in 2010 became evident during SEGMENT expand sales of industrial machinery business field applications In that regard, “TABREX Rev.” tablet imprinting machine may be the period of the 6th Mid-Term Management Plan. In April 2014, we SALES: million considered a large challenge. Engineers with high expertise were appointed a new president with strong network of industry connecbrought in from outside of the Company to join the team to help put (14.4% up yoy) Orders received Segment sales/profit tions, a wealth of experience in marketing and bountiful knowhow Order backlog Segment margin ¥1,750 this business, based upon new technology that did not exist within regarding industrial machinery. Also, we created an independent SEGMENT FREUND on course. This was the first time that FREUND utilized this PROFIT: marketing structure and implemented efforts to conduct product million 16,358 FREUND’s Growth Strategy approach, and we will provide financial support to create other new development with the clients’ perspective in mind. Consequently, (47.1% up yoy) 14,914 business opportunities. FREUND-TURBO turned profitable for the first time in three years We believe that the most important issue to be tackled during GROUP COMPANIES: 13,112 13,037 in FY02/16, with further increases in revenue anticipated. 12,407 the 7th Mid-Term Management Plan (from FY02/18 to FY02/22) is FREUND FREUND-TURBO 11,004 10,941 to strengthen the frontline of our workplace. We will aggressively 9,914 10,067 Review of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) of the FREUND-VECTOR 9,272 promote the businesses of each of our group companies and busi8,561 11.8% 6th Mid-Term Management Plan ness segments based upon quantitative targets and self-established 11.3% 11.7% SEGMENT SALES/ 7,086 10.1% In review of important consolidated based KPIs of the 6th Mid-Term 6,682 direction that encompass the group value “ONE FREUND.” PROFIT BREAKDOWN Management Plan, net sales (growth), operating profit (profit gener5,263 9.1% In addition, we view the current period to be highly critical for the ation capability), operating profit per employee (productivity) oper4,991 Group to secure and train human resources. In particular, securing ating margin (profitability), and ROE (efficiency) all improved and and training of R&D staff with new points of views for the “creation rose to record high levels, with the exception of ROE. And while we 1,750 and fostering of new technologies” as called for by management 1,172 1,242 1,108 1,189 were able to achieve our ROE target of 8.0%, we will endeavor to vision is an important management issue. Segment profit raise it to over 10% to be in line with global standards for efficiency. 70% Business Results FY02/13 FY02/14 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 FY02/13 FY02/14 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 For the summary of the 7th Mid-Term Management Plan, please refer Now that this target is within reach, we are setting our sights on to page 9. Segment sales Orders received (¥ million) Segment sales (¥ million) an even higher target. 70% Order backlog (¥ million) Segment profit (¥ million) Segment margin (%) The 7th Mid-Term Management Plan: Chemicals Characteristics: Breakdown of FY02/22 Financial Targets (vs. FY02/17) *Tentative Business Segment Pharmaceutical excipients manufactured at GMP* certified facilities Foundation Supporting Growth Food preservatives used to preserve the quality of various foods contributing to Net sales (¥ billion) Manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical food safety Net sales Investment Plan for the Period of excipients, food preservatives and Commercialization of dietary supplements and seamless mini-capsules jointly developed +3.4 +0.5 30.0 +1.8 7th Mid-Term Management Plan dietary supplements with client companies using granule manufacturing and coating technologies +5.9 +0.8 (5-year cumulative) * GMP: Good Manufacturing Practice ¥6,249 Engineering +6.3 Net sales Services FREUND*Assumptions for entirely new initiatives are SEGMENT 21.1 (0.9) Chemicals FREUNDSALES: Business TURBO VECTOR not discounted. million Orders received Segment sales/profit FREUND Other New Machinery Capital R&D (4.3% up yoy) Order backlog* Segment margin Products Business (¥ million) Investment Expenses 2,844 SEGMENT ¥748 2,737 Machinery PROFIT: million 6,611 By business segment By group company Business Segment 1,200 1,200 6,482 6,482 6,249 (44.0% up yoy) 5,990 Chemicals 1,997 FY02/17 FY02/22 Business Segment 1,200 700 GROUP COMPANIES: 1,932 1,927 (Actual) (Targets) 12.0% FREUND 546 560 Company-wide Operating profit (¥ billion) 400 — 8.7% 8.7% Operating Data profit 7.3% +0.3 3.0 +0.2 TOTAL: 2,800 1,900 SEGMENT SALES/ +0.3 +0.1 PROFIT BREAKDOWN +0.7 242 229 Operating Segment sales 5.7% profit +1.1 Effective FREUND2.0 (0.7) Cost reductions sales growth FREUNDTURBO VECTOR 30% Segment 565 748 FREUND profit 379 474 519 98 Strategic investments New products 30% FY02/13 FY02/14 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 FY02/13 FY02/14 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 By measure By group company Orders received (¥ million) Segment sales (¥ million) Order backlog (¥ million) Segment profit (¥ million) Segment margin (%) FY02/17 FY02/22 (Actual) (Targets) *Pharmaceutical excipients and food preservatives are excluded since orders are projections based on sales plans. 26 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 27 BUSINESS RESULTS: Machinery Business Segment: NET SALES OPERATING PROFIT Machinery (¥ million) Overview of the 7th Mid-Term Management Plan: (¥ million) 21,340 2,260 Business (1) Offset weaker demand for existing products with new products and the industrial machinery field entry Segment (2) Deploy full-scale business in overseas markets 14,914 1,750 Pharmaceutical Product Field: Non-Pharmaceutical Product Field: Expand sales of tablet imprinting machine Enter lithium ion battery equipment field “TABREX Rev.” 8.32% 9.12% Develop equipment for new material Expand business in India and China development About FREUND CAGR CAGR Realize commercialization of continuous Expand sales of high-speed fluid bed granulation and drying system “Granuformer” granulation machine in food industry Consider proposal of operating and other businesses Create and establish business model for FY02/17 FY02/22 FY02/17 FY02/22 (Actual) (Plan) (Actual) (Plan) PLM* Business *Product Lifecycle Management Note: Before consolidated adjustments FREUND’s Growth Strategy SALES BREAKDOWN Operating Environment (Opportunities and Risks) Close-Up: Initiatives for Implementation of Pharmaceutical Product Field: Industrial Products Opportunities Capital investment demand toward the age of generic drug market share 16.6% of 80%, Cultivating new business fields through integration of “Hardware and Software,” Globalization the Group Value “ONE FREUND” Risks Intensification of competition within Japan, Pricing competition intensifying in the global market, Expansion of risks including politics of various countries, Changes in financial markets Success in achieving overwhelming diﬀerentiation and North America. At the same 83.4% through new concepts allowed sales volumes of the time, film and sugar coating Non-Pharmaceutical Product Field: machines were commonly Opportunities Cultivating new business fields through integration of group technologies, new tablet coating machine “HICOATER FZ (HC-FZ)” used in Japan. These machines Business Results Pharmaceutical Products globalization to grow since its launch in 2008. With regard to the used what is called a jacket Risks Accelerate product development cycle, technological advances TS (Technical Service) Section that is responsible for format rotating drum2. “HC-FZ” SALES BY PRODUCT FIELD conducting certification tests after introduction of eliminates this structure and (¥ million) FY02/17 Overview Hayato Misono machines and performance evaluations at the sales uses the drum format used in 2,473 Segment Sales: ¥14,914 million (14.4 up yoy), TS Section, Powder Technology Europe and North America, but 1,593 Segment Profit: ¥1,750 million (47.1% up yoy) inquiry stage, we asked Hayato Misono, responsible Department, Equipment Division with improved functions and 996 for the tablet coating field, about the background processes to overcome existing FREUND (non-consolidated) : Net Sales ¥9,446 million (21.4% up yoy) to this business. shortcomings and to allow for highly efficient and clean sugar Favorable order trends on the back of strong capital investments caused by the Japanese government’s policy to raise usage of generic drugs to 80% coating. Because this marked the first time that these new technoloFoundation Supporting Growth 11,444 12,441 Begin taking orders for new generation tablet imprinting machine “TABREX Rev.” “HICOATER FZ “ Uses FREUND’s Unique Structure gies have been used, some clients expressed their concerns over 9,945 With the goal of raising the level of safety and creating drug formuthis new machine structure. So in order to eliminate these concerns, FREUND-VECTOR (U.S.): lations that protect the environment, the main products have been risk assessment and validation tests were performed repeatedly Net Sales ¥4,727 million (0.9% up yoy), Operating Profit ¥388 million (32.4% up yoy) film coatings using water as solvents. However, the long amount at the time of its development to create ample data by the time Sales to North America trending favorably of time required to manufacture these products was a big issue for sales were started. Videos and reports prepared using this data FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 FREUND-TURBO (Japan): clients in their workplace. “HC-FZ” uses a unique and revolutionary were provided along with explanations to clients, contributing to Pharmaceutical-related Net Sales ¥1,641 million (36.2% up yoy), Operating Profit ¥79 million (15.5% down yoy) machine structure to achieve the contradicting goals of improving acceptance of the overwhelming strength of “HC-FZ” by clients Industry-related Success of efforts to strengthen new product sales and marketing structure product quality and reducing the manufacture time by large and subsequent strong sales. Profit impacted by increase in labor, development expenses margins. Thankfully, we have received large numbers of inquiries In particular, our machine matched the need of clients to reduce after the launch of this product, and we have been able to convey their costs amidst the Japanese government’s policy designed to SALES BY GROUP COMPANY the excellence of this machine to our users. raise the share of generic drug usage to 80% of total drugs and it (¥ million) FY02/18 Outlook 1,641 Segment sales expected to rise by 3.3% yoy to ¥15,410 million. FREUND has been able to greatly improve productivity compared became widely accepted. With regard to the Japanese market, FREUND expects to capture demand from the pharmawith conventional equipment by using fundamental technological 1: A rotating circumferential 1,205 advancements and integration of technology that enables rapid drum with vents used to 4,727 ceutical product industry created by the government’s strategy of increasing the diffusion of 999 roll tablets to be sprayed generic drugs, but order backlog in FY02/18 is expected to see some slowing. However, any stirring/mixing of tablets to be coated, fully perforated coating pan1 Data 4,686 with coating fluids to 3,880 slowing is expected to be overcome by introduction of new products including “TABREX Rev.” that efficiently dries coated tablets, and a large air supply chamber form coatings. During the first fiscal year of the 7th Mid-Term Management Plan, the Machinery and that effectively raises product quality. In addition, we have newly 2: Rotating circumferential developed a large capacity spray gun that can spray a large area drum with vents along Chemicals Business segments will conduct coordinated marketing efforts within Japan, evenly using fluids within the machine. By loading this function into the outer perimeter is a 9,446 with FREUND and FREUND-VECTOR cooperating for marketing in overseas markets. Also, unique design created 7,784 6,887 the group companies will cooperate to cultivate new business fields and conduct global the machine, we are also able to promote large reductions in time by FREUND. branding efforts as part of its accelerated strategy of creating a next-generation growth required to manufacture water film coated tablets. structure. FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 Note 1: The foreign exchange rate for US Dollar at the end of FY02/17 used for FREUND-VECTOR’s financial TS Section Performance Evaluation Tests Tablet Coating Machine FREUND results rose by ¥11.6 to ¥109.5/USD. Support Sales Expansion “HICOATER FZ” FREUND-VECTOR Note 2: FREUND uses a full-year average foreign exchange rate assumption for the financial estimates of its FREUND-TURBO overseas subsidiary of ¥110.00/USD, a ¥0.50 yen decline yoy. At the time of the market launch of this machine, machines specializing in film coating were most common in the markets of Europe 28 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 29 BUSINESS RESULTS: Chemicals Business Segment: NET SALES OPERATING PROFIT Chemicals (¥ million) Overview of the 7th Mid-Term Management Plan: (¥ million) 8,660 Business Strengthen new products and enter the 748 740 overseas pharmaceutical product market Segment 6,249 Pharmaceutical Excipients: Food Preservatives: Create a structure for sharing of client Deploy overseas business through collaboration information for marketing in both with FREUND Overseas Sales Division 11.56% 11.56% Machinery and Chemicals Businesses Cultivate food market areas other than About FREUND Fortify drug formulation technologies confectionaries CAGR CAGR by fully leveraging FREUND core Introduce a quality management system technologies Enter the deoxidant market Expand manufacturing facilities within Hamamatsu Plant Reduce costs Strengthen GMP for excipients FY02/17 FY02/22 FY02/17 FY02/22 Other New Products: (Actual) (Plan) (Actual) (Plan) Leverage synergies with Equipment Division for new product development FREUND’s Growth Strategy SALES BREAKDOWN Operating Environment (Opportunities and Risks) Close-Up: Efforts to Implement the Pharmaceutical Excipients: Other New Pharmaceutical Products Excipients Opportunities ODTs, generic drug market expansion, overseas deployment Risks Intensified competition in Japan, fierce pricing competition in overseas Group Value “ONE FREUND” 31.1% markets 37.7% Food Preservatives: Opportunities Brand strength (deoxidant market development), Southeast Asia business FREUND sold the industry’s first alcohol food deployment, enter markets other than confectionary products 31.2% Risks Japanese market contraction, manufacturing technology tradition preservative in 1978. Since then, we have expanded the usages of our powdered alcohol as a fundamental Hiroki Ito Other New Products: Business Results Food Preservatives Opportunities Health awareness of people technology for food preservatives that ensure the Production Department, Risks Product lifespan reliant upon fads “safety and fresh taste” of foods. Regarding the Chemicals Division SALES BY PRODUCT FIELD manufacturing conditions of one of our main business (¥ million) FY02/17 Overview of the non-pharmaceutical product field of Chemicals technologies characteristic of FREUND were created as a means of Segment Sales: ¥6,249 million (4.3 up yoy), establishing a new foundation for our manufacturing capability. Business, we spoke with Hiroki Ito of the Production Segment Profit: ¥748 million (44.1% up yoy) The handling and storage of the powdered alcohol raw mate2,394 1,853 1,941 Department, Chemicals Division. rials used as food preservatives is difficult. Therefore, we conduct Pharmaceutical Excipients: Net Sales ¥2,357 million (10.6% up yoy) daily efforts to improve product quality management, manufacContinued favorable trends in Japan’s generic drug product manufacturing industry The Process of Full-Scale In-House turing technologies, raw materials manufacture, and maintenance Foundation Supporting Growth 1,951 allows sales and profit to grow 1,952 2,004 Production at Hamamatsu Plant of our facilities because of the importance of the ability to produce Food Preservatives: Net Sales ¥1,951 million (2.7% down yoy) In our food preservatives business, we were asked by clients to products reliably. Sales and profit decline, fall shy of targets despite aggressive marketing due to consider making a mold preventative agent for “mochi” Japanese Currently, FREUND is endeavoring to supply products with high 2,135 2,132 2,357 environment of intensifying competition rice cakes. Therefore we focused our attention on the antibacterial value addition by expanding the scale of our manufacturing capaOther New Products: Net Sales ¥1,941 million (4.7% up yoy) function of alcohol, thus developed the industry’s first ethanol bilities based upon a manufacturing structure that maximizes our FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 Sales rise, profit falls on higher sales of low profitability dietary supplement food products evaporative food preservatives. unique technologies and our relatively small number of staff to business leveraging FREUND’s technologies FREUND has been able to expand sales channels for food quality satisfy our clients’ needs. Pharmaceutical Excipients preserving agents used by partially-cooked confectionary makers Food Preservatives to keep the moistness and freshness of baumkuchen cakes and Other New Products FY02/18 Outlook other products by leveraging powdered alcohol, which has a high Segment sales are estimated to decline by 10.5% yoy to ¥5,590 million, but an increase bacteriostatic function (for the prevention of mold growth). In 1980, in profit is expected to be derived from an improvement in sales mix of Other New Freund Kasei Corporation was established as a manufacturing funcProducts Business. tion specializing in the production of food preservatives. Pharmaceutical Excipients: With regard to functional excipients used in orally administered In 1987 multiple function type food preservatives using a combipharmaceutical products, demand for ODTs and direct tableting use products is growing nation of alcohol transpiration and oxygen scavenging agents were both within and outside of Japan. With regard to the 7th Mid-Term Management Plan (five developed. Thereafter, we fortified our product lineup to respond Data years) and through the implementation of the group value “ONE FREUND”, FREUND will to the need for safe flavor food preservatives. collaborate with FREUND-VECTOR to create an overseas sales channel and manufacturing structures as part of the Group’s global business deployment strategy. With regard to joint Current Conditions of Full-Scale In-House development of products with clients in the Japanese market, we will strengthen our new Production and Our Future Direction Ethanol Evaporation Type: Oxygen Absorb Type: business models including contract manufacturing for some processes. In 2014, we began manufacturing at our Hamamatsu Plant after “Antimold-Mild” “Negamold Z” Food Preservatives: FREUND will enter the deoxidant market and strengthen its in-house Freund Kasei was absorbed to integrate the manufacture and sales manufacturing capacity. functions for our food preservatives and strengthen our competitive edge. With regard to manufacturing at our Hamamatsu Plant, Other New Products: FREUND expects to reduce the number of low profitability projects. the business assets of Freund Kasei were taken over, and unique 30 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 31 FOUNDATION SUPPORTING GROWTH: Corporate Governance (As of May 26, 2017) Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Honorary Chairman Corporate Governance to Support Sustained Growth DIRECTORS AND HONORARY CHAIRMAN In 2017, the FREUND Group created its New Mid-Term Management Plan entitled “ONE FREUND” based About FREUND upon its corporate philosophy of “Develop the Future through Creativity.” Along with the implementation of this Plan, the Group will fulfill its economic responsibility to secure an appropriate level of profits through the provision of optimal products to client users through fair and appropriate competition. In addition, it will fulfill its obligation to society to act as a responsible group of companies. Corporate Governance Structure (As of May 26, 2017) FREUND’s Growth Strategy General Shareholders’ Meeting Appointment, Removal Appointment, Removal Appointment, Compensation Decision Compensation Decision Removal Audit and Supervisory Board of Board Members & Directors’ Meeting the Board Internal Audit & Internal Directors: 3 Supervisory Board Member: 1 Accounting Auditor Audit, Reporting Reporting External Directors: 2 External Audit & Supervisory Board Members 3 Ryuji Norio Yasutoyo Iwao Narimichi Tomohiko Business Results Nakatake Shiratori Fusejima Fusejima Takei Manabe Executive Officers Reporting Accounting Appointment, Audit External Director Managing Director Honorary Chairman President and CEO Director External Director Important Management Matters to be Discussed Removal Operational Execution Reporting Operational Execution Structure AUDIT & SUPERVISORY BOARD MEMBERS Basic Policy on Corporate Governance audit & supervisory board members also participate in the Board of Foundation Supporting Growth The Group conducts business activities based upon its manageDirectors’ meetings to strengthen the audit function and ensure that ment vision of “contributing to better medical care and health for speedy and appropriate decisions are made. people worldwide, and creating and fostering technologies for fulfilling lives and food safety.” Based upon the basic principle of Audit & Supervisory Board Members and the Board “corporations as public institutions,” the Group will fulfill its responIn order to achieve the healthy development as a company and sibility to conduct dialogue with shareholders and all of its other improve social credibility through audits, the Company has nomistakeholders, maintain high levels of transparency in its business nated four audit & supervisory board members (including three activities, and conduct actions that are speedy, fair and appropriate external members) with high levels of specialized experience in its endeavors to raise its corporate value. The Company recogneeded for audits. Audits are conducted based upon the structure nizes the corporate governance as an important foundation thereof, with highly independent audit & supervisory board members at the and endeavors to establish an effective corporate governance center of a full-time member who is well informed of internal operastructure to execute the businesses of all of its Group companies tions. In order to enhance audits by the audit & supervisory board based upon the functions of the Board of Directors that supermembers, they cooperate with the Internal Audit Office under the vises the duties of the directors, and the Audit & Supervisory Board direct supervision of the President and the accounting auditor and Members and the Board that are independent from the Board of further strengthen the audit structure. Directors and audit the performance of the professional duties of The Company employs Ernst and Young (Shin-Nihon) as its Data the directors. accounting auditor. Board of Directors External Directors and External Audit & The Board plays a role in establishing management policies and Supervisory Board Members Mitsuaki Sayoko Tadashi Masanori targets, and monitoring the management and business activities of The Company’s external directors leverage a knowledge base and Sato Izumoto Kobayashi Sugawara all of the group companies. Its meeting is comprised of five directors experiences differing from the internal directors. By being involved External Audit & External Audit & Full-time Audit & External Audit & (including two external directors) with a diverse range of specialwith the process of determining important fundamental poliSupervisory Supervisory Supervisory Supervisory cies, including management strategies and conducting audits for Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member ization, knowhow and experience, and is held in principle once a month to make decisions on important management issues, and execution of operations, they provide advices and audits that are monitors the performance of professional duties. In addition, four designed to realize sustained growth of the Company and improve32 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 33 FOUNDATION SUPPORTING GROWTH: Corporate Governance ments in its corporate value over the midto long-term. Mitsuaki Sato (External Audit & Supervisory Board Member) tion of pre-established measures to promote quick recovery in the operations and to reestablish full scale operations as quickly as In addition to attending the Board of Directors’ meetings, the <Newly Appointed> event that unforeseen accidents and natural disasters occur. possible in the event that “natural disasters” or “emerging infectious Company’s external directors receive direct and indirect reports Mitsuaki has worked for years in finance divisions and has a vast The Company will quickly implement its BCP to maintain crucial diseases” occur. from the Internal Control Division through resolutions and discusknowledge of finance, accounting and management in general. About FREUND sions on financial results reporting, internal control system reviews Therefore the Company is confident in his abilities to satisfy his and other issues, and audit and monitor the effectiveness of its role as an external audit & supervisory board member. Directors’ and Audit & Supervisory Board Members’ Remuneration in FY02/17 overall management. Classification of Total Remuneration Remuneration by Category (¥ million) Number of In the process of appointing external directors, the Company will Internal Audit Oﬃce Directors/Members (¥ million) Basic Salary Bonus Special Reward for Service Directors / Members nominate persons with long experience in corporate management The Office has been separated from the operational execution diviDirectors (excl. external) 387 58 79 250 5 and with specialized knowledge. sions to perform evaluations and validations of the appropriateAudit & Supervisory Board The Company’s external audit and supervisory board members ness of their operations based upon the rules and regulations of Members (excl. external) 10 9 1 — 1 view that it secures a structure to function management checking the Company and its subsidiaries. Moreover, it will collaborate with External Directors and Members 14 10 3 — 5 effectively through mutual restraints among the directors at the audit & supervisory board members and the accounting auditor as FREUND’s Growth Strategy Board of Director’s meetings, and effective audits conducted by needed to raise the effectiveness of the internal audit function. external audit and supervisory board members who also play a vital role objectively in monitoring the management from an external point of view. With regard to the appointment of external audit and Internal Control Basic Policy The Company identifies the internal control function as “a framework Risk Management supervisory board members, the Company nominates persons for management to control operational execution divisions.” The Group identifies latent factors that could lead to deterioration in its credibility and to damages in its ability with vast experience and knowledge in corporate monitoring The Board of Directors assumes responsibility in designing basic and auditing tasks. scheme of internal controls for the group companies, and in superto create corporate value as risks to its corporate business activities. The Company currently maintains two external directors and vising maintenance, operation and assessment of internal controls The Group has identified the various factors listed on the following pages as potential business risks, and its three external audit and supervisory board members, for whom it based upon the Companies Act and other relevant laws as well as financial results may be influenced in the event that any of these risks occur. While the Group maintains a policy has submitted documents regarding the independence of external the Company’s articles of incorporation and other internal rules. designed to prevent the occurrence of these risks, it will respond accurately and quickly to the occurrence directors and audit and supervisory board members to the Tokyo The President and directors play a role and assume responsiStock Exchange. bility in maintaining, operating and assessing the internal controls of any of these risks. While the Group has made every effort possible to identify all potential risks to its Business Results To ensure that no conflict of interests or special interests conducted by the Company and its group companies based upon businesses, there may be other unforeseen risks not cited here. with general shareholders occur with a view to the Tokyo Stock the internal control basic policy set by the Board of Directors. They Furthermore, the future risk factors mentioned here represent all factors recognized as of the end of FY02/17. Exchange’s guidelines for independent directors and members, and also assume responsibility in establishing an environment where for achieving high levels of transparency and healthy management, employees can be well conscious of internal control activities. the Company maintains objective and fair judgments as criteria for The Company maintains a corporate philosophy of “Develop the Business Risks in strategic targets of its partners, financial problems and other independence. Future through Creativity” and seeks to make social contributions Industry Trend Risk business issues can make maintenance of collaborative alliances based upon this philosophy and by conducting compliance transThe Group’s net sales derive largely from transactions with compadifficult and could influence its financial results. Key Activities in FY02/17 and Reasons for Appointments parently and establishing a risk supervisory structure. With regards to nies within the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry. The indusTomohiko Manabe (External Director) compliance, the Company seeks to “not only prevent the occurrence Intellectual Property Risk Foundation Supporting Growth tries within Japan and overseas are undergoing restructuring, and Tomohiko attended 15 out of 16 Board of Directors’ meetings held of illegal activities but to have it and its employees act ethically and the potential exists for the Group’s financial results to be impacted by The Group has established a special division for the management in FY02/17 and voiced his opinion mainly based on his experience in accordance with common sense.” Because lack of awareness of various government strategies including medical expense control. of intellectual property, and to strictly manage patents and other and knowledge gained from his long career at an accounting firm. compliance can often lead to the occurrence of risks, the Company intellectual property. But in the course of conducting business, the believes that compliance and risk management are inseparable and Pricing Competition Risk Group’s financial results may be impacted in the event that unforeRyuji Nakatake (External Director) it adopts a comprehensive approach to internal control including With regards to the Machinery Business Segment, intensive price seen legal disputes over intellectual property arise or infringement Ryuji attended 12 out of 16 Board of Directors’ meetings held in compliance through the establishment of the Internal Control competition may be possible as a result of competition with competof third party intellectual properties by the Group’s products. FY02/17 and offered his perspective mainly based on his rich Committee and Internal Audit Office. itors, market entry of technology companies, and severe competiexperience and specialist knowledge regarding human resource Also, the Company revised part of its “Basic Policy on Establishtion from low-priced products made by manufacturers in China and Product Liability Risk development. ment of Internal Control System” taking into account the enactment Southeast Asia. In the event that unanticipated pricing competition While the Group seeks to satisfy high expectations for quality and Sayoko Izumoto (External Audit & Supervisory Board Member) of the “Law to Partially Revise the Companies Act” and the “Minisappears, the Group’s financial results may be adversely affected. reliability of both the products and services the Group provides, it <Newly Appointed> terial Ordinance to Partially Revise the Ordinance for Enforcement recognizes the risk of defects. Although the Group maintains insurSayoko has years of experience as a certified public accountant with of the Companies Act” on May 1, 2015. By revising the basic policy, Client Relationship Risk ance to cover the liability for compensation for defective products, a depth of knowledge regarding finance and accounting that will the Company aims to further enhance its compliance and crisis With regards to the Machinery Business Segment within Japan, its financial results may be impacted by damage to its credibility enable her to properly conduct her duties as an external auditor. management structure in order to strengthen its corporate goverits business is highly dependent upon various services and prodresulting from compensation claims that exceed the coverage nance, and also promote structural improvement to ensure approucts provided by partner manufacturers. In the Chemicals Business of its insurance or from deterioration in reputation. Data Masanori Sugawara (External Audit & Supervisory Board Member) priateness of its businesses and effectiveness of audits by audit & Segment, its dependency upon major business partners for trading <Newly Appointed> supervisory board members. of nutritional supplements is on the rise. Therefore, the Group’s Public Regulations-Related Risk Masanori has years of work experience in finance divisions and audit tasks. The Company is confident that his vast experiences in financial results may be impacted by significant changes in manufacIn the various countries around the world where the Group conducts Business Continuity Plan (BCP) turing capacities, technological capabilities and operating conditions its businesses, it is subject to laws and regulations relating to busifinance and accounting will enable him to objectively and fairly Along with the diversification of and increases in risks accompaof business partners or clients as well as in demand of major clients. ness licenses, exports and imports, commerce, fair trade, patents, conduct his duties as an external audit & supervisory board nying the expansion in its businesses, the Company endeavors consumer protection, taxation, foreign currency management member. to conduct risk management on a consolidated basis for all of the Collaborative Alliances with Strategic Partnership Risk and environmental issues. These laws and regulations may also Group’s individual companies. The Group maintains numerous collaborative alliances with strategic be revised as necessary and the possibility exists that the Group’s The BCP helps to ensure that important operations remain uninterpartners for development of new technologies and products, and activities will be limited and monetary penalties will be levied exist rupted or that any interruptions are kept to a minimum by the execuimprovements in existing products. However, unexpected changes in the event that the Group does not strictly abide by them. 34 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 35 FOUNDATION SUPPORTING GROWTH: Corporate Governance Human Resources Risk by fires and earthquakes, but its financial coverage is limited and The Group needs to secure and maintain competent human its operations may be interrupted, or production and shipments MESSAGE FROM FULL-TIME AUDIT & resources for its new product development and sales tasks. Theredelayed. Moreover, the Group may need to pay for damages to SUPERVISORY BOARD MEMBER: its manufacturing facilities that are not covered by insurance. Through open fore, the Group conducts hiring on a regular basis, and it endeavors About FREUND to train staff after they are hired. In the event that the Group cannot hire or maintain competent human resources, the attainment of its goals may become difficult and its financial results may be affected. Impairment Risk for Non-Current Assets The Group’s financial results may be affected by impairment losses communication, I seek to resulting from the implementation of impairment accounting for contribute to improvement Foreign Exchange Fluctuation Risk in our corporate strengths. non-current assets in the event that the profitability of its businesses The expansion in the Group’s overseas sales suggests that its or market prices suffer dramatic declines resulting from a deteriorafinancial results may be influenced by severe fluctuations in foreign tion in operating conditions. exchange rates. Because the Company prepares statement of Tadashi Kobayashi income, balance sheet and other financial statements for its Overseas Business Operational Risk Full-Time Audit & Supervisory Board Member FREUND’s Growth Strategy consolidated subsidiaries operating overseas, foreign exchange The manifestation of latent risks including 1) unexpected changes in (Small and Medium Enterprise Management Consultant) rates at the time of the conversion of these financial accounts into laws and regulations; 2) occurrence of unforeseen adverse political Japanese yen can have a profound impact upon their values. and economic issues; 3) difficulty in securing human resources; 4) terrorism, wars, infectious diseases and other events; and 5) unanNatural Disaster Risk ticipated changes in the operating environment and competition The Group faces the possibility of disruptive damage to its manucould prevent us from conducting overseas businesses, which in I first had contact with FREUND as an external consultant implementing reforms in the facturing and other facilities should natural disasters such as earthturn could impact the Group’s financial results. Company’s personnel system in the late 1990s. Through that connection, I became a quakes occur. The Group maintains insurance for damages caused full-time audit & supervisory board member in FY02/16. I have focused upon promoting communication as a central point of Audit & Supervisory Board Members and the Board meetings. As part of my efforts, I have also written MESSAGE FROM EXTERNAL DIRECTOR: up reports on my findings in dealing with the Company to provide feedback to be used by others. Initially, my reports were only circulated amongst the other audit & supervisory Business Results We seek to create a strong board members, but I have been asked to “share them with external directors” and now organization by linking various with all directors and members. I wrote up over 30 reports in two years. Going forward, I will continue to share information to be topics of frank discussions with external directors individuals to instill the sense of and members and to have my various findings reflected in FREUND’s management. “reward and progress.” During the 6th Mid-Term Management Plan entitled “Change and Challenge,” internal responses for machinery demand surfaced from the middle of the Plan period, and some initiatives of the Plan have yet to be completed. While sticking to financial figures is imporBased upon my experience in “teaming” gathered through my experience as tant, we may lose track of our real path to growth if our employees are too busy to overly Foundation Supporting Growth a rugby coach, I have conducted efforts to provide information in the fields focus upon figures. It can just be an expansion of business. According to the organizaof human resources training and organizational structuring during FREUND’s tional diagnosis conducted by our external director Nakatake, who is a specialist in team Board of Directors’ meetings. By gaining an understanding of the fundamentals building, creativity in establishing objectives and reviews them as our key issues. of “teaming,” I have focused upon creating an environment where active discusThe bulk of a company’s profits are derived from its everyday operations. Regardless sions are conducted regarding human resources and organizational structuring. of how busy we may be, we need to study and reflect upon our activities by thinking According to the most recent organizational diagnosis, we have discovered “how did we do?” on a daily basis. Because it is important to maintain perseverance also that our organization maintains strengths in discipline, continuity, character and in our internal control activities, I support the frontline of our workplace in cooperation morality. However, we also discovered weaknesses in our view of things, and with the Internal Audit Office, so as not for our staff to miss the objectives. our ability to establish, implement and review objectives. In FY02/17, we have During the 7th Mid-Term Management Plan, we will take on the challenge of even conducted training in objective setting for managers working on the frontline larger targets and encourage proactive activities of our staff. We also need to learn from of the workplace. At the same time, this training has acted as an opportunity issues observed during the 6th Mid-Term Management Plan, have our staff establish their for them to reflect upon the needs of the workplace and implementation Based upon the 7th Mid-Term own activity targets, and ensure that they review progress achieved in their pursuit of Management Plan entitled “ONE FREUND,” of objective setting. their targets. we will endeavor to secure the next Data Also, I believe that it is important to implement change in the workplace by Ryuji Nakatake During the promotion of the 6th Mid-Term Management Plan, the Group developed generation of growth and improve our encouraging each and every employee to find rewarding experiences in their corporate strengths by maintaining open External Director technologies in various fields and hired numerous new staff as a means of strengthening daily work, which in turn will result in promoting the advancement of their own communications and sharing a diverse the collaboration among the group companies. Consequently, we were able to obtain range of expertise. careers. As the first step in this process, creating an environment where open numerous new opinions and identify new topics for discussion by increasing the communication can be conducted regardless of position is crucial. communication within the Group. FREUND maintains a corporate culture that values each and every individual Based upon the 7th Mid-Term Management Plan entitled “ONE FREUND,” I will employee and assumes a highly open organization. By fostering the value of endeavor to secure the next generation of growth and improve our corporate strengths “reward and progress” on these foundations, I would contribute to promoting by maintaining open communication and sharing a diverse range of expertise. diversity of employees with the goal of creating a strong organization. 36 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 37 FOUNDATION SUPPORTING GROWTH: Corporate Social Responsibility Responsible Communications with Stakeholders Together with Employees: Strengthening Communications FREUND created its new Mid-Term Management Plan entitled “ONE FREUND” based upon its with Employees About FREUND corporate philosophy of “Develop the Future through Creativity.” The new plan maintains the concepts of “becoming ‘Number One’ by creating special values” “being ‘Only One’ by putting Based upon our 7th Mid-Term Management Plan, we have clients’ views first” and “Unite to a ‘Be One’ group through networking.” Based upon the Mid-Term entered a new phase in the implementation of a new human Management Plan, we will also endeavor to “contribute to better medical care and health for resources strategy. As part of this strategy, the new employee people worldwide, and create and foster technologies for fulfilling lives and food safety.” cultivating system entitled “FREUND Human Resources Development Program” has been created. This program divides Our management and department in charge seek to conduct constructive dialogue with our the training into various classes and covers various business various stakeholders to deepen our mutual understanding. In addition, we listen to the opinions skills. To achieve further growth we will continue to cultivate FREUND’s Growth Strategy and requests of our stakeholders to improve transparency and certainty of management. human resources that have the confidence to take on “Change In the future, we will continue to implement responsible communications with our stakeholders & Challenge” as a means of strengthening our overall human resources function. Our President is actively promoting open, to realize sustained and prolonged improvements in our corporate value. aggressive and direct communication with At the beginning of FY02/17, our President has called for meetings of all of employees of FRUEND and its group companies. our employees to seek deeper understanding of the 7th Mid-Term ManageTogether with Our Shareholders and Investors: ment Plan. By promoting direct and active dialogue with employees of our group Promoting Engagement IR Tools companies, we will promote proactive activities of employees in keeping with the concept of unity and efforts to capture growth called for in the “ONE FREUND” through Our IR Activities Under the “What’s new” section on FREUND’s Management Plan. homepage, we provide IR related information including Regarding information disclosure based on our fundamental news releases, summaries of consolidated financial results (TANSHIN), integrated reports, financial results Business Results policy of “timely and fair,” we developed the “FREUND Group’s announcement presentation materials, factbooks, Disclosure Policy” and “IR Activity Policy” in March 2017. With information from the entire group the Corporate Communicafactsheets and others. Promoting Work Style Reforms tions Department headed by the President responds to invesIn June 2016 FREUND moved its Head Office to Nishishinjuku in Tokyo to expand tors and analysts. office space and improve its office environment so that we can respond to future growth of our business. A ‘sit-where-you-like’ seating arrangement has been To Our Institutional Investors introduced primarily for our sales staff at our new office and as part of our Our President and management team holds financial results work style reforms. Foundation Supporting Growth presentations (at the interim and full-year ends) and small The more open environment of our new office is designed to accommodate meetings (1st and 3rd quarters) targeting institutional investors. new work styles of the future and to strengthen our “One for All, All for One” In addition, the department in charge visits and/or interviews management by promoting active and wide-ranging communications within both domestic and overseas institutional investors. In FY02/17, English Homepage Information for Shareholders the Company. a total of 192* such individual meetings took place. We also and Investors invited investors for a tour to the Institute for Technology Introduce a ‘sit-where-you-like’ system for sales staff office space To view the archive of past information, please click “More” and look under “Topics.” Space with telephone conferencing facilities for communications with external parties Development in Hamamatsu and visited overseas investors Space for various types of meetings (based in Hong Kong) for the first time. *Including telephone conferences PDF Format Documents (examples) To Our Individual Investors Our President, management team and department in charge participated in seminars for individual investors, and held presentations and Q&A sessions. In FY02/17, a total of 20 Data presentations were held in 18 cities nationwide. Financial Results FREUND Report In addition, we introduced a shareholder special benefit Announcement (Japanese) plan in FY02/15 and have since been offering special benefits Materials (Japanese and English) at the end of every 2nd quarter. Integrated Report (Japanese and English) 38 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 39 DATA: Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheet FREUND CORPORATION and Consolidated Subsidiaries As of End of February 2015, 2016 and 2017 About FREUND Assets Liabilities and net assets (¥ thousand) (¥ thousand) FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 Assets 17,277,448 17,206,653 19,101,540 Liabilities and net assets 17,277,448 17,206,653 19,101,540 Current assets 12,782,160 13,053,591 14,938,653 Liabilities 6,097,209 5,677,469 6,916,182 Cash and deposits 4,870,566 4,042,296 6,982,822 Current liabilities 5,427,236 5,315,576 6,592,473 Notes and accounts receivable trade 5,266,889 5,542,999 4,282,766 Notes and accounts payable trade 1,833,333 1,680,871 2,019,656 FREUND’s Growth Strategy Electronically recorded monetary claims operating 5,578 151,350 120,616 Electronically recorded obligations operating 953,608 899,494 1,038,971 Merchandise and finished goods 296,478 330,747 404,081 Lease obligations 64,753 64,642 50,213 Work in process 931,971 1,511,095 1,712,294 Income taxes payable 332,544 65,043 477,303 Raw materials and supplies 543,437 590,674 649,160 Accrued consumption taxes 87,921 12,585 92,968 Prepaid expenses 120,830 114,910 148,338 Accrued expenses 386,453 409,464 490,502 Deferred tax assets 256,424 369,466 251,999 Advances received 1,242,586 1,288,049 1,831,994 Other 527,353 424,172 400,079 Provision for bonuses 233,683 259,898 260,416 Allowance for doubtful accounts (37,370) (24,122) (13,507) Provision for directors' bonuses 59,000 61,000 85,400 Non-current assets 4,495,288 4,153,061 4,162,887 Asset retirement obligations — 19,199 — Business Results Total Property, plant and equipment 3,403,736 3,135,122 3,234,934 Other 233,351 555,327 245,045 Buildings and structures, net 1,084,608 1,153,744 1,160,332 Non-current liabilities 669,973 361,893 323,709 Machinery and equipment, net 358,366 278,205 395,178 Long-term accounts payable other 309,143 52,563 47,165 Land 1,330,712 1,318,399 1,239,987 Lease obligations 113,498 54,193 9,011 Construction in progress 304,404 100,983 132,956 Net defined benefit liability 187,425 194,094 201,812 Other, net 325,644 283,788 306,479 Negative goodwill 18,862 11,067 — Intangible assets 146,911 182,760 55,836 Asset retirement obligations 15,555 4,213 34,824 Foundation Supporting Growth Goodwill — 77,159 — Other 25,488 45,762 30,895 Software 144,494 103,183 55,399 Net assets 11,180,239 11,529,183 12,185,358 Other 2,417 2,417 436 Shareholders' equity 10,930,810 11,630,488 12,410,463 Investments and other assets 944,640 835,179 872,116 Capital stock 1,035,600 1,035,600 1,035,600 Investment securities 348,501 322,133 341,733 Capital surplus 1,280,522 1,280,522 1,289,513 Business insurance funds 314,785 290,326 273,383 Retained earnings 8,816,001 9,515,679 10,286,711 Deferred tax assets 137,768 29,420 15,073 Treasury shares (201,313) (201,313) (201,361) Net defined benefit asset — 2,812 2,257 Accumulated other comprehensive income 57,162 (101,304) (225,105) Other 148,984 195,885 245,068 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities 34,183 16,600 33,141 Allowance for doubtful accounts (5,400) (5,400) (5,400) Foreign currency translation adjustment 34,187 (100,775) (233,036) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (11,208) (17,129) (25,210) Data Non-controlling interests 192,266 — — 40 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 41 DATA: Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Income and Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Change in Equity FREUND CORPORATION and Consolidated Subsidiaries FREUND CORPORATION and Consolidated Subsidiaries Fiscal Years ended February 2015, 2016 and 2017 Fiscal Year ended February 29, 2016 About FREUND (¥ thousand) (¥ thousand) Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 Valuation Foreign RemeasureTotal accumuNonTotal Total net controlling Net sales 17,424,279 19,027,633 21,164,542 Capital stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury shares shareholders’ difference on available-forcurrency translation ments of defined lated other compreheninterests assets equity sale securities adjustment benefit plans sive income Cost of sales 11,978,398 12,921,519 14,343,391 Balance at beginning Gross profit 5,445,881 6,106,114 6,821,151 of current period 1,035,600 1,280,522 8,813,218* (201,313) 10,928,027* 34,183 34,187 (11,208) 57,162 192,266 11,177,456* Changes of items Selling, general and administrative expenses 4,295,538 4,759,173 4,779,616 during period Operating profit 1,150,342 1,346,941 2,041,534 Dividends of surplus (258,668) (258,668) (258,668) FREUND’s Growth Strategy Profit attributable Non-operating income 106,696 64,877 65,498 to owners of parent 961,129 961,129 961,129 Interest income 2,202 1,554 2,910 Purchase of treasury shares Dividend income 4,853 5,187 5,085 Net changes of Technical support fee 15,285 14,796 13,914 items other than shareholders’ equity (17,582) (134,962) (5,921) (158,467) (192,266) (350,733) Rent income 2,472 1,991 2,224 Total changes of items during period — — 702,460 — 702,460 (17,582) (134,962) (5,921) (158,467) (192,266) 351,727 Insurance premiums refunded cancellation 13,570 17,238 18,424 Balance at end of Foreign exchange gains 44,839 — 1,337 current period 1,035,600 1,280,522 9,515,679 (201,313) 11,630,488 16,600 (100,775) (17,129) (101,304) — 11,529,183 Amortization of negative goodwill 7,794 7,794 — *Values reflect accumulated impacts from changes in accounting policies. Other 15,677 16,313 21,601 Business Results Non-operating expenses 7,496 17,165 9,233 Interest expenses 4,578 3,756 2,650 Provision of allowance for doubtful accounts 1,750 — — FREUND CORPORATION and Consolidated Subsidiaries Fiscal Year ended February 28, 2017 Foreign exchange losses — 12,973 — Other 1,168 436 6,582 (¥ thousand) Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income Ordinary profit 1,249,542 1,394,653 2,097,799 Valuation Foreign RemeasureTotal accumuNonTotal net Total controlling Capital Capital Retained Treasury difference on currency ments of lated other Foundation Supporting Growth shareholders’ assets Extraordinary income 10,030 3,830 28,681 stock surplus earnings shares equity available-fortranslation defined compreheninterests sale securities adjustment benefit plans sive income Extraordinary losses 6,507 256,845 342,519 Balance at beginning of current period 1,035,600 1,289,513* 9,438,001* (201,313) 11,561,801* 16,600 (98,180)* (17,129) (98,710)* — 11,463,091* Profit before income taxes 1,253,065 1,141,638 1,783,960 Changes of items Income taxes current 561,983 153,716 616,679 during period Dividends of surplus (215,556) (215,556) (215,556) Income taxes deferred (25,214) 33,575 103,014 Profit attributable Total income taxes 536,768 187,292 719,693 to owners of parent 1,064,266 1,064,266 1,064,266 Purchase of Profit 716,297 954,345 1,064,266 treasury shares (47) (47) (47) Profit (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 20,330 (6,783) — Net changes of items other than Profit attributable to owners of parent 695,966 961,129 1,064,266 shareholders’ equity 16,540 (134,855) (8,080) (126,395) — (126,395) Total changes of items during period — — 848,709 (47) 848,662 16,540 (134,855) (8,080) (126,395) — 722,266 (Consolidated statement of comprehensive income) Balance at end of current period 1,035,600 1,289,513 10,286,711 (201,361) 12,410,463 33,141 (233,036) (25,210) (225,105) — 12,185,358 Data Profit 716,297 954,345 1,064,266 *Values reflect accumulated impacts from changes in accounting policies. Other comprehensive income 303,851 (155,512) (126,395) Comprehensive income 1,020,148 798,833 937,871 42 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 43 DATA: Consolidated Financial Statements DATA: Company and Stock Information (As of February 28, 2017) Consolidated Cash Flow Statement COMPANY NAME: FREUND CORPORATION MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS (TOP TEN): Shares FREUND CORPORATION and Consolidated Subsidiaries ESTABLISHED: April 22, 1964 owned Ownership Fiscal Years ended February 2015, 2016 and 2017 (1,000) ratio (%) CAPITAL STOCK: ¥1,035,600,000 About FREUND (¥ thousand) EMPLOYEES: 390 (Consolidated) Yasutoyo Fusejima 1,841 10.68 FY02/15 FY02/16 FY02/17 HEAD OFFICE LOCATION: FREUND Bldg. FIL K.K. 1,648 9.56 Cash flows from operating activities (Details) 822,746 290,190 3,605,533 6-25-13 Nishishinjuku, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 1,250 7.25 Profit before income taxes 1,253,065 1,141,638 1,783,960 160-0023, JAPAN (Trust Account) Depreciation 308,370 321,898 338,407 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. 1,105 6.41 WEBSITE: http://www.freund.co.jp/english/ Impairment loss — 35,264 91,315 (Trust Account) STOCK LISTING: TSE JASDAQ Standard Increase (decrease) in provision for bonuses 28,511 26,099 4,525 (Securities Code: 6312) The Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 861 4.99 FREUND’s Growth Strategy Increase (decrease) in provision for directors' bonuses (6,000) 2,000 24,400 FISCAL YEAR: From March 1 to the last Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 744 4.31 Increase (decrease) in allowance for doubtful accounts (5,896) (13,321) (8,758) day of February next year Okawara Mfg. Co., Ltd. 673 3.91 Interest and dividend income (7,056) (6,742) (7,996) ANNUAL GENERAL Held in May of every year Interest expenses 4,578 3,756 2,650 SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING: Freund Employee Shareholding Circle 426 2.47 Foreign exchange losses (gains) (44,585) 14,213 5,628 SHAREHOLDER REGISTRY Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and The Shizuoka Bank, Ltd. 368 2.13 ADMINISTRATOR: Banking Corporation Loss (gain) on sales of property, plant and equipment (9,655) (3,830) (13,745) Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 360 2.09 TOTAL NUMBER OF 18,400,000 Loss (gain) on sales of investment securities — — (14,936) SHARES ISSUED: The Company has 1,155,000 shares (6.28%) of treasury shares. Loss (gain) on sales of shares of subsidiaries — 217,345 — Shareholding percentage stakes are calculated after excluding TOTAL NUMBER OF 6,570 1,155,000 shares of treasury shares. Loss (gain) on cancellation of insurance contract (13,570) (17,238) (18,424) SHAREHOLDERS: Decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable trade (781,365) (430,893) 1,243,975 Business Results Decrease (increase) in inventories 12,959 (620,626) (382,518) SHAREHOLDER DISTRIBUTION BY TYPE OF SHAREHOLDERS: Decrease (increase) in other assets (193,148) 229,088 (207,339) Increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable trade 345,984 (170,336) 409,295 Thousand shares Percentage Increase (decrease) in advances received 252,409 45,053 571,295 TOTAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 5,286 28.73 Interest and dividend income received 7,056 6,742 7,996 SHARES ISSUED: 18,400 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FIRMS 291 1.58 Interest expenses paid (4,578) (3,756) (2,650) OTHER CORPORATIONS 3,291 17.89 Income taxes refund 59,393 51,553 117,862 (Thousand Thousand shares) FOREIGN CORPORATIONS 1,217 6.62 Foundation Supporting Growth Income taxes paid (417,810) (550,877) (245,977) Cash flows from investing activities (Details) (240,261) (432,751) (351,682) INDIVIDUALS, OTHERS 8,310 45.18 Proceeds from withdrawal of time deposits 689,470 295,482 — Note: Treasury shares are included in the category of “Individuals, Others” Purchase of property, plant and equipment (453,659) (304,065) (474,089) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 28,636 1,615 37,753 Purchase of intangible assets (14,497) (3,155) — SHARE PRICE, TRADING VOLUME, TOPIX TRENDS (AS OF MAY 31, 2017): Proceeds from sales of investment securities — — 19,256 (Index) (Shares) Purchase of investment securities (2,068) (2,164) (2,196) 400 800,000 Purchase of shares of subsidiaries from non-controlling FREUND CORPORATION (Trade Volume) FREUND CORPORATION (Share Price) TOPIX — (264,189) — shareholders Payments for sales of shares of subsidiaries resulting in 300 600,000 — (130,485) — change in scope of consolidation Cash flows from financing activities (Details) (284,565) (331,618) (277,678) Data 200 400,000 Purchase of treasury shares (44) — (47) Cash dividends paid (215,217) (258,228) (215,832) Eﬀect of exchange rate change on cash and cash equivalents 142,859 (31,701) (35,648) 100 200,000 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 440,779 (505,881) 2,940,525 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 4,107,398 4,548,178 4,042,296 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 4,548,178 4,042,296 6,982,822 3/3/2014 3/2/2015 3/1/2016 3/1/2017 Note: Share price and trading volumes prior to the stock split shown in the chart above have been adjusted to reflect the stock split. FREUND CORPORATION and TOPIX prices have been adjusted to show relative valuations on March 3, 2014 as 100 44 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 FREUND CORPORATION Integrated Report 2017 45 FREUND CORPORATION FREUND Bldg. 6-25-13, Nishishinjuku, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 160-0023 JAPAN Please contact us at the phone number or website listed below regarding any questions about this Integrated Report. Corporate Communications Department Phone: +81-3-6890-0767 Fax: +81-3-6890-0870 E-mail: ir@freund.co.jp URL: http://www.freund.co.jp/english/
