UN Global Compact Communication on Progress UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress Baker McKenzie is a truly global community of 60 nationalities across 77 offices in 47 countries, brought together by a culture of friendship and collaboration. As a participant in the UN Global Compact, we are proud to leverage our talent, insight, resources and relationships to make a positive and lasting impact on critical issues affecting society. We do this in collaboration with our colleagues, clients, communities, non-profit organizations and other key stakeholders. We are pleased to share our Communication on Progress, which outlines the practical actions taken by our Firm to support the UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles on human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. These Principles are aligned with our values and are reflected in our business strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations. The Ten Principles are also outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, which is publicly available and required reading for every Baker McKenzie employee worldwide. We remain committed to promoting sustainable business practices for the benefit of our people, our clients and the communities where we operate. We see our investments in these efforts as not only good business, but the right thing to do. Paul Rawlinson Global Chair Baker McKenzie www.bakermckenzie.com | ii Human Rights and Labor Human Rights Principles Labor Principles − Principle 1: businesses should support − Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of and respect the protection of association and the effective recognition of the right to internationally proclaimed human collective bargaining; rights; and − Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and − Principle 2: make sure that they are not compulsory labor; complicit in human rights abuses. − Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and − Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Baker McKenzie is committed to respecting and supporting human rights, including fair labor practices, throughout our global operations and in our sphere of influence. Most Innovative Lawyers in Diversity by the Our People Financial Times, and we understand that fostering Baker McKenzie believes that all our people a culture of respect and inclusion creates a deserve respect, support and equal treatment. dynamic and happy workforce. To ensure we We support human rights and fair labor practices, maintain a focused agenda, we have a Global including through the promotion of diversity and Diversity and Inclusion Committee comprised of inclusion in our policies, culture and hiring members from all four of our world regions that is practices; by supporting the professional growth chaired by a member of our Executive and development of our people; and through Committee. policies that promote dignity and safety in our As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, we workplaces. do not permit or tolerate discrimination in our workplaces. This means: Diversity and Inclusion − All personnel decisions must be: a) respectful Baker McKenzie was founded on the idea of of differences among employees and diversity. From our earliest days, we have strived potential employees, b) based on factors to nurture a respectful, inclusive environment that relevant to their ability to perform the work encourages diverse individuals to thrive they are, or would be expected to do, and c) personally and professionally as full contributors in accordance with all applicable laws and to the success of the Firm and the clients we regulations. serve. Our global community includes people of diverse creeds, colors, ethnicities, religions, − This includes decisions related to the sexual orientations, gender identities and recruiting, hiring, assignment, compensation, expressions, socio-economic backgrounds, training and development, promotion and disabilities, and a range of other human dismissal of personnel, as well as other terms differences. and conditions of employment. Cultivating a diverse and inclusive workplace is − Applicable local laws, which we follow, vary, top of our agenda we have been named as The but differences that we strive to overlook in www.bakermckenzie.com |1 personnel decisions include race, color, − Agile Working Agile or flexible working creed, religion, citizenship, national origin, arrangements have been in place in many of ethnicity and/or cultural background, age, sex, our offices over the years. However, following gender, gender identity/expression, sexual employee feedback we have now developed orientation, marital status, pregnancy and one holistic approach to be rolled out globally disability. to all employees. The program focuses on remote working; reduced working hours; We have implemented global Diversity and alternative hours; and time out of the office. Inclusion policies, including those related to We anticipate that these measures will gender and LGBT. increase productivity and efficiency from our With respect to gender, we seek to foster women workforce; reduce absenteeism; improve the leaders in our senior global roles but we are also health and wellbeing of our people; reduce focusing on ensuring that women are leaders of turnover; and improve morale. our most significant client relationships. In 2012, − In the UK, we were one of the first two we adopted a gender policy designed to organizations in any industry to become encourage the recruitment and retention of more Contextual Recruitment Pioneers and to women, and provide greater opportunities and introduce name-blind recruitment. support for women to assume leadership roles. At the partner level, we have set gender diversity As a result of these efforts, we have been aspirational targets we are working to ensure recognized by Working Mother magazine and the that women comprise at least 40% of Flex-Time Lawyers organization as one of the top local/national partners and at least 30% of law firms for women, and the Best International principals and those in leadership positions. Firm for Women in Business Law by the Euromoney Legal Media Group. We have been With respect to LGBT, we are committed to named among the top employers for LGBT creating and maintaining an open and supportive employees by Stonewall, the Human Rights working environment where our colleagues can Campaign and Pride in Diversity. succeed and build successful careers, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity and Harassment Healthy and Safe Work expression. This includes equal opportunity for Environment advancement and development within the Firm and the equal provision of benefits to same and As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, we opposite sex partners or spouses. do not tolerate harassment in the workplace. We are committed to maintaining a healthy and safe Additionally, we have put in place a range of work environment in all offices. Dangerous, programs aimed at cultivating an inclusive work abusive or violent behavior, or the threat of such environment, including: behavior, is prohibited and will not be tolerated. − Unconscious bias training These training seminars help address unconscious bias in Professional Support and Development evaluations, work allocation and promotion We are committed to developing the talents and discussions, as well as day-to-day office skills of our people, and we actively promote a relationships. culture of learning within the Firm. Employees are − Global Listening Ear Scheme The scheme encouraged to expand their knowledge and provides partners and staff with a sounding expertise throughout their careers this culture of board and informal support and guidance learning is underpinned by our comprehensive around one-off personal topics or challenges. Development Framework, one of the first of its kind adopted by a law firm and selected by www.bakermckenzie.com |2 Harvard Business School as one of its best − In collaboration with the Thomson Reuters practice case studies on talent management. The Foundation, we published Managing Framework outlines the skills and personal Corporate Supply Chains: Challenges & qualities employees need to be successful when Successes in the Fight to Combat Forced working here, and offers a clear roadmap to Labour and Human Trafficking. In producing success to help employees fulfil their potential. this White Paper, Baker McKenzie lawyers consulted with some of our most valued Our Communities global clients as well as other professionals in the corporate community to identify the In addition to respecting human rights and fair challenges they face and the solutions they labor practices in our own operations, we believe are implementing in managing their complex that one of the most significant contributions we supply chains as they work to keep them free can make is through the provision pro bono legal from human trafficking and forced labor. services and our engagement in community service globally. Some highlights of our efforts − Our member firm in the Philippines include: Quisumbing Torres is providing pro bono services to International Justice Mission Human Trafficking (IJM), one of the world’s largest anti-slavery − We supported the development of the Stop not-for-profit organizations. We are Slavery Award, an initiative by the Thomson representing IJM in several civil cases filed by Reuters Foundation to recognize the “best in suspects in child trafficking cases in Manila. class” of the corporate sector, companies that The cases are believed to be retaliatory in are leading the fight against slavery in their nature, with the plaintiffs seeking damages in supply chains. Conferred for the first time in millions of pesos. Our lawyers from various November 2016, the Stop Slavery Award practice groups — corporate commercial, aims to create a virtuous cycle, demonstrating dispute resolution, information technology, that businesses can indeed play a critical role intellectual property and tax — as well several in stopping the tragedy of modern day slavery clerks are involved in this pro bono work. and forced labor worldwide. A team of − Our Hong Kong office has hosted a series of lawyers from Baker McKenzie provided legal seminars by the Mekong Club on human advice in the development of the methodology trafficking and forced labor risks in apparel underpinning the award, based on our and footwear supply chains in Southeast expertise in advising companies about supply Asia. Discussion topics included the scope chain issues. and nature of the issue, regulatory framework − We are working with Canada's largest and government performance in enforcing the homeless youth agency, Covenant House law, and steps companies can take to identify, Toronto, to support a special residence evaluate and control forced labor risks in their opened by Covenant House in 2016, Rogers supply chain. House, to assist female victims of sexual Children exploitation and human trafficking. Our lawyers are providing pro bono legal services − We organize an annual Children's Rights to the victims of human trafficking and sexual Summit in California that brings together inexploitation so that their legal rights are house counsel, children's rights advocates, protected and they do not become relaw firm lawyers and technology experts from victimized through the criminal justice system. around the nation to engage in meaningful discussions about the legal needs of vulnerable children in the United States, and www.bakermckenzie.com |3 to work together on a variety of pro bono Refugees & Asylum Seekers opportunities dedicated to the cause of − The Firm has a longstanding relationship with children. the United Nations High Commissioner for − Recognizing how street youth can be invisible Refugees (UNHCR), and has provided in policy agendas, Baker McKenzie partnered litigation support in significant cases, before with the Consortium for Street Children national and international courts, which have (CSC), as well as in-house counsel at Merck, had important implications for the protection Regeneron, Cargill and Salesforce, to bring of refugees and asylum seekers worldwide. together hundreds of street children to share − Established in 1997, the Tahirih Justice their stories during UN consultations in Brazil, Center is a US organization that aims to India, Belgium and Mexico over the last year. protect immigrant women and girls fleeing In addition to the consultations, more than 60 violence. Baker McKenzie has been an active Baker McKenzie volunteers and some 20 member of the organization's pro bono volunteers from the Firm's in-house partners network since 2009. In 2014, volunteers from produced reports analyzing street children's the Firm's Houston office joined a two-day Uright to association, to shelter, safety and Visa legal clinic to provide a path to US protection and to representation — research citizenship for immigrants who are survivors that will be submitted to the UN Committee on of crimes. Firm lawyers also advocated for a the Rights of the Child ahead of its General client seeking asylum in the US after fleeing Comment on the needs of street-connected Ethiopia for fear of female genital mutilation children.Our initiative with CSC was honored and forced marriage. In 2015, Tahirih named by American Lawyer Media’s Global Legal Baker McKenzie its Houston Firm of the Year Awards as its pro bono research project of the for our pro bono work. year. − Accenture has initiated the Refugee Talent − In 2015, our London office hosted the first Hub in close collaboration with ever global summit on the legal needs of Baker McKenzie and other leading corporates street youth. Launched by The American Bar in the Netherlands, the Dutch government, Association (ABA) Commission on NGOs and educational institutions a total of Homelessness & Poverty and Section of more than 50 partners. The Refugee Talent Litigation Children's Rights Litigation Hub is an ecosystem, facilitated by a digital Committee, the Summit was attended by 160 platform, that aims to facilitate and accelerate advocates and experts on the legal issues both formal and informal acceptance, facing street-connected youth from 36 integration, education and employment of countries. refugees in the Netherlands. A matching − With Merck, we are co-sponsoring an Equal algorithm on skills gives insight in potential Justice Works Fellow working at Sanctuary skill gaps and suggests Meaningful Waiting, for Families in New York to provide e.g. trainings, coaching, language support, comprehensive legal services tailored to education, labor experience, internships, or trafficking victims with physical and jobs. Baker McKenzie lawyers in Amsterdam psychological health concerns through direct provided pro bono legal advice and support to representation, outreach to health providers Accenture with the initial structuring of the and policy advocacy. initiative. In addition, a diverse group of our lawyers and professional staff in Amsterdam have been matched with refugees to provide professional mentoring. www.bakermckenzie.com |4 − On behalf of the Public International Law and areas where WfWI operates. The Firm has Policy Group, we conducted legal research to also worked with the organization on their address possible mechanisms and options for Women's Opportunity Center in Rwanda. the resettlement of Syrian refugees displaced over the last five years. The research Human Rights and Technology included a review of the specific direct actions − The chair of the Firm's Global Information that have taken place to date involving Syrian Technology and Communications practice and United Nation's representatives, group, Sydney-based partner Anne-Marie comparative state practices, the role of the Allgrove, has been appointed to a World international community in facilitating the Economic Forum council on the Future of return of refugees, and international Human Rights. The council is drafting standards and their application within the recommendations about the impact of the Syrian context. Fourth Industrial Revolution on Human Rights and how to create the appropriate Humanitarian governance structures to ensure that − Baker McKenzie provides pro bono support to technological development and use does not Save the Children, including on employment, put universal Human Rights in danger. intellectual property, tax and international law − We partnered with the Institute for Human matters, and our lawyers from around the Rights and Business to develop and host a world advised on the major restructuring of panel event to explore a wide range of human the organization to streamline its global rights issues facing global ICT companies, in operations and better position the charity to particular freedom of expression and privacy, save even more lives. hate speech, lawful interception and − We assisted ShelterBox with the creation of surveillance and network shutdowns. their Canadian and global privacy policy, as well as provided legal advice regarding compliance with export sanctions laws in the US, Canada, Australia and the UK, and compliance with import requirements in Mexico for humanitarian goods. − Women for Women International (WfWI) began as a grassroots initiative in 1993, providing financial aid to women refugees in war-torn Sarajevo. Today, the organization has grown to provide job and life skills training and rights education to over 447,000 women across eight war-torn countries, helping empower them to lead the transformation of their lives, families and communities. Our volunteer attorneys have advised on numerous aspects of WfWI's operations, from employment policies, tax issues, and real estate concerns to managing their global trademark portfolio, updating the organization's by-laws, and identifying as well as training local counsel in the war-ravaged www.bakermckenzie.com |5 Environment • Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We recognize the importance of environmental sustainability to our people, our clients and to the communities in which we live and work. We contribute to sustainability not only through the practice of law in our environmental practice, but also through our efforts to monitor and mitigate the environmental impact and risk of our operations. We seek to reduce, reuse and recycle the energy and natural resources necessary for our business, and we strive to integrate sustainability meaningfully into our business strategies, operating models and critical processes. We also engage in pro bono and community service initiatives to support sustainability. participated in the negotiations as members Our Clients of country delegations, and we are actively With more than 300 lawyers around the world, our involved in working with government and Environmental Practice has a long-standing industry groups and non-governmental commitment to helping companies respond to the organizations seeking to achieve global risks and opportunities of environmental law and outcomes on climate change. See our COP regulation. Ranked among the best environmental 22 Report. teams in the world's league tables and directories, − Our Environmental Markets Practice Group our lawyers collaborate on international efforts to has published the Consolidated Guide to the promote and uphold sustainable business REDD+ Rules under the UNFCCC which practices. Our services to clients include providing simplifies and brings together international expert advice on traditional environmental law law on REDD+ (aka Reducing Emissions and planning matters, as well as clean and from Deforestation and Degradation in renewable energy markets, waste and Developing Countries a mechanism biodiversity, and related issues in the agricultural, developed under the United Nations forestry and fishing industries. Framework Convention on Climate Change through which developing countries could Thought Leadership receive financial benefits by introducing We provide dedicated guidance on sustainability, policies and taking steps to reduce carbon to help companies make informed decisions and emissions from the use of forests). guide policy makers on future legislation. − The Firm's Real Estate Practice Group has − We have a long history of participation in established a Global Sustainability international climate change meetings. We Subcommittee to focus solely on the regularly attend COP and COP/MOP challenges, drivers and opportunities for meetings and closely follow the development sustainable building. The group published the of negotiating issues arising out of those first Global Sustainable Buildings Index, meetings. Many of our lawyers have covering 16 jurisdictions, in 2015. A second www.bakermckenzie.com |6 edition was released in March 2016, with Below are additional examples of how our offices coverage expanded to 25 jurisdictions. The demonstrate environmental sustainability in their index focuses on the use, design, day-to-day operations. development and financing of buildings, and − Our Firm is a member of the Professional evaluates selected jurisdictions on key areas Services Sustainability Roundtable (PSSR), of sustainability, ranging from green which enables members to participate in an certification and minimum energy standards ongoing platform to exchange ideas and best to financing, planning and green leases. More practices with peers. Members represent a than simply presenting data, the index range of sectors including law, consulting, contains insightful details and heat maps that communications/advertising, accounting, demonstrate the extent of legislation and engineering, management, real estate innovation among the surveyed jurisdictions. services, research, and executive search It shows areas of opportunity for investors, firms, among others. construction companies and government agencies. Baker McKenzie professionals from − Our member Firm in Brazil, Trench, Rossi e all 77 offices, including lawyers from the Watanabe, has launched a paperless project Environmental Law and Climate Change aimed at reducing paper consumption and practices, contributed to the index. storage requirements through digitization and the creation of an electronic data repository. Our Operations The project was able to reduce paper consumption to about 100,000 pages per We have a global environmental policy in place month as well as diminish the need for paper and we expect all partners and employees to storage space by approximately 40 percent.. contribute to efforts to reduce, reuse and recycle the energy and natural resources required to − Our London office belongs to the Legal operate our business, and to integrate Sustainability Alliance in the UK and sustainability into the Firm's business strategies, publishes its carbon footprint through the operating models and critical processes. organization annually. The office has removed personal recycling bins to compel In 2017, we will launch B-Green, a global program employees to reduce waste and consume to help our offices to understand measure, less paper. Composting facilities have also manage and reduce their environmental impact, been set up and biodegradable cutlery and in a systematic and uniform approach. B-Green food trays are made available in the office will provide a roadmap and tools to guide offices restaurant. Energy usage reduction efforts are on improving environmental performance in a implemented, including shifting to LED bulbs measurable and consistent manner, and on and the installation of a green roof which embedding environmental sustainability in daily absorbs rainwater and creates a habitat for business activities. The program includes wildlife, including the rare Black Redstart. reference guides as well a benchmarking system that will allow offices to evaluate their existing − Our Australia offices belong to the Australian performance as well as set goals, track progress, Legal Sector Alliance, an industry-led and compare their performance with other Baker association working collaboratively to promote McKenzie offices. We have hired a dedicated sustainable practices across the legal sector. Environmental Sustainability Specialist to work They publish their carbon footprint annually with our Global CSR Director and Global and have reduced business air travel via Sustainability Committee to implement the video conferencing and other technology, and program. offset any non-avoidable travel. www.bakermckenzie.com |7 − Our Paris office has entered into a recycling − A number of our offices occupy certified green partnership with Tri-Ethic, a local company buildings or those with green features. For that promotes social inclusion and example our Moscow and Belfast offices are sustainability. Through this partnership, they housed in buildings certified under BREEAM, have reduced paper consumption (9,000 one of the world's leading environmental reams down from 11,000 in 2013) and rating systems for buildings. In Moscow, the increased the amount of paper recycled (to 11 office center was designed to be energy tons in 2014 compared to nine tons in 2013 efficient, environmentally friendly materials and seven tons in 2012). were chosen, and construction was carried out in a manner that would minimize the − In Amsterdam, an initiative called Project impact on the surrounding community and Switch has enabled the office to implement environment. Our Mexico City office is located large scale digitization and streamlining of within one of the first buildings in Mexico to work processes, thereby also reducing paper achieve LEED Platinum Certification by the and ink consumption. The project has US Green Building Council. Our Chicago equipped all employees with iPads and office has achieved LEED Silver certification. personal print dashboards, and significantly reduced the total number of printers available − Our Stockholm has been certified under the in the office, to further promote a paperless International Organisation for Standardisation office culture. (ISO)'s 14001:2004 environmental management system, a framework that − Since moving into its new green building enables companies to operate in a more location, the Caracas office has been environmentally sustainable manner. The recycling bottle caps, printer cartridges, office's programs are headed by an plastic cups and batteries. The program is environmental committee and include implemented in partnership with local nonmeasures such as buying organic food, government organizations such as Bottletops segregating garbage and choosing ecofor Life Foundation, an organization that aids friendly modes of transportation. Recent children with cancer, and Ecoclick, which efforts have intensified and included moving supports the municipality where the Caracas to LEED-certified offices located near public office is located. transportation. − The restaurant in our Hong Kong office offers vegetarian options on a weekly basis via its Our Communities Green Monday initiative, to promote healthy Baker McKenzie also supports the UNGC's lifestyles and to reduce employees' carbon Environment Principles in our communities, footprint. A weekly newsletter offering greenthrough membership in leadership groups and living tips and recipes is also circulated in the through the provision of pro bono legal services to office. The Hong Kong office has also been leading environmental organizations around the recognized with the Hong Kong Wastewi$e world. Some highlights include: Class of Excellence award. Established by the Hong Kong government, the Wastewi$e − In September 2016 Baker McKenzie became award aims to encourage local businesses the first law firm to join the Carbon Pricing and organizations to reduce the amount of Leadership Coalition (CPLC). A private-public waste generated in their establishments as partnership among the World Bank, well as in the services and products they International Monetary Fund, governments, provide. non-profits, and private sector companies, the initiative aims to develop a global network for www.bakermckenzie.com |8 sharing best practice. CPLC members agree partnership of conservation organizations that to work collaboratively with the long term strives to conserve birds, their habitats and objective of a carbon price applied throughout global biodiversity, working with people the global economy. towards sustainability in the use of natural resources. − We provided pro bono legal assistance to FERDESCOL (La Fundación de energías renovables y desarrollo sostenible en comunidades colombianas), a not-for-profit organization promoting renewable energy and sustainable development in rural communities in Colombia. − We advised the Chicago Field Museum related to REDD+ carbon offset projects in collaboration with the Cordillera Azul National Park in Peru. − We are providing a range of pro bono legal advice to the World Resources Institute is a global research organization that spans more than 50 countries, focused on sustaining the planet's natural resources-the foundation of economic opportunity and human well-being. − We have served as pro bono counsel to the Alliance for the Great Lakes, related to the Great Lakes Compact, a landmark agreement adopted in 2008 to safeguard the health of the Great Lakes for generations to come. It seeks to ban the diversion of Great Lakes water, with some limited exceptions, and set responsible standards for water use and conservation within the basin. − We have advised the Nature Conservancy on a pro bono basis related to the creation of a clean water fund in Chile. − We represented the National Resources Defense Council in a multi year litigation related to pollution of the Chicago River system. − We provided pro bono legal advice related to a plan to install a solar photovoltaic system on the rooftop of the International Convention Centre Sydney. − We provided pro bono intellectual property legal advice to BirdLife International, a global www.bakermckenzie.com |9 Anti-corruption • Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. − We support the UN Global Compact's Our Operations Business for the Rule of Law (B4ROL) As a global enterprise, we comply with a variety of Framework an initiative that aims to engage anti-corruption laws. These laws apply to our the business community and legal profession interactions with governments and government globally in advancing the rule of law, good officials. They also cover our dealings with clients governance and corporate sustainability. The and suppliers, as well as the dealings of third Firm mobilized a global team of volunteers to parties acting on our behalf. Our Firm, its lawyers, host and lead consultation workshops with its employees and its clients have important clients and civil society leaders in Toronto, obligations under various anti-bribery and antiBogota, Mexico City, Dubai and Istanbul to corruption laws, including but not limited to the US solicit input from participants to inform the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the FCPA), which development of the B4ROL Framework (19 covers, among other things, the corrupt payment workshops were held in total around the world of bribes to foreign government officials. The UK with other UNGC partners). Following the Bribery Act and similar laws in other jurisdictions workshops, a team of Baker McKenzie also apply to us and may apply to our clients. We volunteer lawyers distilled and analyzed the comply, and we must counsel our clients to findings from all of the global consultations, comply with those laws wherever applicable. and worked with the UNGC and its stakeholders to draft the Business for the Our Code of Business Conduct, which is publicly Rule of Law Framework. available and is often provided to our clients, sets out the behavior we expect from our employees in − We have provided pro bono legal advice to relation to issues such as compliance with antithe Government of Vietnam to strengthen the corruption laws, dealing with sanctions, money country's legal framework and develop its laundering prevention, and avoiding conflicts of economy over the past 12 years. With interest, among other topics. We have mandatory substantial insight into the legal intricacies of and regular training of all our personnel with trade and commerce, the Firm has helped respect to our code of conduct, including antienact legal reforms that have, in the World corruption laws. Bank's assessment, contributed to Vietnam's historic achievements in poverty reduction Our Communities and sustainable development. Since working together with the government, In alignment with Sustainable Development Goal Baker McKenzie has been invited to 16, Baker McKenzie supports efforts aimed at contribute their legal expertise and talent in strengthening the rule of law, promoting effective, various forms, with pro bono counsel or accountable institutions at the national and through educational workshops designed to international levels, and to ensuring equal access promote technical skills and professional to justice for all. Some examples include: development. Baker McKenzie lawyers organized and led Working Groups on issues www.bakermckenzie.com | 10 ranging from lending and foreign exchange and the role of lawyers as positive role control, labor to intellectual property, tax to models. property development, construction to public − In Tanzania, we have joined the National health and Clean Development Mechanism Institute for Trial Advocacy, Northwestern projects. These Working Groups initially put University's Bluhm Legal Clinic, Lawyers together an inventory of more than ten Without Borders and DLA Piper to train local thousand administrative reforms, and prosecutors with the aim of boosting the subsequently led focused working sessions to success rate of corruption prosecutions. Firm analyze and simplify them. This work was lawyers helped develop the course program honored by American Lawyer Media's Global and teaching materials and facilitated training, Legal Awards 2015. which covered an overview of corruption laws, − Via the Baker & McKenzie Foundation, we as well as electronic evidence and persuasive established an endowed scholarship at arguments. More than 70 Tanzanian Columbia Law School, which annually awards prosecutors and 20 magistrate judges USD 50,000 to an LL.M. student who attended a five-day program in Dar es demonstrates academic success and a need Salaam. This initiative earned for significant financial aid. Priority is given to Baker McKenzie the CSR Award at the 2015 international students from outside of the African Legal Awards hosted by Legal Week. United States and Western Europe, in line − In collaboration with the Center for with efforts the Law School has made to International Human Rights at Northwestern welcome students from emerging countries, Pritzker School of Law, we crafted an an underrepresented demographic with little extensive report on the status of the access to funding. In addition to promoting implementation and enforcement in different global diversity and inclusion in the legal jurisdictions of the United Nation Convention profession, the scholarship helps strengthens against Corruption. the legal profession in the students' countries of origin, where most return to practice law. − In collaboration with the United Nations The first two scholarship recipients have been Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive a women's rights attorney from Argentina and Directorate, the non-profit Global Center on a human rights attorney from Colombia, Cooperative Security, and in-house lawyers respectively, both working to improve access from Salesforce, we created a guide to help to justice in their societies. overwhelmed judges adjudicate terror cases. The guidance is aimed at helping judges from − Volunteers at Hadiputranto, Hadinoto & countries including Pakistan, Afghanistan, Partners, Baker McKenzie's member firm in Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and other nations to Indonesia, have assisted the international navigate a high volume of cases under NGO PILnet to develop and deliver an dangerous circumstances and often a lack of international training program on legal ethics resources. The roughly 200-page guide for students at the Law School of Universitas distills multilateral and bilateral treaties and Pelita Harapan (UPH) in Jakarta. Twenty-five UN conventions related to the criminal UPH law students participated in the program. prosecution of terror cases, as well as Each training session consisted of lectures practical material on managing the docket. and case studies focusing on anti-corruption, Chapters include definitions of terrorism conflicts of interest, confidentiality and other offenses and cover courthouse security, key issues. The training emphasized the among many other topics. importance of ethics for legal professionals www.bakermckenzie.com | 11 Baker McKenzie has been global since inception. Being global is part of our DNA. Our difference is the way we think, work and behave – we combine an instinctively global perspective with a genuinely multicultural approach, enabled by collaborative relationships and yielding practical, innovative advice. Serving our clients with more than 6,000 lawyers in more than 45 countries, we have a deep understanding of the culture of business the world over and are able to bring the talent and experience needed to navigate complexity across practices and borders with ease. For more information, please contact: Christie Constantine Global Director of Corporate Social Responsibility +31 20 551 7973 christie.constantine@bakermckenzie.com www.bakermckenzie.com
