Doosan Infracore 2016 Integrated Report w i n n i n g T E A M Customer Value Sustainable Growth Smart Solution About This Report 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis 02 CEO Message 04 Company Profile 06 Business Model 08 Performance Review 2016 Reporting Purpose Disclaimer This is Doosan Infracore’s fifth Integrated Report containing its This report contains details of some future activities, events and annual and sustainability management reports. Doosan Infracore situations based on the company’s plans and estimations of future Our Strategy Our Responsibility publishes an integrated report to share with its stakeholders financial outcomes, which may turn out to be inaccurate in the event of the processes whereby it generates its financial and nonchanges in the global business landscape. The plans and estimations 14 Strategy Overview 46 CSR Structure financial performance results and boosts its corporate values draw upon the best information available at the time of completion generated through the interaction of its diverse Corporate of this report, with due consideration given to future business 16 Customer Value 52 Transparent and Ethical Management Social Responsibility (CSR) activities. Doosan Infracore strives environments as well as the company’s elaborate business strategies. 24 Sustainable Growth 58 Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management to incorporate CSR throughout all business activities and makes Doosan Infracore, therefore, would like to remind its stakeholders that continued efforts to improve its integrated report. this report contains some predictions that may be affected significantly 32 Smart Solution 63 Integrated EHS System ▲ Doosan Group due to the risks, uncertainties and other factors involved in the Reporting Process company’s global operations. 71 Shared Growth with Our Suppliers To produce a comprehensive report on Doosan Infracore’s financial 76 Employee Value Proposition and non-financial performance as well as social and environmental 37 Doosan Bobcat values, various departments related to the company’s strategy, 83 Supporting Development of Local Communities sales, investor relations and communications have participated in its planning. Thirty five working-level teams worked together to compile this Integrated Report, with a focus on performance Appendix results and future plans of the company. 87 Performance Summary Reporting Period This report presents quantitative data about the company’s 88 Consolidated Financial Statements performance during the 2016 calendar year. However, the company’s 92 CSR Facts & Figures qualitative activities mentioned in the report, including the composition of the BOD, include developments recorded until the 97 Independent Auditors’ Report end of April 2017. Reporting Method 98 Independent Assurance Report Reporting Scope Printed Material 100 Global Network This report is mainly on the activities and accomplishments made This report is published in Korean, English, and by the company’s worksites in Korea and China. Some qualitative Chinese to communicate better with our global activities, however, include those undertaken at the company’s stakeholders. overseas worksites. The CSR Facts & Figures section includes the quantitative outcomes of the worksites in Korea for the last PDF three years. Figures on the worksites in China are on activities This report is available in PDF format which can be and accomplishments in 2016, after the execution of the overseas downloaded at www.doosaninfracore.com. worksite CSR roll-out. Contact Us External Assurance This report has been assured by Samjong KPMG, an independent CSR part, Communication, Doosan Infracore assurance service provider, to ensure the propriety and integrity of 23rd Fl. Doosan Tower Building, the reporting processes as well as the accuracy and credibility of 275 Jangchungdan-ro, Junggu, Seoul (04563), Korea its contents. Its Assurance Report is attached in the Appendix. E-mail: csr.di@doosan.com Doosan Group The oldest and one of the fastest growing in Korea The Doosan Way – Our Beliefs and Philosophy Our Heritage With 121 years of history, Doosan is the oldest enterprise in Korea. It is also a company 2016 Financial Highlights with the great potential, having undergone continuous changes and achieving significant (Unit: KRW billion; based on consolidated financial statements) growth throughout the years. Doosan has continued to grow since its inception. In the The Doosan Credo is a set of principles that represent Doosan’s philosophies twentieth century, it emerged as one of the country’s strongest consumer goods companies DOOSAN CREDO specializing in beer and beverages. At the dawn of the new millennium, however, Doosan and our unique way of doing business. These principles have been the Sales foundation of Doosan’s success for the past century. The Doosan Credo embarked on a massive transformation to become a global company by developing new 16,410.7 growth engines and entirely overhauling its business portfolio. Through a series of successis integral to every aspect of our business and people, clearly guiding our ful mergers and acquisitions, Doosan has completely transformed itself from a consumer decisions and the way we do business. Through the realization of these goods company into an Infrastructure Support Business (ISB) provider, specializing in a values, Doosan accomplishes its ultimate goal. The Credo consists of Doosan’s wide range of industrial infrastructure such as construction equipment, energy, and produc“Aspiration” and “Core Values.” tion facilities. Aspiration Operating Income Our Growth Engine Doosan’s ultimate goal is the creation of a “Proud Global Doosan.” Behind the success of Doosan is its unwavering “trust in people.” This was something our founder firmly believed in this concept and said, “Investment in people makes the 917.2 In our Vision, each of our employees and all of our stakeholders will be proud of and benefit from their association with Doosan. Every employee takes great foundation for business.” This belief is well summed up in our 2G Strategy (Growth of pride in being a member of the Doosan team. Each customer recognizes and People, Growth of Business). The 2G strategy has been the driver of our past successes appreciates Doosan’s high-quality goods and services. Every shareholder and will guide us through our journey toward prosperity in the future. At the heart of the values our fair and high levels of profit. Total Assets 2G Strategy is the virtuous circle of “growth of people laying the foundation for the growth 28,664.8 Core Values of the company, and the latter leading back to the former.” With its trust in its staff and Doosan people practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo. continuous investment in human capital, Doosan was able to successfully complete bold restructuring and innovative business portfolio transformation. Doosan people practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo everywhere we operate, every day, to build a “Proud Global Doosan.” These values guide Our Future the way we do business, the way we treat each other, and the way we work Doosan hopes to become a “Proud Global Doosan,” with firm belief and trust in people. Total Equity with all of our partners. The nine core values of the Doosan Credo are as 7,900.9 “Proud Global Doosan” means becoming a company of which each stakeholder is proud. follows: Our stakeholders include employees, customers, shareholders, and society as a whole. Our vision is to become a company in which all of our stakeholders can take pride. Cultivating Integrity and People People Transparency Affiliates Infrastructure Doosan Consumer & Auxiliary World-class Support Business Corporation Service Business Organizations Inhwa Customers Technology and Innovation Doosan Infracore Doosasn Corporation Oricom Dongdaemun Future Electro-Materials Foundation Doosan Heavy Industries & Hancomm Construction Doosan Corporation Mottrol Doosan Yonkang Foundation Doosan Magazine Social Safety and Doosan Bobcat Doosan Corporation Glonet Doosan Art Center Profit Doota Mall Responsibility Environment Doosan Engineering & Doosan Corporation Doosan Leadership Institute Construction Industrial Vehicle Doosan Bears (DLI) Doosan Engine Doosan Corporation Fuel Cell Doosan Cuvex Doosan Mecatec Doosan Corporation Neoplux Doota Duty Free Doosan Corporation Information & Communications 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis CEO Message CEO MESSAGE Outlook and Plans for 2017 We will implement our new vision, ‘Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions,’ and build up a foundation for sustainable growth. Our competitors are all focused on securing a cost advantage amid a difficult market environment, each contributing to fierce price competition. In addition to product competitiveness, they are working on ICT-linked solutions, new technologies, and service differentiation. In consideration of these market movements, Doosan Infracore has adopted a new vision and mid-to long-term strategies. Through these strategies, we seek to continue to expand our business scope as a total solution provider offering topquality products, better values, and unprecedented customer convenience, thus grow into a global leader in the infrastructure support business (ISB). In 2017, as a way to strengthen our abilities to execute the vision and strategies, we plan to concentrate on the following four tasks. First, we will maximize customer value by offering reliable products and services. We will develop and introduce products that satisfy market demands and customer needs while strengthening dealers’ service capabilities, with an aim to further improve the service quality that customers can actually feel and appreciate. We will substantially improve product quality thus turning crisis into opportunity and increase customer trust. We also will actively pursue quality enhancement with the mindset that we produce perfect quality products. Second, we will pursue continued growth based on business growth and cost competitiveness. We will increase sales by bolstering our channel competitiveness and diversifying products and markets. We will increase aftermarket sales by expanding our portfolio of parts and building network to smooth distribution. In addition, through cost competitiveness enhancement and manufacturing innovation, we will manage risks associated with foreign exchange and price competition. I sincerely thank all of you for your warm interest and trust in Doosan Infracore. Third, we will increase the development and supply of smart products and solutions. We will constantly upgrade the telematics 2.0 device and DoosanCONNECTTM service, both developed using in-house technology. Backed by ardent support from our beloved customers, shareholders, and stakeholders, last year Doosan Infracore focused its Furthermore, we will improve not only customer services but also our own value chain by using field data collected through telematics. efforts company-wide into revitalizing its business and successfully generating profit despite harsh market conditions. Through this This will also enable us to expand our business. In response to the problems of increasing older populations and decreasing skilled Integrated Report, we would like to review the last year’s achievements, explain our plans for the future, and renew our resolutions technicians, we will expedite the development of unmanned/automated construction technologies. for continued growth. Fourth, we will bolster our business portfolio by developing new growth engines. Market Conditions and Accomplishments in 2016 We will better prepare Doosan Infracore for the future by defining a new business direction that can lead us to new revenue sources. We successfully generated profit through structural improvement and competitiveness enhancement. We will actively develop new business models by evaluating from many angles to explore business opportunities from machinery In 2016, Doosan Infracore posted KRW 5,729.6 billion in sales, a slight decrease compared to the previous year. The decrease is due manufacturing to relevant businesses. to the continued stagnation of the construction equipment market. A global economic downturn, low oil prices, and a low-growth trend contributed to the sluggish market. However, we generated an operating income of KRW 490.8 billion, a KRW 585.9 billion This year marks the 80th anniversary of Doosan Infracore which was founded as Korea’s very first large-scale machinery manufacturincrease from the previous year’s negative performance. The dramatic turnaround was made possible by improvements we made in ing company. As we have overcome countless crises and difficulties to reach where we are today, we will continue to develop strong the cost structure, sales from China, and the profitability of Doosan Bobcat. Net income exceeded market expectations by growing capabilities through which we can withstand the crisis or the environmental changes of any magnitude, based on trust and mutual KRW 975.5 billion to KRW 116 billion on the increase in operating income and the decrease in interest costs following the sale of the understanding. Machine Tools Business Group. Doosan Infracore will grow into a true global leader by faithfully executing its social duties as a responsible corporate citizen. We will In addition, we improved our liquidity by over KRW 1 trillion through the sale of the Machine Tools Business Group. Additional build up partnerships based on the principle of the virtuous cycle together with suppliers all across the globe by implementing mutually funds were acquired by successfully listing Doosan Bobcat on the Korea Exchange (KRX), subsequently reducing the debt ratio and beneficial programs. We will steadily conduct strategic social contribution activities for local communities and future generations. strengthening the financial soundness. We will help keep the environment clean by developing eco-friendly technologies and products, increasing resource efficiencies, and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Workplace safety management will be further strengthened, so that employees and suppliers can We also continued to bolster our fundamental competitiveness. Production efficiencies and product quality further improved as work in a safer environment. the construction of our advanced Incheon Excavator Plant was completed and the Doosan Production System (DPS) was upgraded. New diesel engines were developed in compliance with the toughened Euro 6 emissions standards. The telematics 2.0 device Invigorated by your unwavering trust and support, Doosan Infracore will take another step forward toward A Proud Global Doosan. and DoosanCONNECTTM service were rolled out as part of our effort to expand the provision of smart solution services. Customer satisfaction was also enhanced through execution of various programs aimed at strengthening dealers’ service competencies, Thank you. Sohn Dong-youn including DoosanCARE in which experts make visits to customers. Chief Executive Officer Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. 02 03 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis Company Profile Business Overview Construction Equipment Company Profi le The Construction Equipment Business Area has supplied high-quality medium and large heavy equipment to industrial sites since 1977, contributing to the development of the global infrastructure industry. The Doosan Infracore was founded in 1937 as Chosun Machine Works, the first large-scale machine manufacturing factory in Korea. Through 2016 Financial Highlights Construction Equipment Business Area has prestigious global brands continuous growth for the last 80 years, it has become the nation’s top machine manufacturing company. Its product line-up includes (Unit: KRW million; based on consolidated financial statements) such as Doosan, Bobcat, and Geith, with product line-up ranging from construction equipment, engines, a variety of attachments, and utility equipment. Based on its world-class competitiveness, Doosan compact to medium and large construction equipment. It has production Infracore is moving forward to grow into a global leader in the infrastructure support business (ISB). bases in Korea, North America, China, and Europe. It provides worldSales class products in compact and heavy construction equipment and 5,729,550 Company Name Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. attachments, portable air compressors, lighting systems, and portable Year Founded 1937 power equipment. CEO Sohn Dong-youn Main Business Areas Production and sales of construction equipment and engines Engine Operating Income Established in 1958, the Engine Business Area produced the first diesel Employees 3,919 (Excluding employees of Doosan Bobcat due to its IPO) engine in Korea, and has continued to expand its business portfolio. It 490,818 supplies diesel and gas engines for buses and trucks, power generators and ships, as well as various industrial engines across the world. Based on its product line-up that meets increasingly stringent world-wide environmental regulations, the Engine Business Area is emerging fast as Total Assets the world’s top-tier engine manufacturer. It has been enhancing its global competitiveness by attracting new customers for existing products and 10,026,809 exploring new markets and new business opportunities. Brand Total Capital Doosan is a comprehensive brand of ISB 3,448,377 that provides diverse products world-wide in the areas of construction equipment, such as excavators, wheel loaders, articulated dump trucks, and mobile power generators, as well as engines. Bobcat is a world-class brand of compact equipment in diverse areas including construction, industrial, landscaping, agriculture, and other industries, and provides services encompassing everything from design and manufacturing to distribution and support. Doosan Portable Power provides durable and reliable products, ranging from air compressors, lighting system, and mobile generators to light compaction, drill modules, light towers, and mobile security equipment. Geith, a brand of large attachment products for excavators, has earned praise and recognition from customers around the world by supplying products and services renowned for their excellent quality and reliability for more than 50 years. 04 05 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis Business Model Busi ness Model Doosan Infracore’s business model is a series of processes that involve making various capital inputs into the corporate value chain to accomplish strategic objectives and to generate short-, mid-, and long-term values. In operating its business model, Doosan Infracore considers social and environmental issues and seeks to balance sustainable corporate growth and social development. Capital Input Financial Manufactured Intellectual Human Social/Network Natural Funds that were procured through Manufactured articles, such as faciliAn organization’s knowledge-based Members’ capabilities, experiences, Stakeholder relations and trust, and All environmental resources that are management, investments or financing, ties and buildings that can be used by intangible assets, such as patents, copyand drive towards innovation that allow other intangible assets related to the renewable or not renewable and that and that can be used by an organization an organization to produce products or rights, software rights, and licenses the understanding, development, and brands and reputation developed by are used to provide products or services to produce products or provide services provide services execution of organization’s strategies an organization Value Product Development Procurement Manufacturing Sales & Service In-Use Chain • Global R&D activities based on the • Operate the Doosan Supplier Excel• I mprove productivity through the • Standardize product after-sales service activities and provide • Provide the telematics 2.0 device and Doosan Global R&D Center in Korea, the Accellence Program (DSEP) and foster advanced Incheon Excavator Plant service training CONNECT™ service eration Center in the U.S., and the leading suppliers • Build the Doosan Production System • Operate various education and training programs, including DPA • Become the industry’s first in Korea to release an Innovation Center in Czech Republic • O perate the multilateral benefit (DPS) and ‘Hand’s on Training’ aimed at improving services capabilities of excavator with the Around View Monitor (AVM) and • Enhance R&D efficiency by establishing sharing system to support suppliers’ • Build a chemicals management system, dealers rear warning system, increase customer safety and the NPD 4.0 process cost reductions and replace 11 chemicals by analyzing • Improve the parts supply rate by optimizing the Parts Distribution convenience • Reflect VOCs in the NPD process • Strengthen communication channels whether hazardous chemicals can be Center (PDC) network • Develop products that satisfy advanced through the supplier hotline and the replaced • Provide DoosanCARE, a customer care program emissions regulations Integrated Cooperation Council • Build a worksite energy efficiency mana• Extend the core parts warranty period (3 year/6,000 hour warranty • Define eco-friendly products and estab• Create and share CSR guidelines, and gement system period for core parts of equipment released for the first time in lish standards provide training to suppliers to help Korea; 2 year/4,000 hour warranty for core parts of equipment sold them strengthen CSR capabilities in emerging markets) Key Financial Manufactured Intellectual Human Social/Network Natural Performance Sales KRW 5,729.6 billion Production optimization through the Domestic and overseas intellectual Completed the establishment of the 1,169 employees at 30 worksites in 11 Carry out energy reduction projects to in 2016 advanced Incheon Excavator Plant: property right: 3,193 applications and business-related functional compecountries participated in the ‘Doosan achieve reduction effects of KRW 540 Operating income KRW 490.8 billion Optimize the number of processes, 1,936 registrations tency development system for office Day of Community Service,’ a local million and curtail energy costs of KRW (turned positive thanks to improvement in standard work hours, and travel disstaff and operate the Duty Academy community-sharing activity 1.04 billion by reducing standby energy cost structure, increased sales in China, and P. 10 tance of logistics needed for product during non-operational hours continued profitability improvements of Overhauled the job skill-based HR manufacturing P. 85 Doosan Bobcat) development system for technical staff, Greenhouse gas emissions: 87,413 Assets KRW 10,026.8 billion P. 10 and changed the names of positions tCO 2 , which is around 65.2% of the (year-on-year decrease of KRW 1,356.4 billion for technical staff to foster highly volume allocated by the Korean governdue to the sell-off of the Machine Tools competitiveness technical experts with ment Business Group) professional skills P. 66-67 Liabilities KRW 6,578.4 billion P. 78-79 (year-on-year decrease of KRW 1,701.8 billion, attributable to reduced net borrowings) Equity KRW 3,448.4 billion P. 08-10 06 07 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis Performance Review 2016 Performance Review 2016 Financial Performance 2-2. Listing of Doosan Bobcat on the Korea Exchange were made in activities aimed at enhancing the quality of customer In 2016, the global midto large-sized construction equipment market China, and the profitability of Doosan Bobcat. Net income also moved Doosan Infracore conducted a pre-IPO placement offering limited service, such as the expansion of DoosanCare, the bolstering of grew at a rate slightly lower than that of the previous year. While into the black, recording KRW 116 billion. This year-over-year rise of shares of Doosan Bobcat in 2015. In February 2016, the decision was dealers’ service capabilities, and the launch of DoosanCONNECTTM, an the Chinese, Indian, and the Southeast Asian markets grew due to KRW 975.5 billion is due to the increase in operating income and made to list Doosan Bobcat on the Korea Exchange (KRX), followed upgraded version of a remote equipment management service. government’s investments in the construction and infrastructure a reduction in interest costs following to the sale of Machine Tools by an offering of shares for public subscription. Doosan Bobcat was sectors respectively, the Middle Eastern, Latin America, and other Business Group (BG). successfully listed on the KRX on November 18, 2016, thanks in part In 2016, the Construction Equipment BG posted sales of KRW 1,351.7 emerging markets as well as North American markets diminished to outstanding market assessments. The assessments were based on billion, a year-over-year decrease of KRW 43.5 billion. Operating due to remained low oil prices. The compact construction equipment Sales Records (Unit: KRW million; based on consolidated financial statements) business structure and brand power growth, stability, and value due income turned positive to reach KRW 18 billion, a year-over-year rise market was marked by a mixed trend. The North American skid2014 2015 2016 to the solid growth of the North American housing market—one of its of KRW 504.1 billion. Low oil prices and the stagnant raw materials steer loader (SSL) segment remained stagnant while the compact Sales 6,366,107 5,964,894 5,729,550 major markets. The increasing proportion of high value-added product market resulted in stagnation in the Middle Eastern and emerging track loader (CTL) sector grew. Overall, the market slightly grew Cost of sales 5,028,179 4,747,331 4,404,459 sales also impacted the market assessments. Through its successful construction equipment markets, leading to reduced sales. However, year-over-year in the North American and European regions. In the Gross profit 1,337,928 1,217,564 1,325,091 listing, Doosan Bobcat has laid a platform from which to solidify its operating income grew substantially as an outcome of restructuring in engine market, despite earlier expectations of gradual growth, Selling and administrative position as a global leader. the previous year. 1,085,514 1,312,651 834,273 competition among engine manufacturers around the world became expenses 3. Performance by Business Construction Equipment (Unit: KRW million) fiercer. Chinese companies made advances against the backdrop of Operating income (loss) 252,414 (95,087) 490,818 2014 2015 2016 a deteriorating external environment including a global economic Other non-operating income 38,320 51,657 56,181 In 2016, Doosan Infracore’s Construction Equipment BG generated a downturn brought on by a protraction of low oil prices, stagnant U.S. positive operating income, on the strengths of improvements made Sales 1,966,861 1,395,250 1,351,718 Other non-operating expenses 104,032 346,186 213,312 and European gas engine markets, and a continuing instability in in the cost structure and a recovering Chinese market. The Engine BG Operating income (99,568) (486,023) 18,031 Net income (loss) before (272,791) (781,054) 82,050 the Middle East. To proactively deal with these conditions growing in income tax expense (benefit) achieved a substantial increase in operating income thanks to a reduccomplexity and difficulty, Doosan Infracore carried out an intensive Income tax expense (benefit) (150,891) 161,078 162,640 tion in fixed costs and a rise in-house sales despite the stagnation of 3-2. Engine corporate restructuring in 2015, thereby establishing a foundation Net income (loss) 23,972 (859,505) 115,985 its established operations, including engines for power generators. The global engine market remained low in growth rate throughout for maximum revenue generation and higher profitability. In 2016, * The business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed by the end of the term. Relevant profits Doosan Bobcat recorded a slight year-over-year decrease in sales ow2016 due mainly to sluggish upstream industries, thereby fueling an and losses are categorized into profits and losses from discontinued operations. the company completed construction of its advanced Incheon ing to temporary economic uncertainties, including the US presidenintensive competition among engine makers. The power generator Excavator Plant and implemented the Doosan Production System tial election. However, an increase in operating income was achieved engine market, in particular, suffered from a protracting stagnation as (DPS) as part of and efforts to enhance production efficiencies and 2. Financial Status as sales of high value-added products in North America grew and the low oil prices and instability in the Middle East continued to debilitate product quality. The company also pursued structural improvement In 2016, total assets decreased KRW 1,356.4 billion from the previous cost structure of European business improved. the oil and gas markets. Facing such challenges, Doosan Infracore’s and competitiveness enhancement by developing new products to year to 10,026.8 billion, reflecting the transfer of Machine Tools BG and Engine BG focused on efficient resource management based on meet customer needs, further expanding the DoosanCARE service, other factors. Total liabilities went down KRW 1,701.8 billion to KRW 3-1. Construction Equipment the principle of select and concentrate, developing Euro 6 engines bolstering its line-up of engines that satisfy market demands and 6,578.4 billion, attributable to a reduction in net borrowings. Total Construction Equipment BG is laying a foundation for maximum which deliver improved performances while meeting toughened industry regulations, including the Euro 6 emissions standards, equity rose KRW 345.4 billion year-over-year to KRW 3,448.4 billion. revenue creation and profitability enhancement by making intensive emissions regulations, and laying the groundwork for midto longand increasing smart solution services through the launch of the efforts of improving the business structure and bolstering competitiveterm sales expansion strategies. Also, following a successful market Telematics 2.0 device and DoosanCONNECTTM service. As a result, Financial Status (Unit: KRW million; based on consolidated financial statements) ness amid the continuing low-growth trend of the global construction entry of Doosan Bobcat equipment powered by G2 compact engines, Doosan Infracore turned the profit in both operating income and net 2014 2015 2016 equipment market. On the domestic front, the BG reinforced its leading the BG is gaining new customers outside the company. Meanwhile, income, further improving financial soundness. Current assets 4,019,500 3,876,021 3,049,571 market share dominance by releasing new models in compliance with having pursued new business opportunities on a midto long-term Non-current assets 7,937,927 7,507,152 6,977,238 the Tier 4 Final emissions requirements, upgrading its sales network, basis, the BG is anticipating tangible results, such as entry into the 1. Sales Records and strengthening service capabilities. In China, the BG enhanced vehicle engine markets in countries that are latecomers in emissions Total assets 11,957,427 11,383,173 10,026,809 In 2016, Doosan Infracore posted KRW 5,729.6 billion in sales. the competitiveness of its products by launching a next-generation regulations. Current liabilities 3,294,510 3,961,155 3,653,194 Operating income moved into the black, recording KRW 490.8 billion, product exclusive for the Chinese market prior to enforcement of the Non-current liabilities 5,374,629 4,319,061 2,925,238 which amounts to a year-over-year jump of KRW 585.9 billion. It is Tier 3 emissions regulations. It also enhanced the competitiveness In 2016, the Engine BG posted KRW 498.7 billion in sales, a year-overTotal liabilities 8,669,139 8,280,217 6,578,432 attributable to improvements made in the cost structure, sales from of distribution channels by reorganizing its dealer network with a year decline of KRW 79.5 billion. Operating income rose KRW 56.4 Total equity 3,288,288 3,102,956 3,448,377 priority given to top-performing dealers, thus increasing its market billion to KRW 58.8 billion. The decline in sales reflects the North (Unit: KRW billion; Improvement in Net Income based on consolidated financial statements) share. In emerging markets with growth expectations, such as African, American gas engine market suffering from the consequences of low 2-1. Sale of the Machine Tools Business Group Asian, and Latin American countries, Construction Equipment BG oil prices. Operating income, however, rose as a result of a reduction 116.0 To improve its financial structure, Doosan Infracore transferred its strengthened its presence by securing new dealers while continuing made in fixed costs in the previous year. -859.5 possession of Machine Tools BG on April 29, 2016 and sold its manageto develop and manage the performance of existing dealers. In the 585.9 U.S., E.U., and other advanced markets, the BG continued its efforts to Engine (Unit: KRW million) ment rights, thus secured a liquidity of more than KRW 1 trillion. With 347.3 42.3 the sale of the tools unit, the company reorganized its operations into increase heavy equipment market share. Activities included the suc2014 2015 2016 two sectors – construction equipment and engines. The reorganization cessful launches of excavators and wheel loaders in compliance with Sales 660,534 578,193 498,699 has expedited preemptive improvements in the financial structure and the Tier 4 Final emissions requirements, continuous expansions of Operating income 31,687 2,361 58,781 Improvement Decrease Income from resulted in a foundation for more stable business operations. channel coverage, and focus on key customers. Moreover, investments 2015 2016 in operating in finance discontinued income expense operations and others 08 09 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis Performance Review 2016 3-3. Doosan Bobcat foreign exchange effects. Doosan Infracore draws up quarterly and improve the CSR management system of the supplier network, 1.3 Suppliers Doosan Bobcat’s sales performance has been stable backed by its solid annual financial balance plans to minimize the influence of business, build carbon partnerships with suppliers, and establish global CSR Doosan Infracore has various support programs in place to enhance leadership in the North American market. 2016 was slightly down, due investment, and other financial activities on its monetary balance. governance. In recognition of its superior CSR execution capabilities suppliers’ competitiveness, including those on technology developto conservative inventory practices of dealers in response to growing Through financial balance planning, the company calculates, secures, and achievements, Doosan Infracore has been included in the Dow ment and quality improvement as well as financial support. Through market uncertainties surrounding the US presidential election. To and maintains liquidity, in preparation for possible liquidity risks. Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Korea1) in the machine and electric the Doosan Supplier Excellence Program (DSEP), the company is deal with a temporary setback in sales growth as well as to maximize equipment categories for the past seven consecutive years including implementing a Leading Supplier project, which aims to help key profitability, the company not only continues the strategy of improving 5. Production Assets 2016. It also has been rated Class A in the ESG Evaluation by the suppliers grow stronger. In particular, the company has actively the competitiveness of its product sales channels, but also seeks to Doosan Infracore’s production facilities and equipment include land, Corporate Governance Service, Korea2) for six years in a row. pushed forward a multilateral benefits sharing system, through diversify revenue sources, upgrade business structure, and maintain buildings, structures, machines, and assets under construction. Based which it cooperates with suppliers in achieving joint goals with its leadership in the compact construction equipment industry. It is on consolidated financial statements, the book value of production 1. Social Performance respect to productivity, cost reduction, and other related factors and also striving to expand its midto large-sized construction equipment facilities and equipment came to KRW 1,823.1 billion as of the end of 1.1 Customers share resultant benefits. The system was chosen as the best system business. In addition, to further bolster its core competitiveness, 2016, indicating a year-over-year drop of KRW 431 billion. Cumulative Doosan Infracore seeks to increase customer satisfaction by at the 2016 Second Benefits Sharing System Expansion Council the company continues to upgrade products, technology, quality, new acquisitions and capital expenditures in 2016 were KRW 173.9 developing products and innovating technology with customers organized by the Korean Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy and services, and other key sources of competitiveness. The company also billion, and depreciation cost totaled KRW 147.5 billion. in mind and bolstering fundamental competitiveness. In 2016, the Foundation for Cooperation between Large Companies and SMEs. continues its active search of new business opportunities in order to the company introduced Euro 6 engines in response to global Also, to prevent industrial accidents by supporting suppliers’ efforts maintain its robust growth in the construction equipment industry. 6. Intellectual Assets environmental regulations, and developed and released a wide in improving their safety and health management capabilities and Doosan Infracore continues R&D investment to enhance product array of products that reflect customer needs, such as amphibious building cooperative relations, Doosan Infracore implemented a As a result of such diverse efforts, sales of high-margin products competitiveness and build up a foundation for long-term growth. excavators and forestry equipment. To expand the supply of ecoprogram of building symbiotic ties in the areas of health and safety, increased, including the CTLs and MEXs, and operating income also The company’s R&D consists of heavy product development, which friendly products, Doosan Infracore developed a unique process providing suppliers with technical and training support for their safety rose on a reduction of costs following the restructuring of European conducts research on excavators and wheel loaders; engine product of defining and managing eco-friendly products and technologies, risk assessment and hazard management. As a result, the Gunsan operations and resultant improvements in production efficiencies. In development, in charge of meeting emissions and fuel efficiency and established it as an integral part of the product development Plant received Korean Minister of Employment and Labor Award in 2016, Doosan Bobcat’s sales totaled KRW 3,879.1 billion, a year-overregulations; product design and high-stiffness materials development; process. To enhance customer safety, the company equipped its the manufacturing business category at the Awards Ceremony for year decline of KRW 112.3 billion, while operating income came to KRW and technology center, in charge of virtual verification and analysis products with Around View Monitor (AVM) and rear warning systems Outstanding Cases of the Symbiotic Cooperation Program in Safety 414 billion, up KRW 25.4 billion from the year before. for achieving robustness. Its R&D goals are to develop a distinctive that eliminate blind spots, more easily allow for omnidirectional and Health, organized by the Korean Ministry of Employment and technological advantage and establish an advanced engineering visibility and enable an easier detection of dangerous situations. In Labor. To enhance suppliers’ ability to cope with climate change, the Doosan Bobcat (Unit: KRW million) process. Based on its 2016 separate financial statements, Doosan addition, the company helps its customers better manage their work company took part in the government initiative of building a supplier 2014 2015 2016 Infracore’s R&D expenses totaled KRW 97.6 billion, 4.4% of total by providing them with information of the location, operational status, carbon partnership system and supported suppliers in their energy Sales 3,738,712 3,991,451 3,879,133 sales. As of the end of 2016, the number of intellectual property rights and engine status of their equipment through its Telematics 2.0 device diagnosis and greenhouse gas reduction activities. Operating income 320,295 388,575 414,006 applications made at home and abroad combined reached 3,193, and and DoosanCONNECTTM service. Doosan Infracore is also actively * Based on consolidated financial statements of Doosan Infracore the number registered totaled 1,936. The 2016 R&D expenses does expanding the DoosanCARE service through which experts visit 1)  Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI): The DJSIs are a sustainability benchmark conot include that of Machine Tools BG since the sale of the BG was customers and provide them more customized services at customers’ developed by Dow Jones of the US and RobecoSAM of Switzerland. They evaluate the completed on April 29, 2016. convenience. sustainability performance of major companies on the basis of an analysis of corporate 4. Cash Flow & Solvency economic, environmental, and social performance. Korean companies that have passed the institutes’ industrial thresholds are included in the DJSI Korea, DJSI Asia Pacific, or In 2016, cash flows from operating activities reached KRW 513 billion, 1.2 Employees DJSI World depending on their corporate size and the stock markets they are listed on. a year-over-year rise of KRW 276.3 billion. As of the end of 2016, To create a happy workplace where employees’ human rights are Non-Financial Performance 2)  ESG Evaluation by the Corporate Governance Service, Korea: ESG stands for Environment, cash and cash equivalents totaled KRW 538.6 billion, inclusive of fully respected, in 2016 we adopted a human rights risk management Social, and Governance. The Corporate Governance Service of Korea has developed its own ESG evaluation model and offered an evaluation service to boost listed local In its efforts to grow into a truly leading global company, Doosan system as a strategic CSR task and engaged in diverse activities, companies’ CSR activities and investors’ socially responsible investment. Each year, it Cash Flow (Unit: KRW million; based on consolidated financial statements) Infracore fully honors the importance of corporate social responsibility including the distribution of a Human Rights Risk Prevention Manual discloses its evaluation results at seven levels rated from S to D. Companies with B+ 2014 2015 2016 (CSR) as well as financial performance, and regularly executes CSR to all employees. This manual provides information on internal (moderate) or above are limited to around 20% of the total assessments. Cash flows activities. To conduct CSR activities in a systematic manner, the regulations and guidelines related to human rights, types of human Cash flows from company convenes a quarterly session of the CSR Committee, chaired rights violation and details, as well as internal and external reporting 231,296 236,685 512,993 operating activities by the CEO. The CSR Committee reviews CSR risks and opportunities, and report-receiving channels, and the counseling process. The Cash flows from formulates strategies, defines strategic CSR tasks, and examines the company also provided human rights training to executives and all (428,522) (96,938) 909,634 investing activities outcome of tasks implemented. Strategic CSR tasks—consisting of office workers. To develop highly professional and competent human Cash flows from those considered important to Doosan Infracore’s sustainable growth resources, the company overhauled a Functional Competency (FC) 281,367 82,007 (1,454,380) financing activities with respect to related materiality analysis and external reviews of CSR development system together with field leaders, redefining required Cash and cash equivalents results—are executed and monitored by respective subcommittees. competencies. Based on this, Doosan Infracore will provide education Cash and cash equivalents, Doosan Infracore’s seven strategic CSR tasks in 2016 were: Define ecoand training programs necessary for supporting its staff’s growth. 287,838 362,953 560,003 beginning of the year friendly products and establish relevant standards, set up a human Cash and cash equivalents, end of the year 362,953 560,003 538,578 rights risk management system, establish a worksite energy efficiency management system, establish a chemicals management system, 10 11 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 1.4 Local Communities products and diversify products and sales regions. In addition, it plans OUR Doosan Infracore is striving to grow together with local communities as a global corporate citizen. Every year, on the Doosan Day of Community Service, the company conducts social activities aimed at promoting the growth of local communities through its worksites to increase aftermarket sales as well as stable income sources by expanding parts supplies and diversifying its aftermarket business. In addition, the BG will continually bolster its core competitiveness, including products, technology, quality, channels, and services. STRATEGY across the globe. It is also engaged in social contribution activities that involve the use of its business, such as supplying construction 1.2 Engine equipment to areas hit by earthquake or other natural disasters. In The oil and gas market is forecast to be stagnant due to a limited addition, it operates the Dream School, a program aimed at helping rise of oil prices. Instability in international politics is also expected youths define their dreams. The company helps youths, who are expeto continue in 2017. However, in the midto long-term, growth riencing difficulty in finding career paths, give shape to their dreams momentum is expected to rise with the emerging market of highby offering a change to explore future paths, experience jobs and meet performance power generator engines, an increasing demand for with professional mentors. In 2016, 17 youths who had taken part in engines in Southeast Asian markets, and growing sales of compact the Dream School program as the first group all graduated from high diesel engines. Doosan Infracore therefore will increase the supply school and completed the program. To promote the importance of of eco-friendly, highly-efficient G2 compact engines, which satisfy safety in local community, the company has signed an agreement with the Tier 4 Final emissions regulations to domestic and overseas the Korean Ministry of Public Safety and Security to promote safety, agricultural machinery and forklift companies. The company is also culture, and use its safety and health facilities to provide firefighting strengthening the power generator engine sales network starting and emergency treatment education as well as medical support to with the release of Euro 6 diesel automobile engines and accelerating residents near its Incheon Plant. the sale of OEM-made compact engines in the advanced markets. Through these measures, it aims to grow sales at a rate higher than 2. Environmental Performance To better manage hazardous chemicals, Doosan Infracore inspected that of market growth. Also, the company will increase sales, enhance customer satisfaction and establish a midto long-term virtuous cycle CUSTOMER VALUE all its facilities that handled hazardous chemicals and created a map through quality and service improvement, operation optimization, of leakage risks to keep track of the status of and risks associated with and other intensive operational excellence activities. As the company each hazardous material. In addition, 11 hazardous chemical materials is actively forming strategic alliances with overseas automobile and that had been used to make certain products were either replaced engine manufacturers, expanding vehicle engine sales in Asia, and with safer materials or removed and the content of the products was developing new growth models, tangible results are expected in 2017. double-checked. The strategic CSR task of establishing a worksite energy efficiency management system has been executed since 2015, 2. Non-Financial Outlook and the company has been operating an energy management system The eight strategic CSR tasks for 2017 are to support overseas busi(EMS), using LED lights and other energy-efficient devices, optimizing ness sites’ disclosure of information of their CSR activities, develop utility supply, running a central control system for air-conditioning and heating and conducting energy-conservation PR and campaigns. the REACH-IT system, build a worksite efficiency management system, establish a midto long-term roadmap on carbon trade scheme SUSTAINABLE GROWTH As a result of these energy saving efforts and reducing the use of strategy, strengthen the monitoring for human rights violation, as compressed air, the company was able to cut energy expenses by KRW well as two tasks related to advanced emissions regulations and one 1.04 billion. Greenhouse gas emissions in 2016 were 87,413 tCO2. task related to smart solutions. These eight tasks have been reviewed and finalized by Doosan Infracore’s CSR Committee based on the outcomes of materiality analysis and external evaluations, Group CSR assessments, and opinions of relevant teams. The company Outlook 2017 will discuss each task in detail through quarterly CSR Committee 1. Financial Outlook meetings, thus reviewing progress and achieve practical outcomes. 1.1 Construction Equipment It will also review and discuss how to systematically implement the In 2017, the construction equipment market is forecasted to grow Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which were adopted by the at a rate slightly higher than in 2016 although the North American, UN in 2015, following the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Middle East, and other select emerging markets are expected to which were implemented in 2000. To establish and execute measures remain at current levels. The optimistic forecast is based on various for implementing the SDGs, the company will communicate and Chinese government-led infrastructure projects, the steady depletion cooperate with various stakeholders, thereby generating synergy, and of the used cars as well as the stable growth in Europe. Construction also discover future business opportunities to further boost corporate Equipment BG continues to release marketand customer-tailored competitiveness. SMART SOLUTION 12 RUO EGY T A R T S CUSTOMER VALUE SUSTAINABLE GROWTH SMART SOLUTION 13 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Strategy Overview Strategy Overview In 2017, the global construction market is expected to All employees of Doosan Infracore will make concerted recover mainly on the strength of emerging markets, such efforts to expand the company’s finished productas China and Asian countries, while the current low-growth oriented business to cover infrastructure solutions that trend is to continue worldwide. Anticipating these market provide customer value and convenience. In addition to Global Leader developments, competitors of Doosan Infracore are achieving quantitative and financial growth, the company enhancing production and operational efficiencies with will grow into a leading company in qualitative aspects in Infrastructure Solutions the help of information and communication technologies such as financial soundness and social responsibility, thus (ICT); and, in product development, are focused on become a truly global leader possessive of fundamental providing solutions that address such customer interests competitiveness. We aim to continue expanding our businesses as increased convenience and unmanned technologies. to become a global leader The company will also grow into a truly global leader with in the Infrastructure Support Business, In line with these trends in the construction equipment fundamental competitiveness, also in qualitative aspects offering not just the best quality products market, Doosan Infracore strives to bolster corporate such as financial soundness and social responsibility, in but also total solutions that offer better value to our customers. competitiveness, and offer customers with better addition to achieving external and financial growth. In services and integrated solutions. For example, the 2017, the company will implement four strategic tasks company is strengthening customer services such as toward its new vision as the point of destination, based DoosanCARE, maximizing profitability through the parts on powerful field-centered execution capabilities and an business, offering telematics-connected equipment honestyand transparency-based organizational culture management and services in the area of ICT, such as of trust. DoosanCONNECT™, mainly in advanced markets, and actively developing unmanned/automation technologies. Global Trends Industry Trends Customer Sustainable Smart Business Portfolio Value Growth Solution Enhancement Enter a long-term low-growth era Construction Equipment Industry Engine Industry Low oil prices Strengthening of emissions Strengthening of emissions regulations regulations Foreign exchange fluctuation Maximize customer Consistently grow Develop new products and Expand business Recovery trend of the Fiercer product and price value and satisfaction businesses to services by converging portfolios toward high construction business in China competition among engine by offering world-class further enhance the ICT technologies such as value-added technologies and emerging markets manufacturers as a result of products, parts, and competitiveness of the big data and the Internet and solution business market saturation services existing businesses of Things, etc. Steady demand in the compact equipment market Secure cost leadership by Maximize operating consistently realizing cost efficiency by creating Realization of smart solution innovation a smart factory and work technologies, including ICT environment and unmanned/automation technology 14 15 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Customer Value CU STO M E R VA LUE 01 Increasing Customer Satisfaction by Bolstering Service Competitiveness 02 Developing Products and Solutions to Satisfy Customer Needs 03 Strengthening Accountability over Product Quality 16 17 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Customer Value Optimizing the PDC Network to Increase Increasing Customer Service Competitiveness Satisfaction by Bolstering Resolving customers’ equipment repair requests with right parts in a timely manner is crucial to enhancing customer satisfaction. Service Competitiveness Doosan Infracore therefore seeks to minimize parts supply time 01 (Top) 9C model, customized for the Chinese market by expanding its Parts Distribution Center (PDC) network and (Bottom) An equipment expert from HQ providing ‘Hands-on Training’ to a local dealer strengthening interactions among PDCs. To better manage parts supply time, it operates nine PDCs in major markets and supplies Doosan Partners Academy (DPA) around 300 thousand parts world-wide. In 2017, the company will open an additional PDC in the U.S. Doosan Infracore will continue to improve the PDCs’ operational efficiencies and fill rate to provide Customer Service-improving Programs customers with quicker and smoother services as well as to To strengthen relations with customers and grow together with increase the equipment operation rate, thereby enhancing customer them in the midto long-term, Doosan Infracore offers DoosanCARE, satisfaction. a customer care program. Experts of the company make visits to customers irrespective of equipment or warranty issues, and provide services tailored to individual customers, such as equipment management consulting and equipment maintenance training. By listening to various customer opinions on its products, U.S. U.K. China Korea (1999) (1996) (1996, 2013) (1994) the company identifies inconvenient customers experience in using them and promptly takes corrective measures of increasing equipment management efficiencies. DoosanCARE goes beyond fixing product issues and thus resolving customer complaints. Enhancing Dealers’ Service Capabilities The service ultimately aims to strengthen the fundamental To improve dealers’ service capabilities, the company offers a competitiveness of Doosan Infracore through a virtuous cycle of training program through the Doosan Partners Academy (DPA), improving and developing products and services, and achieving and is increasing field-centered Hands-on Training. The company’s customer satisfaction. The content and programs of DoosanCARE flagship online training program for dealers, the DPA offers courses are expanding every year. Plans have been made to expand the on how to maintain and repair products of Doosan Infracore as well DoosanCARE services in 2017 by increasing the number of target as their major features using videos, animations, and photos. The countries and customers in emerging markets and China. courses are available in English, Spanish, Portuguese, Russian, French, and Arabic. In 2016, the company evaluated service On the domestic front, starting in 2017, the company will further capabilities of its dealers, and based on the evaluation outcome, Germany Dubai Singapore improve customer value by developing a training program that set up an action plan together with dealers to encourage them to (2014) (2013) (2012) educates actual equipment users on equipment features and voluntarily improve their capabilities and support their management performance as well as major maintenance points and thus helps of any changes, with an aim to standardize the quality of dealer PDC Network (As of 2016) prevent equipment breakdowns. service. In addition, experts at headquarters provided Hands-on Training to dealer service personnel and strengthened their service capabilities. During this training, the experts used actual equipment on the field to provide training on the causes of frequent claims and how to respond to them. In 2017, the company plans to establish a local training center in Latin America and other regions and begin with training dealer maintenance specialists. Through such training and change management support, Doosan Infracore continues to enhance dealers’ service capabilities and contributes to improving customer satisfaction. Dealers’ service capabilities are becoming part of Doosan Infracore’s competitiveness in providing greater value to customers. 18 19 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Customer Value Developing the C Model to Chinese Market Demands Developing Products In the forestry equipment sector, the company offers an array of machines tailored to the different characteristics of various In 2016, Doosan Infracore released new products and mini/compact and Solutions to Satisfy regions around the world, including North America which requires equipment in line with China’s enforcement of Tier 3 emissions particularly powerful equipment due to the ruggedness of its regulations, and completed the rollout of the DX-9C series, which Customer Needs wilderness, and Asia where traction is a critical factor due to its was introduced in 2014. The DX-9C series reduces fuel consumption 02 abundance of marshland and rainforest areas. In 2016, Doosan Infracore successfully entered the forestry equipment market by more than 15% compared to previous models (fuel efficient equipment brings about additional improvement effects). A noticeof Malaysia, led by the strengths of its products ideal to the able improvement was made in durability as well, which has given characteristics of the nation’s tropical rainforest regions. the company enough confidence in product performance and quality to extend the warranties on the series. To satisfy more detailed For the North American market, the company developed a new log customer needs, the company launched medium-sized products, Developing Products Tailored to Customer Needs loader tailored to the characteristics of the continent’s forest regions which are popular in China, in the three categories of economy, Based on preemptive customer needs analysis, Doosan Infracore develops and introduces customer-tailored new products, thus creates opportunities to enter new markets. The company’s in 2016. Doosan Infracore’s log loader consists of a high and wide substructure, strong track links, full-length track guidance protection devices, and special cleanout bracket-equipped top rollers. mileage, and performance. Package Programs to Improve Customer Value 10-19% first amphibious excavator, DX140AM, made its debut at the Doosan Infracore develops and offers a wide array of programs, • Fuel efficiency: 10 to 19% better compared with competitors’ EURO 6 engines PHILCONSTRUCT 2015, the largest international construction In addition, the company has been responding to customer needs such as financing, warranty extension, preventive maintenance and • No EGR system applied: improved power, outstanding fuel exhibition in the Philippines, which was held in October 2015. with various products of diverse purposes. These include superfuel efficiency guarantee, in order to meet diverse customer needs efficiency and engine durability, and reduced maintenance Designed to stay afloat, amphibious excavators can perform jobs in long-reach excavators with a long boom designed for river dredging, that arise during an equipment lifecycle of equipment purchase, • OCV1) type, no filter-type ventilation system: such environments as lakes and streams, where regular excavators demolition excavators that accommodates the European law maintenance, parts purchase, and services. The company will complete solution to CCV/filter-type quality issues, would be bogged down by the wet or muddy grounds. Leveraging banning the use of high explosives in the demolition of buildings, continue to develop and provide package programs that consider lower maintenance costs as no need to replace filters this advantage, the company has been promoting the DX140AM in and material handlers. Through such an array of special construction various customer circumstances and equipment life expectancies in • Air heater removed: no more air heater-related quality issues, lower maintenance Southeast Asia, South America, and other high rainfall regions. equipment, the company provides customized solutions reflecting connection with DoosanCONNECT™. • Engine idle shutdown eliminated: engine does not stop customers’ diverse work environments and makes active efforts to even during long-hours operations diversify target markets. Developing Engines to Market Demands • Lowered engine speed for PTO2) entry: PTO can be used and Emissions Regulations starting from an engine speed of 700 rpm Doosan Infracore develops products that perform better and also • Improved head gasket specifications: complete solution to satisfies different emissions regulations of different countries. oil and water leak issues Engine BG is continually improving its midto long-term product A log loader customized for forest regions in North America Euro 6 Engine roadmap, and developing new products to meet new emissions standards and expanding its engine line-up. It successfully 1) OCV: Open Crankcase Ventilation developed a Euro 6-adapted engine to bolster the competitiveness 2) PTO: Power Take Off of its vehicle engine business, and a bus equipped with the company’s Euro 6 diesel engine was first introduced in November 2016. Doosan Infracore’s Euro 6 diesel engines burn fuels 10 to 19% Europe’s most renowned forklift company, which will be a boon less than not only its Euro 5 engines but also other companies’ Euro to the company’s efforts of market expansion. In addition to the 6 engines. The new engine produces higher power for its lack of an compact G2 Stage V engine, the company also began to respond to exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) device and burns less lubricating oil. the Stage V standards for its mid-sized engines. Based on its Euro 6 engine development knowhow, the company is taking steps toward the continuity of developing Euro 7 engines and In March 2017, Doosan Infracore signed a memorandum of expansion of the commercial car business sector. understanding (MOU) with the Korea Gas Corporation and a relevant Korean company on mutual cooperation for developing an LNG In addition, the company developed its first compact G2 Stage V engine for small vessels. As the problems associated with fine engine in January 2017 based on its G2 compact engine technologies, dust, sulfur oxides (SO2) and other pollutants are on the rise, so in order to satisfy the EU’s Stage V emissions standards. This engine are demands for replacing diesel-powered domestic small vessels features ultra low fuel-consumption combustion (ULFC) technology, with more eco-friendly LNG-fueled vessels. Through the MOU, the an upgrade from the combustion technology of G2 compact engines. three organizations seek to combine their efforts and thus generate In addition to improving fuel efficiencies, compact G2 Stage V synergy for successful engine development. By developing an engines feature the excellence in power, torque, durability, and LNG engine for small vessels, Doosan Infracore will transform the reliability. Currently installed on construction equipment, agricultural domestic small vessel engine market into an eco-friendly market, equipment, and forklifts, the new engines are to be supplied to and contribute to the growth of the shipbuilding industry in Korea. 20 21 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Customer Value Extending Warranties on Key Parts Strengthening Accountability Improve Constantly Value Flow Chart, Problem Solving Methodology, Improvement Approach Methodology Doosan Infracore also performs diverse equipment performance tests in extreme conditions in consideration of its business of proWith great confidence in and keen responsibility for the quality of over Product Quality Supply of Materials, Continuous-Flow Production, ducing construction equipment, most of which are used in deserts, products, Doosan Infracore has been extending the warranty on Produce Line Balancing, Synchronized Production, plateaus, wetlands, and other harsh environments. In January 2014, its products. Previously, its equipment parts warranty was 1 year Timely Flexible Manpower Planning the company became the first in the domestic construction industry or 2,500 hours. The warranty on five key parts of the midto largeto conduct a cold-weather test in an actual work environment. It did sized equipment over 15 tons produced in China after 2014 is now Secure Quality Quality Plans, Quality Assurance, Zero Defects 03 Customer so to overcome the limitations of previous low-temperature tests up to 3 years/6,000 hours. The warranty on key parts of equipment Satisfaction 1) 2) conducted in the cold chamber of the Reliability Evaluation Center. In produced in Korea after 2016 was also extended for domestic sales 5S , Visual Management, TPM , Operate Stably Standardized Work, Standardized Production January 2016, the company performed extremely cold-weather tests up to 3 years/6,000 hours, and the warranty on key parts sold in on its construction equipment in Cheorwon, Gangwon Province, emerging markets was extended to 2 years/4,000 hours, as part of Management of Production Issues, Team Doosan Organizational Composition, Multiple Functions one of the coldest regions in Korea, where temperatures dropped to the company’s effort to increase customer value. Ensuring Manufacturing Quality minus 20 degrees often with blizzards. Its goal is to verify equipment Doosan Infracore adapted the Fool Proof 1) production system to Support Leadership, Policy Development, performance in an environment where customers actually work. Management Safety and Environment its production processes, in order to ensure consistent quality From June through August, it carried out high-altitude tests in Tibet, 1) Fool Proof: A device designed to prevent human errors even under flexible production systems after completing the China, ahead of launching a new product in China. The tests were construction of its advanced Incheon Excavator Plant. The company conducted at 5,000 meters above sea level, followed by hot-weather Doosan Production System also established management guidelines on Statistical Process tests at the Durability Lab in Gunsan, Korea and DICC/DISD in China Control (SPC)/Statistical Quality Control (SQC). To secure uniform 1) 5S: Sort, Set in order, Shine, Standardize, Sustain in August. By conducting equipment performance and durability 2) TPM: Total Productive Maintenance manufacturing quality, the company is strengthening the system tests throughout the year, the company has been identifying potenof verifying first production run parts that have gone through tial issues and making necessary improvements. design changes as well as suppliers’ quality. To deal with chronic quality issues, all sectors, including design, production, quality and suppliers, took part in concerted efforts at preempting the issues as Verifying Equipment Durability well as preventing similar issues. Doosan Infracore believes that customer satisfaction begins and ends with products of flawless quality, and accordingly seeks to enEnhancing Production Quality through DPS hance its global competitiveness with high-quality products. In 1996, In 2016, the company began a field adoption of ‘Doosan Production when the concept of reliability was yet to be introduced to the local System (DPS)’, a standard it has developed for operating industry, the company established a Reliability Evaluation Center construction equipment production systems, to ensure production at its Incheon Plant. Reliability Evaluation Center conducts diverse of high-quality products consistently across all plants around the tests, including durability, environmental resistance, and structural world in a most efficient way. The DPS is a unique production system safety, as well as reliability evaluations on excavators, engines, and of Doosan Infracore, which pursues establishment of a synchronized other products so as to ensure the company’s products perform to production system, standardization of manufacturing processes, their full specifications in any environment and to maximize their and continued plant innovation, based on the ‘Lean’ program the life expectancies. In addition, the Global R&D Center in Korea, the company has diligently carried out since 2005. The DPS is composed Acceleration Center in Bismarck, U.S., and the Innovation Center of six tasks – secure quality, improve constantly, produce timely, in Dobris, Czech Republic, conduct a variety of tests ranging from operate stably, support management, and Team Doosan – and 22 product design to performance verification. The Acceleration Center related modules. To implement the DPS, the company assessed the conducts tests whenever needed regardless of weather conditions, current conditions of its Incheon and Gunsan Plants in 2016 and, for it has an indoor testing arena. based on the findings, established improvement goals and action plans. The company also held regular process review meetings and examined progress to keep DPS activities going well. Plans Equipment performance test in extremely cold weather for 2017 include connecting each module’s KPI indicators with the company’s performance indicators, standardizing the activity of outstanding cases and disseminating resultant standards, changing the operation organization, and conducting regular assessments, as well as implementing the DPS in its Chinese plants. 22 23 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth S ustainable G rowth 01 Diversifying Sales by Region and Product 02 Increasing Engine Sales outside the Company 03 Securing Cost Leadership through Manufacturing Innovation 24 25 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth Increasing Aftermarket Sales Diversifying Sales by More concrete results of these efforts of strengthening sales channel capabilities and improving other structural aspects are steadily In addition to continually bolstering channel competitiveness in emerging markets, the company has been developing customized Doosan Infracore strives to increase parts sales by bolstering price Region and Product rising product sales and market share. products to customers’ work environment and characteristics, competitiveness, developing new parts business, developing and working to provide diverse package programs in connection attachments that have market competitiveness, and leveraging its Increasing Sales in Emerging Markets with DoosanCARE. As a result, the company won one large deal service capabilities. 01 Doosan Infracore focuses on increasing its market share in emerging markets with high growth potential such as Asia, Africa, after another in emerging markets, including Singapore, Morocco, Thailand, Myanmar, and Qatar, in 2016. To bolster parts price competitiveness and develop new parts and Latin America. To bolster its channel competitiveness in business, it sells economical parts, with a focus on hydraulic parts, emerging markets, the company focuses on signing up new dealers The company is also working to increase wheel loader sales in such as hydraulic pumps and traveling motors, while pursuing and has continually increased dealer coverage. It also supports the emerging markets. DISD wheel loaders are manufactured in China, engine remanufacturing business. prompt stabilization of new dealers and improves training programs but produced entirely with the technologies of Doosan Infracore, Strengthening Channel Capabilities and designed to enhance the capabilities of dealers’ sales personnel as which is why they are superior to comparable products of the The company has been continuously expanding the portfolio of Increasing Sales in China part of the effort to increase qualitative channel capabilities. competition in energy efficiency and productivity. In addition, they attachments to cover economical breakers and grapples for special The construction equipment market in China continued to contract have access to a fast parts service under the parts supply networks equipment, as part of its efforts to satisfy diverse market and from 2011 through 2015, but grew slightly in 2016 due to an of both Doosan Infracore and DISD, an arrangement highly customer needs. It also plans to increase the development of new increase in infrastructure and construction projects, including rural 93 appreciated by current and would-be customers in many emerging attachments by operating an attachment council involving relevant development, road and railroad construction, as well as urban 91 countries. departments, including R&D and quality. maintenance and repair. Doosan Infracore reorganized its channel 82 +11%p network, giving a priority to top-performing dealers, and increased To increase parts sales in connection with services, the company channel coverage by adding new channels in such regions as Beijing. fosters experts who can take charge of services and parts Also, the company has been bolstering channel competitiveness at dealers, while expanding regular preventive activities for through management and support measures tailored to individual equipment. It also develops and sells engine overhaul kits each dealers. In addition, product differentiation was carried out to consisting of major engine parts, such as filters, pistons, bearings accommodate more customer needs, and marketing was customized and valves, with a priority on dealers that have engine service to the characteristics of mini/compact equipment, for which capabilities. Doosan Infracore provides genuine parts to customers demand is on the rise mainly in farming areas and for inner city Emerging Market Coverage Hands on Training to enhance dealer service capabilities and offers various methods to improve product performance and 2012 2014 2016 maintenance work. Through these various efforts, the company has extend product life expectancy in an affordable way, which all (Unit: %) * Source: Company data been strengthening its presence in the changing Chinese market. contribute to higher aftermarket sales. ** Emerging market coverage rate = No. of countries with Doosan Infracore dealers divided by the number of countries where the size of the construction equipment market is more than 100 units DL450-5K with Tier 4 Final installed DISD wheel loader for emerging markets 26 27 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth Expanding Power Generator Engine Portfolio and Increasing Engine Sales Bolstering Sales Network 2017 Middle East Electricity Exhibition in Dubai outside the Company Doosan Infracore presented a line-up of nine power generator engines at the Middle East Electricity Exhibition (MEE) held in March 2016, solidifying its stature as a comprehensive engine brand. The 02 engines include the mediumto large-size diesel engine DP series (6L-22L), the compact power generator diesel engine G2 series (1.8L-3.4L), and the new compact mechanical type engine (1L-4.8L). The power generator engine market continues to suffer from a Expanding the Vehicle Engine Business stagnation reflecting oil and gas markets reeling from low oil prices Doosan Infracore develops and produces engines in accordance with as well as instability in the Middle East. Against this backdrop, the the different emissions regulations of different countries, and installs company plans to increase sales by expanding its power generator them on commercial vehicles around the world, including buses, engine portfolio through displacement of low-performing products trucks, and special vehicles. In particular, the company has succeeded and improvement of sales network and customer support. in developing an engine that satisfies the Euro 6 standards. In November 2016, the first bus equipped with a Euro 6 diesel engine of Doosan Infracore was introduced, and the company has continued to bolster the competitiveness of its vehicle engine business. The Euro 6 engine for vehicles successful rollout of vehicles powered by Euro 6 diesel engines has once again attested to the excellence of Doosan Infracore engines. Plans for 2017 include expanding the PR promotion of Euro 6 G2 Engine (D24) at 2017 CONEXPO diesel engines, increasing market trust in vehicle engines through continuous quality improvement, and expanding the sales base through addition of models in response to Euro 6. The company will also make inroads into the vehicle engine market of Asian countries relatively behind in emissions regulation and thus increase sales of vehicle engines. Expanding Sales of G2 Compact Engines outside the Company Doosan Infracore developed the G2 compact engine by applying ‘Ultra Low PM Combustion (ULPC)’, the company’s unique new combustion technology, and ‘Non-DPF’, a new technical standard. It is a highly-efficient, eco-friendly engine that consumes less fuel and engine oil, but generates high output, thereby delivering best value in performance as well as durability. For it requires no costly G2 compact diesel engine DPFs, the G2 compact engine is very competitive in price and offers big savings in maintenance cost and time. Developed for various industrial machines, power generators, and agricultural machinery requiring 1,800 to 3,400 cc engines, the G2 engine can be found in many small-sized machinery at home and abroad, made not only by Doosan Bobcat but also by other companies, including Daedong Industrial, Korea’s No. 1 agricultural machinery company. Its market demand is steadily rising, as the engine is to power forklifts which enjoy the reputation as the second best in the world. As a result, cumulative production reached 100 thousand units in June 2016, approximately 44 months after the completion of the G2 compact engine plant and launch of mass production in 2012. In addition to ensuring a stable supply of the engine for existing orders, the customer support through stabilization of customer support center company is working to fully launch sales of the engine in the operations, and developing engines that would meet Stage V and advanced markets through development of big OEMs, expanding other next-generation emissions regulations. 28 29 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth Maximizing Production Efficiency through Building a Smart Factory Securing Cost Leadership Excavator Plant Advancement Doosan Infracore has been turning its G2 engine factory in Incheon through Manufacturing In 2016, Doosan Infracore optimized facility efficiencies by into a smart factory by integrating the factory’s systems and data consolidating two production plants in Incheon and adopted and applying RFID-based automation, AI and virtual engineering. Innovation advanced operation systems, such as modularization and production Through such smart factory implementation, the company aims to 03 line efficiency enhancement. As a result, the company has cut the number of processes and work hours by over 20% through a have information on manufacturing and demand supplied on a real time basis to production and purchasing so as to flexibly respond to process redesign reflecting modularization designs. In addition, market changes, improve quality and productivity, and curtail costs. all production processes, including welding, assembly, painting, and shipment, are now all handled at a single plant, leading to a sharp reduction of more than 80% in the travel distance of logistics Effects Anticipated from Excavator Plant Advancement required for product manufacturing. In addition, the company applied the ‘Fool Proof’ system to major processes for zero-defect production, and adopted the Andon system, which is designed to No. of process Manufacturing Average No. of units produced Travel distance of at the main line lead time man hour per person (Year) logistics stop the entire production line as soon as an issue is discovered, such as a defect on the production line, and enable a prompt 23% 18% 27% 24% 84% resolution of issues. The company also implemented a pull-based material supply system, which supplies an amount of materials just enough for production of one unit of equipment in accordance with the production progress, thereby eliminating waste factors. Plans have been set for 2017 to strengthen quality control in consideration Explanations on the heavy product line-up at the Heavy Show-room Process map showing processes from production to sales of heavy products (Heavy Show-room) of changes made in the production process, while continuing to improve productivity. Bolstering Cost Advantage through Design Optimization The diversification of products and increasing operating costs have given rise to the need for a new method of planning, designing, and producing products that can help improve cost competitiveness. Doosan Infracore therefore implements Value Analysis (VA)/Value Engineering (VE) to secure stable performance and quality levels and reduce costs. All relevant departments at Doosan Infracore, including design, purchasing, production, and quality, are engaged in a seamless collaboration pursuing the right direction that will lead to viable solutions in a short time. To ensure that these activities are fully reflected in the new product development process, the company is also working on their internalization. Advanced Incheon Excavator Plant Video of Doosan Infracore’s advanced Excavator Plant in construction 30 31 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Smart Solution Smart S olution 01 Telematics Systems 02 Unmanned/Automation 32 33 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Smart Solution Telematics Service in the Construction Equipment Market Telematics Systems Telematics systems incorporate information and communication including product development, demand forecast, and inventory management. In response to the spread of telematics services Doosan Infracore strives to provide distinctive services through its DoosanCONNECT™ service. By providing basic information such as technologies (ICT) to construction equipment. Operators can gain across the industry, the company has been continuously improving equipment location, operation and updates on parts replacement access to real-time information on the location of telematicsits telematics devices and the user interface (UI) to further sharpen cycles, the company helps customers manage their equipment more equipped excavators, their operational status, and the status of its competitive edge and offer more advanced product services. By efficiently. In addition, the data collected through the telematics on 01 major systems including the engine and hydraulic systems through the telematics device installed on construction equipment. The doing so, Doosan Infracore strives to provide smart solutions beyond construction equipment production and sales. the status of diverse equipment and operations are used for basic materials to improve equipment quality and performance. Also, collected data can be processed and transferred to other locations linked with DoosanCARE, another distinctive service of Doosan via mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablet PCs. Likewise, DoosanCONNECT™ Infracore, DoosanCONNECT™ can contribute to increase customer the equipment can be remotely managed from a distance through DoosanCONNECT™ is the brand name for all telematics services convenience in the use of equipment and to minimize downtimes. mobile devices. Telematics service allows owners and operators of provided by Doosan Infracore. The company has completed the construction equipment, which are used in diverse industrial sites, integration of all of its telematics-equipped products and the In addition to making efforts to continually improve product to remotely monitor and efficiently manage the operation of their UI of DoosanCONNECT™ – DoosanCONNECT™ website (www. performance and quality, Doosan Infracore will actively fuse new equipment without being present at the worksite. doosanconnect.com) and a mobile app – so that the equipment can technologies, such as ITC, with its products and services to offer be monitored through one integrated UI. Thanks to the UI developed distinctive solutions that maximize customer satisfaction. Doosan Infracore was one of the forerunners to recognize the with in-house technologies, the company has established a basis importance and growth potential of telematics. Starting from China that allows for a quicker system reflection of various customer needs in 2005, and gradually increasing scope to other countries in Europe as well as provision of the same service at the same time to all and North America, Doosan Infracore has been offering relevant users around the world. This year the company plans to reflect the services in accordance with individual needs. Based on the system telematics-related ISO/TS 15143-3 standard and continue upgrading operation experience and data accumulated over the last decade, the AEMP protocol-based DoosanCONNECT™, so that telematics the company has been developing and providing distinctive product data of construction equipment made by other makers can be services, while improving and advancing its operation processes, registered and managed on DoosanCONNECT™ website. Device Communication Method DoosanCONNECT™ Website DX530LC equipped with the DoosanCONNECT™ Installed on equipment, the device Two methods are used for smooth Customers can connect to the collects equipment information useful transmission of information – communications DoosanCONNECT™ website anytime to to customers. satellites and mobile communication. check and use equipment information. Excavator, Wheel loader, ADT Dual communication method Dealers, Doosan, Customers Excavator Communications satellites ADT Customers Dealers Mobile communication Doosan Wheel loader Areas of Activity Major Features Worksite management Location check, Report Increased Operation analysis, equipment efficiency Fuel efficiency management Preventive inspection Consumables and management management Strengthening Detection of of service abnormality signals Major Features and the Use of DoosanCONNECT™ 34 35 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Doosan Bobcat Unmanned/Automation 02 D oosan bobcat Smart Solution Trend in the Construction Equipment Market ICT and artificial intelligence (AI) are emerging fast as the forerunners The DX series excavator that received the Red Dot Award 2016 of future technology, signaling a new, unprecedented revolution. 01 Using big data to solve problems is being introduced while automaImproving Fundamental tion and unmanned operations are coming into our lives due to Competitiveness development of robotic technologies. By the 2020s, it is expected the number of skilled equipment operators will have been declined with a worsening aging population issue. The development of unmanned/ 02 automatic technologies will enable simple work even if there is a Diversifying the Product and reduction in the number of skilled operators. With the continuous Business Structure advancement in unmanned/automatic technologies, it will be far easier to work at hard-to-reach and risky places such as where natural disasters occur or are contaminated by radioactive. Doosan Infracore 03 therefore strives to incorporate future technologies into its construcBecoming a Global Company tion equipment, with an aim to meet customers’ rapidly changing needs while seeking new opportunities to create added value. Realizing Smart Solution Technologies of Doosan Infracore Doosan Infracore has been steadily preparing unmanned/autoBased on the continuous efforts the company has made, Doosan matic technologies since 2014. As part of this effort, in 2016 the Infracore has been working together with Trimble Inc., a leading company released excavators equipped with Around View Monitor company in unmanned/automation solutions, and released a (AVM) and rear warning systems for the first time in the domestic product with an optimized auto-grading system of Trimble in March construction equipment industry, helping excavator operators work 2017. The company focuses on making internal R&D investments in a safer environment. It is currently working on the development and actively cooperating with other companies with outstanding of unmanned excavators and self-driving technology. Installed on technological prowess. In doing so, Doosan Infracore invests in the the six models of Doosan Infracore’s DX-5 series, AVM is a cuttingdevelopment of various element technologies to secure distinctive edge technology that enables the operator to monitor the visual competitiveness in unmanned/automation technologies. images taken by a total of four cameras. The images are processed by an on-board computer, and the operator can watch them on a The incorporation of smart solutions in construction equipment monitor in the cabin in real time and secure a 360-degree visibility will bring substantial changes to worksites and the industry around the equipment. For such an advanced technology, the DX-5 structure. Doosan Infracore will therefore incorporate cuttingseries excavator received the Special Award at the Red Dot Award edge technologies in the construction industry, which is regarded 2016, and Doosan Infracore became the first among construction as a labor-intensive industry, to raise construction efficiencies. equipment companies around the world to receive the Red Dot Furthermore, the company will become a global leader that leads the Award for both the concept and mass-produced products, receiving transformation of the construction industry and relevant equipment recognition for its value once again. industries into higher value-added industries. 36 37 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Doosan Bobcat edge engineering and R&D facilities, and top-end technology. The Unveiled for the first time at the 2017 CONEXPO, the Revolution (R) Widening the Dealer Channels and company also opened the Innovation Center at its worksite in Dobris, Series excavator is the outcome of combining product innovation Expanding Marketing Activities Czech Republic in order to create synergy between R&D activities for from both Doosan Bobcat and Doosan Infracore. The two companies Doosan Bobcat has a large dealer network that consists of approxiproducts for Europe and emerging markets. The Acceleration Center have worked closely together since 2007 to develop innovative mately 600 dealers in North America and about 1,000 dealers in is able to carry out the entire range of R&D activities, including products that optimize the product knowledge and R&D capabilities approximately 100 countries world-wide. Doosan Bobcat has long presenting new ideas, computer simulation, creating prototypes, of the two companies in compact excavators. Engineers with a been the leader in the compact construction equipment market and product testing. This enables the company to develop products wide range of experience participated in the product development, thanks to the outstanding abilities of its dealers and their extensive within a much shorter period of time. In order to improve the work which ensures that all customer requirements are met. The Doosan knowledge of Doosan Bobcat products, along with the company’s environment and operational capabilities of the Gwinner, North Bobcat R Series excavator was developed through this global active customer satisfaction policies and programs. To ensure a Dakota Plant, which has been open since the 1960s, Doosan Bobcat R&D project, and was built with ‘Crawler’ technology to reduce quality dealer channel, new dealers are recruited every year based on undertook an extension and engineering facility repair project worth the vibration. Other features include increased operator room and a market coverage roadmap. The company offers a dealer incentive USD 12 million as part of its Innovation Accelerated strategy, and comfort increased lifting strength as well as many other performance program, various marketing activities, and support measures to help completed the project in April 2016. In production facilities, Doosan improvements. One unique characteristic is the larger cockpit and increase market share. There are also various programs in place to Bobcat has extended its line of MEXs, which have recently seen windows, which make obstacles easier to spot while working. increase dealers’ understanding of Doosan Bobcat products and considerable growth, and has also redesigned its factory assembly Doosan Bobcat plans to develop more products that satisfy worldbusinesses. These include the Dealer Training Center, ‘Boot Camp’ line to increase production speed. Improvements were made to wide customer requirements through global collaboration. training, Bobcat University, and the Dealer Transformation Program the paint line, including a new cutting-edge spraying system called (DTP). Furthermore, the company has set individual dealer support ColorMax Booth, which has improved product quality and the programs in place, including a data analysis tool and a dashboard durability of the company’s products. that offer information on the construction equipment industry based on big data. This continuous investment in support for dealers has Doosan Bobcat has expedited the New Product Development resulted in building partnerships with the dealers in North America Improving Fundamental (NPD) process through product and process innovation by implementing Innovation Accelerated, using techniques such as for more than 29 years on average. Competitiveness crowdsourcing, and cross-functional collaboration between relevant departments. Crowdsourcing, a compound word consisting of ‘crowd’ and ‘outsourcing’, is defined as bringing together opin01 ions and ideas from various stakeholders, including employees, dealers, and customers. These ideas are then collected through SSL with a sweeper attachment our GroundBREAKER crowdsourcing website, and applied to prototypes. This NPD process innovation can shorten the product development process, dramatically. In order to respond effectively to ever-diversifying customer requirements and stricter product Strengthening Leadership in the Compact Market regulations, Doosan Bobcat will apply Innovation Accelerated to its through Innovation development process for key products, in its efforts to go beyond Doosan Bobcat is a leading company in the design, manufacturing, being the leader in the North American SSL, CTL, and MEX markets, marketing, distribution, and product support services of diverse and become No. 1 globally. compact equipment and attachments used in various fields, including construction, agriculture, landscaping, ground maintenance, industry, and mining. Its flagship products are the skid-steer loader (SSL), compact track loader (CTL), and mini excavator (MEX). Thanks to these products, Doosan Bobcat leads the global compact Doosan Bobcat’s SSL (S750) clears away snow equipment market. Doosan Bobcat strives to improve existing products, release new products and expand its service network so that it can offer products and services that guarantee efficiency and top performance in any type of working environment. Doosan Bobcat has a long-term strategy of investing in people, facilities, and products. Over the last three years, it has made progress at worksites and innovative R&D investments. In 2014, it established the Acceleration Center, at the Bismarck, North Dakota worksite in the U.S. The Acceleration Center is equipped with all the systems needed for product development, including cutting38 39 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Doosan Bobcat Doosan Bobcat has created various marketing materials that offer Doosan Bobcat and major competitors and discloses the inforeasy-to-understand product information for dealers and customers. mation on the company website, Youtube channel, and social Diversifying the Product Portfolio It can be difficult for customers to judge a product’s real-life performedia. This enables customers to more easily understand the Even in the midst of difficulties, Doosan Bobcat continuously mance simply by reading the manufacturer’s specifications. Doosan products’ actual performance. There are approximately 30 product invested in building new products and thus released the M-Series, ® ® Bobcat therefore operates the Bobcat Advantage program, which performance test result videos on the Bobcat Advantage page on the Backhoe Loader (BHL), and a mini electric excavator, which led to compares performance test results for about 20 products from the company website. maintaining its market leadership at a time when other construction equipment companies were delaying launching of the new products. The M-Series, a new loader/MEX, is equipped with new extendable medium/large-sized platforms and features improved performance. For instance, it provides an operator with wider field of vision by reloDoosan Bobcat in Numbers cating the cabin, cuts noise levels by over 60%, while its hydraulic power has increased by more than 15% and its traction power has improved by 15 to 20%. In 2014, Doosan Bobcat became the first In 2016, Doosan Bobcat launched new BHL on its official YouTube channel. The BHL is a multi-purpose compact product, equipped company to produce 1 million units of a Earthforce Doosan Bobcat’s lowto mid-priced brand for emerging markets with a loader in the front and an excavator in the rear. Since a compact loader in the industry. single unit can handle various different tasks, the BHL is ideal for The company produced 500,000 units in 2001, 750,000 units farms and construction sites. It is therefore expected to generate in 2008 and 1 million units in six years. This is more than good sales in emerging markets, including the Middle East, Russia, the sum of all sales of compact loaders by other companies, and Africa. In fact, Doosan Bobcat became one of the top three proving undisputed leadership of Doosan Bobcat Diversifying the Product and compact equipment manufacturers in the Middle East only nine st months after the launch of the BHL. The BHL has completed Doosan Business Structure Bobcat’s comprehensive product portfolio in compact construction equipment, to go alongside the Telehandler (TLS) launched in 2000 and the multi-purpose compact Utility Vehicle (UTV) released in As a pioneer in the compact equipment 02 2003. Both the TLS and the UTV are established products in their respective markets. Both products contribute to the success of the million industry, Doosan Bobcat created the world’s company and satisfying diverse customer requirements. very first original SSL. The E10 Electric prototype is a mini electric excavator that was The company has continued to innovate over the past half unveiled at the 2016 Bauma exhibition. This excavator is so small century, which has enabled it to remain as the solid market Expanding in Emerging Markets that it can pass through a door, and it uses a rechargeable battery leader. Doosan Bobcat sets industry standards and leads Doosan Bobcat sought to expand its business, which had been or electric plug instead of diesel. Its size, its minimal vibrations and the market through innovative products and technologies mostly focused on North America and Europe in the past, to include noise, and the fact that it does not emit exhaust fumes, make it such as the Bob-Tach™ 1). China and other emerging markets. The company therefore acquired easy to operate indoors. Of particular note, the Zero Tail Swing (ZTS) Doosan Infracore’s Suzhou Plant and turned it into a compact technology minimizes the work radius of the E10, enabling it to be construction equipment production base. Doosan Bobcat is now used even in a small area without damaging walls. It can therefore 1) Bob-Tach™ : Thanks to this technology, developed by Doosan Bobcat in the 1970s, the attachment on the arm can be easily and precisely installed moving beyond its previous marketing policy in China of focusing work efficiently in an indoor remodeling site or a below-ground site in just a couple of minutes, which is much appreciated by customers. Other on midto large-sized construction equipment and rather dedicates that larger equipment could not access. The mini electric excavator manufacturers developed in-house replacement systems for around a decade, to creating separate marketing strategies on compact equipment. E10 is a next-generation product for Doosan Bobcat, and it is but when the company’s patent expired in the 1980s, they used Doosan Bobcat’s method. The Bob-Tach™ technology is now a global ISO standard. Doosan Bobcat is preparing to release the products tailored to expected to be a leader in the market for electric equipment, which local markets, including new SSL models and MEX models, in will be a vital part of the future electric equipment market. order to create new demand and increase market share in China and emerging markets. The new SSL model will be launched as part of Doosan Bobcat’s lowto mid-priced brand, Earthforce and will be distinct from Doosan Bobcat brands targeted at advanced economies. The new model has similar specifications to Doosan Bobcat’s major products, but cost competitiveness was improved by producing parts locally as much as possible. It will be launched first in China in 2017 and will then be released in major emerging markets over the midto long-term. 40 41 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Doosan Bobcat Outstanding Financial Performance Doosan Bobcat will continue to implement strategies that improve Doosan Bobcat launched the compact construction industry by its channel competitiveness in an effort to increase sales. It will introducing the first SSL in 1958. Since then, it has played a leading actively diversify its sources of revenue to maximize profitability, role in the world’s compact construction equipment market, with an maintain the optimal business structure, and continue to maintain emphasis on the North American market. In 2007, Doosan Infracore its leadership in compact construction equipment business while acquired Bobcat Company. Doosan Bobcat’s business performance also establishing a solid position in heavy construction equipment. suffered during its initial years, in large part because of the global The company is also targeting increased aftermarket sales by financial crisis. However, the company has recorded positive operatimproving parts supply, diversifying its aftermarket business, and ing profits since 2011 by continuously making bold investments. improving the marketing of its services, so that the aftermarket In 2016, the company maintained its growth pace, recording KRW business can become a stable source of revenue. Doosan Bobcat 3,879.1 billion in sales and KRW 414 billion in operating income. will continuously improve its fundamental business competitiveness The improvement in operating income resulted from restructuring in its products, technologies, quality, channels, and services, and the European business and cost reductions arising from improved will also actively seek out new opportunities for growth in the production efficiency. Better business fundamentals, including a construction equipment industry. Acceleration Center, a R&D center of Doosan Bobcat higher percentage of total sales from high-yield products such as CTL and MEX were also contributing factors. Doosan Bobcat has been well received by the market thanks to its financial performance, stable business structure, and strong brands. Based on the positive feedbacks, the company was successfully listed on the Korean stock market on November 18, 2016, thus laying the foundation to further solidify its position as a global leader. Becoming a Global Company Doosan Bobcat is forecasting strong growth for 2017. Although Telehandler equipped with a trencher attachment markets in Latin America and the Middle East are recovering slowly, stronger growth in advanced economies, including North America and Europe, and a strong recovery in China are forecast to result in 03 continued overall market growth. In emerging markets, demand for compact equipment will grow as a result of increasing brown field construction, which requires more compact equipment than green field construction. In North America and Europe, demand is forecast to increase for equipment for small-scale construction projects such as housing and downtown infrastructure repair. Emerging markets World’s Number 1 in Compact Construction Equipment are showing a similar pattern, with a low demand for the midto Doosan Bobcat is striving to expand its market share in heavy large-sized equipment used in major infrastructure construction and equipment and portable power products. In May 2016, in order to mining, but with a high demand for compact equipment, mainly in establish a common culture, values, and goals across the various farming villages or for maintenance work. Doosan Bobcat brands, the company set out its vision to be the Global Leader in Compact & Portable Power and held ceremonies at its worksites around the world. Based on this new vision, Doosan Bobcat will pursue sustainable growth, diversify its product and local business portfolios and continue to innovate in products and The multi-purpose 3400 utility vehicle services in order to boost its fundamental competitiveness. 42 43 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Doosan Bobcat Key CSR Activity Responsibility Establishing Certification of the Gwinner Plant’s the CSR Committee EHS Management System In 2016, Doosan Bobcat’s US subsidiary Doosan Bobcat has established a established a CSR Committee, led by systematic environmental health and the CEO, and undertook 19 strategic safety (EHS) system, in order to minimize CSR tasks. The CSR Committee will the environmental and safety risks that can continue to ensure that corporate social arise at worksites. In 2016, the Gwinner responsibility is considered in all aspects Plant in the U.S. was recertified for of company management. international EHS management standards, Environmental Management System (ISO 14001), and Safety and Health Management System (ISO 18001). Enacting the Supplier Participating in the Doosan Day Code of Conduct of Community Service In 2016, Doosan Bobcat’s US subsidiary Doosan Bobcat staff across the globe enacted a Supplier Code of Conduct, volunteer for the annual Doosan Day of identifying conduct relating to labor, Community Service, undertaking social human rights, health and safety, the contribution activities for local residents. environment, and ethics that must be Doosan Bobcat’s US subsidiary uses a observed by suppliers doing business performance management system so that with Doosan Bobcat. The Code of Conduct its social contribution activities can be has now been shared with all suppliers. efficiently supported by the company. Supporting STEM Activities Doosan Bobcat opened a Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) building at North Dakota State University in 2015, to help foster creative talent. The company also invited local students to the Acceleration Center in Bismarck to support talented local people and create STEM experts. 44 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report ruO Doosan Bobcat Key CSR Activity ytilibisnopseR CSR위원회 구성 및 운영 미국 그위너 사업장 EHS경영시스템 두산밥캣 미국법인은 2016년 CEO를 재인증 획득 중심으로 하는 CSR위원회를 구성하고 두산밥캣은 체계적인 EHS경영시스템을 19개 CSR 전략과제를 운영하였습니다. 구축, 운영하여 사업장 운영 과정에서 향후 지속적으로 CSR위원회를 운영하며 발생할 수 있는 환경, 안전 리스크를 경영 전반에서 CSR 측면을 고려한 최소화하고 있습니다. 미국법인 그위너 의사결정을 지원하고자 합니다. 사업장은 2016년 EHS경영 국제 표준인 환경경영시스템(ISO 14001)과 안전보건경영시스템(ISO 18001) 재인증을 획득하였습니다. 46 CSR Structure 52 Transparent and Ethical Management Supplier Code of Conduct 수립 Doosan Day of Community Service 참여 두산밥캣 미국법인은 2016년 58 Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management 두산밥캣과 거래하는 협력사들이 전 세계 두산밥캣 임직원은 매년 준수해야 하는 노동 및 인권, 안전보건, 개최되는 ‘Doosan Day of Community 63 Integrated EHS System 환경, 윤리 등에 대한 사항으로 Service’에 자발적으로 참여하며 구성된 ‘Supplier Code of Conduct’를 지역주민을 위한 사회공헌 활동을 71 Shared Growth with Our Suppliers 제정하고 전체 협력사를 대상으로 진행하고 있습니다. 두산밥캣 76 Employee Value Proposition 전달하였습니다. 미국법인은 사회공헌 활동의 체계적 지원을 위해 성과관리 시스템을 구성, 83 Supporting Development of Local Communities 활용하고 있습니다. STEM 활동 지원 두산밥캣은 창의적인 인재육성을 위하여 2015년 NDSU에 STEM(Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics) 건물을 개관하였으며, 지역사회 학생들을 비스마르크 액셀러레이션 센터에 초대하는 등 지역인재의 성장과 STEM 전문가 배출에 기여하고 있습니다 44 45 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility CSR Structure CSR Management System CSR Promotion System CSR Committee In 2016, Doosan Infracore established the global CSR management Doosan Group CSR Strategies Doosan Infracore promotes corporate social responsibilities (CSR) The CSR committee, which is composed of the CEO, the heads of system, one of its CSR strategic tasks. The Chinese subsidiary and In 2016, Doosan Group reestablished its CSR strategies based on through cooperation among the relevant departments, mainly the BGs, and other key executives, is the company’s highest decisionDoosan Bobcat North America formed their own CSR Committees to existing CSR strategies that reflected the results of analysis of global CSR part at its head office and persons in charge of its overseas making body regarding CSR. Its major responsibilities include monitor the progress of their respective CSR tasks. trends and its internal capacity. business sites. The company convenes meetings of the CSR establishing company-wide CSR strategies and policies, drawing Committee (Chairperson: CEO), the top decision-making body, on a up CSR strategic tasks, reviewing operational performance, and quarterly basis, and the Committee sets up CSR strategic tasks and determining the business risks and opportunities arising from CSR Organization approves related operations and processes based on materiality changes in the CSR environment. The Committee is composed of issues and external assessment such Environmental, Social, and five subcommittees dedicated to human rights/labor practices, CSR Committee Governance (ESG) Evaluation and Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes environment, fair operations, customer values, and local (DJSI). When major decisions are made by the Committee, the CSR communities. The subcommittees conduct in-depth discussions Chairperson CEO Working Group, which is composed of working-level staff, draws with the focus on related CSR strategic tasks on a quarterly basis. 9 persons including CEO, CFO, BG heads and directors Composition Coordinator up specific implementation plans and discusses implementation To boost the efficiency of their decision-making process, the tasks. The CSR part, which is the organization responsible for subcommittees are flexible in deciding which organizations will CSR part coordinating the company’s overall CSR strategies, is responsible participate in their activities depending on the nature of the tasks to Subcommittees under CSR Committee for comprehensive CSR-related tasks such as establishing CSR be carried out. strategies, identifying stakeholder issues and needs, diagnosing Subcommittee Human Rights/ Environment Fair Operations Customer Values Local Communities Labor Practices CSR levels at domestic and overseas sites, presenting CSR tasks, The CSR strategic tasks are reflected in the management by Major Indices Human rights Worksite safety and health Suppliers Customers Community monitoring performance and publishing integrated reports. objectives (MBO) of relevant executive officers. Some of them are Labor practices Environment and pollutants Ethical management Product and engagement linked to the annual business plans to enhance their implementation On-site energy Green partnership technology innovation Community Green business development capabilities and will also be linked to midto long-term management Green operation and product strategies. Doosan Infracore will continue to seek new CSR strategies and effective implementation strategies with the aim of CSR Working Group enhancing its corporate and social values in the long term, thus Teams in achieve tangible results. Charge HRM1)·HRD2) EHS3)-related Teams Shared Growth·Compliance Marketing·Quality·R&D CSR·Administration Finance·Strategy·The Doosan Way Marketing·Quality·R&D CSR part·General Affairs Finance·Strategy·Doosan Way 1) HRM: Human Resource Management 2) HRD: Human Resource Development CSR Operating System 3) EHS: Environmental, Health, Safety Stakeholder communication and engagement CSR Organization CSR diagnosis Identify CSR issues and Materiality analysis improvement Doosan Proud Global Doosan Aspiration measures Analysis of the external assessment such as ESG and DJSI CSR Goal Top 100 global CSR leading companies1) by 2025 CSR Mission Support responsible and sustainable growth Promotion of CSR strategic tasks and activities CSR Committee CSR Pillars Disclosure of information on activities Respect Reliable Responsibility CSR value Establish CSR strategic tasks, manage tasks, and performance through integrated reports review performance, monitor risks and for People operating in engagement creation and others seek opportunities 1) Based on the announcement of the World Economic Forum (Davos Forum) 46 47 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility CSR Structure Stakeholder Engagement CSR Strategic Tasks Definition of Stakeholders In 2015, Doosan Infracore created and promoted six CSR strategic tasks in consideration of the results from its company-wide CSR diagnosis, Doosan Infracore focuses on communicating with its internal and external stakeholders, as well as promoting their engagement and cooperation materiality assessments, and external evaluation such as ESG and DJSI. In 2016, the company continued to implement the 2015 CSR strategic in CSR activities. The company identifies expectations and needs of its stakeholders, including customers and suppliers, through communication tasks and added the global CSR governance task laying the groundwork for CSR promotion at all its overseas business sites. As of 2017, it has channels operated by each functional department on a regular basis, and reflects them in its management activities. Through these so far selected eight CSR strategic tasks by upgrading the existing tasks and expanding its product-related tasks in order to enhance customer communication channels, the company also discloses its CSR activities and achievements transparently and enhances its stakeholders’ trust. values. 2015 2016 2017 Communication Channels for Stakeholders CSR Communication Channels Major Issues Responses Governance Establish Help overseas worksites disclose the global CSR governance their CSR information Shareholders/ Annual general meeting (AGM), Improve profitability and a high dividend · Share the company’s midto long-term business directions Investors disclosure materials, investor policy; strengthen disclosures; sound · Make earnings announcements and providing IR data Customer relations (IR) information on the corporate governance; and business Value Develop the REACH-IT system · Hold analyst meetings company website, conferences, opportunity and risk management Two tasks related to the advanced IR meetings Define eco-friendly products Define eco-friendly products emissions regulations and set up standards and set up standards Field surveys, Voice of Prompt customer complaint handling · Product presentation through exhibitions and dealer Heavy: One task related to smart Customers Customers (VOCs), call centers, and feedback; product quality meetings solutions joint workshops, integrated improvement, performance, safety, · Tasks aiming for eco-friendly products customer management systems and convenience; thorough customer information protection; R&D investment · Incorporate VOCs into products through the New Product Environment Development) processes Establish a management system and technological development Establish a management system Establish a management system intensification; differentiated customer · Enhance customer accessibility by providing dealers with for worksite energy efficiency for worksite energy efficiency for worksite energy efficiency service; and develop eco-friendly, web-based information and strengthen dealer management Establish a midto long-term high efficiency products · Boost customer responsiveness through the Happy Call and Establish a management system Establish a management system roadmap on how to deal with dealer service training for chemical substances for chemical substances the carbon trade scheme Labor-Management Council, Fair evaluation and compensation; · The Doosan Way Employees Fair grievance handling system, education and competence · Human resources development based on the Functional Operations Strengthen CSR management Strengthen CSR management Intranet, Doosan Way surveys, development; work-life balance; Competency (FC) system system of supply chain system of supply chain dialogue with management win-win labor-management relations; and active communication within · The Women’s Council Build carbon partnership Build carbon partnership the company · Publish a human rights risk prevention manual and provide with suppliers with suppliers education on human rights Supplier Council, supplier Share more information with suppliers; · Foster leading suppliers Human Suppliers Rights/Labor Establish a management system education, consulting, and expand support to boost suppliers’ · Financial support for suppliers Practices Establish a management system technical support for suppliers capabilities through financial, for human rights risk: Publish · The Supplier Hotline for human rights risk: Assess current Strengthen the monitoring technology, education, environment, a human rights risk prevention status and overhaul grievance for human rights violation and ethical management support; and · Share CSR guidelines with suppliers manual and provide education on handling channels strengthen fair trade human rights to office staff Meetings, social contribution Eco-friendly products and production · Operate the Dream School Plus Local Existing or advanced Newly implemented in 2016 Newly implemented in 2017 activities, sisterhood processes; improve workplaces and · The Doosan Day of Community Service Communities relationship, working-level surrounding environment; prevent (the environment, meetings with community pollution; establish environmental · Social contribution projects tailored to local business sites NGOs, etc.) leaders management system; communicate with local communities; and help local communities’ economic development Participate in national projects, Compliance with laws and regulations; · Regulatory monitoring and internal compliance Central/Local operate joint programs and public-private partnership · Suggest improvement measures through participation in Governments related organizations’ activities · Participate in the government’s public policy projects Press releases, press Prompt and accurate information sharing · Issue press releases in a timely manner Media conferences, regular meetings, · Support press reporters’ news coverage business site visits (field trips) · Find feature items and provide them to the media 48 49 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility CSR Structure Materiality Analysis Materiality Analysis Process Materiality Matrix Results of Materiality Assessment Core Issues Contents Page Doosan Infracore selected product responsibility, energy Internal CSR Diagnosis and climate change, supply chain management, and Step 01 01 Product responsibility eco-friendly products, as its core issues out of the 21 02 Energy and climate change Our Strategy P. 14-36 Doosan Infracore identifies its CSR competencies, performance level, and CSR issues identified, based on stakeholder interest 03 Supply chain management improvement measures through its annual CSR diagnosis and selects main internal and business impact as well as value chain impact. 04 Eco-friendly products CSR issues. In 2016, the company applied Doosan Group’s CSR model of diagnosis Our Responsibility As the importance and necessity of supply chain 05 Innovative management to its business sites in Korea, China, and the Doosan Bobcat’s US worksite, with management have increased greatly around the world, 06 Worksite health and safety three major issues – management of dealer partnership, the focus on seven CSR areas including customer values, HR, EHS, fair operations, and local communities. Impact assessment of sustainable CSR Structure P. 46-48 win-win business management with suppliers, and 07 development (economic, social, environmental) management of suppliers’ CSR – have been upgraded 08 Sustainable use of resources Transparent to be supply chain management. In line with the Step 02 Issue Pool Selection and Ethical P. 52-55 Community engagement and United Nations’ adoption of Sustainable Development 09 Management development Goals (SDGs) following the expiration of Millennium As required by the international community, Doosan Infracore identifies CSR issues Customer 10 Human rights and labor practices Development Goals (MDGs) in 2015, companies are and interests of its stakeholders through the analysis of media coverage, Satisfaction P. 22-23 11 Worksite eco-efficiency and Quality P. 58-62 encouraged to participate more in global sustainable CSR-related international standards and guidelines such as Global Reporting Management Initiative (GRI), RobecoSAM, and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 12 Strategies for emerging markets development and to achieve relevant results. Doosan (SASB). The company selects issue pools based on its in-house CSR issues and Cooperation with global Infracore therefore has added assessment of impacts Integrated 13 stakeholders P. 63-70 on sustainable development which addresses the stakeholder CSR issues and devises global market responses through industry EHS System benchmarking. 14 Management strategies and economic, environmental, and social impacts of its economic performance Shared Growth products and services. Through the 2016 Integrated 15 Water resources management P. 71-75 with Our Suppliers Report, the company has disclosed its major activities, Step 03 Prioritization 16 Waste management achievements, and plans concerning 21 CSR issues. 17 Ethical management and compliance Employee Value In Our Strategy section, the company presents key The company takes into account issue maturity, business importance , value chain 1) P. 76-82 18 Corporate governance Proposition information on its business strategies and products, and influence2), and interest levels of stakeholders in its evaluation of the importance 19 Impacts on biodiversity provides information on different CSR areas, including of each issue, thus decides core issues. Supporting 20 Soil preservation Development of P. 83-86 activities and achievements related with its strategic 21 Human resources development Local Communities tasks, in Our Responsibility and CSR Facts & Figures. Step 04 Review and Feedback Based on the results of the materiality assessment, the CSR Committee reviews Energy and climate change issues with high priority and finalizes the company’s core issues and strategic CSR Product responsibility tasks. The Committee comprehensively discusses and manages the core issues as the company’s strategic tasks, among others, throughout the year while having any remaining issues managed continuously by business units that monitor industrial 02 01 and social changes. Doosan Infracore seeks to share its key CSR activities, 03 achievements, and future plans with its stakeholders and collect their feedback. Importance to stakeholders Supply chain 02 01 10 04 management 06 03 11 Eco-friendly 1)  usiness importance: The company assesses the importance of each issue in terms of ‘profit, cost, reputation, and B 07 17 products compliance’ in the course of business conduct by reviewing the related midto long-term strategies and business 18 04 13 05 12 plans and major industry trends among other factors. 9 08 14 2)  alue chain influence: The company assesses the socio-economic/environmental impact and relative importance of V 19 each issue in the value chain. 16 20 21 15 Importance to business * Each issue’s level of influence in the value chain is represented by the size of each circle 50 51 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Transparent and Ethical Management Operation of an Independent BOD Transparent and Corporate Governance Protection of Minority Shareholders Doosan Infracore operates a paper ballot, an electronic voting system, and an electronic proxy The BOD and Its Decision-making Systems As the company’s highsolicitation system to protect the voting rights of its minority shareest decision-making body in its management, the Board of Directors Ethical Management holders. When sending out notices of its annual general meeting (AGM), the company encloses paper ballots so that shareholders can (BOD) works on behalf of its investors. The Board also oversees and approves decisions on massive investments or borrowings, the con01 exercise their voting rights if absent. Their votes are valid under the condition that they arrive at the company one day prior to the date solidation or division of business entities and other major business issues, from the perspective of long-term growth. of an AGM. Composition and Operations of the BOD The BOD of Doosan Disclosure of Corporate Information Doosan Infracore complies Infracore is composed of three internal and five outside directors Composition of Shareholders and Equity with all applicable legal disclosure requirements. It also strives to as of the end of March 2017. The company selects outside directors Doosan Infracore is a subsidiary of Doosan Group and operates disclose information in a balanced manner, concerning its financial after a careful examination of their ownership of the company’s more than 40 financially consolidated or subsidiary companies and non-financial activities through the voluntary disclosure of the shares, potential conflicts of interest and careers with the company’s (based on annual reports) around the world. As of the end of 2016, compliance program (CP) status and CSR activities. competitors to establish a transparent governance structure and the number of its shares issued stood at 207,455,314, of which the enhance the BOD’s expertise. largest shareholder, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, owned Status of Disclosure Activities a 36.40% stake. Its equity capital stood at KRW 1,037.3 billion. • Financial: Disclosure of provisional statistics on sales performance • Non-financial: Status of CP operations | Disclosure of CSR activities Our Approach | Quarterly and biannual reports and statements of affairs | including integrated reports | Disclosure of information through Ownership Structure Disclosures relevant to AGM and special shareholders’ meetings company presentations | Disclosure of changes in the shareholding structure | Disclosure (Unit: %) At the heart of Doosan Persons specially related on the Online Provision of Enterprises Information (OPNI) system operated by the Korea Fair Trade Commission, etc. Infracore’s sustainability Institutions with the largest shareholder 0.01 9.09 lies transparent and Intra-organizational Decision-making System ethical management for its Foreigners BOD stakeholders. 14.53 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Doosan Infracore implements transparent 36.40 Outside Director Candidates Audit Committee Internal Transaction Committee Recommendation Committee management through independent (4 outside directors) (3 outside directors) (3 outside directors) governance and prompt information Accounting audits, management performance Review and approval of large-scale internal Recommendation of disclosures. Beyond compliance management, audits and inspection of internal accounting transactions (more than KRW 5 billion per case or outside director candidates the company strives to ensure that ethical system operations per quarter) and audits of internal transactions management serves as the foundation of all Individuals Composition of BOD (As of March 31, 2017) its decisions. 39.97 Name Current Position / Role in the BOD 2016 Attendance Changes It secures the stability of its management (As of December 31, 2016) Park Yong-maan Director of Doosan Infracore / Chairman of the BOD 100% Appointed on Mar. 25, 2016 environment by implementing transparent Internal Sohn Dong-youn President and CEO of Doosan Infracore 100% Appointed on Mar. 27, 2015 Directors management and strengthening preemptive Shareholder and Investor Communication Choi Hyoung-hee Representative Director (Executive Vice President) of 100% Appointed on Nov. 20, 2015 Doosan Infracore, Corporate Finance Center risk management through strict internal Communication Channels The management of Doosan Infracore Special Envoy of the UN Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction control system. actively seeks out the expectations and demands of its stakeholders, Han Seung-soo and Water / Member of the Internal Transaction Committee, 70% Appointed on Mar. 27, 2015 including shareholders, investors and customers, when making key Member of the Outside Director Candidates Committee decisions and investments. The company strives to attract investPresident of Yoon Economic Research Institute / Member of the Internal Yoon Jeung-hyun 90% Appointed on Mar. 27, 2015 Transaction Committee, Member of the Audit Committee ments in the global market by earning recognition for its genuine valOutside Chairman of Korea Employers Federation / ues in terms of growth potential and technological competitiveness. Directors Bahk Byong-Won Chair of the Outside Director Candidates Recommendation Committee / 90% Appointed on Mar. 27, 2015 It has therefore established an investor-friendly investor relations Member of the Audit Committee (IR) strategy and carries out shareholder-friendly communication. Outside Director of Doosan Infracore / Chair of the Internal In 2016 alone, the company held four company briefings in Korea Kim Dae-ki Transaction Committee, Member of the Outside Director Candidates 80% Appointed on Mar. 27, 2015 Recommendation Committee, Member of the Audit Committee and held securities investment conferences and company briefings Jung Byung Moon Attorney at Kim & Chang / Member of the Audit Committee Appointed on Mar. 31, 2017 in major overseas countries. The company also invites institutional investors to its worksites as part of efforts to offer them diverse and * Park Yong-maan was newly appointed as an internal director on Mar. 25, 2016. Jung Byung Moon was appointed a new outside director and a member of the Audit Committee at the 17th AGM held on March 31, 2017. reliable information. The BOD consists of 8 members (3 internal and 5 outside directors) as of March 31, 2017. 52 53 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Transparent and Ethical Management The BOD deliberates and makes resolutions on matters specified under the relevant national laws and company bylaws, matters Ethical Management Enhanced Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance Program The fair trade voluntary compliance program (CP) is related to the company’s Internal Controls entrusted by the AGM, key management policies and important internal compliance control activities designed to prevent violations matters concerning business execution. It incorporates opinions and of the law through the company’s presentation of the Code of suggestions of shareholders, executives and employees collected Conduct to its employees, as part of its efforts to comply voluntarily through AGMs and IR activities into its decision-making process. It maintains its independence from major shareholders and execu02 with fair trade related regulations. Doosan Infracore has continued to enhance its fair trade voluntary CP by expanding preventive 03 tives, and checks and balances corporate decisions to ensure the and follow-up monitoring activities, updating a CP handbook company’s transparent management. regularly, and cultivating CP experts in each business group. It also encourages its suppliers to introduce and implement the CP in There are three committees under the BOD – the Audit Committee, Ethical Management Policies order to take the lead in establishing fair trade practices throughout Audit and Monitoring which is responsible for guaranteeing the transparency and Doosan Infracore applies the Code of Conduct of Doosan Group the industry. To help suppliers with their CP implementation, the In line with the growth of its overseas business and the adoption independence of audit procedures; the Internal Transaction to all of its business sites at home and abroad. The company also company provides them with education on fair trade and export/ of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Doosan Committee, which is designed to boost the transparency of corporate connects the Code to its company-wide operation system, such as import regulations as well as CP monitoring services. The company Infracore has maintained independent audit teams in North management through the establishment of CP; and the Outside ERP, e-procurement, internal control and evaluation, and fair trade has reported the progress of its fair trade voluntary CP to the BOD America and China for audit and monitoring since 2012. The Director Candidates Recommendation Committee, which has the compliance systems, thus improves the transparency and efficiency biannually since 2012, including education on fair trade and the Legal Compliance Team at its headquarters in Korea respects the authority to recommend outside directors. All three committees are of its business activities. There is the Audit Committee under the results of monitoring for violations of rules and regulations, and it subsidiaries’ responsible business management while striving to entirely composed of outside directors. BOD, and the Legal Compliance Team is tasked with promoting, also discloses the results to the public. assess the actual state of their business and secure transparency in evaluating, and auditing ethical management practices. their accounting practices. BOD Activities in 2016 Compliance with the Anti-graft Law In Korea, the Improper All directors are allowed to participate in the BOD’s deliberations Communicating and Promoting Ethical Management Solicitation and Graft Act, also known as the anti-graft law or the Kim Internal Controls Evaluation System via telecommunication devices capable of transmitting audio and Doosan Infracore has expanded the application of the Code of Young-ran Act, went into effect on September 28, 2016. Intended Since 2006, Doosan Infracore has operated the Doosan Internal video data simultaneously, thereby confirming their attendance at Conduct, which was established in 2014, to its overseas subsidiaries. to prevent public officials’ corruption, the Act applies to employees Control Assessment System (DICAS), an internal controls evaluation a meeting. Directors may not delegate their authority to a proxy. Also, the company posts the Code of Conduct on its website along and their spouses of all public institutions including constitutional system, for its entire business areas, ranging from finance to sales, Directors with a vested interest in a particular agenda item are with information on how to report irregularities to ensure that both agencies, central administrative agencies and local governments, purchasing and production. The results of the evaluations are reportprohibited from voting on it so as to maintain transparency in its internal and external stakeholders can access such information schools, and media outlets. The Act forbids improper solicitations to ed to the Audit Committee and board meetings following the reports decision-making process. In 2016, the BOD held 10 meetings during easily. Prior to all major Korean holidays, the CEO issues a letter public officials and other relevant persons and prohibits them from to CFO and CEO in accordance with the Act on the External Auditing which deliberations and resolutions were made on 31 agenda items, requesting strict compliance with the Code of Conduct to all of its accepting financial or other advantages. In 2016, Doosan Infracore of Corporations. In 2014, the company began applying the same including reports on management performance and a partial sale suppliers. The company publishes a white book that quantifies carried out various activities to raise awareness among employees, internal controls evaluation system to its subsidiaries in China, and of the Doosan Bobcat stake. The attendance rate of the outside as much as possible the root causes of and remedies for the such as providing education on the prohibition of solicitation to all conducted biannual on-site internal controls assessments in 2016. directors was 82.5%. problems discovered by the Cyber Reporting Center and distributes its employees in Korea and expatriates in China, sending out CEO to its stakeholders. In addition, to maintain a transparent ethical messages and collecting voluntary compliance pledges signed by Internal and External Reporting Systems BOD Evaluation and Remuneration management system, Doosan Infracore urges new employees to sign the employees. It also carried out continuous monitoring through an Doosan Infracore operates various internal and external reporting The remuneration of internal and outside directors is determined a written oath pledging their compliance with the Code of Conduct. organization dedicated to the task. systems to facilitate immediate reporting of any unethical acts within the limits approved at the AGM. The company also implements It also requires new suppliers to submit a written oath pledging not such as bribery, unfair business transactions, corruption, as well as a performance salary system that links executive compensation to engage in unethical business practices. The company requires violations of the Doosan Way, its Code of Conduct and regulations Completion rate of ethical management training (Korea) with business performance. Directors are therefore given a salary each of its team leaders or higher level managers, as well as its and relevant laws. The reporting channel include website, Cyber corresponding to their pay grade as well as a performance bonus executives, to write and submit a statement of interests form on an Reporting Center, mail, telephone calls, fax messages, and personal based on the organization’s management results. To secure their independence from the management and majority shareholders, annual basis, with an aim to remind them of the strict compliance standards. In 2016, all those required to submit the statement 95.3% visits. The Cyber Reporting Center operates in three languages of Korean, English, and Chinese and is open to anyone including members of the Audit Committee receive remuneration only as complied with the obligation. employees and external stakeholders. Reports are acted on promptly * Reasons for absence: Long-term overseas business trips, leave of absence due to illness, directors and are prohibited from receiving any other types of childbirth, etc., and restructuring according to the applicable procedures. The reporter’s identity compensation. The total amount of approved pay for directors in Education on the Code of Conduct Training on the Code of Conduct remains confidential. Any irregularities are strictly sanctioned. 2016 was KRW 15 billion, of which KRW 3,839 million was actually is designed to raise employees’ awareness of ethical business Completion rate of the Anti-graft Law training The company’s actions, including correctives, are notified to the (Staff in Korea and expatriates in China) paid. The payment includes the pay for three registered directors practices and control the ethical risks involved in their business reporter and disclosed company-wide, thereby further raising ethical excluding outside directors and members of the Audit Committee, transactions in advance. As well as providing the training to all awareness among staff. one outside director excluding members of the Audit Committee, and three members of the Audit Committee, based on the number of its employees, Doosan Infracore notifies them of major ethical management issues and posts the details on the bulletin board 94.7% persons paid from January to December 2016. of each business site. In 2016, the company conducted online * Reasons for absence: Long-term overseas business trips, leave of absence due to illness, education on the Code of Conduct for its office staff, and plans are childbirth, etc., and restructuring made to provide employees in its Chinese subsidiary with online training on the Code of Conduct starting in 2017. 54 55 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Transparent and Ethical Management Risk Management changes in foreign exchange rates, and carries out hedge trading through exports and imports. Interest rate risks are related largely to minimize the influence of business, investments and financial activities on the monetary balance. The forecasts help the company Safety Risk Doosan Infracore takes diverse preventive measures to minimize potential risks, and strives to raise health and safety adjustable rate deposits and loans. To preemptively deal with such secure and maintain sufficient liquidity in preparation for possible awareness. The company has expanded the scope of its health and risks, the company minimizes external loans through its reserve liquidity risks in the future. safety management to include outsourced projects and external supfunds, reduces high interest rate loans, improves the borrowing pliers, while enhancing monitoring aimed at preventing occupational 04 structure, and monitors changes in interest rates. Since its financial instruments are exposed to the risk of changes in market prices Capital Risk Capital risk management involves the maintenance of an optimum capital structure to protect the company’s capabilities accidents. It also requires worksite visitors to watch a safety video before entry. Furthermore, the company engages in comprehensive that may negatively affect the fair value of the financial instruments and thereby enabling it to provide its shareholders and other stakepublic-private joint disaster response drills and encourages its staff and the company’s cash flow, the management of the company holders with corporate profits while reducing capital expenditure. to be fully award of them. measures risks arising from changes in prices regularly and manages Doosan Infracore maintains its capital in alignment with its debt Doosan Infracore has established risk management processes which key investment assets separately. ratio. Specifically, it adjusts its dividend payouts to shareholders and Disaster Risk Doosan Group has established its own Business are designed to enable its executives and working-level employees to repays capital reserves to maintain or modify the capital structure, Continuity Management (BCM), a risk management framework, at recognize various strategic, operational, financial, and non-financial Credit Risk Credit risk arises from ordinary transactions or investwhile issuing new shares and selling assets to reduce debts. the group level. It has published a BCM manual that is categorized risks that could reduce its corporate value and incur economic ment activities when customers or business partners do not follow into 20 mandatory infrastructure items. It has developed an emerlosses, detect any problematic symptoms early on and take prompt the conditions of the relevant business agreements. It may also arise Non-financial Risk Management gency notification system that can reach all its employees rapidly in remedial actions. The risk management processes ensure effective from cash, cashable assets, derivatives, and deposits in banks and The company has categorized its non-financial risks into three – the event of a crisis, so that leaders of business units can check on risk controls through various elements such as identification of risk other financial institutions. Doosan Infracore manages its credit risks environmental, safety, and disaster risks – and built a preemptive the safety of their members quickly, and the members can respond factors, evaluation of the potential impacts of risks on the company, with the purpose of minimizing losses under its credit policies. For risk response system. For full details of the company’s responses to systematically according to its emergency response procedures. establishment of countermeasures, monitoring changes in risk credits in which default is anticipated at the end of the fiscal year, its environmental and safety risks, please refer to the Integrated EHS In 2012, it contracted with International SOS, a medical and travel levels, and constant reporting based on a coherent reporting system. the company carefully assesses the risks involved and addresses the System section on page 63. security services company, and has since provided comprehensive results in its consolidated financial sheets. overseas safety management services to its employees based or Financial Risk Management Environmental Risk In order to minimize possible environmental traveling overseas. All Doosan people across the world have access Market Risk Foreign exchange risks occur as a result of changes Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk largely arises from a shortage of risks such as climate change and environmental pollution, Doosan to emergency medical relief from war, natural disaster or accident, in currency exchange rates, which may affect the forecasting of liquidity. It materializes when a corporation fails to fulfill its Infracore promotes diverse environmental management activities, and information on travel security overseas. future deals, perceived assets and liabilities, and net investment obligations to pay off financial debts or to finance its normal including efficiency improvement of its resource use, reduction in overseas operations. Doosan Infracore has set basic strategies operations. To prevent such situations, the company establishes of emissions through facilities to reduce environmental impacts, with an aim to reduce fluctuations in profits and losses due to quarterly and annual financial balance plans which allow it to and the enhancement of environmental accident prevention and response systems, based on its EHS management system. The company discloses details of its activities and outcomes to outside Risk Management Process stakeholders such as local residents. Communication with stakeholders Key Risks and Relevant Responses Relevant internal and external stakeholders are informed of the risks that have occurred and the results of the company’s response to the risks according to its Key Risks Responsive Measures risk management procedures. Doosan Infracore continuously communicates with its stakeholders through quarterly statements of affairs and annual integrated reports. Strategic Global economic slowdown Maximize profitability and strengthen core competitiveness risks Stricter environmental regulations on products Develop and apply eco-friendlier technologies Market risks Manage exchange rate fluctuations, interest rates, and price risks Financial Credit risks Manage credit risks and minimize losses through safeguard measures in bonds risks Liquidity risks Establish quarterly and annual financial balance plans PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 Capital risks Reduce capital costs and manage liabilities Establish a Foundation Respond to Risks Recognize Risks Identify Risks Evaluate Risks Quality risks Establish a quality management system for Risk Management Establish strategies, Build a risk pool by defining Identify potential Rate the identified risks Categorize required Operational Ethical management and compliance risks Audit unethical irregularities, provide employees with ethical training organizations and risk all uncertain risk elements risk factors and categorize according to the degree responses into companyrisks management systems, in that might affect future them into appropriate areas of danger involved, in wide or by functional Risks related to personal information protection Establish personal information protection guidelines, build an information consideration of overall management environments consideration of their measures depending on the and data security management system, and provide employees with information security training business environments and intensity and frequency risk and mitigate the degree industry characteristics to before analyzing the of danger by distributing Environment: Climate change risks, environmental Build a climate change response system, manage environmental pollution manage risks efficiently required control level and risk-specific manuals and pollution, and grievance risks materials, and disclose information determining necessary providing education on risk NonEngage in risk factor management activities, enhance fire safety management management priority prevention financial Safety: Worksite fire and occupational accidents (operation of the Disaster Prevention Center), and boost safety management for risks outsourced work Disaster: Natural disasters, man-made hazards Build BCM and practice its applications PHASE 6 Monitor Control risks by continuously monitoring for any changes in the level of risk and report on a regular basis * Responses to strategic risks are reflected in all of the company’s business processes and thus they are not mentioned separately 56 57 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Customer Satisfaction Customer-centered Product mined in these disputed areas have created a global issue, the U.S. Congress has mandated listed companies to disclose information Development annually about whether they use any of the four types of conflict and Quality Management minerals and whether their minerals are produced in the disputed areas, which affects not only listed companies of the U.S. but also 01 others that supply products to them. Doosan Infracore responds to the conflict minerals issue through the collaboration of various teams that work closely according to the guidelines presented by the Conflict Minerals Regulatory Response Center of the Korea International Trade Association. It will establish standards and procedures Strengthening Product Responsibility designed to identify the use of conflict minerals and their origin with Doosan Infracore concentrates its efforts on securing customer the purpose of preventing the use of conflict minerals in the first safety and minimizing environmental impact throughout its entire place. process ranging from product development to production and sales. From the development stage, the company strives to ensure that Increasing Eco-friendly Products Doosan Infracore is conducting customers will be satisfied with the high performance and operaits business based on its corporate philosophy which defines tional efficiency of Doosan Infracore products while being able to minimizing its environmental footprint as a socially responsible Our Approach CSR Strategic Tasks for 2016 use them more safely and conveniently. In order to minimize the measure through which the company can create value. In 2015, the environmental impact of product manufacturing and use, it focuses company established definition and management standards for ecoDefining eco-friendly products and Doosan Infracore provides setting up standards on expanding the development and sales of eco-friendly products. It friendly products. In 2016, the new product development process also intends to contribute to the improvement of human rights and reflected the eco-friendly standards upgrading its environmental world-class products, parts Such factors as meeting stricter emission regulations to cope with the environment in areas that produce conflict minerals by continufriendliness index. The company classifies products by considering climate change and air pollution and improving fuel efficiency and services, with an aim to to boost resource efficiency are expected to drive competitive ously monitoring the use of conflict minerals in its products. their impacts on users and the environment in five areas – fuel efficiency, durability, noise control, safety, and emissions control. maximize customer value. advantages in the machinery industry. The development of Compliance with International Safety Standards At the planning Products that preemptively meet mandatory environmental eco-friendly products was selected as a core issue through the materiality assessment of Doosan Infracore and in the process stage, the company sets up new product development and regulations of each market are defined as eco-friendly products. Doosan Infracore strives to create of laying the foundations for the green management of Doosan design verification plans by reviewing various countries’ technical Those that surpass the mandatory level are premium eco-friendly better customer value through product Group. The company discussed on this matter at the company regulations and international standards on safety, including exhaust products. In 2016, Doosan Infracore’s eco-friendly products and development that takes into account not level through the CSR Committee, and as a result, defining ecogas emissions, fire, explosion, noise, operator’s visual field, rollover, premium eco-friendly products accounted for 74% of its total just product performance but also customer friendly products and setting up standards was chosen as one electromagnetic compatibility, and toxic chemicals. It also reflects products. The company will find a way to disclose information on its safety and environmental impact. In addition, of its CSR strategic tasks. Accordingly, Doosan Infracore will the guidelines set forth in the world’s major technical regulations eco-friendly products, in order to provide related information to its the company focuses on improving product expand the development and commercial launch of products that when setting up its product development objectives, such as the stakeholders including customers and investors, in a more active are more eco-friendly in terms of emission regulations and fuel quality with a commitment to producing Rules on Construction Machinery Safety Standards of Korea, the manner. efficiency based on its unique technological prowess. products of perfect quality and promotes Machinery Directive of Europe, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the Mine Safety and Health Administration Classification of Eco-Friendly Products responsible customer services and active Activities and Reflected the eco-friendly product management process into the New Product Development (NPD) (MSHA) of the U.S., and the Guobiao (GB) Standard of China. The communication with customers, in order to Achievements process; overhauled standards for eco-friendly in 2016 products; and calculated eco-friendly product ratio company ensures that products developed in Korea and China meet Products that surpass become a company trusted by customers. the eco-friendly product criteria the regulations of the markets to which they will be exported. Doosan Manage eco-friendly product ratio and perform above a certain level Future Plans Infracore runs the Global Product Compliance Council through which in the environmental-friendliness it shares information on the latest trends in global safety regulations index for the relevant market(s) and standards and discusses preemptive responses to any changes. Premium Conflict Mineral Management The conflict minerals refer to four Eco-friendly Products minerals – tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, that are mined in 10 war-torn countries including the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sudan, Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda, Congo, Zambia, Angola, Tanzania, Eco-friendly and Central Africa. These countries are believed to still be caught Products up in conflict as both rebels and government troops are securing funds by monopolizing the mining and distribution of the minerals. In addition to the damage caused by long-standing disputes, the mining also causes serious social problems such as forced labor for Products that satisfy the environmental regulations local residents, human rights problems related to child labor, and of the relevant market(s) pollution caused by over-mining. As the problems with the minerals in a preemptive manner 58 59 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Building Customer Trust in Marketing and Sales Stages Responsible Customer In addition, the company carries out the ‘rework’ process before it is delivered to a dealer or a customer even after the product has Customer Feedback Collection and Handling Process Responsible Marketing Policies Doosan Infracore provides the Service been shipped out if a particular product is determined to be subject Korea Overseas latest product information via its website and social media. It sets to the voluntary advance defect correction measures. In order to proactive and responsible customer service policies with the aim of resolve related issues, the company not only hires people locally building customer trust and enhancing its product values. To ensure 02 but also dispatches its experts from the head office to any location in the world. Construction equipment must be able to withstand Registration with the call center Registration with dealers responsible marketing, the company has set up brand guidelines to serve as the yardstick for marketing and communication activities rough work environments. The company therefore repeatedly checks Overseas subsidiary / and complies with legislation related to sales, marketing, and Service action and entry Service entry the whole range of equipment features, from performance of the information security. In 2016, it was not subject to any sanctions specialty parts to simple malfunction, and makes corrections so that for falsehood or exaggeration including exaggerated advertising Preemptive Response for Customers the product can be delivered to customers in the best possible state. practices. Doosan Infracore has been solidifying its relationship with customers Integrated input of information on customers’ requests and malfunctions based on trust by acting ahead of customers’ requests. The Process to Reflect Customer Feedback Protection of Consumer Information Doosan Infracore has estabDecision on claims company provides information on products for customer safety and Collecting and Responding to Customer Feedback Doosan Infracore lished and implemented its own customer information protection convenience and carries out ‘voluntary advance defect correction’ collects and promptly handles customer feedback and requests system. It encrypts personal information database for information Finalization of claims measures and recall processes. through its dealers and direct visits to major customers. It also security and conducts integrated monitoring of access to its regularly holds Voice of Customer (VOC) sharing meetings where Adding weight information system including any activities suspected of abuse or Providing Information for Customer Safety Doosan Infracore major suppliers participate in and uses them as opportunities to leakage. The company has prepared guidelines on the management complies with regulations related to customer safety, including analyze market opinions and make improvements. of information security for its employees and carries out education Safety Standards and the Product Liability Act, and takes all the on information security for all its employees every year. Doosan necessary actions to prevent occupational accidents. To ensure In Korea, the Customer Support Center receives customer requests, Infracore has not been subject to any sanctions for leakages of its Notification to a department in the safe operation and maintenance of its products, the company checks the situation, and assigns personnel who are in a position Management of major claims charge / Information sharing customers’ personal information or violations of relevant laws in the provides customers with safety labels of three levels – danger, to quickly visit customers through the Global Positioning System past three years. warning, and caution – according to the severity of the safety (GPS). This is followed by the ‘Happy Call’ with customers three days risks involved. It also mentions and emphasizes matters that are after in order to check final progress. In addition, the company has Standardizing Product Post-sale Management Services Doosan Promotion of Digital Marketing In order to promote direct commucritical to customer safety at the beginning of a product manual. built a one-stop service system for after-sales service from sales to Infracore offers its customers the 4-One Service – One Hour Contact, nication with customers, the company operates digital marketing In 2015, the company produced a safety educational video and final disposal. It continues to enhance its dealer service training to One Day Repair, One Touch Repair, One Plus Service – to deal with channels by country. In 2016, WeChat, the largest messenger service has been distributing to its customers who own or use Doosan provide customers with the best service possible. It also carries out product malfunctions and provide technical assistance. The comin China, was used to provide customers with information on new Bobcat equipment. It complies with ISO9244 with respect to the trainings for office and field staff of the Customer Service Center on pany strives to provide One Touch Repair on the day that service equipment, regular equipment maintenance, and nation-wide safety labels attached to its construction equipment and publishes a quarterly basis. Through such efforts, the company has achieved requests are made. It therefore continues to make improvements promotional activities of dealers. In January 2017, the Doosan operator manuals for its machinery in accordance with ISO6750. 97.2% of claim settlement ratio within the timeline set by customers, in its technical capabilities and service procedures while building a Infracore KakaoTalk Plus Friend advertising platform was launched thus its customer services have been well received by customers. In comprehensive customer support system that leaves no blind spot in Korea, which provides information twice a month on construction Voluntary Advance Defect Correction Measures A recall is made 2017, the company will develop training programs customized for unaddressed and supplies parts in a timely manner. machinery, such as equipment maintenance in winter, important by a manufacturer to fulfill its responsibility for a product even after machinery operators and offer such information as major characnotes on equipment operations, and details of various part. it is shipped out. Doosan Infracore takes a step further and carries teristics and checking points of their machines as a way to further Management of Customer Satisfaction In Korea and China, Doosan out ‘voluntary advance defect correction measures’ as part of its expand its customer value by preventing machinery malfunctions. Infracore conducts surveys on customer satisfaction through Happy efforts to enhance its product responsibility. In 2015, forklifts were Calls and strives to keep the satisfaction level above 4.5 points on designated by law as a subject to a recall in Korea. In September In China, dealers receive customer feedback and requests through a scale of 1-5 points. In 2016, the level of satisfaction in Korea stood 2015, the fuel gauge installed on the fuel tank of the company’s the Service Call Center and aim to handle them within 24 hours, at 4.62 points. The company has been standardizing its customer forklifts became subject to a recall due to risks of oil leakage. To completing their services within seven days. VOC is reflected in services and providing specialized technical training and customerresolve this problem, the company replaced the gauge window product design and quality improvement. Doosan Infracore provides oriented mindset education to all service personnel with an aim to with a fill-up alarm system as finally determined by the Ministry of various online and offline training courses to enhance the technical improve customer service quality. Land, Infrastructure and Transport, sent out a recall notice to all the capabilities of its dealers’ service personnel. Approximately 20 relevant customers, and thoroughly completed the improvement emergency service engineers make three month training visits NPD Process Doosan Infracore operates the New Product Developmeasures. To further improve customers’ convenience, the company to more than 30 dealers throughout China to provide training on ment (NPD) process with the participation of various departments, has accepted the Ministry’s additional recommendation and has mechanical repairs and maintenance while also helping to solve including R&D, Advance Quality, Sales Strategy, and Marketing been carrying out extra recalls using the original parts. technical issues of the company’s C (Chinese) models. As a result to reflect VOC into the new product development. The company’s of these efforts, in 2016 the company achieved 78.7% and 80.7% in business sites in Korea, the U.S., China, and Europe operate customer The ‘voluntary advance defect correction measures’ have some claims processing rates for all its models and C models respectively. feedback collection channels from diverse perspectives. They have similarities with recalls, but differ in that the measures make It also achieved 90% in making design improvements by successfully also built the NPD 4.0, with improved perspectives in terms of laws, improvements in advance, voluntarily, without any outside pressure. working on 36 cases out of 40 design-related VOCs. safety, and quality to ensure that quality innovation starts at the product development stage. 60 61 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management · Integrated EHS System Quality Enhancement at the Parts Production Stage Quality Stabilization and In order to minimize the number of defects at the production stage, Integrated Standardization the company has continued to improve parts quality through partnership with its suppliers. As a result of continuous efforts, the company has achieved more than 40% improvement in both EHS System 03 initial quality and warranty quality, which are used as indices of the parts quality for construction equipment in both Korea and China over the past three years. In order to prevent fluctuations in quality, suppliers are required to report any significant change that could affect their product quality, such as personnel changes, reductions The Foundation of Quality Management in purchasing prices, process improvements, and others. It also Our Approach CSR Strategic Tasks for 2016 Company-wide Integrated Quality Conference Doosan Infracore enhances its preventive quality management endeavors through has been holding the Integrated Quality Conference every month pre-inspection. Establishing a management system for since 2010 with the purpose of attaining the highest quality from the At Doosan Infracore, worksite energy efficiency customers’ perspective. With the CEO’s participation, the conference Doosan Infracore has established the Supplier Support Team to environmental values Social concerns and business impacts on reducing energy agenda reflects results of the monthly VOC analysis and shares support its suppliers’ intensive improvement efforts through such consumption and GHG emissions have been increasing. improvement points and responses. initiatives as 3 P’s (Proper Items, Proper Quantity, Proper Place), and safety culture are Worksite energy efficiency management requires businesses to 6 S’s (Safety, Sort, Straighten, Shine, Standardize, Sustain), the non-negotiable principles to make continuous investments in facility upgrades and energy Management of the Quality Improvement Index Doosan Infracore Management Doctor system and the Benefit Sharing system. For conversion. Doosan Infracore therefore promotes the establishplaces top priority on making innovations in the quality and further details, please refer to pages 72-74. In order to enhance the achieve sustainable growth. ment of a worksite energy efficiency management system as one durability of its products to manufacture products to meet customer quality consciousness of its suppliers, the company holds biweekly of its major strategic tasks, while focusing on enhancing energy Environmental protection and safety culture efficiency at its worksites and coping with rapidly changing needs. Initial quality and warranty quality data is monitored and meetings with suppliers struggling with quality issues to urge them challenging improvement goals are set. The company strives to are essential prerequisites for sustainable global energy markets in a stable manner. to implement quality-first management policies In 2017, the company boost customer satisfaction through constant attention to quality. will carry out quality inspection audits customized to suppliers’ future. Stakeholders therefore are raising Identified tasks to reduce energy consumption; quality levels and types of quality issues. It will periodically check their voices to call on businesses to Activities and connected production and energy information; Achievements Operation of the PTS The Project Tracking System (PTS) is Doosan suppliers’ quality systems, processes and products, and urge them behave more responsibly in terms of the in 2016 established standards for energy intensity and analyzed; and operated energy efficiency manageInfracore’s unique system for managing quality-related projects. to place priority on preventing quality problems, while ensuring the environment, health and safety. Based on ment system It provides real-time information on market quality, process consistency in their quality management. In the event of changes in its company-wide integrated Environment, Continue energy saving activities; and operate quality, progress status of the projects related to advanced quality, the suppliers’ contractual status, design modifications or process Health and Safety (EHS) management Future Plans worksite energy efficiency management indices response to VOC, and improvement goals to help the company make changes, the company will make sure that no quality issues arise system, Doosan Infracore is striving to use continuous improvements to product quality. through the diagnosis and inspection of quality risks beforehand. Establishing a management system for limited resources more efficiently and to chemical substances Intensive Improvement of Fundamental Quality Management of Major Quality Improvement Tasks minimize its environmental footprint while The world is witnessing increasingly stricter regulations on Doosan Infracore focuses on improving quality in order to enhance In 2016, 109 major quality improvement tasks were identified and participating in response to climate change hazardous chemicals, including the EU’s REACH1) in Europe, the value of its customers’ equipment. Of particular note, it will executed by the company to enhance customer value through rapid by making continuous improvements to and ‘The Act on the Registration and Evaluation, etc. of continue to improve the basic level of quality by more than 30% improvements of quality issues. In the event of a potential quality energy efficiency and managing greenhouse Chemical Substances’ and ‘The Chemicals Control Act’ in compared to the current level by continually deriving important issue, the company carried out repairs beforehand and dealt with gas (GHG) emissions. The company also has Korea. Businesses are now required to manage their chemical tasks for rapid improvements. The company will strive to minimize defects in a preemptive manner, thus minimized the occurrence of substances systematically. Doosan Infracore does not use many been establishing a safer work environment problems that customers may encounter while using their equipproduct quality problems. hazardous chemicals given the nature of the industry in which it is by raising the safety awareness of all its engaged. The company however defines the chemicals it uses in ment by gradually improving its quality through various preventive employees and rigorously managing risk production processes and continues to improve the management quality management endeavors. These activities include establishing a work environment that respects and complies with fundamentals factors at all worksites. of hazardous chemicals with an aim to reduce potential harmful effects, in consideration of the impact on its stakeholders. and standards, and managing the company’s and suppliers’ quality fluctuation factors. Initiatives enhancing the pre-shipment Reviewed and identified new chemical substances Activities and subject to registration under ‘The Act on the inspection process through the re-examination of pre-shipment Achievements Registration and Evaluation, etc. of Chemical Subinspection times and items have also been implemented. The in 2016 stances’; analyzed the possible substitution of company will continue to improve its prevention capabilities in order hazardous chemical products; replaced or removed 11 substances subject to management under ‘The to improve the quality of parts, production and final inspection to Chemicals Control Act’; and created a risk map for prevent possible quality problems before equipment is delivered to leakage accidents and expanded investment in the customers. prevention of pollutant leakage to strengthen the leakage response system Monitor new chemical substances through a Future Plans chemicals IT system; and establish a process to manage chemical substances change 62 63 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Integrated EHS System Self-evaluation of Global EHS Integrated EHS clear EHS standards and the systems linked to its value chain, such as purchasing and production, the company enhances its required To upgrade its EHS management to the level of a global leading Management capabilities and increases its implementation capacity by connecting company, Doosan Infracore conducts its own EHS evaluation on EHS management to the entire range of its business operations. workplaces around the world according to the evaluation criteria of the Doosan EHS Rating System (DSRS)1). Developed on the basis of 01 EHS Policies Doosan Infracore has established the following policies in order to ensure that all of its employees respect the global standards and in consideration of the characteristics of each worksite, the DSRS plays its role as the basis to build an advanced dignity of all human beings, practice environmental conservation EHS system and create an EHS culture shared by staff. In 2016, throughout all business activities, and help create a prosperous lives the company improved the existing DSRS system, established the for humankind and enhance the future value of the planet. performance evaluation criteria and conducted pilot evaluations CSR Strategic Tasks for 2017 EHS Management System at the Incheon Plant. Based on the analysis of evaluation results, it Having established its EHS Management Policy in 1995, Doosan • Operation of the EHS System We establish, operate and continue made improvements to the system including the evaluation criteria Establish a midto long-term roadmap on Infracore implements integrated EHS management together with to develop a system designed to improve EHS impacts of our and processes. In 2017, the company will use the improved system how to approach carbon trading its overseas worksites and suppliers. The policy consists of five products, activities, and services. to carry out evaluations at its domestic and overseas worksites. Doosan Infracore has been monitoring its GHG emissions since specific principles, including operation of the environment and 2015 when the emissions trading scheme took effect. In line with safety management system, with an aim to create a world of • Compliance with EHS Regulations We adhere to national and Key Directions for EHS in 2017 the increasingly stricter regulations on GHG emissions both at abundance and affluence for all human beings while preserving the international EHS regulations and agreements, establish strict Regulations on the environmental and safety liabilities of companies home and abroad, the company has set the midto long-term natural environment. Based on this policy, the company encourages internal management standards, and faithfully implement them. have been strengthened in line with increasing damage to their roadmap to respond to the emissions trading scheme for more the participation of its employees and other stakeholders in EHS suppliers due to the leakage of environmental pollutants and systematic management of GHG emissions. It may also provide management. It has also established its EHS management vision • Development of Eco-friendly Technology to Boost Customer Safety other forms of major industrial accidents. Doosan Infracore business opportunities in the area of carbon emissions based on and strategies to become ‘Global Leading Green Company’ and is We develop eco-friendly technologies that place top priority on therefore has set plans to improve its workplace environment while the roadmap. committed to achieving sustainable growth. our customers’ health and safety, and then preserve resources focusing on smart data management of environmental pollutants Calculate estimated GHG emissions; establish and energy to actively contribute to sustainable environmental and establishment of the infrastructure in order to respond to Plans for 2017 Global worksites of Doosan Infracore have earned the ISO 14001 conservation and fight against global warming. spill incidents. The company will also strive to reduce the risk of a decision-making process for GHG emissions trading; and identify potential amount of GHG Environmental Management Certification and the Occupational occupational accidents at its suppliers’ worksites by carrying out reduction and establish a relevant roadmap Health and Safety Management System (OHSAS 18001 / KOSHA • Realization of Zero Occupational Accident We create a pleasant field-oriented safety promotion activities and ensuring thorough 18001) certifications and established an EHS management system and safe people-centered work environment, improve the health management of outsourced projects. Developing the REACH (RoHS) IT System based on international standards. The company conducts internal and quality of the lives of all our employees and suppliers, and Chemicals regulations at home and abroad have been and external inspections on the operation of EHS management aim for zero accident at work. strengthened, and compliance risks, such as sales prohibitions system and compliance with related laws and regulations on an 1) Doosan EHS Rating System (DSRS): The EHS evaluation system developed by Doosan Group to evaluate the EHS level of its worksites quantitatively and to encourage them and penalties, are also increasing as related issues have been annual basis. It continues to make improvements in areas that • Communication with Stakeholders We increase communication to make improvements; Doosan Group has made adjustments to the ISRS applied by occurring. This in turn requires companies to upgrade their global leading companies to suit its own circumstances turn out to be less than satisfactory. In addition, the company with our stakeholders and disclose EHS performance transparchemical substance management systems. Doosan Infracore implements global EHS audits based on the Doosan EHS Rating ently in order to continue to grow as a trusted and respected therefore plans to develop the REACH (RoHS)2) IT system as a CSR System (DSRS) to help its major overseas worksites improve EHS company that fulfills its social responsibilities. strategic task at the company level, led by top management and the executives of its major business groups. With the establishment process and enhance their fundamental constitution. In order to of the REACH response process and the IT system, the company promote more systematic EHS management, it has established an EHS Organization will enhance the pre-monitoring of the hazardous chemicals that EHS IT system and managed EHS-related information in real time EHS is a core focus directly managed by the CEO. Doosan Infracore are used in its production processes or contained in products, and carried out comprehensive analysis of various information, therefore implements EHS management at all its worksites around thereby minimizing the risks posed by hazardous chemicals. followed by reinforcement and improvement if needed. Based on the world under the supervision of the EHS Team at the head office and an EHS unit at each worksite. In 2017, the company plans to Establish regulated substance management policies; Plans for 2017 develop internal management standards and proceextend communications among staff about its EHS philosophy and ISO 14001 Certified Worksites dures; establish supplier management processes standards and also to strengthen EHS supports and management and provide education to persons in charge; and for its overseas worksites. In order to ensure all of its overseas establish and stabilize an IT system ISO 14001 worksites adhere to same level of high EHS standards, regardless of the country or region, the company will establish ‘Global EHS Governance’. This will also help overseas worksites improve their EHS performance. 1) Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH): Chemical substance management system of the E.U. that governs the registration, evaluation, approval and restriction of chemical substances Korea China according to their quantity and harmful effects 2) Restriction of Hazardous Substances in EEE (RoHS): The EU directive that Incheon, Gunsan, Yantai restricts the use of hazardous substances, including lead, cadmium, mercury, Ansan chromium, and flame retardants such as PBBs and PBDEs, in the production of electrical and electronic products 64 65 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Integrated EHS System Responsible Responses to Climate Change Energy Management The company drew up a distribution diagram of the key energy such sources as electricity and compressed air that are used in GHG Emissions Management In Korea, Doosan Infracore manages Improving Resource Efficiency and Responses to production processes and identified any factors that were affecting GHG emissions according to the ‘Rules on GHG and Energy and Reducing Environmental its energy consumption from fixed load before carrying out a Management’. Energy consumption, including the use of electricity Climate Change linear regression analysis. Based on the information obtained, the and LNG, is measured by gauges at each plant and production line, Impact 02 company implemented 25 short-term reduction tasks including separation of the supply diagram. From January 2016 to April 2017, and the results are converted and analyzed automatically and sent to the GHG monitoring system of the company’s integrated EHS 03 the company completed nine tasks including improving the work IT system. Owing to the characteristics of its assembly processes, environment of the paint shop at the Incheon Plant and managing indirect emissions from electricity purchases account for about the peak value through participation in the electricity market, 72% of total GHG emissions of the company, followed by those of Doosan Infracore is fully aware of the importance and necessity of resulting in savings of KRW 540 million. In 2016, it focused on saving LNG consumption for heating and painting purposes and those Doosan Infracore explores better ways of using limited resources responses to climate change, and has devised countermeasures standby energy during non-operating hours, resulting in decrease of diesel and gasoline consumption used in product trials and more efficiently while striving to minimize the impact of its business in consideration of both the mitigation and adaptation aspects in power consumption during non-operating hours by 27.6% per vehicles. Doosan Infracore only emitted approximately 65.2% activities on the environment and local communities in particular. To and promoted company-wide efforts while exploring new business hour, and compressed air consumption by 67.4%, compared to (87,413 tCO2) of the quota allocated (134,029 tCO2) to the company that end, the company has adopted various ways of promoting the opportunities. Due to the characteristics of the company’s 2015, equivalent to KRW 1,040 million in energy costs. In addition, by the government in 2016 due to production reduction and energy eco-friendly use of resources and reducing generation of pollutants. manufacturing processes, its consumption of indirect energy sources the company analyzed the energy intensity of its Engine Business efficiency management at worksites. Doosan Infracore controls its emissions of pollutants more strictly is much higher than that of direct energy sources. Nevertheless, Group by connecting its production results to power consumption than required by laws in all relevant areas. The company’s perforthe company has measured the GHG emissions of each worksite in data, in order to build the energy efficiency management system. It Response to Emissions Trading mance in emissions and resource utilization over the past three years Korea and obtained external independent assurance of its efforts also upgraded the energy monitoring system at the Incheon Plant. Doosan Infracore has been subject to the Korean government’s GHG is found in the ‘CSR Facts & Figures’ section of this report. since 2004. It has also established GHG emissions measurement In 2017, the company plans to further improve energy efficiency by & Energy Target Management System since 2010 when the Incheon systems for its plants in China and the U.S. The company also carries establishing energy intensity criteria based on the analysis of the Plant was designated, followed by the Gunsan Plant in 2011. All Improving Efficiency in the Use of Resources out energy conservations efforts including the ‘Energy Diet’ plan in production volume of the Construction Equipment Business Group worksites in Korea have been designated and are fulfilling their legal Water Reuse As climate changes, such as drought and heavy rainfall which staff around the world participate. and its energy consumption. obligations. With the emissions trading scheme entering into force become more frequent, the importance of water resources and the in 2015, the company was assigned a total of 421,091 tCO21) as its necessity of effective management are increasing. The Incheon Improving Energy Efficiency In China, Doosan Infracore obtained the Cleaner Production System emissions quota for the first phase – three years from 2015 to 2017. Plant has been operating a wastewater recycling system since 2014, Establishment of the Worksite Energy Efficiency Management Certificate from the Chinese government in 2015 for the energy The company continues to manage its GHG emissions through a designed to recycle the effluent discharged from its wastewater System The company selected ‘the establishment of a management efficiency of all its operations including raw materials procurement variety of energy conservation efforts and emits GHGs within the treatment facility and reuse it in production processes. In 2016, the system for worksite energy efficiency’ as one of its key CSR tasks from its suppliers, production processes, and production facility allocated quantities. In order to respond more systematically to the plant recycled 72% of its wastewater into production processes, in 2015, and has since implemented it at its worksites in Korea. operations. GHG emissions trading system, it plans to establish strategies to thereby reducing water consumption and saving costs by KRW respond to the requirements of the 2017 emissions trading scheme 135 million per year. It also established a wastewater reclamation and a mid-to-long-term roadmap. and reuse system that enabled it to reuse 3,926 tons of water. In addition, the plant built a rainwater-harvesting system and reused 69 Responses to Climate Change at Global Worksites tons of rainwater for landscaping purposes. During the construction Reduced Electricity and Compressed Air Consumption during Non-operating Hours GHG Emissions in 2016 (Korea) In China, the company measures the fossil fuel consumption at of the advanced Incheon Excavator Plant in 2016, it replaced the its production worksites and implements GHG emission reduction paint shop’s wet-type air-conditioning facilities with dry-type, which (Unit: tCO2) measures according to the government’s reduction plan. In 2017, is expected to reduce water use and wastewater generation by 350 the company plans to help its worksites in China set up strategies to tons a year, equivalent to cost savings of KRW 6.5 million. Electricity Compressed air (kwh) (Nm3/hr) build a GHG inventory, implement a responsive action, and nurture 134,029 professional personnel to preemptively respond to the Chinese Wastewater Reuse (Incheon Plant) emissions trading scheme. 3,840 14,634 Reduced by 27.6% 1) The allocated emissions quota for the first phase has changed from the figure Reduced by 87,413 reported in the 2015 Integrated Report due to the exclusion of the Changwon Plant 2,777 67.4% and the Suji Technology Center after the sale of the Machine Tools Business Group and the government’s adjustment following the company’s early achievement of its target. Target Production Processes Wastewater 65.2% 4,774 Reuse Cost savings 2015 Performance 2015 Performance Allocated Emitted 72% 135 * Based on figures at the Engine Business Group of the Incheon Plant, internal suppliers at KRW million the Incheon Plant, and the Construction Equipment Business Group of the Gunsan Plant 66 67 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Integrated EHS System Efficient Use of Resources To ensure the efficient use of limited resources, Doosan Infracore pursues design optimization, fugitive dust. In 2017, it will conduct a survey on surrounding areas for more systematic odor control. Enhancing Worksite Safety employees. The company has designated April as ‘Health and Safety Month’ during which it strives to improve safety and raise safety thoroughly checks its plant facilities and maintains them in the Risk Management awareness through education sessions, promotional campaigns, optimal operational state, thus strives to conserve resources in its Management of Soil Contamination In 2010, the company conductand inspections. It also holds the ‘Comprehensive EHS Reward and daily operations. In Korea, the company recycles 100% of its waste ed a voluntary soil contamination survey of the areas where facilities Safety Day’ to further promote the prevention of EHS accidents. foundry sand, which accounts for the majority of waste, as a result of the implementation of its resource recycling policy. It reused 92% that cause soil contamination were operating, and completed soil remediation in those areas over the following three years. In 2013, it 04 Visitors to its worksites are required to watch a video on safety precautions first to raise their safety awareness. The reduction of of its waste in 2016 and plans to further increase recycling rate in carried out soil contamination surveys of the areas surrounding all accident rates through preventive measures is considered a key 2017 by sorting waste by type and diversifying its recycling methods, its worksites. The company has undertaken additional voluntary soil performance indicator for executives, which the company expects to as well as by making improvements to its existing waste disposal remediation work since 2014, which will be completed by 2018. facilitate the development of its corporate safety culture. methods and developing new ones. Worksite Safety Management with a Focus on Prevention Strengthening Environmental Disaster Response System Worksite Hazard Management Doosan Infracore identified a total Support for Suppliers’ Safety Management Capabilities Doosan Management of Environmental Pollutants Doosan Infracore has reinforced its spill prevention and response of 4,877 risk factors in 2016 through a discussion-based risk factor Infracore implements ‘Symbiotic Cooperation Programs’ to help its Management of Hazardous Chemicals As part of a drive to system and developed a worksite spill risk map, in order to minimize identification process involving the participation of employees, suppliers boost their safety management capabilities, in accordance effectively cope with EU REACH/RoHS internationally and the Act the possibility and impact of environmental accidents during and made improvements to 100% of them. The company holds a with one of its EHS principles – ‘We aim to create a pleasant and on the Registration and Evaluation etc. of Chemical Substances and its business operations. In 2017, it will increase the number of monthly meeting of the Musculoskeletal Disorder Improvement safe people-oriented working environment, improve the health and the Chemicals Control Act domestically, the company established floodgates from four to six to minimize pollutant leakage through Working Council, which is composed of labor union officials, quality of life of all employees, including those of our suppliers, a complete inventory of its chemical substances in 2015, after rainwater; establish a sensor to detect pollutants such as oil and pH, worksite managers, and employees in charge of EHS and production prevent losses, thus ultimately realize a zero-accident workplace’. conducting a survey of 1,034 chemicals that were using throughout automatic water gate shutdown system, and replace old wastewater to discuss physical load risks and identify ways of making improveThe Symbiotic Cooperation Program launched by the Ministry of manufacturing processes with a focus on hazardous chemicals piping, as a part of its efforts to build a spill accident response ments. The company also arranges for medical professionals to visit Employment and Labor in 2011 is designed to urge conglomerates to subject to legal control. In 2016, it conducted a study on the infrastructure. In addition, the company will create environmental its worksites regularly as part of its efforts to improve employees’ improve their suppliers’ health and safety capabilities and to prevent possibility of replacing its hazardous chemicals and removed 11 disaster response scenarios and conduct drills customized for health and boost their morale. industrial accidents through continuous cooperation. Doosan types of chemicals subject to management under the Chemicals processes or situations, thus build a system that is more responsive Infracore joined the program in 2012 and has helped its suppliers Control Act. The company plans to continuously monitor new to emergency situations. Acquisition of Safety Zone Certification The certification of all the raise their safety management awareness, improve risk assessment chemicals while considering the possibility of replacing hazardous company’s domestic worksites was completed with the Incheon levels, and set up safety management processes. It also aims to help chemicals, in order to replace the relevant processes with ecoReducing Environmental Impact on Local Communities and Gunsan plants’ acquisition of the Safety Zone Certification its suppliers improve their health and safety management levels, friendly ones. Furthermore, with an aim to prevent the use of Doosan Infracore has intensified its efforts to minimize environin December 2014 and November 2015, respectively. Awarded by build a cooperative system for shared growth, raise their safety hazardous chemical substances in its parts, the company continues mental impacts of its worksite operations on local communities Safety Zone-CERTI® and supervised by the National Emergency awareness to the level of Doosan Infracore, and equip them with to provide its suppliers with intensive training, counseling, and and is making ongoing improvements to create a clean living Management Agency (NEMA), the Safety Zone Certification is the their own safety management capabilities. In 2016, the company guidance services, so that they can recognize the importance of environment. In 2015, the company set up a digital signboard country’s only certificate in the field of disaster prevention and formed a Symbiotic Cooperation Council with 22 internal and the issue and improve their relevant capabilities. In 2016, it offered to display information on air pollution in the Incheon area in entails a comprehensive evaluation of building design, construction external suppliers at the Incheon Plant and 9 suppliers at the Gunsan 38 training sessions to 260 suppliers. In 2017, the company plans cooperation with three other companies based in the area. The and maintenance. The company will further raise awareness of the Plant, and held meetings on a monthly basis. Based on the results to complete its development of the REACH (RoHS) IT system and company fulfills its obligations as a corporate citizen by taking importance of fire and disaster prevention based on the certification, of a risk evaluation, the company helped them manage their risk minimize the use of hazardous chemicals in its production processes prompt action with regard to probable causes of complaints which systematically and efficiently manage all its safety related factors and make the necessary improvements through inspections, and products, including raw materials and parts, through pre-control from residents, such as foul odors, as well as making continuous facilities. guidance, and education. Thanks to these efforts, the Gunsan Plant of the substances. It aims to achieve ‘zero penalties’ by preventing investments in local communities, including the Hwasu wharf won the Minister of Employment and Labor Award, the grand prize violations against domestic and international regulations as well as improvement project near the Incheon Plant. Expansion of Safety Management Culture in the manufacturing category at the Best Practice Presentation ‘zero use’ of substances of very high concern (SVHC). Building a Culture of Safety The company continues to promote Contest for the Safety and Health Symbiotic Cooperation Program compliance with the EHS 3-3-3 Basic Rules and make diverse hosted by the Ministry of Employment and Labor and the Korea Management of Odors and Air Pollutants In Korea, the company improvements in the field of safety to achieve zero accident. Each Occupational Safety & Health Agency in July 2016. implements rigorous environmental management from the month, the heads of business groups provide safety reports to their initial stages of production through continuous investments in environmental facilities. In 2012, the company adjusted the odor EHS 3-3-3 Basic Rules reduction technology, used in advanced industrial plants in Germany and Japan to fit its own operational environments, and thus successfully adopted it to the casting factory at the Incheon Plant. Safety Environment Firefighting In 2014, it further improved the efficiency of odor treatment and fugitive dust management through the introduction of a fugitive dust 1. Wear designated personal protective 1. Emit pollutants only when the prevention 1. Never smoke on the premises containment system. In addition, the plant has been carrying out a equipment at worksites facilities are in operation 2. Obtain permission before engaging in three-year plan from 2014 to improve its work environment through 2. Conduct machinery and facility maintenance 2. Never dispose of environmentally hazardous any work that may generate flames the renovation of casting factory with the aim of reducing odors and after operation has stopped materials such as chemicals or waste oil 3. Do not leave any object in front of arbitrarily 3. Do not release safety devices arbitrarily the firefighting facilities 3. Separate trash according to the rules before disposal 68 69 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Integrated EHS System · Shared Growth with Our Suppliers Safety Management for Outsourced Projects In recent years, conglomerates have suffered from an increasing number of Enhancing Employee Shared Growth with accidents caused by their suppliers, and social demands for safety Health Management management responsibilities of conglomerates have increased along with stricter sanctions on their failures. In 2016, the company Our Suppliers had additional outsourced projects due to the construction of the advanced Incheon Excavator Plant. It therefore further strengthened 05 its safety management to protect its suppliers from accidents. The company enhanced on-site patrol operations to check onsite safety status once a day and have the results reported to management. It also implemented the ‘Safety Walk’ every month, Improving Employee Health Management Our Approach CSR Strategic Tasks for 2016 in which executives, production managers, and EHS officers To help its employees manage their health, Doosan Infracore carried out a safety patrol, identified potential safety risks and designated its Korean worksites as smoke-free zones in January Strengthening CSR management system of supply chain came up with improvements. Furthermore, the company improved 2015. It also runs various health promotion programs including We seek ways to grow The occurrence of CSR issues, such as human rights, environthe management process of outsourced construction work and the installation of automated external defibrillators (AED) and together with our suppliers to ment, and safety of suppliers, has been on the rise. The supply enhanced the EHS capacity of project managers in its efforts to the preparation of a low sodium diet in its canteens. Whenever chain CSR management has been also gaining importance strengthen the safety management of outsourced work and thus a healthcare issue such as the spread of an infectious disease realize the value of win-win around the world. Doosan Infracore, therefore, focuses on achieved zero accidents in outsourced projects. arises, the company operates the Emergency Situation Room and management. strengthening its supply chain CSR management as one of its promptly offers the relevant information on preventive measures strategic CSR tasks to enhance suppliers’ CSR capabilities. It will Social Contribution Activities for Safety Culture In 2016, Doosan to its employees. The company pays for mandatory vaccinations Doosan Infracore considers shared growth continue to run practical assistance programs including trainings Infracore signed a memorandum of understanding on ‘Social for six diseases – yellow fever, cholera, malaria, typhoid, hepatitis and will continuously monitor supplier CSR progress through with suppliers as a primary source of its Contribution Activities for Safety Culture’ with the Korean Ministry A, and tetanus – designated internally for employees who go on diagnosis and evaluation. competitiveness. It shares its technology, of Public Safety and Security and promoted safety culture in local business trips to countries with limited healthcare. In 2017, it plans quality, and management systems with its Activities and Offered customized CSR training with a focus on EHS communities, including its suppliers by leveraging its expertise. to expand activities designed to prevent occupational diseases, including chemical substances and environmental suppliers to strengthen their competencies Achievements regulations; supported suppliers’ improvements to The Social Contribution Activities for Safety Culture constitute such as musculoskeletal diseases and noise-induced hearing loss in 2016 a new CSR activity model under which the Korean government by expanding the provision of medical checkups, running health and establish a culture of horizontal EHS; and implemented the roll-out of Chinese worksites and delivered the ‘Supplier CSR Guidelines’ and the public and private sectors join forces to utilize corporate management programs and making improvements to hazardous transactions with the ultimate goal of and the CSR evaluation system expertise in their efforts to establish a strong safety culture in local processes. building a virtuous circle of partnerships. In Provide suppliers with CSR trainings; and continue Plans for 2017 communities. In 2016, the company focused its efforts on health and order to contribute to expanding corporate to help suppliers improve EHS safety activities for its adjacent areas, preventing children’s safety Certified as Excellent Worksite in social responsibilities, the company runs and health accidents, providing technical EHS support for suppliers Employee Health Promotion various evaluation and support programs Building carbon partnership with suppliers that have joined the Symbiotic Cooperation Program, and offering The Incheon Plant was re-certified in September 2016 for its to help its suppliers improve their CSR The need to respond to climate change has been recognized as education on safety activities for external suppliers. In recognition excellence in promoting employees’ health, following its initial a global issue, and businesses are now required to take proaccapabilities. of such efforts, the company was awarded a plaque of appreciation certification in August 2013. The Gunsan Plant was certified in tive measures. However, suppliers are experiencing difficulties by the Korean Ministry in December. In 2017, Doosan Infracore will November 2015, thus all of the company’s domestic worksites in directly responding to the global trend due to their business continue its existing activities while starting workplace safety culture have obtained certification in that area. Designated worksites are management circumstances. Doosan Infracore therefore activities. awarded the benefit of being exempted from supervision by the supports the establishment of carbon partnership with suppliers Korean Ministry of Employment and Labor for the next three years. through the creation of a foundation for energy resource The company will continue employee health promotions as part of circulation project by the Korean Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. Building carbon partnerships with suppliers is expected its efforts to create a better workplace. to enable Doosan Infracore to manage the carbon emissions Accident Rate (Korea) (2016) from its product manufacturing processes efficiently, which will Programs to Manage Job Stress in turn enhance climate change response capabilities of the Doosan Infracore conducts surveys on job stress and implements company and its suppliers. In doing so, Doosan Infracore will 0.37% specialized occupational stress management programs for the benefit of employees’ mental health, particularly for high-risk groups strengthen win-win partnership with suppliers and expand the scope of its corporate social responsibilities. of employees. In Korea, the company expanded its mental healthcare Fostered experts for 10 suppliers; established program, which was launched in 2007 to include the launch of Activities and worksite GHG management systems; carried ‘DooHug’, an in-house psychological counseling center, in 2014. In Achievements out energy diagnosis and provided direction for in 2016 improvement activities; built GHG management China, the company provides its employees with stress management systems by product; and provided support for services through the Employees Assistance Program (EAP). carbon information disclosure and utilization 70 71 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Shared Growth with Our Suppliers Strengthening Suppliers’ Some suppliers also achieved tangible results such as increased sales through the development of new products and opportunities management and environmental regulations, with the purpose of raising suppliers’ CSR awareness. Diverse Supplier Support Competitiveness to export overseas. In 2017, Doosan Infracore will select six suppliers Programs and help them grow into leading suppliers through various support Reflecting CSR Elements into Supplier Evaluation At all worksites measures. in Korea and China, Doosan Infracore reflects CSR elements, such 01 Promoting Participation in the Benefit Sharing System as employee training, labor-management relations, environmental management, and regulatory compliance into its evaluation of 02 The benefit sharing system is an agreement made between candidate suppliers. In the area of EHS in particular, the company conglomerates and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to evaluates potential suppliers’ performance in both their systematic engage in joint efforts with suppliers for common goals such as cost preparations for and actual implementation of EHS in a variety of Doosan Infracore focuses on raising its overall competitiveness savings and share the benefits according to a prior agreement. It is a areas such as leadership, compliance with the laws, establishment Competitiveness Enhancement Programs in the areas of purchase and production by helping its suppliers good example of an implementation model to create a cooperationof the relevant systems, and improvements to risk management. The Competitiveness Enhancement Support Center An exclusive team boost their competitiveness. To that end, the company runs a based corporate ecology. The multi-party benefit sharing system company has conducted on-site EHS inspections of new suppliers composed of more than 50 in-house experts and technical engineers variety of support programs including technological development, has advanced one step beyond the ordinary benefit sharing system prior to their registration since 2015. In China, the company visits suppliers and helps them to innovate. In 2016, 179 experts helped product improvements, and financial assistance. In addition, to include second-tier suppliers. Through its benefit sharing established the supplier EHS evaluation criteria, distributed them to suppliers with their innovation efforts for more than five consecutive based on the Doosan Supplier Excellence Program (DSEP), a system, Doosan Infracore collects firstand second-tier suppliers’ its local suppliers, and helped them conduct a rigorous self-analysis. days, providing key technical support for welding, materials manufacsystem to foster suppliers, the company carries out the ‘Leading suggestions regarding quality improvements or design changes. In 2017, it plans to visit the suppliers and provide them with on-site turing and non-destructive inspection. They also provided support for Supplier’ project in order to help major suppliers. The company has When suggestions are reflected into its products, the company EHS guidance and support. innovation in the fields of 3 P’s 6 S’s1), Lean2), DTC3), Single PPM4), actively promoted the multi-party benefit sharing system, which is shares the benefits evenly with suppliers, leading the benefit sharing quality guidance and problem solving, localization and product designed to expand its supplier development programs to secondplan in the industry. Of particular note, it actively implements the Establishing Carbon Partnership Doosan Infracore has had an development. tier suppliers, achieved common goals including cost reductions suggestions by connecting the benefit sharing system to the ‘Idea established carbon partnership since 2015 based on the Project through mutual cooperation and shared the outcomes. The system Bank System’ of the Korean Corporate Technology Division and for the Creation of a Foundation for Energy Resource Circulation, a Management Doctor System Doosan Infracore is an active was chosen as the best multi-party benefit sharing system at the motivates more suppliers to join the benefit sharing system through national task by the Korean Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, participant in the Management Doctor System that is currently being 2nd Benefit Sharing System Expansion Council Meeting in 2016 the relevant training and incentive systems. In 2016, the company to help suppliers’ carbon and energy data management awareness promoted by the SME Support Center of the Federation of Korean hosted by the Korean Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, and completed the implementation of nine suggestions from its suppliers and competency. The project, which involves laying foundations for Industries (FKI). Suppliers recommended by businesses are selected the Big & Small Enterprise Cooperation Foundation. In addition, through the benefit sharing system and executed two ideas about the carbon reduction as a response to climate change, is designed to through a review process, whereupon experts from three parties the company was rated as ‘excellent’ by the Korea Commission multi-party benefit sharing system. As a result of taking the lead in boost suppliers’ carbon management competency and help them – large corporations, suppliers, and the FKI’s own management for Corporate Partnerships in the 2015 Shared Growth Index the multi-party benefit sharing system, the company’s initiative was improve their fundamental competitiveness through energy savings. consulting team – help to improve management environment and Evaluation and became eligible for diverse government incentives selected as the best case of multi-party benefit sharing at the 2nd In 2015, the company established the first-year carbon partnership solve problems. including exemption from ex officio investigations of its subcontract Benefit Sharing System Expansion Council Meeting in 2016 hosted by with 11 suppliers, fostered carbon management experts, and transactions for one year. the Korean Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, and the Big & Small carried out modular activities including the diagnosis of worksite Competency Building Training for Suppliers Staff The company Enterprise Cooperation Foundation. Doosan Infracore now plans GHG management practices. As a result, it produced 18 carbon conducts annual surveys to determine what kinds of trainings Fostering Leading Suppliers to expand its cost reduction activities through the benefit sharing management experts and carried out various activities customized to are required by its suppliers and provides customized ‘Supplier Doosan Infracore makes continuous efforts to foster leading system to include its firstand second-tier suppliers in a bid to its suppliers’ characteristics, including the establishment of an SMEAcademy’ trainings to help them secure greater competitiveness. In suppliers equipped with capabilities to supply quality products stabilize fair trade in subcontracting transactions within the industry. type GHG management system. In 2016, the company implemented 2016, 163 employees from 49 suppliers benefitted from the Supplier at competitive prices on time. This is accomplished by making the second-year tasks with an additional 10 suppliers based on the Academy in eight areas including quality control and advanced innovative improvements in the areas of factory operations, quality Strengthening CSR Competencies of Suppliers experience it gained during the previous year. Furthermore, it will tools, methods of reducing manufacturing costs and productivity assurance and manufacturing technologies and competencies worth Doosan Infracore helps its suppliers to implement key CSR elements provide other suppliers with carbon management training and share improvement techniques. In 2016, a total of 204 employees from 17 being benchmarked by other suppliers. In other words, the company including ethical management, fair trade, human rights, and outstanding cases on energy savings for the purpose of building a suppliers participated in the company’s Supplier Academy courses helps suppliers strengthen their fundamentals to improve their environmental protection and will continue to share its core values carbon management system to pursue green growth in partnership and other supplier education programs. In 2017, the company capabilities rather than providing short-term solutions to quality or with them so that they will carry out CSR activities of their own accord. with all its suppliers. aims to offer the Supplier Academy to 50 suppliers in quality delivery issues. With the goal of fostering 41 leading suppliers by improvement, cost reduction, and productivity enhancement. 2020, the company selected and supported five suppliers in 2014, Outcomes of Carbon Partnership Strengthening CSR Management System of the Supply Chain In seven in 2015, and four in 2016. The company’s supplier development 2015, the company published CSR guidelines for its suppliers and Programs 2015 2016 1) 3 P’s 6 S’s: 3 P’s (Proper Items, Proper Quantity, Proper Place), 6 S’s (Safety, Sort, programs include 1) diagnosis (identification of capabilities that need distributed them in the form of a newsletter and a booklet. The Foster carbon management experts 18 people from 10 people from Straighten, Shine, Standardize, Sustain) 11 suppliers 10 suppliers 2) Lean: Activities designed to minimize inventories and innovate work processes, thus to be improved by diagnosing factory operations, quality assurance guidelines contain the key rules with which all of its suppliers must reducing costs and enhancing productivity Establish a carbon management system 11 suppliers 10 suppliers and, manufacturing technologies); 2) planning (drawing up of plans comply, including 27 rules organized under 10 categories such as 3) DTC: Design to Cost innovation Build a worksite GHG management system 11 suppliers 10 suppliers 4) Single Parts Per Million (PPM): A quality innovation campaign designed to achieve the by Doosan Infracore’s experts and supplier staff to address the labor, human rights, health and safety, the environment, ethics, quality management goal of reducing the ratio of faulty products to under 10:1,000,000 Offer guidance on energy diagnosis and identified capabilities); 3) development (carrying out improvement 5 suppliers 9 suppliers and fair trade. The contents of the CSR guidelines are reflected improvement activities products activities according to the DSEP for one year and offering supplier in its purchasing policy to ensure that the company applies a Develop reduction technologies and evaluate 5 suppliers 5 suppliers reduction potential staff training and 4) meetings with suppliers (sharing improvements consistent philosophy to diagnosis, evaluate, and purchase while Build a GHG management system per product 5 suppliers 3 suppliers at the suppliers conference held every October). As a result of these inducing its suppliers to engage in practical CSR efforts. In 2016, the Support carbon information disclosure and efforts, the company has made improvements to quality and delivery. company conducted training focused on EHS, including chemicals utilization: Publish carbon information 1 supplier 3 suppliers disclosure reports 72 73 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Shared Growth with Our Suppliers Financial Support In Korea, Doosan Infracore helps its suppliers enhance their financial Establishing a Culture of The company uses the standard subcontract for the machinery industry published by the Korea Fair Trade Commission, and all On-site Supplier Survey In 2016, Doosan Infracore launched the ‘On-site Supplier Survey’ in order to identify and improve customer soundness by providing them with four types of financial support – Shared Growth matters related to the selection of suppliers and contract execution needs through feedback, invigorate two-way communication and direct support, indirect support, mixed support, and special support. are managed through the ERP system. It has also established enhance shared growth partnership. The company visited 19 primary the Internal Review Council and holds meetings more than three suppliers, listened to their opinions on their overall management Financial Support for Suppliers in 2016 (Korea) Classification Programs Details Support Amount 03 times each month to review contract execution with suppliers and the pricing decision processes. It also connects the CP operating and product delivery status and developed solutions to their key pending issues. Plans are made for 2017 to share the solutions with system to the Internal Review Council to block unfair subcontract suppliers while visiting more than 50 additional suppliers. Provided suppliers with Facility Investment Fund interest-free facility KRW transactions. The Council also re-evaluates the justification for 2.5 billion investment funds executed subcontracts on a quarterly basis. In order to promote fair Grievance Handling Channel for Suppliers In order to strengthen Direct Support Provided financial Building Win-Win Partnerships trade and shared growth, Doosan Infracore grants incentives not communication with suppliers, Doosan Infracore has established Financial Support for support for shaping KRW Shaping Fixtures fixtures to enhance 14.5 billion Doosan Infracore has established mutually beneficial partnerships only to primary suppliers that have adopted CP, but also to primary the Supplier Hotline on its company website in the Shared Growth product competitiveness for shared growth with its suppliers and continues to expand and second-tier suppliers that have signed a CP agreement. In section through which people express their overall opinions or KRW them. The company’s shared growth efforts are led by the Shared 2016, the company did not violate any law related to fair trade and grievances about the company’s shared growth activities, request Network Loans 291.8 billion Recommended loans Growth Team and the Supplier Development Team, which focus on subcontract transactions. In 2017, it plans to collect CP newsletters shared growth programs, or make inquiries. The Supplier Hotline Indirect for suppliers via Support arrangements with KRW improving the suppliers’ job competencies and financial soundness, to publish a handbook in order to further promote CP. is also accessible by telephone, e-mail, facsimile or mail and the 30 billion Family Corporate Loans financial institutions and the Integrated Cooperation Council, which helps promote company has notified suppliers of the hotline. All communication (promised) communication between the company and its suppliers. Motivating Shared Growth The company reflects the shared made through the Supplier Hotline is kept strictly confidential. KRW growth performance of the relevant executives into the evaluation For those wishing to preserve their anonymity, the can be used 103 billion Helped suppliers receive (raised) Establishment of Fair Trade Practices Doosan Infracore adopted of their Management by Objectives (MBO) in Korea and China. anonymously. The company makes sure that no one faces retaliation Mixed Shared Growth loans to fund operations Support Special Fund with low interest rate the Compliance Program (CP) in 2002 to carry out its business In 2017, the company plans to reflect the findings of the benefit for submitting information to the hotline, and critical information is KRW based on deposits activities in a sound and transparent manner while pursuing fair 55,870 million sharing system into the MBO of executives in charge of purchasing, reported to the CEO and relevant executives. (loaned) competition. It has established the code of conduct that meet thus further promote the benefit sharing system. Furthermore, to Industrial Innovation global standards based on which the company has been striving encourage suppliers to participate in shared growth activities, the Campaign 4.0, Special Contribution KRW to grow into a truly global company. To build a culture of fair trade company reflects their involvement in shared growth and relevant Made contributions to (Machinery Industry 300 million Special Shared Growth shared growth programs and realize horizontal transactions, Doosan Infracore has set itself performance in the comprehensive supplier evaluation. Support for secondand third-tier Promotion Foundation) suppliers four major goals – responsible contracts for win-win cooperation Contribution to Win-win KRW between a conglomerate and SMEs, fair selection and management Strengthening Communication with Suppliers Supporters 100 million of suppliers, establishment and operation of the Internal Review To enhance communication with its suppliers, the company Council, and desirable paperwork and its retention in subcontracting has expanded the ‘Supplier Hotline’ and set up various other transactions – and discloses progress on the company website. communication channels, including pledge ceremonies and meetings. The CEO visits the company’s secondand lower-tier suppliers twice a year to listen to their concerns and find solutions to their problems. In China, the company’s executives hold meetings with suppliers twice a year, communicate the purposes of shared growth and encourage their commitment to realizing shared growth. Launch of the Integrated Cooperation Council For active and Shared Growth System effective communication with suppliers, Doosan Infracore launched the Integrated Cooperation Council in 2015. The Council meets twice a year to share the company’s business plans, align the strategies of Vision Shared Growth in Global Enterprises the company with its suppliers, and boost mutual exchanges. Competitiveness Support for Shared Growth Profit sharing/ Enhancement of enhancement joint advance into Programs financial support communication programs overseas markets Shared Growth Policy Build a virtuous cycle partnership enabling shared growth with suppliers Competitiveness Enhancement Support Center Organization (composed of in-house experts in shared growth, purchase, quality and R&D) in Charge 74 75 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Employee Value Proposition Employee Value Human Rights and harassment to all of its employees. In March 2016, the company upgraded the Gender Equality Center to the Human Rights Protection Diversity Center to ensure a broader response to human rights issues. The Proposition company identifies employees’ grievances through diverse channels, such as the Human Rights Protection Center, the Internal Reporting 01 Center, and the Cyber Reporting Center on the company website, and strives to handle them immediately. Its overseas worksites operate NAVEX, a special hotline dedicated to dealing with various grievances including human rights issues. Training is conducted to boost the anonymity of whistleblowers and the independence of the hotline. Our Approach CSR Strategic Tasks for 2016 Respect for Human Rights The company guarantees protection of the identity of reporters who As a participant in the United Nations Global Compact, Doosan file grievances with the Human Rights Protection Center or the Cyber Establishing a management system Infracore supports the Compact’s Ten Principles and respects human Reporting Center and protects the confidentiality of the contents We nurture leaders with for human rights risk rights. The company has implemented preventive measures against of their reports, which are handled in accordance with the relevant expertise and a pioneering The issue of human rights violations within and outside any violations of human rights at work. The company refuses to company regulations and procedures. The company has completed companies has serious consequences. Diverse groups of people tolerate any type of verbal abuse, violence, sexual harassment, or the handling of all major grievance reports filed in 2016. In addition, spirit to drive growth into are impacted by such violations including the perpetrators and other improper acts which are against the spirit of ‘Inhwa’, meaning the company has devised a grievance counseling program whereby a global leading company. the victims. Stakeholders therefore regard corporate human ‘harmony between people’ not only in interactions inside the company employees learn to understand each other’s standpoints in a variety rights awareness and a culture of mutual respect as highly but also relations with its suppliers. Preventive actions are taken of situations and find amicable solutions to the issues raised. Based on a corporate culture where important assets. Doosan Infracore aims to prevent risks of through various organizations such as the Human Rights Protection employees are considerate of others and human rights violations and build a culture of respect and Center, Internal Reporting Center, and Personnel Committee, all of Respect for Diversity consideration based on the establishment of a management which participate in the company’s reporting process. In the event of a Protection of Employee Diversity As of December 31, 2016, there diversity is respected, Doosan Infracore system for human rights risk. The company intends to fulfill its violation, the company takes prompt actions according to the relevant were 3,919 employees at Doosan Infracore worksites world-wide, helps its employees achieve personal growth responsibility for human rights and create a sound corporate regulations while ensuring that the same violation is never repeated including 2,550 personnel in Korea but excluding Doosan Bobcat at their own pace according to the Functional culture as a global corporation. through education. after its public listing. Given the characteristics of the machine Competency (FC) system while applying manufacturing industry, it is not easy to recruit female employees. Established response processes to human rights reasonable standards and principles and Activities and violation and distributed the ‘Human Rights Risk Human Rights Risk Management System Based on the spirit of The company however strives to eliminate bias by having its female Achievements Prevention Manual’; operated the Human Rights providing fair opportunities. The company in 2016 Protection Center; and provided human rights training ‘Inhwa’ advocated by the Doosan Way, the company has defined the engineers take part in the interviews of female applicants. The rate of has been building a mutually beneficial to all office staff concept of human rights and specified various types of violations. females among new recruits has been on the rise, and it is expected cycle in which people grow, and growth of Strengthen the monitoring for human rights violaIt has conducted focus group interviews among its worksite that the proportion of female managers will also steadily increase. Plans for 2017 tion upgraded from the existing tasks; operate the employees, as well as a survey on the state of human rights reflected To foster the personal growth of female staff, the company does not people leads to growth of business. Based Women’s Council to encourage female employees’ in its grievance reporting channels, established human rights discriminate against its female staff in their job assignments, nor does on the Doosan Way, the company has been career development and build a culture of gender equality; and provide human rights education to all violation response processes, and published a human rights risk it place any restrictions on the assignments. enhancing its strong organizational culture technical staff prevent manual. The manual, which consists of two parts – one for and win-win labor-management relations human rights officers and the other for other employees – deals Women’s Council The company plans to expand the Women’s with the aim of being a proud Doosan. with situations that might transpire among not only the company’s Council, previously operated by the Corporate Technology Division, to employees but also among external stakeholders including its the company level in 2017. Through the launch of the company-wide suppliers. In 2016, the company conducted education on gender Women’s Council, it will collect female employees’ feedback on their equality and human rights based on the manual for all office staff. In personal growth and the company’s current career and professional 2017, it will extend the human rights education to its technical staff. development systems to further enhance its gender equality performance. Grievance Channels and Handling Processes Doosan Infracore has been operating the Gender Equality Center since 2011 to prepare Fair Opportunities As specified in the Doosan Way and the for or respond promptly to cases of sexual harassment and verbal company’s Code of Conduct, Doosan people are respected for their or physical violence at work. It also provides education on sexual individual characteristics. They are not discriminated against with regard to their employment, evaluation, and compensation on the Types and Details of Human Rights Violations grounds of gender, religion, disability, age, social status, country Type Details Type Details of origin, nationality, ethnic background, race, skin color, physical Gender Verbal abuse, violence condition, marital status, pregnancy, childbearing, family type or Age, position, status, ideology, political opinions, sexual orientation, educational Verbal/Physical Sexual harassment Discrimination employment type background, or military service. Nor they are treated unfairly abuse Country of origin, race Alienation, bullying depending on their personal relationship with the company’s officials Marriage, birth Invasion of privacy based on their academic or geographical background. 76 77 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Employee Value Proposition Human Resources customized for different competency levels, along with information on various curricula designed to boost competency in the areas of To improve the technical expertise of its technical staff and support their efforts to grow into technical experts, the company conducts Education on the Global Work Environment In 2015, the company launched a collaboration website called Global Mobility Support Development R&D, manufacturing, and sales and marketing. In 2016, the company job training based on its FC system and supports 33 study circles (GMS) to provide employees assigned to overseas posts with completed the FC development system for R&D, production and (255 participants) and their efforts to acquire technical certifications information on its various regulations and welfare benefits, and tips market-driven areas such as sales. It restructured various courses at through its restructured technical training system. The company has intended to help them enjoy a pleasant life overseas. In addition to 02 its Job Academy, including 33 R&D courses, 11 innovation courses and three sales and marketing courses. The company also expanded the restructured the training system in sync with its directions for the development of employees’ job competencies based on VOC and the the online and offline language programs designed for its employees, the company also runs an online language program for its employees’ FC system overseas and built the FC diagnosis and training system in feedback of its production executives. It plans to prioritize a total of family members. China in 2016. In 2017, it plans to complete the establishment of its 270 training courses and offer them gradually after further developing FC system for office staff and connect it to the new MY HR to register them prior to their introduction. Reorganization of Technical Staff Doosan Infracore has set the direction of its personnel development and handle the diagnosis and development activities. Personnel Management System as ‘global leaders who can lead the way in organizational changes The company has also built up a network with all the Human Resource To motivate its technical staff to pursue self-development and to and innovations’. The company has established diverse manageIn order to grow into a global machinery company, the company Development-related departments in its overseas subsidiaries in present them with a vision, Doosan Infracore has been creating ment system and provided educational programs in order to share needs to nurture technical staff equipped with professional order to share its core educational programs and ultimately to encoura talent development system in line with the Doosan Way, which values and culture of Doosan, and thus to foster global experts with competencies and a high degree of competitiveness. Doosan age talent development at all of its worksites. Following the launch includes rules on job assignment and promotion, competency leadership. Infracore therefore plans to establish an FC system devoted to its of MY HR in March 2017, the company will integrate the operation of evaluation, technical expert training courses, and FC promotion. The technical staff, identify their needs for job competence improvements education systems that were individually managed by each overseas company introduced the position and promotion system in 2012, Building the Global HR Information System as well as their strengths and weaknesses and help them set up their subsidiary. presented its technical staff with a vision for personal growth, and Doosan Infracore launched a new HR system called ‘MY HR’ in March own specific visions for personal growth. The establishment of the FC nurtured its technical personnel’s pride in their individual ability 2017 to standardize and simplify various HR systems, processes, system for the company’s technical staff started with the preparation Fostering Global Talent and status. With the introduction of the competency recognition standards, and data from the viewpoint of the Doosan Way and to of a draft proposal in 2014. In 2016, the company has customized Leadership Enhancement Doosan Infracore is aware that the future system, the company has enabled leaders to nurture their members’ integrate more than 50 HR systems that were previously used by competencies required for each job on-site and established the job of an organization depends on the commitment of its leaders. The competencies while helping the members to recognize the strengths different subsidiaries in various countries around the world. MY HR training system. In 2017, it will carry out FC diagnosis to implement company therefore has developed leadership training programs at they require for personal growth and the need to work harder to is a globally integrated HR system designed to handle various HR talent development system and offer professional trainings linked to every level in the organizational hierarchy. It has defined the core develop them. The company has also opened technical specialist tasks such as Doosan Competency Model (DCM), Management by the FC system. leadership competencies required for the employees at different levels courses designed to help its technical staff acquire national Objectives (MBO), and Development Plan (DP), as well as training and created education programs customized to their different needs. qualifications for technicians, industrial engineers, master craftsmen, FC Development System applications. MY HR is also available on mobile devices so that it In 2016, it offered Conflict Management courses to general managers and master technicians. In 2016, the company upgraded its FC-based can be accessed anywhere anytime. Employees have the rights to for office staff, Coaching courses to deputy general managers, and HR development system along with its field leaders and changed Managers Experts in various fields create or view personnel information for themselves and their team Followership courses to assistant managers. The company has also the titles of its technical staff, which has had some positive effects members (if they are managers) through MY HR. In order to protect prepared an education plan to boost its organizational vitality and on raising the status of technical staff in the organization. In January personnel information, the company handles and processes the Grow into a leader equipped with nurture YBs1), the company’s future leaders in technological advances 2017, it introduced two new growth pathways for its technical staff the philosophy of Doosan People and information in accordance with its principles. All employees are and offered them a leadership training program called the Vision – the launch of the technical managing director system and the professional competency required to sign the Pledge of Personnel Information Protection, Camp. To educate its employees on the performance of their duties enhancement of the meister development system – so that they which states that any violation of its contents on their part will be Transfer/assignment, Transfer as Doosan people, it offers Strategic Thinking Enhancement through can work toward becoming either field leaders or technical experts. considering technologies and subject to disciplinary action according to the company’s regulations individuals’ CDP Expansion of leading competency Problem Solving (STEPS) courses to team managers and STEPSTechnical managing directors are those who are equipped with and the relevant laws. and optimization the pool of experts enhancement Junior courses to assistant managers. In 2017, based on the Doosan leadership and practical skills to play the role of production team of organizational for new recruits competency (learning/teaching) Way and its technical expertise, the company plans to reorganize leaders in the company’s production units, presenting a vision for Enhancing Functional Competency its technical leadership development system in order to nurture growth to technicians. Meisters serve as the company’s field leaders Self-directed development activities Doosan Infracore has built a sophisticated Functional Competency based on the results of field leaders who are ready and able to lead sustained growth of equipped with professional skills and high competitiveness and (FC) development system, mainly for its head office, in consideration the FC assessment the company. To establish its own technical leadership models, the present the vision to grow into technical experts. In January 2017, of individual employees’ unique skill set and capabilities. It also company will conduct a workshop participated by the representatives Doosan Infracore appointed a technical managing director for the first encourages its employees to devise their own education plans to POOL-IN of all major positions. It will also introduce a group coaching program time in its 80-year corporate history. The company will appoint its first boost their FC according to the result of their FC assessment, and for leaders (team leaders) designed to enable them to practice solving meister at the end of 2017. helps them grow into global experts in their respective fields. Competency Development Trainings Doosan Infracore has set the kinds of issues they are likely to face at sites with the assistance a self-directed learning system in place so that employees study of professional coaches so that they can develop their leadership and 1) Young Boy (YB): Technical staff hired in 2004 or after Building the FC Development System The company has established voluntarily under their own control. Launched in 2013, the Learning acquire the coaching skills they need in their daily operations. an FC development system through which it enables its employees to Credit System is a unique academic credit system of Doosan Group Career Development Path of Technical Staff equip themselves with competences required to carry out their tasks that allows its employees to devise their own study plans and successfully and set their own roadmap for personal growth based follow them at their own pace to acquire credits assigned to their on their identified strengths and weaknesses. Doosan Infracore respective positions. Employees can access various courses offered Technical Expert Meister operates an FC-based HR education and development system to by the company’s self-directed learning system on their computers specialists help its employees grow into global talents. In 2015, it published or mobile devices anytime, anywhere through ‘MY HR’, an integrated Field leaders Senior Technical Technical Technical Technical Technical Technical Staff Technical Staff Assistant Manager Senior Manager General Vice President the FC Development Directory which shows the list of courses HR system of the Group. Manager Manager 78 79 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Employee Value Proposition Invigorating Organizational company plans to enhance communication on new businesses and new growth engines, share its vision through regularly scheduled staff who joined the company before January 1st of the previous year) to help them experience foreign culture on the occasion of measures available inside and outside the company concerning pregnancy, childbearing and childcare. For pregnant employees, Culture CEO Talks and expand communication on the subject of pride in their annual vacation periods. It offers them round-trip air tickets the company grants reduced working hours and prenatal checkup one’s life at work. and Eurail passes so that they can take the opportunity to recharge leave. Upon childbirth, the company offers leave to both mother and themselves, experience a different perspective, and boost their pride father. It also provides those who have had an abortion or suffered 03 Work-Life Balance in the company. a miscarriage with a recovery period equivalent to that required Doosan Infracore complies fully with the labor regulations of the for childbearing. During childrearing, both parents are eligible countries in which it operates. To further improve its employees’ Family-friendly Management The company allows its employees for childcare leave or reduced working hours. The company runs quality of life, it offers a wide range of welfare benefits that match to choose childcare leave and family care leave or reduced working daycare centers at three locations in Incheon, Gunsan, and Seoul each country’s unique situation. Of particular note, it proactively hours depending on their situation. It also runs flextime and leave in Korea. The company also allows its employees to use a leave Implementation of the Doosan Way supports the pursuit of a sound work-life balance through familyof absence systems according to the circumstances of the relevant of absence to take care of family members in need, promote their Since the promulgation of the Doosan Way in 2012, the employees friendly management practices, including the operation of childcare countries. It implements the Mom’s Caring Program at the company personal development or focus on infertility treatment. In China, the of Doosan Infracore have been required to internalize the Doosan centers and the granting of parental leave, reduced working hours, level, which provides diverse supportive measures for pregnant company offers a leave of absence or a shorter workday to female Way, the unique philosophy of Doosan and the basis for its decisionand family care leave. In 2017, the company plans to promote employees. It has published the Guide on Pregnancy, Childbearing, employees who have just given birth to a child. making. They have also implemented the Doosan Way through the childcare leave and flextime, support customized organizational and Childcare which gives a great detail on the various support cultivation of Doosan people, the introduction of advanced and cultural activities and implement the team leaders’ caring program, scientific work processes and the enhancement of fundamental all in efforts to create a positive workplace. Support System for Family-friendly Management (Korea) Violations competitiveness in their work. In 2016, in order to overcome obstacles System Details Eligibility and Period amidst a difficult economic environment, the company promoted Adjustment of Work Schedules The company implements the work decision-making based on the Doosan Way, the acquisition of core schedule adjustment system to allow those employees who cannot Parking tickets for pregnant employees competitiveness and the adoption of advanced scientific methods of work on a typical work schedule to continue working for the company Guidebook on pregnancy, childbearing, and childcare Pregnant employee working. In 2017, the company will focus on powerful performance, while maintaining their work-life balance. In Korea, the company Pregnant employee badges, stickers, and parking tickets Pregnant female employees caring program the recovery of self-esteem and the goal of building a ‘Winning runs a flexible work time system (a part-time system) for contract Use of affiliated hospitals, in-house lounges, internal, and Team’ by generating achievements on the basis of its powerful employees. external psychological counseling centers, if needed performance ability and will continue to promote changes in the way Compliance with 8-hour workday and prohibition of holiday work Pregnant female employees (the entire pregnancy period) it operates. Support for Building a Stable Life In Korea, the company helps Basic support during Pregnancy pregnancy Pregnant female employees (from pregnancy to Support for medical bills during pregnancy and childbearing employees at its worksites to alleviate their financial difficulties childbearing) Leaders’ Initiatives Doosan Infracore emphasizes the need for its through a variety of supportive measures, such as the supply of Pregnant female employees (reduction of up to 2 hours Shortened working Shortened working hours for the health of pregnant leaders to initiate changes and set a strong example for others to housing including dorm rooms for those who are transferred to new per day until the 12th week and after the 26th week of hours during pregnancy employees and their babies pregnancy) follow. In this context, it implements window leadership sessions, locations, loans for their children’s tuition fees, and mortgage loans. Pregnant female employees (once every two months until in which all its executives participate and discuss innovations and The company also helps protect its staff from medical emergencies Leave for prenatal the 7th month of pregnancy: once per month from the 8th Parental checkup leaves the Leader’s Action Plan (LAP) under which leaders pledge to pursue by providing industrial accident insurance, support for medical costs, checkup to the 9th month; and once every two weeks during the 10th month of pregnancy) changes. It improves work inefficiency and leads changes in the way and regular medical checkups. It has also built safety nets designed it works through open communication and on-site management. As to help employees who are affected by unexpected illnesses or Female employees who give birth to a child Childbearing leave (90 days / 120 days for twins) a result of the 2016 LAP improvement, the company’s employees accidents. Male employees whose wives give birth (5 days) are positive about change efforts. In order to continuously improve Leave before or after Childbearing childbearing Female employees who have a miscarriage or abortion the way it operates, the company has established a new LAP under EAP Operations Doosan Infracore provides its employees with (Leave duration varies depending on pregnancy period, the theme of changing the way we work starting with our leaders’ the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) that offers counseling Miscarriage/abortion leave with a ceiling of 90 days for pregnancy of more than 28 for domestic executives and applied it to its operations. The and education on health, laws, and finance among other areas weeks) company has also striven voluntarily to eliminate inefficiencies and of interest. In Korea, the company has run DooHug, its in-house Childbirth cash gift Cash gift in celebration of childbirth Employees who have childbirth irrationalities in its operations. psychological counseling center since 2014. In China, the company Employees with children aged less than 8 years or second offered its employees 32 sessions of sand play therapy in 2016 and graders in elementary school (once per child for mother Leave for childcare Childcare leave and father, respectively, and reduced working hours for Communication and Consideration five sessions of psychological counseling about radical changes in childcare for a total of one year for parents) The company has built diverse communication channels in order to working and housing environments for Korean employees who had Childcare Reduced working hours Reduction of working hours for child care boost employees’ satisfaction at work through communication. It has been assigned to posts in China, and their family members. for childcare (15-30 hours per week) also created a mobile version of its grievance mechanism previously Employees with children aged 3-5 years (selected through In-house daycare center Daycare centers in Incheon, Gunsan, and Seoul only available online and offline, in addition to such communication Recharging Opportunities transparent procedures at a fixed time) channels as the Human Rights Protection Center, company website In Korea, employees can take a total of two weeks’ vacation, a Leave of absence to take care of family members suffering Employees (90 days per year) Special leave of from illness or recovering from accidents and internal portal. In 2016, it launched the ‘D-Briefing’, which one-week vacation plus an additional one-week vacation before Family absence Leave of absence intended for family members in need of delivers major news, information and issues to its employees. In or after the first week of August when its domestic plants halt employees (6 months + additional 6 months) special care, personal development, and treatment of infertility China, the subsidiary heads held meetings with regional directors. their operations. The company also pays them a summer vacation Each department had a monthly ‘Doosan Way Time’ session under bonus. The company implements the Overseas Advanced Culture the leadership of Core Agents (CA) and team leaders. In 2017, the Exploration Support System for its regular staff (office or technical 80 81 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Employee Value Proposition · Supporting Development of Local Communities Joint Customer Support of Labor-Management Win-win Labor-management In order to overcome the market downturn in 2016, the labor union Supporting CCI Strategies and Relations and management visited the company’s customers across the Directions country on six occasions and collected their opinions while engaging in various customer service activities. The event was held to allow Development of 04 the labor union to figure out customer requirements and relay the VOCs directly to the company’s production sites. In 2017, the Local Communities 01 company plans to expand the labor-management joint customer support activities. Compliance with Labor Policies 1) CCI System Compliance with the ILO labor standards: Doosan Infracore ensures that the labor Doosan Infracore complies with the labor standards of the standards of the ILO are complied with at all its global worksites. It prohibits all forms Doosan Infracore fulfills its corporate social responsibility (CSR), a of discrimination, child labor and forced labor while promoting freedom of association. 1) International Labor Organization (ILO) . Each year, the company core value of the Doosan Way, by communicating with its stakeholdconducts investigations to detect any child labor or forced labor ers and participating in diverse CCI programs. The company has practices within the company through the annual CSR assessment developed the Global CCI guidelines in 2014 and applied them to of all its domestic and major overseas worksites. According to all CCI activities carried out at its worksites around the world since the results of the 2016 scrutiny, none of its worksites world-wide 2015. Doosan Infracore’s CCI refers to every kind of activity that it unOur Approach has resorted to child labor or forced labor of any kind. Doosan dertakes by exploiting its major competencies in finance, products, Infracore has signed the Guidelines on the Protection of the Working human resources, and technologies for the purpose of promoting Conditions of In-house Subcontractors’ Workers with the Korean We leverage our capabilities the wellbeing of future generations and improving the competencies of the communities to which the company and its employees belong. Ministry of Employment and Labor. It ensures that all the relevant regulations are complied with through its regular monitoring to create a better society The company’s CCI activities are led by the CSR part at the head offic activities. It also ensures that proper in-house subcontracting through investing in our and work together with staff in charge at the company’s overseas practices are implemented through voluntary compliance with the worksites who plan and execute CCI activities that are unique to government’s guidelines on fair transactions. communities. their own communities. Based on its pursuit of sincere corporate CCI Strategies Labor-management Relations community involvement (CCI), Doosan Since the launch of the Win-Win Labor Union in 2011, the company has maintained and developed labor-management relations based Infracore has established a global CCI Goal Top 100 global CSR leading companies1) by 2025 1) on mutual trust and respect. Despite the adverse business situation, system and guidelines that reflect its the company has successfully concluded collective bargaining corporate capabilities and social demands, with its union without a single labor strike for six consecutive and has been carrying out CCI activities years. Labor and management continue to communicate through world-wide on the basis of shared values. Mission To boost local communities’ future competitiveness diverse channels, including the Labor-Management Council and and the company’s corporate values through Doosan Infracore employees across the strategic CCI activities the Welfare Subcommittee, and share major issues through the world strive to implement CCI programs that quarterly Business Information Session. In 2016, the company Value are instrumental to the development of local To promote the shared growth of the company and carried out diverse labor-management joint events such as ‘New society through CCI activities communities. Start Day’, a pep rally held at the level of each business group, and (The Doosan Way) ‘Bacchus Day’, which is held on the last Wednesday of each month to boost the morale of technical staff at the company’s worksites. 3 Strategies Support Support for Support for The company also launched the Labor-Management One Family based on the the next local company’s core Children’s Day Event along with the One-Mind Hiking Event and the generation communities competencies Labor-Management Joint CCI campaigns. In China, the company runs 1) Based on the announcement of the World Economic Forum (Davos Forum) a special council, an organization that represents DI employees, according to the Council Law, which is equivalent to the Labor Law in Korea. The four representatives of the council are elected by Support for the Next Generation vote every four years. The council and management hold a council Operation of the Dream School Launched in 2012, the Dream School meeting on a monthly basis to discuss major developments and program is part of the ‘Youth Dream Search’ project through which share opinions on various worksite issues. Wage discussions are Doosan Infracore helps the youth acquire a positive perspective conducted annually. about their career choices and future. Participants engage in various activities together with Doosan Infracore personnel for five years from the second grade of junior high to the third grade of high school. The results of a study carried out in 2014 on the effects of the Dream 82 83 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Supporting Development of Local Communities Support Based on the Company’s Core Competencies Doosan Day of Community Service School indicate that both the students and their mentors achieved positive progress. In 2015, the company launched Dream School Doosan Infracore utilizes its business resources to promote its CCI Employee Engagement Doosan Infracore employees make small but meaningful changes by Plus with an aim to help the students of Dream School 1-3 who were activities, including expertise in mechanical engineering and product participating in the Doosan Day of Community Service. selected through interviews to continue pursuing their personal development. growth. In 2016, 107 students (21 middle school and 86 high school Doosan Group holds the annual ‘Doosan Day of Community Service’ students) participated in Dream School Plus, receiving counseling from professional coaches on their career paths and taking part in Support for Construction Equipment Operation Courses To assist youth who are eligible to leave child welfare institutions, the 02 in the first half of the year for its employees around the world and shares its resources with the members of local communities on programs designed for their personal growth, summer camps, and company offers them training on the operation of construction the same day. In addition, it holds a photo/video contest in which a Homecoming Day which brought together all the mentors and equipment and helps them obtain a professional license through heartwarming moments of the event can be shared, and thus makes mentees of Dream School. The year 2017 is particularly meaningful its Construction Equipment Education Center in Ansan. As a trial the Doosan Day of Community Service evolve into a festival of in that 17 students who have enrolled in the Dream School 1 in 2012 operation, the company ran a three-month course on the operation In addition to its various CCI programs, Doosan Infracore supports sharing. In April 2016, a total of 1,169 Doosan Infracore employees graduated from the Dream School in February for the first time in the of construction equipment including excavators and forklifts in voluntary service clubs run by its employees. It has also set various at 30 worksites in 11 countries participated in the Doosan Day of program’s history. 2014 and has offered support for training courses on construction CCI support programs in place, including the CSR Awards, which are Community Service. equipment operation and maintenance since 2015. Through these designed to encourage its employees to participate in CCI activities. Construction Support for Hope Elementary Schools in China Under courses, the company helps the trainees to obtain operator’s licenses Records of Doosan Day of Community Service the slogan of ‘We will build a beautiful China together’, Doosan for excavators and forklifts and provides those who complete the Employee Donation Infracore China Corporation (DICC) has been participating in the course with congratulatory money and training allowances to help Approximately 80% of the entire Doosan Infracore staff in Korea ‘Project Hope’, a public service project involving the provision of them take their first steps to becoming adult members of society. participates in Collection of Small Change from Employees Salaries Accumulated number Number of participating educational support for Chinese youth and improvement of the and Opening Donation Account in order to raise CCI funds. Each of participants worksites in 2016 educational environment in underprivileged regions of China. Support for Natural Disaster Relief In the event of a massive worksite also has voluntary groups whose members regularly Since 2001, the company has built 37 Hope Elementary Schools in impoverished areas of the country, bringing hope to children. DICC disaster such as an earthquake or a typhoon, Doosan Infracore promptly provides construction equipment and funds for relief volunteer to impact their communities. Employees’ donations are sent to the Community Chest and are used for employee CCI 13,651 30 also has run the Doosan Hope Travel Summer Camp every summer efforts, thus provides supports based on the company’s core activities. The details of fund execution are disclosed through the persons worksites and implemented an ‘honorary school principal system’ since 2007. competencies, one of its three CCI strategies. In April 2015, the company’s CCI Information System and in-house portal news service. Teachers and students of Doosan Hope Elementary Schools from all company provided USD 300,000 worth of construction equipment Doosan Day of Community Service around the country join the summer camp, which enables students to assist the relief effort after the devastating earthquake in Nepal. Building Infrastructure for Employee Engagement to enjoy cultural experiences while having fun. Under the honorary Given the chaotic situation including the collapse of buildings The company has established the CCI Information System on principal system, the CEOs of Doosan Infracore dealerships are and roads, the company dispatched Doosan Bobcat compact its Intranet to increase employees’ awareness of the company’s appointed as principals with the aim of encouraging participation of construction equipment, which performs superbly in small spaces, voluntary services while keeping track of their participation. dealers and ensuring continued support for the schools. In February as well as excavators and wheel loaders. The company also made Employees in Seoul participated 2017, DICC was awarded the 2016 Project Hope Contribution Award sure that the equipment was equipped with sufficient spare parts in Participation Rate in the Employee Fund in 2016 in the home improvement project for a shanty town in by the China Youth Development Foundation for its contribution to preparation for the protracted relief and recovery operations. Doosan Dongdaemun, Seoul (2017) the Project Hope. Infracore has also provided construction equipment and donations for rapid relief and recovery from devastating natural disasters Support for Local Communities Doosan Infracore carries out a diverse set of CCI activities in around the world over the years, such as Hurricane Katrina in the U.S. in 2005, the Sichuan earthquake in China in 2008, the earthquake in 80% consideration of characteristics and needs of local communities, Haiti in 2010, the Tohoku earthquake in Japan in 2011, and Typhoon with an aim to grow together with them. The company holds at Haiyan in the Philippines in 2013. Employees in Incheon built least two workshops each year with CCI experts at its worksites. a tile-painting (2016) It also partners with reputable non-profit organizations in local Donation of Equipment and Model Doosan Infracore donates communities to promote various CCI activities that address the excavators, parts and engines produced in the course of product needs of the communities. development stage for tests to the relevant departments of universities and vocational high schools as educational materials. Local Hope CCI Activities Doosan Infracore undertakes its Local Hope CCI activities with funds raised through employee contributions The Junior Engineering Class Launched in 2008, the Junior Volunteers helped maintain playgrounds with a Bobcat S570 and its own matching funds. In May 2016, 25 employees from the Engineering Class is a talent donation circle consisting of Doosan SSL & MT 85 mini track Incheon Plant participated in home improvement work at Hwasu Infracore researchers with science and engineering backgrounds. village, and 127 employees participated in the Kimchi Making with The volunteers teach children about key scientific principles in fun Love event in December 2016. The company also donated ‘Rice of and easy ways through the assembly of science kits. Love’ to local communities in Dong-gu, Incheon on the occasion of the Chuseok and Lunar New Year holidays. Employees in Japan cleaned up the neighborhood 84 85 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix Performance Summary Performance Summary APPENDIX KRW KRW KRW 5,729.6 billion 490.8 billion 116.0 billion Sales Operating Income Net Income 87 Performance Summary 7 A 74 88 Consolidated Financial Statements 7 consecutive years 6 consecutive years 74% Listed in DJSI Korea the machine and Rated Class A in the ESG Evaluation Percentage of premium eco-friendly 92 CSR Facts & Figures electric equipment categories by the Corporate Governance Service, or eco-friendly products Korea 97 Independent Auditors’ Report 98 100 Independent Assurance Report Global Network A 87,413 tCO2 Class A Benefit sharing system Greenhous gas emissions Rated Class A at the Symbiotic Expanded to include Cooperation Program in Safety and second-tier suppliers Health for 5 year in a row 6 Supplier carbon Published a Human Rights 6 consecutive years partnership system Risk Prevention Manual Agreed on collective bargaining Participated in the Creation of a Foundation and provided education on agreements without dispute for Energy Resource Circulation Project of human rights the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 87 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix Consolidated Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME DOOSAN INFRACORE CO., LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES DOOSAN INFRACORE CO., LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES As of december 31, 2016 and 2015 (In Korean won) For the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 (In Korean won) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 2016 2015 SALES ₩ 5,729,550,204,080 ₩ 5,964,894,252,082 ASSETS COST OF SALES (4,404,458,833,345) (4,747,330,597,428) CURRENT ASSETS: GROSS PROFIT 1,325,091,370,735 1,217,563,654,654 Cash and cash equivalents ₩ 538,577,771,079 ₩ 560,002,522,384 Short-term financial instruments 148,025,668,394 381,899,640,621 Selling and administrative expenses (834,273,183,329) (1,312,650,811,241) Short-term investment securities 3,030,992,836 440,994,129 OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) 490,818,187,406 (95,087,156,587) Trade and other receivables, less allowance for doubtful accounts 1,030,593,672,444 1,231,866,238,328 Finance income 176,163,146,947 228,063,028,905 Derivative assets 6,219,743,447 8,330,967,001 Finance expense (427,649,808,272) (581,523,642,412) Inventories 1,177,009,110,959 1,555,734,717,186 Other non-operating income 56,182,312,441 51,656,942,990 Other current assets 146,113,591,597 137,746,050,506 Other non-operating expense (213,312,054,726) (346,186,010,646) Total Current Assets 3,049,570,550,756 3,876,021,130,155 Share of loss on joint ventures and associates (151,702,916) (37,976,950,860) NON-CURRENT ASSETS: LOSS BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE (BENEFIT) 82,050,080,880 (781,053,788,610) Long-term financial instruments 2,011,500,000 57,352,345,687 INCOME TAX EXPENSE (162,639,901,346) (161,078,346,983) Long-term investment securities 148,120,965,082 97,862,349,930 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (80,589,820,466) (942,132,135,593) Long-term trade and other non-current receivables, 7,015,864,222 2,637,222,111 INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 196,574,676,248 82,626,934,146 less allowance for doubtful accounts Non-current derivative assets 158,889,290 NET INCOME (LOSS) ₩ 115,984,855,782 ₩ (859,505,201,447) Investments in joint ventures and associates 29,030,018,221 1,253,566,504 Attributable to: Property, plant and equipment, net 1,823,100,285,900 2,254,064,431,753 Owners of the Parent ₩ 63,180,866,208 ₩ (819,103,157,094) Intangible assets, net 4,440,698,436,635 4,423,689,090,861 Non-controlling interests ₩ 52,803,989,574 ₩ (40,402,044,353) Investment property, net 51,375,818,001 30,274,383,748 EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE: Deferred income tax assets 365,928,831,884 512,528,822,533 From continuing and discontinued operations Other non-current assets 109,956,369,825 127,330,583,318 Basic ₩ 214 ₩ (4,037) Total Non-current Assets 6,977,238,089,770 7,507,151,685,735 Diluted ₩ 214 ₩ (4,037) Total Assets 10,026,808,640,526 11,383,172,815,890 From continuing operations LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Basic ₩ (734) ₩ (4,435) CURRENT LIABILITIES: Trade and other payables 1,041,875,892,086 1,063,584,860,464 Diluted ₩ (734) ₩ (4,435) Short-term borrowings 952,163,757,440 1,256,764,551,718 Current portion of bonds 764,734,004,459 809,000,378,306 Current portion of long-term borrowings 540,098,382,122 319,795,461,873 Income taxes payable 13,098,873,730 29,363,333,520 Derivative liabilities 1,542,154,578 25,487,152,056 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Provisions 147,784,958,483 141,116,152,593 DOOSAN INFRACORE CO., LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES Other current liabilities 191,895,701,579 316,043,588,801 Total Current Liabilities 3,653,193,724,477 3,961,155,479,331 For the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 (In Korean won) NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES: 2016 2015 Other non-current payables 1,253,774,857 5,829,000,498 NET INCOME (LOSS) ₩ 115,984,855,782 ₩ (859,505,201,447) Bonds 714,649,461,884 1,115,328,426,402 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS): Long-term borrowings 1,451,538,091,287 2,520,852,010,753 Retirement benefit obligation 510,101,486,646 554,544,988,746 Items not reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Deferred income tax liabilities 78,243,717,573 4,709,378,917 Remeasurements of net defined benefit liabilities 1,076,069,895 24,546,108,446 Non-current provisions 25,167,184,042 20,141,775,364 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment (29,875,400,000) 64,093,137,674 Other non-current liabilities 144,284,457,632 97,655,447,499 Items reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Total Non-current Liabilities 2,925,238,173,921 4,319,061,028,179 Gain (loss) on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets 7,509,623,052 (64,590,463) Total Liabilities 6,578,431,898,398 8,280,216,507,510 Decrease in equity of associates (1,357,603,433) EQUITY: Change in retained earnings of equity method investment securities (54,238,168) Capital stock 1,037,276,570,000 1,037,276,570,000 Gain (loss) on foreign operations translation 28,106,613,754 (65,721,554,954) Capital surplus 249,488,144,851 245,301,050,451 Gain (loss) on valuation of cash flow hedge derivatives 18,149,753,211 (4,836,294,196) Capital securities 508,259,603,649 508,259,603,649 Total other comprehensive incomes 24,912,421,744 16,659,203,074 Other equity items (42,440,546,020) (37,401,620,359) Accumulated other comprehensive loss (270,371,100,895) (207,670,131,707) TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) ₩ 140,897,277,526 ₩ (842,845,998,373) Retained earnings 578,245,971,895 475,597,665,117 Owners of the Parent ₩ 46,187,327,828 ₩ (758,289,528,030) Equity attributable to owners of the Parent 2,060,458,643,480 2,021,363,137,151 Non-controlling interests ₩ 94,709,949,698 ₩ (84,556,470,343) Non-controlling interests 1,387,918,098,648 1,081,593,171,229 Total Equity 3,448,376,742,128 3,102,956,308,380 Total Liabilities and Equity ₩ 10,026,808,640,526 ₩ 11,383,172,815,890 88 89 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix Consolidated Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS DOOSAN INFRACORE CO., LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES DOOSAN INFRACORE CO., LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES As of december 31, 2016 and 2015 (In Korean won) For the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 (In Korean won) Capital Capital Capital Other Accumulated other Retained Non-controlling 2016 2015 stock surplus securities equity items comprehensive earnings interests Total income (loss) CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Balance at January 1, 2015 ₩ 1,037,276,570,000 ₩ 240,200,109,681 ₩ 508,259,603,649 ₩ (31,315,390,978) ₩ (251,078,990,355) ₩ 1,295,796,676,795 ₩ 489,149,680,389 ₩ 3,288,288,259,181 Cash generated from operations: ₩ 789,358,064,082 ₩ 537,606,913,703 Total comprehensive loss: Net income (loss) 115,984,855,782 (859,505,201,447) Net loss (819,103,157,094) (40,402,044,353) (859,505,201,447) Adjustments 653,349,944,296 1,196,995,297,739 Remeasurements of net defined 17,263,551,594 7,282,556,852 24,546,108,446 benefit liabilities Changes in operating assets and liabilities 20,023,264,004 200,116,817,411 Revaluation and disposal of Interest received 13,406,879,435 24,239,583,149 62,942,852,084 141,218,822 1,009,066,768 64,093,137,674 property, plant and equipment Interest paid (227,942,883,719) (284,772,938,769) Loss on valuation of available(64,590,463) (64,590,463) Dividends received 5,400,000 2,116,931,945 for-sale financial assets Income tax paid (61,834,959,484) (42,505,652,567) Increase in equity of associates (1,357,603,433) (1,357,603,433) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 512,992,500,314 236,684,837,461 Loss on translation of foreign (12,835,398,096) (52,886,156,858) (65,721,554,954) operations CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Gain (loss) on valuation of Cash inflows from investing activities (5,276,401,444) 440,107,248 (4,836,294,196) derivatives Disposal of short-term financial instruments 179,351,302,468 157,047,303,659 Subtotal 43,408,858,648 (801,698,386,678) (84,556,470,343) (842,845,998,373) Disposal of short-term investment securities 52,600,000,000 Capital transactions with Decrease in loans 3,434,710,010 shareholders: Disposal of long-term financial instruments 55,340,845,687 10,000,000 Extinguishment of share 5,100,940,770 (5,100,940,770) options Disposal of property, plant and equipment 50,396,713,962 8,692,770,840 Share-based payment 427,603,345 427,603,345 Disposal of intangible assets 1,305,963,518 Capital increase with Disposal of investment properties (635,082,842) 692,687,749,766 692,052,666,924 consideration in subsidiaries Disposal of investment in joint ventures and associates 3,269,774,270 Dividends (18,500,625,000) (18,500,625,000) Disposal of interests in subsidiaries 126,667,468,493 Consideration in subsidiaries’ (16,465,597,697) (16,465,597,697) Proceeds from transfer of operations 929,419,723,186 dividends Subtotal 1,215,814,548,821 351,722,027,272 Business transfer among (777,809,114) 777,809,114 consolidated entities Cash outflows for investing activities: Subtotal 5,100,940,770 (6,086,229,381) (18,500,625,000) 676,999,961,183 657,514,047,572 Acquisition of short-term investment securities 45,600,000,000 Balance at December 31, 2015 ₩ 1,037,276,570,000 ₩ 245,301,050,451 ₩ 508,259,603,649 ₩ (37,401,620,359) ₩ (207,670,131,707) ₩ 475,597,665,117 ₩ 1,081,593,171,229 ₩ 3,102,956,308,380 Increase in long-term financial assets 55,340,845,687 Balance at January 1, 2016 ₩ 1,037,276,570,000 ₩ 245,301,050,451 ₩ 508,259,603,649 ₩ (37,401,620,359) ₩ (207,670,131,707) ₩ 475,597,665,117 ₩ 1,081,593,171,229 ₩ 3,102,956,308,380 Acquisition of long-term investment securities 40,066,219,698 3,364,805,929 Total comprehensive loss: Acquisition of investment in joint ventures 27,936,825,000 1,108,000,000 Net income 63,180,866,208 52,803,989,574 115,984,855,782 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 173,943,691,398 214,829,568,249 Remeasurements of net defined Acquisition of intangible assets 64,233,909,078 69,816,975,379 (344,604,900) 1,420,674,795 1,076,069,895 benefit liabilities Acquisition of investment properties 3,659,709,610 Revaluation and disposal of (88,030,246,138) 58,154,846,138 (29,875,400,000) Net cash flows in business combinations 54,940,467,860 property, plant and equipment Subtotal (306,180,645,174) (448,660,372,714) Gain on valuation of available7,509,623,052 7,509,623,052 for-sale financial assets Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities 909,633,903,647 (96,938,345,442) Change in retained earnings CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: of equity method investment (54,238,168) (54,238,168) Cash inflows from financing activities: securities Increase in borrowings 206,066,008,395 Gain(loss) on translation of (11,646,759,548) 39,753,373,302 28,106,613,754 foreign operations Issuance of bonds 467,186,644,080 Gain on valuation of derivatives 17,417,841,184 731,912,027 18,149,753,211 Capital increase by issuing new shares of subsidiaries 692,052,666,924 Subtotal (74,749,541,450) 120,936,869,278 94,709,949,698 140,897,277,526 Change in equity of subsidiaries 242,528,119,780 Capital transactions with Subtotal 709,714,763,860 898,118,675,319 shareholders: Cash outflows for financing activities: Acquisition of treasury stock (2,030,605) (2,030,605) Repayment of borrowings 1,096,762,547,569 706,064,126,138 Extinguishment of share 4,187,094,400 (4,187,094,400) Repayment of bonds 922,859,192,122 75,081,604,560 options 134,592,399 134,592,399 Dividends 18,288,562,500 18,500,625,000 Share-based payment (18,288,562,500) (18,288,562,500) Consideration in subsidiaries‘ dividends 16,465,597,697 Dividends Increase of subsidiary 1,158,645,055 Capital increase with 22,118,381,131 (23,277,026,187) (1,158,645,056) consideration of subsidiaries Acquisition of subsidiary equity 125,023,339,507 Acquisition of investment in (4,521,363,632) (120,501,975,875) (125,023,339,507) Acquisition of treasury stock 2,030,605 subsidiaries Subtotal (2,164,094,317,358) (816,111,953,395) Disposal of investment in (18,581,410,554) 12,048,572,262 355,393,979,783 348,861,141,491 Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities (1,454,379,553,498) 82,006,721,924 subsidiaries 4,187,094,400 (5,038,925,661) 12,048,572,262 (18,288,562,500) 211,614,977,721 204,523,156,222 EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 10,328,398,232 (24,703,459,016) Subtotal ₩ 1,037,276,570,000 ₩ 249,488,144,851 ₩ 508,259,603,649 ₩ (42,440,546,020) ₩ (270,371,100,895) ₩ 578,245,971,895 ₩ 1,387,918,098,648 ₩ 3,448,376,742,128 NET INCREASE(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (21,424,751,305) 197,049,754,927 Balance at December 31, 2016 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING OF YEAR 560,002,522,384 362,952,767,457 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF YEAR ₩ 538,577,771,079 ₩ 560,002,522,384 90 91 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix CSR Facts & Figures CSR FACTS & FIGURES Disclaimer Data on the worksites in China began being included in 2016, when the CSR Transparent Management Disclaimer With the completion of the business transfer of the Machine Tools BG in Air Emissions 2016, the Changwon Plant figures were excluded from the quantitative performance of Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 rollout to overseas worksites was conducted. Corporate Governance 2014 to 2015, in order to ensure clear understanding of trends by year. Total 1) tonCO2eq 128,342 110,190 87,413 Economic Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Scope 1 tonCO2eq 35,269 30,954 23,707 Participation rate of Environment 93,073 79,237 63,708 Korea Scope 2 tonCO2eq Economic Growth: Sales Records outside directors in Korea % 85.0 86.8 82.5 BOD meetings Environmental Expenses tonCO2eq/ Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Intensity KRW 0.031 0.033 0.029 Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 million Sales KRW million 6,366,107 5,964,894 5,729,550 Ethical Management Emissions of Environmental Total tonCO2eq 106,537 91,074 71,082 KRW greenhouse Operating Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 investments and Korea 8.7 27.5 8.6 Consolidated income KRW million 252,414 (95,087) 490,818 billion gas (Including Incheon Scope 1 tonCO2eq 23,910 20,456 15,085 operating costs direct and Ethical Korea % 99.5 98.9 95.3 Scope 2 tonCO2eq 82,626 70,618 55,997 Net income KRW million indirect (loss) 23,972 (859,505) 115,985 management trainings China 100.0 emissions) 18,134 15,710 13,668 % Environmental Management System Total tonCO2eq Sales KRW million 3,035,245 2,387,024 2,204,890 9,572 8,998 7,533 * Once a year per person Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Gunsan Scope 1 tonCO2eq Operating 8,562 6,712 6,135 Separate income KRW million (87,184) (263,677) 45,924 Worksites with Korea Site 3 3 3 Scope 2 tonCO2eq Collection rate of statement of ISO 14001 (EMS) interests form % 100 .0 100.0 Total tonCO2eq 3,671 3,406 2,666 Net income KRW million certification China Site 1 (loss) 47,005 (719,193) (56,312) * Not conducted in 2015 Others 2) Scope 1 tonCO2eq 1,787 1,500 1,089 * There is a difference from the disclosed data in the 2015 Integrated Report because data * As the business transfer of Machine Tools Business Group (BG) was completed on April 29, ** No. of employees who submitted a signed copy of statement of interests form / No. of office of the Changwon Plant is not included 1,884 1,907 1,577 Scope 2 tonCO2eq 2016, relevant profits and losses are categorized into profits and losses from discontinued worker who has a job title of part leader or higher from among employees in Korea and operations resident employees in China * gas emissions for 2014 and 2015 were recalculated due to changes in the conversion factor Energy Usage (1kwh=860kcal) based on the Enforcement Regulations of the Energy Act 1) Greenhouse gas emissions that are truncated per worksite are summed at the company Financial Soundness: Financial Status Compliance Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 level. For this reason, there is a difference between the sum of greenhouse gas emissions Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Total TJ 1,169 1,007 812 per worksite and total greenhouse gas emissions of worksites in Korea. Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 2) As the sell-off of the Suji Technical Institute was completed on March 11, emissions of other Total assets KRW million 11,957,427 11,383,173 10,026,809 Legal measures on LNG TJ 300 242 200 worksites in 2014 and 2015 were recalculated unfair trade conduct Case 0 0 0 Total Energy Electricity TJ 728 610 490 Consolidated liabilities KRW million 8,669,139 8,280,217 6,578,432 Fine levied due to a Korea NOx 1) ppm 3.9 0.4 0.8 usage Korea violation of laws or Case 0 0 0 volume Diesel TJ 128 145 114 7.3 0.0 0.0 Total equity KRW million 3,288,288 3,102,956 3,448,377 regulations SOx 2) ppm (Including direct and Others (LPG, Total assets KRW million 7,209,203 5,979,890 4,846,201 VOCs indirect kerosene, TJ 13 10 8 etc.) (Continuous Total usage) Incheon type/Nonppm 15.1/14.2 18.8/12.0 15.0/5.7 Separate KRW million 4,643,677 4,092,486 3,042,101 liabilities Customers LNG m3 855,611 continuous type) 3) Total equity KRW million 2,565,526 1,887,404 1,804,100 China Electricity kWh 9,992,440 Protection of Personal Information Emissions Dust (Electric Diesel ton 683 arc furnace/ mg/m 3 4.2/3.8 3.2/3.5 3.2/3.2 of air others) 4) Research & Development Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 pollutants Violations of protection Korea Case 0 0 0 NOx 5) ppm 0.04 0.11 0.1 Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Resources Usage of customer’s personal 0.20 0.15 0.2 R&D China Case 0 0 SOx 6) ppm KRW 164,495 151,017 97,552 information Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Gunsan investment million VOCs 7) ppm 4.02 4.83 4.8 Korea Steel plate ton 14,451 9,280 8,001 R&D Dust 8) mg/m 3 2.11 1.80 2.4 investment % 4.9 4.3 4.4 ton/ per sales Steel plate 12.43 intensity KRW 0.005 0.004 0.004 VOCs mg/m3 million China * Based on separate financial statements Dust mg/m3 14.22 ** As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, R&D Scrap metal ton 39,518 29,053 17,438 1) investment of the BG is excluded Fuel Legal limit: 200ppm, company’s internal limit: 80ppm ton/ 2) Legal limit: 400ppm, company’s internal limit: 160ppm usage Incheon Scrap metal KRW 0.013 0.012 0.008 3) volume intensity Continuous type: Legal limit: 40ppm, company’s internal limit: 32ppm / Non-continuous 3,192 3,137 3,193 million Intellectual Application Case type: Legal limit: 200ppm, company’s internal limit: 160ppm Global 4) Electric arc furnace: Legal limit: 20mg/m3, company’s internal limit: 8mg/m3 / Others: properties Registration Case 1,323 1,430 1,936 Sand (molding ton sand) 1) 29,080 15,329 22,586 Legal limit: 50mg/m3, company’s internal limit: 20mg/m3 5) * Number of intellectual property rights applications and registration made at home and Legal limit: 200ppm, company’s internal limit: 80ppm ton/ 6) Legal limit: 400ppm, company’s internal limit: 160ppm abroad Sand intensity KRW 0.010 0.006 0.010 7) Legal limit: 40ppm, company’s internal limit: 32ppm million 8) Legal limit: 50mg/m3, company’s internal limit: 20mg/m3 * Intensity is calculated based on sales of separate financial statements of each year 1) Molding sands are 100% recycled Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 1) Water usage Emissions Incheon CFC, HCFC, ppm 0 0 0 ton 861,707 662,755 631,849 of ozoneCH3Br, R-22 volume depleting CFC, HCFC, Water usage ton/KRW substances Gunsan CH3Br, R-22 ppm 0 0 0 Korea intensity 1) million 0.284 0.278 0.287 Water usage * Zero emissions of ozone-depleting substances Recycled or reused water 2) ton 800 70,284 83,365 1) As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, emissions of ozone-depleting substances of the Changwon site is excluded Water usage China volume ton 64,735 1) Intensity is calculated based on sales of separate financial statements of each year 2) Figure of the Incheon Plant 92 93 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix CSR Facts & Figures CSR FACTS & FIGURES Win-win Growth Employees Effluents and Waste Support for Suppliers Employment Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 1) Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Classification Unit 2014 2015 20161) Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 1) Annual employee Korea % 1.6 32.4 2.9 turnover rate 2) Korea ton 79,793 63,140 67,544 Number of Korea Person 5,740 4,191 2,550 suppliers Number of 20s % 2.2 21.0 1.7 Emissions Incheon ton 71,732 56,180 60,139 received Company 145 171 45 China Person 1,113 employees 30s % 2.7 25.0 5.0 of effluents financial Gunsan ton 8,061 6,960 7,405 support Global 2) Person 14,518 11,086 3,919 Turnover rate by age 3) 40s % 0.9 27.6 1.9 China ton 61,498 Amount of Office Person 3,407 2,312 1,388 Financial KRW 100 By job 50 and above % 0.4 57.0 0.0 BOD 1) mg/L 2.9 4.0 6.2 Korea financial2) million 777.5 502.5 430.0 Technical Person 2,333 1,879 1,162 support support * The calculation method was changed in 2016, and the previously reported figures were COD 2) mg/L 13.9 20.8 14.8 By Non-regular 3) Person 341 409 151 changed accordingly Incheon Ratio of cash 1)  employment As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, turnover Suspended settlement % 43.7 46.6 17.5 Ratio of mg/L 1.3 2.4 3.8 % 5.7 9.8 5.9 rate of the BG is excluded solids 3) cases type non-regular 4) 2) Emissions Based on regular workers. Total number of turnovers in 2016 / Annual average number in of water BOD 4) mg/L 141 99 89.5 Number of 3 per 1 per 1 per Korea in 2016 Times Korea Disabled 5) Person 118 89 35 pollutants payments month month month 3) Based on regular workers. Total number of turnovers in 2016 by age / Annual average COD 5) mg/L 132 102 104.6 National merit number in Korea in 2016 by age Gunsan 1) As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, financial Person 158 123 75 Suspended recipient 6) mg/L 8 4 13.2 support for suppliers of the BG is excluded solids 6) 2) Excluding indirect support Diversity 7) Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 1) Elderly Person 643 627 174 China COD mg/L 33 Number of Male 2) Person 197 225 94 Male Person 5,266 3,963 2,394 1) Support employees on Legal standard 120mg/L, company’s internal standard 48mg/L for Female 3) Person 37 18 10 2) Case 59 66 59 Female Person 474 228 156 parental leave Legal standard 130mg/L, company’s internal standard 52mg/L developing 3) Technical Legal standard 120mg/L, company’s internal standard 48mg/L Office 570 Number of 4) development Korea technology By job Person Male Person 1,965 1,643 1,206 Legal standard 400mg/L, company’s internal standard 160mg/L employees eligible 5) Legal standard 400mg/L, company’s internal standard 160mg/L support Support Technical Person 573 for parental leave 4) Female Person 154 63 43 6) Legal standard 200mg/L, company’s internal standard 80mg/L for protecting Case 21 20 8 technology By Non-regular Person 17 Number of Male Person 5 4 4 employment Ratio of employees on Total weight of 1) As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, financial % 1.53 ton 43,206 31,068 21,179 type childcare leave 5) Female Person 25 23 12 waste support for suppliers of the BG is excluded China non-regular Korea Korea Recycled Disabled Person 0 Number of Male Person 3 6 3 ton 40,685 29,479 19,571 Training employees return volume Course 29 49 17 courses Elderly Person 4 to work after Recycling rate % 94 95 92 Diversity Female Person 19 33 14 Korea Staff at Male Person 926 childcare leave 6) General waste ton 39,705 27,975 18,453 Education suppliers Person 722 1,380 204 Female Person 170 Continue to work Male % 100 33 support completed Incheon Specified waste ton 2,440 2,130 1,861 trainings 1) rate for 12 months As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, number of Waste after childcare Female % 89 63 21 Recycling rate % 95 96 94 employees of the BG is excluded Training leave 7) discharge China Hour 18 2) Including current number of employees in Korea and China. Doosan Bobcat employees hours and recycle General waste ton 822 739 647 are excluded after the completion of the company’s listing on the Korea Exchange on Number of Male Person 95 * Fair Trade Commission standard 5 days=1 person (1 day=8 hours, Based on the application November 18, 2016 employees on Gunsan Specified waste ton 239 224 218 3) period of punctuality) Non-regular: consultants, advisory, and appointed outside personnel are excluded) parental leave Female Person 20 4) Recycling rate % 61 60 55 1) As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, Education Non-regular/Total staff*100 China support for suppliers of the BG is excluded 5) Based on MY HR; national disabled classification (levels 1-6) Return to work Total weight of 6) Based on MY HR; national merit recipients (person with a merit no. or someone approved) rate after parental % 100 ton 2,161.8 waste 1) 7) Above the age of 55 (Based on total staff in Korea) Number of leave 124 148 179 China Recycled ton 1,291.3 Competitiveness Korea operation man-day persons persons persons 1)  As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, figures of volume 2) enhancement days the BG is excluded Recycling rate % 60 support Number of man-day 2) Employees who started their paternity leave in 2016 China 156 supports 3) Employees who started their maternity leave in 2016 1) Hazardous and general waste 4) Employees with children under the age of 8 years old or second graders in elementary 1) 2) Waste steel, waste wood As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, school competitiveness enhancement support for suppliers of the BG is excluded 5) Number of employees who began childcare leave in the base year 6) Number of employees who returned from childcare leave in the base year 7) Provision Company 488 122 104 Calculation condition: Continue to work rate for 12 months after childcare leave (Korea) of casting = (Number of current employees in Year N, 12 months after the return) / (Number of Part Safety development molds to strengthen employees who returned in Year N-1) * 100 capacity Korea KRW suppliers’ 28.0 40.8 14.5 enhancement Occupational Safety and Health support capacity of billion developing Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 1) parts Occupational Korea % 0.56 0.22 0.37 * Figures include multiple provision of casting molds to suppliers 1) accident rate As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, part China % 0.22 development capacity enhancement support for suppliers of the BG is excluded * Based on accidents requiring medical care covered by Industrial Accident Insurance 1) As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, EHS support Korea Company 74 57 40 occupational accident rate of the BG is excluded 1) As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, EHS support for suppliers of the BG is excluded CP adoption support Korea Company 7 0 0 1) As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, CP adoption support for suppliers of the BG is excluded 94 95 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix CSR Facts & Figures · Independent Auditors’ Report CSR FACTS & FIGURES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT English Translation of Independent Auditors‘ Report Originally Issued in Korean on March 23, 2017. Social Contributions Labor Union Social Contribution Activities 1) Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 1) To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd.: Union membership rate Korea % 81.9 80.2 71.2 Number of employees Korea 2) Person 1,819 1,141 332 * Technical staff (734 with membership out of 1,031 in total as of 2016) participated in CSR activities China Person 242 1) As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, union 1) Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence membership of the BG is excluded As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, number of employees participated in CSR activities of the BG is excluded We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The 2) The calculation method changed in 2016, and the data for 2014 and 2015 were changed statements of Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and subsidiaries (the procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including Education accordingly ‘Company’), which comprise the consolidated statements of financial the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 1) Hours of CSR activities Hour 17,534 9,752 2,527 position as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and the statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk Average annual training 1) Hour 105.5 99.5 59.2 As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, hours of CSR related consolidated statements of income, consolidated statements assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the hours per person activities of the BG are excluded Korea Average training expenses KRW of comprehensive income, consolidated statements of changes in entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements 1,622 1,210 710.48 per person 1,000 CSR KRW shareholders‘ equity and consolidated statements of cash flows, all in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 11.9 12.5 2.6 investment 1) billion Average annual training expressed in Korean won, for the years ended December 31, 2016 and circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on Hour 14 Korea CSR hours per person China CSR Investment % 0.39 0.52 0.12 2015, respectively, and a summary of significant accounting policies the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes Average training expenses RMB 1,280 investment per sales 2) and other explanatory information. evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the per person 1) Investment reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, training KRW hours and expenses of the BG are excluded China in social 1,000 3) 13,563 contributions Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. Education to prevent Korea Person 5,370 5,000 2,264 1) Used amount of donation Statements 2) sexual harassment CSR investment/Sales of each year based on separate financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation We believe that the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and 3) RMB 1 = KRW 172.82 1) As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, education to of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with Korean appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. prevent sexual harassment of the BG are excluded Employee participation rate International Financial Reporting Standards (‘K-IFRS’) and for such in the Salary Fraction Donation % 86 91 80 campaign 2) internal control as management determines is necessary to enable Opinion Annual fund raised by the Salary KRW the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, 203,965 169,478 78,321 Fraction Donation campaign 1,000 from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as 1) As the business transfer of Machine Tools BG was completed on April 29, 2016, amount of of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and its financial collected through and number of employees participated in the Salary Fraction Donation 2) campaign are excluded Auditors’ Responsibility performance and its cash flows for the years ended December 31, Excluding staff sent to overseas worksites Our responsibility is to express an audit opinion on these 2016 and 2015, respectively, in accordance with K-IFRS. consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing (‘KSAs’). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance March 23, 2017 about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. Notice to Readers This report is effective as of March 23, 2017, the auditors’ report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances may have occurred between the auditors’ report date and the time the auditors’ report is read. Such events or circumstances could significantly affect the accompanying consolidated financial statements and may result in modification to the auditors‘ report. 96 97 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix Independent Assurance Report INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT We were engaged by Doosan Infracore to provide limited assurance on the ‘2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report’ for the year ended December 31, 2016 (further ‘the Report’). Context and Scope Assurance Standards • Interviews with relevant staff at corporate and business unit Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on We conducted our engagement based on the International Standard levels responsible for providing the information in the Report has come to our attention to indicate that the Report is not whether the Report is presented fairly, in all material respects, in on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Assurance Engagements • Visit to Doosan Infracore’s offices in Doosan Tower presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) of the other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, reporting criteria. • C omparing the information presented in the Report to Global Reporting Initiative. We do not provide any assurance on the issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards determine whether it is in line with our overall knowledge achievability of the objectives, targets and expectations of Doosan Board, and also AA1000AS. The standards require that we comply of, and experience with, Doosan Infracore’s performance on Infracore. with applicable ethical requirements, including independence June 2017 corporate social responsibility requirements, and that we plan and perform the engagement to KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp. The scope of our engagement conforms to the KPMG Sustainability obtain limited assurance about whether the Report is free from Opinion CEO Kim, Kyo Tai Assurance Manual™ (KSAM™), including the aspect of “materiality”. material misstatement. With regards to financial data, our procedures were limited to • Stakeholder Inclusiveness verifying that they were correctly derived from audited financial Limitations – D oosan Infracore operates communication channels statements. To obtain a thorough understanding of Doosan A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than with key stakeholders such as shareholders/investors, Infracore’s financial results and position, the audited financial a reasonable assurance engagement, and consequently does not customers/dealers, employees, suppliers, local communities statements produced on 23 March 2017 should be referred to. enable us to obtain assurance on all significant matters that we (environment/NGOs), local/central government and media. may become aware of in a reasonable assurance engagement. – We are not aware of any key stakeholder group that has Responsibilities Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. been excluded from dialogue in the Report. As stated in the ‘Reporting Principles and Standard,’ Doosan • Sustainability Context Infracore is responsible for all content within the Report in respect This report has been prepared solely for Doosan Infracore in – Doosan Infracore has established a process to incorporate of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4). It is the accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept CSR in management’s decision-making and the business responsibility of Doosan Infracore’s management to establish and or assume responsibility to anyone other than Doosan Infracore for management plans of relevant teams, thereby securing maintain appropriate performance management and internal control our work, or for the conclusions we have reached in the assurance continuity. systems from which the reported sustainability information is report. derived. – We confirmed that Doosan Infracore recognizes general Our responsibility is to perform a limited assurance engagement and Main Assurance Procedures business management and social responsibility management to express a conclusion based on the work performed. Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on comprehensively and applies such understanding within the whether the Report is presented fairly, in all material respects, Report. Independence in accordance with the reporting criteria. Procedures performed • Materiality In conducting our engagement, we have complied with the to obtain a limited level of assurance on a sustainability report – Doosan Infracore conducts a materiality test in determining requirements of the International Federation of Accountants consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for material issues. (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, issued by the the preparation of information presented in the integrated report, – We are not aware of any material aspects concerning its International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants. We do not and applying analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as sustainability performance which have been excluded from engage in any and all activities that may influence our independence appropriate. These procedures included the following: the Report. from Doosan Infracore. KPMG has systems and processes in place • Confirmation on whether the financial information presented to monitor compliance with the Code, and to prevent conflicts in the Report was correctly derived from Doosan Infracore’s • Completeness regarding independence. audited financial statements – Doosan Infracore applies reporting scope, boundary and temporal criteria. • Inquiries to gain an understanding of Doosan Infracore’s processes for determining the material issues for key – In terms of criteria mentioned above, we confirm that stakeholder groups the Report is suitable for stakeholders to assess social responsibility performance. 98 99 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report GLOBAL NETWORK Headquarters Production Subsidiaries Sales Subsidiaries Parts Distribution Center Headquarters Production Subsidiaries Sales Subsidiaries UN Global Compact – 10 Principles Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Seoul, Korea | Yantai, China | Human Rights 489, Injung-ro, Dong-gu, Incheon, Korea 489, Injung-ro, Dong-gu, Incheon Beijing, China | Chennai, India | Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Americana, Brazil | Santiago, Chile | internationally proclaimed human rights; and Elnesvågen, Norway | Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Doosan Infracore (China) Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Groot-Ammers, Netherlands Labor Standards Investment Co., Ltd. 185, Dongjangsan-ro, Gunsan-si, Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the The paper used in printing the 2016 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report is 19th Fl., Tower B., Gateway, No. 18, Jeollabuk-do effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; certified as an environmental-friendly product by the Forest Stewardship Council®. Xiaguangli, North Road, East Third Ring, Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; In addition, the report was printed at a FSC-certified print shop using soy oil ink Chaoyang District, Beijing 100027, Parts Distribution Center (PDC) which drastically reduces the emissions of air pollutants. Doosan Infracore China Co., Ltd. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and China Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and No. 28, Wuzhishan road, ECO & Tech. Ansan, Korea | Yantai, China | Business Locations in Korea Suzhou, China | Leipzig, Germany | occupation. Development Zone Yantai, Shandong, Seoul Office Doosan Tower, 275, Jangchungdan-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul Doosan (China) Financial China Dubai | Singapore | Americana, Brazil | Environment +82-2-3398-8114 Leasing Corp. Chicago, U.S. | Cardiff, U.K. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Incheon Plant 489, Injung-ro, Dong-gu, Incheon 20th Fl., Tower B., Gateway, No. 18, environmental challenges; +82-32-211-1114 Xiaguangli, North Road, East Third Ring, Doosan Infracore Norway AS. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Gunsan Plant 185, Dongjangsan-ro, Gunsan-si, Jeollabuk-do Chaoyang District, Beijing 100027, Varholvegen 149 N-6440 Elnesvågen, responsibility; and +82-63-447-3043 China Norway Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Ansan Parts 48, Yongdam-ro, Sangnok-gu, Ansan-si, Gyeonggi-do friendly technologies. Service Center +82-31-400-2114 Anti-Corruption Date Published June 2017 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Publishing Team CSR part, Communication, Doosan Infracore E-mail: csr.di@doosan.com Doosan Infracore supports UNGC – Ten Principles. Planning and Design Talantone Creative Group 100
