Tabl e of Con ten ts B u s in ess S u p p o rt a n d Co n tri b u ti o n 02 Top Management Message 19 Social Contributions by KURODA ELECTRIC Group 03 About KURODA ELECTRIC 20 Educational Support Activities ① Company Information ② Financial Reporting 21 Environmental Contribution Activities ③ Principal Subsidiaries ④ Working with our Partners 22 Regional, Household and other Social ⑤ Working with our Shareholders and Investors Contributions 07 KURODA ELECTRIC Group CSR M a n a g e m e n t Sy s te m Outline 23 Quality and Environmental Management ① Corporate Philosophy̶Company Motto̶ Systems Mission Statement ① Quality / Environmental Policies ② The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct ② Quality and Environmental Controls ③ Joining the United Nations Global Compact（ GC） ③ Environmental Performance ④ The Relationship between the Sustainable Development Goals and CSR Activities ⑤ 2016 CSR Goals with Principal Corresponding Activities w i th Emp l o y e e ⑥ CSR Activity Goals for 2017 Financial Year 27 Working with our Employees ① Developing Skilled Human Resources 13 Initiatives at KURODA ELECTRIC ② Employee Welfare Programs ③ Mental Healthcare Programs 14 Corporate Governance 15 Compliance 31 The KURODA ELECTRIC Roadmap ① The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct ② KURODA ELECTRIC Group Hotline 17 Risk Management ① The Corporate Action Committeeʼs Response to Compliance and Risk Management ② Information Security Editorial Policy The purpose of this document is to report on KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs activities and approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). As a vital communicative tool, the objective of this CSR report is to promote dialogue among all stakeholders for the overall betterment of society. We sincerely hope that by introducing the CSR activities of KURODA ELECTRIC Group we will be able to further promote such dialogue. The month of issue August, 2017（The date of issue last time：June 29, 2016） Target Period This report will deal with KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs 82nd period, the 2016 ﬁnancial year (April 1, 2016-March 31, 2017) (some information, targets and forecasts from outside this period will also be included). The next report is currently scheduled for August, 2018. Scope of Report This report will cover CSR activities by KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. as well as aﬃliated domestic companies (KURODA TECHNO Co., Ltd., KOMURA-TECH Co., Ltd., Sohwa & Sophia Technologies Inc., NICHIDO-DENKO Co. Ltd.) and major aﬃliated companies overseas. Reference Guidelines ISO26000:2010「Guidance on social responsibility」 UN Global Compact Policy on Communicating Progress 01 Top Management Message With the fusion of electronics and currently expanded to 16 trading companies in telecommunications, our economic system is Japan and overseas, and 13 development, moving towards a new era. The competition over manufacturing and processing companies. In technological development has led to ever lower addition to providing a variety of parts, materials costs and higher functionality across a wide range and services, from a customer-oriented of electronic and electrical goods, resulting in a perspective, and engaging in development, pronounced spike in the development of new manufacturing and processing, we have also products over a short period of time. Additionally, established a global network for the sophisticated with the increasing globalization of economic exchange and ﬂow of the latest technologies and systems, the creation of production and circulation information. networks which cross national boundaries has become a more pressing matter than ever. While it In March 2011 we formally joined the United is incumbent on us to respond appropriately to Nations Global Compact (UNGC), continuing CSR changes such as these in the business environment, activities with the UNGC as a guiding standard. The there are also a variety of issues facing us on a Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) identiﬁed global scale, such as poverty, hunger, biodiversity, during the 2015 United Nations Summit serve as a climate change, and conﬂict minerals and other collection of clear, shared goals for 2030 for human rights issues in the supply chain. companies and organizations worldwide, and have also been incorporated into our CSR standards. Since our founding in 1945 we have developed as an independent trading company dealing in By pursuing management in line with global products such as electrical materials, general standards such as these, we aim to further increase electric parts, liquid crystal panels and machinery. our corporate value and achieve sustainable Most important of all, as a supplier of manufacturing growth. parts and materials to the e l e c t r o n i c s i n d u s t r y, w e a t K U R O DA E L E C T R I C h a v e always developed our business in close contact with our customers. And since establishment our guiding policy has been to provide services vital to our customers without interruption, in a timely and eﬃcient manner, thus contributing to the development of both the world-wide manufacturing industry and to society, and growing in trust as a corporation. Under these business policies, the Kuroda Electric Group has President CEO & COO Koichi Hosokawa 02 Abo u t KUR O DA E LE C TR I C Business 03 1 Company Information ⑴ Corporate Name KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. ⑵ Start of Operations October 1945 ⑶ Capital 10,045 million yen (as of the end of March, 2017) ⑷ Annual Turnover 229,571 million yen (2016 ﬁscal year ending March 31st, 2017 on a consolidated basis) ⑸ Company Rep. President CEO & COO Koichi Hosokawa ⑹ Number of Employees 324 (standalone, as of the end of March, 2017) 3,844 (consolidated companies, as of the end of March, 2017) ⑺ Listed Stock Exchange First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange 2 Financial Reporting (Aggregated Account Summaries) Sa l e s Ope rating P ro ﬁts (¥ millions) First Half Second Half (¥ millions) First Half Second Half 9,895 3 5 0,000 3 2 6 ,4 1 2 10,000 8,669 3 0 0,000 287,839 2 8 5 ,6 0 5 8,108 7,500 7 , 088 2 5 0,000 22 9 , 5 7 1 5,653 1 8 6 ,7 1 3 1 2 0 ,8 7 7 4,572 152,425 3,556 2 0 0,000 11 2 , 0 2 0 5,000 3 , 600 1 5 0,000 1 0 0,000 1 6 4 ,7 2 8 2,500 4,552 135,414 1 3 9 ,6 9 9 4,097 4,242 5 0,000 11 7 , 5 5 1 3 , 488 79th Period 80th Period 81st Period 82nd Period 79th Period 80th Period 81st Period 82nd Period 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 Ordinary Proﬁts Cu rre nt Te rm N e t P ro ﬁts (¥ millions) First Half Second Half (¥ millions) First Half Second Half 1 2,500 7,000 6,765 10 ,3 0 3 6,000 5,792 1 0,000 9,075 4 , 8 44 5,000 3,698 7 ,7 1 9 2,706 7,500 5 ,9 5 0 6,9 5 3 4,000 3,871 4,769 2 , 4 59 3,1 8 3 780 5,000 3 ,5 5 3 3,000 2,000 2,500 3,086 3,067 3,091 4,306 4 ,3 5 3 4,5 3 6 2 , 3 85 3 ,4 0 0 1,000 79th Period 80th Period 81st Period 82nd Period 79th Period 80th Period 81st Period 82nd Period 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 Yearl y N e t P r o ﬁ t pe r St ock Ye arly Divide nds pe r Sto ck (Y e n) First Half Second Half ( Yen ) First Half Second Half 200 186.93 1 8 9 .4 4 100 95 90 80 150 86.89 1 0 1 .4 8 128.73 70 67 48 60 20 1 0 2 .8 6 100 65.36 50 20 .7 1 40 36 32 30 50 100.04 17 20 47 47 87 .9 6 82 .1 5 20 63.37 10 15 16 79th Period 80th Period 81st Period 82nd Period 79th Period 80th Period 81st Period 82nd Period 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 For more detailed business reports, please refer to the following URL links. Business Reports http://www.kuroda-electric.co.jp/ir/library/report/ Factbook http://www.kuroda-electric.co.jp/ir/library/factbook/ 04 3 Principal Subsidiaries Domestic 4 1 KURODA TECHNO CO., LTD. 2 2 KOMURA-TECH CO., LTD. 3 Sohwa & Sophia Technologies INC. 4 NICHIDO-DENKO CO., LTD. 3 3 1 1 4 2 Overseas 1 Z. KURODA (Singapore) PTE. LTD. B KURODA ELECTRIC (SHENZHEN) CO., LTD. 2 KURODA ELECTRIC (Malaysia) SDN. BHD. C KC AUTOMATION (SHENZHEN) CO., LTD. 3 PT. TRIMITRA CHITRAHASTA D RAINBOW METAL TECHNOLOGIES CO., LTD. 4 PT. KURODA ELECTRIC Indonesia E KURODA PRECISION TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. 5 Z. KURODA (Thailand) CO., LTD. F SHANGHAI KURODA TRADING CO., LTD. 6 KURODA Auto-Tech (Thailand) LTD. G TIANJIN KURODA TRADING CO., LTD. 7 KURODA ELECTRIC (Philippines) INC. H TAIWAN KURODA ELECTRIC CO., LTD. 8 BORAMTEK (Vietnam) CO., LTD. I KURODA ELECTRIC U.S.A. INC. 9 KURODA ELECTRIC KOREA INC. J NANKAI Enviro-Tech Corporation : KURODA ELECTRIC INDIA PVT. LTD. K NANKAI Mexico, S.A. DE C.V. A Z. KURODA (HONGKONG) CO., LTD. L KURODA ELECTRIC CZECH S.R.O 22 17 9 19 21 20 15 16 10 13 12 14 18 5 11 17 6 7 9 8 2 1 15 16 3 4 13 12 14 18 11 5 6 7 8 2 1 3 4 05 4 Working with our Partners At KURODA ELECTRIC Group we regularly purchase a wide range of materials, parts and other supplies. At the heart of all our operations, however, is the positive relationship we build and maintain with our trading partners. Therefore, when selecting suppliers, we always adhere to the strictest codes of fairness and impartiality and are careful to observe every applicable law when purchasing. 5 Working with our Shareholders and Investors The support of our shareholders and investors is vital for sustainable development at KURODA ELECTRIC. This is why we emphasize the importance of timely and pertinent information disclosure and communication in investor relations. ⑴ I n fo r m atio n Disclo s ur e and ⑵ S t ock I nformat ion I n v e s t o r Relatio ns P o lic ies Total Number of Authorized Shares 120,000,000 At KURODA ELECTRIC We disclose important information pertaining to Total Number of Outstanding Shares 39,446,162 our social responsibilities in terms of ﬁnancial, environmental and social ( Of them, treasury stocks 1,811,271) standpoint to our stakeholders timely and pertinently. We value transparency, fairness and continuity when dealing with each and every Total Shareholders 8,272 one of our shareholders and investors. Not only do we disclose (as of the end of March, 2017) information required by the securities exchangeʼs rules on timely disclosure, but in order to proactively promote fair disclosure of information we also publish documents regarding ﬁnancial results brieﬁngs directly to our website. In addition to the disclosure of information, in order to ensure an accurate and equitable assessment of our company, we also engage each of our shareholders and investors in direct communication thereby creating a proactive dialogue which then enables us, in the course of operations, to consult the many opinions of our stakeholders before making decisions. Our earnest wish is that, in order to maintain the fair and smooth circulation of our marketable securities (KURODA ELECTRIC stocks), we are able to utilize this dialogue to even further raise the value of our enterprises at KURODA ELECTRIC. 06 KURODA ELECTRIC Group CSR Outline Business 07 1 Corporate Philosophy̶Company Motto̶Mission Statement ⑴ Co r p or ate P hilo so p hy The items listed below, which form KURODA ELECTRICʼs corporate philosophy, are the root of the company groupʼs CSR policy. It is through this philosophy, unchanged since the companyʼs inception, that we recognize our dues to the community and environment and continue to develop our business with freedom and creativity. It is this very philosophy which speaks to the heart of our existence as a company and our sense of social responsibility. Life Freedom Creativity Dynamic enthusiasm, To allow our employees Most importantly, to grow in independence to always avoid complacency, and appreciation for all and capability through and to pursue new territories that the community and the delegation of and possibilities environment allow. responsibility. with bold resolution. ⑵ C om p a ny Mo tto For human existence, the two most fundamentally important things are Life and Freedom. Thus, for a company to continue developing in perpetuity it must respect and seek to actualize these two philosophies, and to build a corporate culture where the workplace overﬂows in both. With this logic in mind, KURODA ELECTRIC Group chooses the following as its Company Motto: Let us stretch our vital roots deep into the earth, and spread our limbs freely unto the sky. ⑶ M i s s i o n Statem ent Additionally, at KURODA ELECTRIC Group, our employees are united in a single fundamental approach which is deﬁned by the following mission statement. Let us remain mindful when dealing with others that we owe our existence 1. to society at large and treat them with honesty and gratitude. Let us value the gift of life, cherish our freedom, 2. and so pursue vital living development. Let us reﬂect always on our actions and, through originality and ingenuity, 3. seek prosperity through business; Let us resolve to build character through our work. 08 2 The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct ( Herea ft er ʻ Cod e of Co ndu c tʼ ) The Code of Conduct was established as guidelines or principles which every oﬃcer and employee of the KURODA ELECTRIC Group must comply with in all his/her daily business activities. Our Code of Conduct does not stop at only the observance of laws and regulations but also gives heavy consideration to social and corporate ethics. The purpose of the code, rather, is to fulﬁll our social responsibilities and ensure the trust of our stakeholders by providing a set of fundamental rules for employees to follow in the course of their daily activities. The Code of Conduct is comprised of seven core themes, including those prescribed by ISO26000 guidances (Organizational Governance, Human Rights, Labor Practices, Environment, Fair Business Practices and Consumer Issues) as well as Community Participation and Development. These seven themes reveal KURODA ELECTRICʼs fundamental approach to its corporate activities. 3 Joining the United Nations Global Compact（GC） In order for KURODA ELECTRIC to support the universal principles regarding human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption proposed by the United Nations, KURODA ELECTRIC expressed its intention to join the United Nations Global Compact and was formally registered as one of signatory companies on March 2, 2011. Guided in this decision by our Corporate Philosophy, Company Motto and Mission Statement, in addition to supporting the 10 fundamental principles regarding these issues put forth by the Global Compact we have also chosen the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as the backbone criteria for our CSR activities. As a global corporation and conscientious corporate citizens, it is our duty to contribute across all corporate fronts towards the realization of a sustainable society on a global basis. Th e 10 Prin c iple s o f t he G C Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Labor Principle 5 the eﬀective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment Principle 8 responsibility; and encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally Principle 9 friendly technologies. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Anti-Corruption Principle 10 including extortion and bribery While the wording may vary slightly, the 10 principles listed above can, for the most part, also be found in the Code of Conduct. Meaning that, even before KURODA ELECTRIC formally joined the UN Global Compact, we had already enforced these principles through the establishment of and compliance with our own code of conduct. 09 4 T h e R elatio ns hip b et ween t he S ust ainable D e velo p m ent Go als and C S R Act ivit ies Since joining the UNGC, Kuroda Electric has pursued CSR activities guided by the UNGC Ten Principles and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). While the MDGs were formulated as targets for 2015, several of the targets were left unattained and were carried over to the SDGs*, which now join the UNGC Ten Principles as the standards guiding Kuroda Electric CSR activities. *The United Nations Sustainable Development Summit was held during September 25-27, 2015, at the Headquarters of the United Nations in New York. The leaders of over 150 member nations attended, drafting “Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.” The Agenda lays out declarations and goals that serve as an action plan for people, planet and prosperity. The 17 goals and 169 targets laid out in the Agenda comprise what is known as the Sustainable Development Goals. KURODA ELECTRIC CSR Activities KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. Corporate Philosophy̶Company Motto̶Mission Statement The DNA of KURODA ELECTRIC The UN Global Compact Formal Entry on March 2, 2011 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact UNGC Sustainable Development Goals S D G s The Backbone of our CSR Activities SDGs Goal 4 Quality Educat ion Educational Support Activities in Thailand ①Continuous Support for Ban Parai Elementary School (in Sisaket Province) through interaction with the school ②Continuous Support for Watdonputza Elementary School (near Rojana Industrial Park in Ayutthaya Province) through interaction with the school Businesses should support the elimination of UNGC Principle 6 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation SDGs Goal 5 Gend er Equalit y Work-style Reform ①Transform in-company awareness regarding support for womenʼs success in the workplace ②Establish support for childcare and nursing and encourage male employees to take advantage of them as well ③Expand ﬁelds and positions occupied by female employees ④Promote reduced overtime ⑤Promote in-company diversity SDGs Goal 15 Lif e o n Land Environmental Contribution Activities ①Conserve forests through cooperation with government organizations and NGOs ②Expand activities in the vicinity of Kuroda Electric Group locations in Southeast Asia 10 5 2016 CSR Goals with Principal Corresponding Activities Evaluation Method ◎：Exceeds Goal (value of 120% or higher) ○：Meets Goal △：Unsatisfactory 201 6 F i n a nci a l Y e a r 2 0 1 6 F i n an c i al Y ear Eval Page No. ̶ G o a l s a nd P l a n s ̶ ̶P ri n c i p al Ac t i vi t i es̶ Strengthening of CSR Activities and Preparation of the “CSR REPORT 2016” (reporting activities in 2015 Information Disclosure in Accordance ﬁnancial year) and other Information Disclosure ○ ー with Participation in the GC Organizational Governance ①Implemented management oversight and supervision via a board of directors comprised primarily of highly independent outside directors (reporting to the Tokyo Stock Exchange), and legal compliance audits through the audit committee Implementation of Highly Transparent ②Implemented training for directors, representatives and executive Management Practices and Strengthening oﬃcers, in duties and obligations of oﬃcers, led by outside lawyers ○ 14・16 of Practices Related to Governance ③Added (selection possible) audit committee chairman (an outside director) to previous list of persons (the internal reporting secretariat and corporate attorneys) to receive internal reporting, and educated all employees on improvements to system and other issues via web training Continued Strengthening of ①Held Financial Results Brieﬁng for analysts and institutional investors Communication with Investors and in May, 2016 Securities Analysts as well as Timely and ②Held Individual IR meeting for analysts and institutional investors after Pertinent Disclosure in order to Promote disclosing quarterly results ○ 06 Penetration of KURODA ELECTRIC's ③Held plant tours in December 2016 for domestic institutional Management Policies and Strategies investors, at overseas manufacturing and processing companies ①Implementation of Human Rights Education as Part of New Employee Human Provision of CSR/Human-Rights Training Education for Compliance with the ②Publication of 12 (Once Per Month) CSR Columns Featuring Human ○ ー Rights Code of Conduct Rights as Their Main Theme in KURODA Channel, which Has Been Established as Our Internal Communication Medium Development and Implementation of ①Implemented management skills training Employee Training Programs in alignment ②Implemented web training to increase fundamental knowledge ○ 28 with Position Class and Job Category ③Implemented language training, life planning training, etc. Labor Practices ①Implementation of Medical Checkups(Company burden) for 35-year-old or Older Employees Continuous support of preventative ②Support for Brain Exams and Lung Cancer Screenings for 40-year-old health measures for employees or Older Employees ○ 29-30 ③Support for screening for cancer of the cervix and mammography for Female Employees Enrichment of preventative mental Implemented stress checks for all employees based on the revised healthcare programs Industrial Safety and Health Act ○ 29-30 Implementation of KURODA ELECTRIC ECO Point System, with Environment Approximately 240 Employees Participating in ECO Activities ○ 22 Strengthening of Environmental Continue using Forest Management (CoC) Certiﬁed Copy Papers Conservation Activities throughout the company ○ 25 Eﬀorts for Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations ○ 26 ①Implemented group training for all employees (2 themes) ②Implemented web training for all employees (1 theme) Fair Business ③Implemented workplace modular training (4 themes: once every three Compliance with related laws and months) using distributed training materials, with division heads as regulations, and thorough dissemination persons in charge of compliance promotion (instructors) ○ 15 Practices of the compliance code of conduct ④Implemented group training for managers (1 theme) ⑤Began transmitting information related to compliance education via in-company bulletin board (once per month, to domestic and overseas aﬃliated companies) ①Promoted understanding and appropriate application of laws and Customer / regulations related to the Act against Delay in Payment of Strengthening of the KURODA Group Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors, via training and System for Legal Compliance in the information campaigns ○ ー Procurement of Supplies ②Promoted formation of basic transaction contracts to ensure Client Interaction adoption of fair terms and conditions Further Improvement of KURODA ELECTRIC Group Quality Measures Maintenance and Renewal of Globally-Integrated ISO Certiﬁcation ○ 24-25 Community ○ KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs Educational Support Activities in Thailand 20 Continued Social Contribution in each Participation and of KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs Support for Persons (Regions) Aﬀected by the Kumamoto Earthquakes ○ 22 Established Areas Development Donation of Emergency Rations ○ 22 11 6 CSR Activity Goals for 2017 Financial Year Our goal every year at KURODA ELECTRIC is to elevate our CSR activities even further than before. In addition to projects carried over from 2016 or earlier, we plan to set the following goals for 2017 and hope to meet them with more than 100% success. ⑴ Or ganiz atio n al G overnance ● Continued Strengthening of CSR Activities and Information Disclosure in Accordance with Participation in the GC ● Implementation of Highly Transparent Management Practices and Strengthening of Practices Related to Governance ● Continued Strengthening of Communication with Investors and Securities Analysts as well as Timely and Pertinent Disclosure in order to Promote Penetration of KURODA ELECTRIC's Management Policies and Strategies. ⑵ H um an Right s ● Provision of CSR/Human-Rights Education ⑶ Lab o r Pr ac t ices ● Development and Implementation of Employee Training Programs in alignment with Position Class and Job Category. ● Implementation of Work-style Reform mainly focused on the support for womenʼs success in the workplace ● Continuous support of preventative health measures for employees ● Enrichment of preventative mental healthcare programs ⑷ E nvir o nm en t ● Strengthening of Environmental Conservation Activities ⑸ Fair B us iness Pract ices ● Compliance with related Laws and Regulations, and Familiarization of the Code of Conduct ⑹ Custo m er / C lient I nt eract ion ● Strengthening of the KURODA ELECTRIC Group System for Legal Compliance in the Procurement of Supplies ● Implement initiatives to increase the corporate value of the Kuroda Electric Group ⑺ Co m m unity Part icipat ion and D evelopment ● Continued Social Contribution in each of KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs Established Areas 12 Initiatives at KURODA ELECTRIC Business 13 C orp orate Gove rna nc e At KURODA ELECTRIC, in order to fully realize our management philosophy and further raise the value of our enterprises, we consider corporate governance to be an issue of prime importance. It is to this end that we conform to the corporate governance codes established by the Financial Services Agency and the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and strive to follow healthy management systems, to strengthen internal controls, and to preserve administrative transparency through the timely and pertinent disclosure of information. Additionally, we at KURODA ELECTRIC consider compliance to be a vital foundation to fulﬁlling our social obligations, and recognize thorough compliance as an indispensable element of business operations. As we strengthen corporate governance, we are also proactively addressing compliance management. It is for this reason that we have established the KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct, a set of principles which all oﬃcers and employees are required to follow in the course of business. At KURODA ELECTRIC we deﬁne the issue of compliance broadly, comprehending not only adherence to laws and internal regulations but also to greater items such as corporate ethics. Thus, the Code of Conduct becomes a concrete standard for the professional behavior in business operations that all group member oﬃcers and employees must comply with. As a company with nominating and other committees, Kuroda Electric appoints multiple outside directors who are highly independent and free from conﬂicts of interest, in terms of capital, power, inﬂuence on operations and economic dependence vis-à-vis remuneration, striving to strengthen external oversight and ensure transparency in decision making. The separation of execution and supervisory functions is fundamental to the management of corporations that have adopted a committees system, including a nomination committee. At KURODA ELECTRIC, this means that the right to direct management of corporate aﬀairs is transferred to the president and other executive oﬃcers, while the Board of Directors overlooks their operations. During the period covered in this report four of the six appointed directors were outside directors, all of whom fulﬁlled the requirements for independent oﬃcers laid out by the listing rules for the Tokyo Stock Exchange and who have submitted Independent Directors/Auditors Notiﬁcations to the exchange. Furthermore, during the annual shareholders meeting held in June 2017 ﬁve of the seven directors chosen to be appointed were outside directors. KURODA ELECTRIC Corporate Governance Gener al Stockholdersʼ M eet ing Nomination Determination of Candidates for Board Nominating Committee Board Members (Internal / External) (Majority Outside Directors) Board of Directors Nomination Compensation Committee (Majority Outside Directors) (Important Supervision of Decision Making, Management, etc.) Reporting Audit Committee (Majority Outside Directors) Compliance / Validity Inspection Nomination Reporting Compliance / Validity Inspection Executive Oﬃcers Executive Board (Decision Making, Management, etc. (Decision-Making about management is Carried under Delegation of the Board of Directors) out in Conference by Executive Oﬃcers) 14 C omplia nc e At KURODA ELECTRIC Group we consider successful compliance as key to fulﬁlling our social obligations, and recognize thorough compliance as an indispensable element of business operations. Accordingly, we take a proactive stance towards compliance management. To be more precise, the KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct has been established as a guideline which employees must follow during all business activities. Compliance Education based on the Code of Conduct is carried out on an annual basis for all employees to be informed about thorough compliance awareness. The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct System Basic stance as a corporation ⑴ Observance of ordinances ⑵ Observing in-house rules ⑶ Respecting human rights ⑷ Severing of relationships with anti-social forces ⑸ Promoting CSR Basic stance regarding trading ⑴ Strict adherence to the conclusion of a written Relationship with our employees contract with the client and also observance of the contract conditions ⑴ Duty to work honestly ⑵ Fair market competition ⑵ Prohibition against harassment ⑶ Relationship with subcontractors ⑷ Rules related to export and import Compliance Code of Conduct of ⑶ Observance of work-related ordinances ⑸ Safety of products and services ⑹ Environmental protection Kuroda Electric Group ⑷ Elimination of forced labor and child labor ⑺ Giving gifts or providing entertainment ⑻ Receiving gifts or being entertained ⑸ Maintenance of the environment in ⑼ Prohibition against giving gifts to, or providing the workplace entertainment for, public servants Coping with the computerized society Development of sound ﬁnancial activities ⑴ Protection and appropriate use of ⑴ Protection of intellectual property corporate assets ⑵ Respecting the intellectual property of ⑵ Fair accounting procedures a third party ⑶ Accounting and ﬁnancial reports ⑷ Disclosing information to shareholders ⑶ Control of our information and investors ⑷ Control of client information ⑸ Prohibition of insider trading ⑸ Protection of personal information ⑹ Promotion of common beneﬁts for stakeholders 15 1 The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct Basic stance as a corporation : Observance of ordinances and contribution to society Laws are rules that apply equally to the constituent members of a community such as our corporation. They also indicate orderliness concerning the activities of a corporation or individuals in a society.Observance of the laws is a basic rule of a society, and can be said to be a condition for ensuring the continued existence of a corporation. We observe these basic rules, and also promote activities that contribute to society, aiming at the realization of a bountiful society. Relationship with our employees : Our responsibility for enabling employees to work and employeeʼs responsibility for working The relationship between our corporation and our employees with regard to work includes working conditions such as working hours and holidays, provision of salary, and also the preparation of a safe, satisfactory working environment, which is our responsibility as a corporation and an employer.However, a working environment is not something that can be realized by the eﬀorts of the company alone. Improvement of the working environment is joint work based on the intention of each and every employee comprising the company and the workplace to create a company that is pleasant to work for, and also the wish to work at the company for a long time.It is important for the company to be aware of its responsibility to enable its employees to work, and also for the employees to be aware of their responsibility to work. Basic stance regarding trading : Fair dealing that does not contravene the law The aim of trading is to create sound proﬁts.To this end, we carry out severe negotiations with the client, and there are also cases in which we argue with the client. However both parties must observe the trading conditions that are ultimately agreed upon.If we were to carry out trade using an illegal method, we would be in danger of losing our social standing, even assuming that such behavior were to result in large proﬁts over a short period.Trade itself must be something that is fair and free from illegality. The observance of this basic stance supports high-trust trading and also increases the standing and proﬁts of the corporation. Coping with the computerized society : Correct control and utilization of informational assets Along with the rapidly advancing changeover to a computerized society, we are being surrounded by all manner of information. Among this information is beneﬁcial information including intellectual property such as patents, and customer information that can be used in trading.This kind of information can be used in business as important management resources and informational assets, so we will not simply store it away. However, it is also necessary to appropriately control such information.It can be said that appropriate control and utilization of information resources are necessary for sound business development. Development of sound ﬁnancial activities : Acquisition of a ﬁrm ﬁnancial foundation and the trust of the stakeholders Our shareholders and investors, who are ﬁnancial backers, look forward to receiving highly reliable ﬁnancial reports. These reports are also required by law.We must carry out management activities that do not deceive our shareholders and investors. Also, in order to acquire suﬃcient proﬁt and capital to support the entire Kuroda Electric Group which is aiming to development and expand its business, it is necessary to carry out appropriate accounting procedures and ﬁnancial activities. 2 KUROD A E LE C TR I C G r o u p H o t l i ne KURODA ELECTRIC developed and operated an internal reporting system called Kuroda Electric Hotline, as a method for employees to blow the whistle when they have encountered a violation either of the law or company regulations or witnessed actions of an unethical or immoral nature. The company has now expanded this hotline globally to all group companies as the Kuroda Electric Group Hotline. Reports can be made anonymously via the hotline. An informant can select an Internal Reporting Secretariat (including External Legal Adviser) or a Chairperson of Audit Committee (Outside Director) as the reporting destination (eﬀective as of April, 2016). The Corporate Action Committee (for addressing company-wide risks) and Legal / Intellectual Property Division deliberate how to respond to suspected compliance violations. Anonymous Hotline Reporting Destination ❶ Blow the whistle ❸ Notiﬁcation sent using the Hotline by Email Internal Reporting Secretariat tected （ incl. External Legal Adviser ） y is Pro Securit eport No. ❹ Conﬁrm Content ❷ Report No. Issued by a R sword of Report s and Pa Selectable Informant ❺ Report on Resolution ❻ Conﬁrm Resolution or Progress of Chairperson of or Progress Server Investigation Audit Committee (Provided by D-Quest, Inc.) (Outside Director) 16 Ri s k M a na geme nt 1 The Corporate Action Committeeʼs Response to Compliance and Risk Management Our response to Compliance and Risk Management is one of most important problem to our Corporate Social Responsibilities. The Corporate Action Committee was established in order to raise the value of our enterprises, prevent against loss of credibility and to enforce trustworthy risk management practices. The Role of the Corporate Action Committee Regarding Risk Management ● Formulation of basic policy, risk management control ● Formulation of countermeasures and response systems for identiﬁed risks ● Monitoring implementation status of risk management ● Compliance promotion and formulation of training policies Risks Extracted by all Departments (via Committee Members) (Assessment by Risk Factor Analysis) Factor Analysis, Counter-measures, and Determination on who will handle risk Company-Wide Risk Departmental Risk Risks Pertaining to a Departmental Risks to be Handled by a Speciﬁc Department Cross-Section of the Company Business / Legal / Intellectual Legal Risk Investment Risk Property Division Product / Corporate Action Employment Personnel Division Credibility Risk Committee Risk Crisis General Aﬀairs Environmantal Eﬀort Management Division Information Security Information Risk Subcommittee ● Prevention Measures and Risk Management Systems Inspection / Revision Continual Improvement of Risk Management Through PDCA Risk Extraction → Factor Analysis → Assign Priority → Select Prevention Measures Plan Correction by Management Act Do implementation of Measures Awareness / Training / Familiarization Check Inspection / Revision of Prevention Measures and Risk Management Systems 17 2 I n f o r m a t i o n Se c u r i t y In 2008, in order to protect personal information and business secrets of clients and stakeholders alike, we formed the Information Security Subcommittee, establishing rules for Basic Information Security Policies, Rules for Information Security and Information Security Standards. Using these regulations as a guideline we strive to maintain and improve security through periodic web training for employees as well as Information Security Self-Check. KURODA ELECTRIC Basic Information Security Policies At KURODA ELECTRIC, we consider informational assets to be one of our vital management resources. The Basic Information Security Policies were established to ensure appropriate management and protection of our own informational assets as well client assets in our holding. KURODA ELECTRIC Basic Information Security Policies ● KURODA ELECTRIC will enforce appropriate security measures regarding its informational assets in accordance with their priority. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will also take the utmost care to ensure the security of informational assets of clients which are handled in the course of business, and will take constant measures to prevent risk of loss, destruction, falsiﬁcation or unauthorized disclosure. ● Together with the establishment of the Information Security Subcommittee, KURODA ELECTRIC will appoint managers to oversee the information security of all departments handling informational assets and through the company organizational structure will work to enforce and promote strategies for the security of informational assets. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will implement continuous information security training for all oﬃcers and employees and work to spread general and total awareness of information security policies. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will periodically conduct a self-check in terms of the operational status of information security and take corrective measures, as necessary, to ensure security. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will adhere to any laws and regulations pertaining to personal information and information security. 18 S o c ial Co n tr ibu tio n s by K URODA E LE C TR I C Gro u p Support upp an d Contribution 19 Ed u cati on al S upport Ac tivitie s Financial Support for New Building Construction Project for Ban Parai Elementary School in Thailand Located approximately 500km northeast of the capital of Phayao Bangkok, in the Phayu District of Thailandʼs Sisaket MYANMAR LAOS Phrae Province, Ban Parai Elementary School is located near the Sakon Nakhon Cambodian border, in an area where there are a lot of people Nong Bua Lamphu Kalasin who speak local languages such as Lao and Khmer. In August of 2010, as one of educational support activities in Sisaket Kanchanaburi Thailand, the executive committee of KURODA ELECTRIC Bangkok approved a ﬁnancial support for the new school building Sisaket Province Phayu District construction project for Ban Parai School resulting in CAMBODIA donating 1.7 million baht(approx. 4.7 million yen) to the public interest incorporated foundation, Plan Japan. KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs Educational Support Activities in Thailand Donation of Abandoned Bicycles* from Shinagawa Ward (Tokyo) 1 to Watdonputza School Bicycles left in no-parking zones in Shinagawa Ward are removed by the city and then stored in either Yashio-Kita Bicycles Storage Center or Fudomae Bicycle Storage Center. Bicycles that are not claimed by the deadline for storage (30 days) can then be purchased from the city, for instance by recycled bicycle vendors within the ward. We visited the civil engineering department (bicycle division) of Shinagawa Ward several times, explaining our past history of supporting education in Thailand, and convinced them to give us several abandoned bicycles free of charge, on the condition that we would use them to contribute to society. Our staﬀ members visited Yashio-Kita Bicycle Storage Center, and after removing locks and test-riding several bicycles, selected 45. Those bicycles were loaded on a truck, and then shipped to Z. Kuroda (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (hereafter: ZKT) via a ship departing from Tokyoʼs Oi Wharf (on April 29, 2016). Upon arriving at ZKT, the 45 bicycles were inspected, repaired and cleaned. *Abandoned bicycles: Abandoned bicycles are categorized as those that have been left in shared public spaces such as roads or station plazas, and, which cannot be immediately moved because the owner, regardless of the amount of time, has left them unattended. Arrival at ZKT on May 18. Inspection, repair and cleaning from On June 8 a large donation ceremony was held, attended by a full 70 people, including the May 19 to May 31. Ayutthaya prefectural governor and other VIPs, at Watdonputza Elementary School. 2 Regular Visits to and Support for Ban Parai Elementary School by ZKT In August 2010, the executive committee approved a ﬁnancial support for the new school building construction project for Ban Parai Elementary School resulting in donating about 4.7 million yen to the Public Interest Incorporated Foundation, Plan Japan. An opening ceremony for the newly completed school building was held in May 2011, with ZKT management also in attendance. Since then, ZKT volunteers have been visiting Ban Parai Elementary School every two years to oﬀer ongoing educational support and to maintain a positive relationship with the school, teachers and surrounding community. On most years volunteers visit the school on Thailandʼs Childrenʼs Day (the second Saturday of January). They were expected to visit again on January 14, 2017, but due to hectic scheduling the visit was changed to February 25, instead. In 2017, ZKT oﬀered support in three major forms. ❶ LAN network for the school ❷ Chairs used for kids in the canteen ❸ Slide door for the canteen The items to the left were all provided with We provided ﬁnancial support for the We replaced several of the old chairs for Out of concern for the children's ﬁnancial support from ZKT, but we also construction of a LAN system for sharing childrenʼs use in the cafeteria, which had hygiene, we supplied two sliding doors donate items such as educational materials, information, saving ﬁles and sharing broken and were no longer usable, with to keep dogs, cats and birds from sports equipment, toys and stuﬀed animals, printers, with 10 computers installed. 70 suitable plastic chairs. entering the cafeteria. and aim for interaction with the children through a variety of games. 20 E nvi ron men tal Contribution Ac tivitie s Toyota City Ayutthaya Province Ayutthaya Province KURODA ELECTRIC Environmental Contribution Activities Since 2004, as a component of our Environmental Contribution Activities, KURODA ELECTRIC has implemented aﬀorestation, planned thinning, and other forest preservation and agricultural experience projects in Thailand, Kagawa, Kumamoto and elsewhere. Additionally, beginning in 2008, in order to oﬀer the opportunity for steady participation in areas closer to home, our forest preservation projects were extended to Ome City, in the Tokyo Metropolitan Area. In 2011, similar activities began in Kurokawa, Kawanishi City, Hyogo Prefecture. Additionally, in 2016 we carried out forest conservation activities in cooperation with the Organization for Industrial, Spiritual and Cultural Advancement International (hereafter: OISCA). 1 KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forest (Ome, Tokyo) The KURODA Company Forest in Ome, Tokyo was initiated with the event of planting low-pollen cedar saplings in 2008. Since then, an annual forest maintenance event has been held to weed undergrowth that hinders the trees growth. As the cedars had already grown to a healthy height of 10 meters or more and trimming of undergrowth was no longer necessary, no particular activities were carried out in ﬁscal 2016. 2 KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forest (Kurokawa, Kawanishi, Hyogo) The high-grade “kiku-zumi” charcoal used in tea ceremonies has been made in Kurokawa, Kawanishi, in the Hokusetsu region, since the Muromachi period. At the Kurokawa Company Forest, KURODA ELECTRIC cultivates the sawtooth oaks from which this charcoal is produced, helping to promote biodiversity and contribute to local scenery and culture. In 2016 approximately 70 employees and family members from Kuroda Electric, Nichido-Denko and Komura-Tech participated in a Company Forest event. Unfortunately, due to rain the event was changed to a tour of the waste processing facility, and undergrowth trimming was carried out by contractors on a later date. Chubu Region Hands-on Tree Thinning Program, in Cooperation 3 with OISCA On October 15, 2016 (Sat.) a total of 38 employees (and family members) of the Kuroda Electric Anjo/Nagoya Sales Oﬃce and employees of Sohwa & Sophia Technologies, Inc. participated in a hands-on tree thinning program. After receiving instruction from the head of the Toyota City Industrial Division, and learning about the diﬀerence between forest-related issues in Japan and overseas and the importance of tree thinning in Japan, Kuroda Electric Group employees and OISCA overseas trainees split into four teams to engage in tree thinning at OISCA Forest, under the direction of the Forest Rangers Association (a volunteer expert tree-thinning association comprised of OISCA alumni). Ayutthaya, Thailand Forestation Program, in Cooperation 4 with OISCA On September 1, 2016, ZKT employees interacted with children from Watdonputza Elementary School (where abandoned bicycles were donated) and elementary schools supported by OISCA, engaging in forestation and nature games at a city park located approximately 15 minutes away by car from Ayutthayaʼs Rojana Industrial Park. The activity was coordinated by OISCA (Bangkok branch). 21 Regional, Household and other Social Contributions Strengthening Our Bond to Society and Community KURODA ELECTRIC Group is involved in a variety of social and regional activities both within and without the company. Through these contributions, we hope to strengthen bonds not only within the company but with the society and community at large. 1 KURODA ECO Point System KURODA ELECTRIC have introduced the Kuroda ECO Point System in February 2012 in order to encourage environmental contribution activities on the part of employees and their families, not only within the company but in the broader society and community as well. KECO (KURODA ECO) points are distributed based on activities carried out. In ﬁscal 2016, around 240 employees (including employees loaned to aﬃliated companies in and outside Japan) participated, engaging actively in environmental initiatives at work, home, and in the community. 2 Used Stamps Collection Drives KURODA ELECTRIC supports overseas aﬀorestation via the Defense of Green Earth Foundation. In 2016, we collect one full cardboard box worth of used stamps, etc. The proceeds earned through these collection drives are used to purchase seedlings for use in aﬀorestation at Mt. Nansi in Tongchuan, China or at Mt. Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. 3 Hold Basketball Clinics As part of eﬀorts to contribute to communities/families and promote sports in Shinagawa Ward, we hold a basketball clinic (technical guidance) for elementary school aged and older children in the ward. The clinic was held again this ﬁscal year in February 2017, as an opportunity for current athletes and staﬀ with the Kanto Industrial and Commercial No. 1 League to share with children the excitement and fun of playing basketball. 4 Support for Persons (Regions) Aﬀected by the Kumamoto Earthquakes In response to the massive damage caused by the M6.5 foreshock on April 14, 2016 and the M7.3 main earthquake on April 16, which were centered on Kumamoto Prefecture, we provided support for persons (and regions) aﬀected by the earthquakes through a donation of 1 million yen to NPO Japan Platform (JPF). We pray for the souls of those who were lost in the disaster, and oﬀer our deepest sympathies to those persons and regions aﬀected. 5 Donation of Emergency Rations We support Second Harvest Japanʼs eﬀorts to ʻutilize rather than discard foodstuﬀs that can no longer be placed on market, but which are still more than safe enough for human consumption,ʼ and in March donated 350 emergency ration packets nearing their best-by date in August 2016. These rations were delivered to children at orphanages, domestic violence shelters, those forced to live on the streets, and other destinations where they can be put to eﬀective use. 6 Donations from Vending Machine Sales KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. and Group company KURODA TECHNO Co., Ltd. donate 1% of monthly sales from the beverage vending machines at their headquarter as Green Funds. These funds go to the Tokyo Development Foundation for Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries supporting the KURODA ELECTRIC COMPANY FOREST (Ome, Tokyo) initiative. 7 Cleanup of Road Surrounding HQ Location Striving to beautify the local environment as a member of the local community, Group company KURODA TECHNO has established Monday as a day of cleaning and periodically engages in cleanup activities on company grounds and nearby roads. Support for Regions affected by the Kumamoto 8 Earthquakes In order to support regions aﬀected by the Kumamoto earthquakes of April 2016, on April 21 Group Company Komura-Tech sent approximately 600 emergency meals that had been stored in company. Provision of Work Experience Opportunity for 9 Local Junior High-School Students Group company Nichido-Denko accepts second-year junior high school students in the town of Shimamoto to its head oﬃce plant to gain hands-on work experience as part of regional contribution activities. From November 9 to 11, 2016, three students from Shimamoto Daiichi Junior High School experienced the fun and arduousness of work while also learning about appropriate language, greetings, and professional manners through simple assembly, distribution, and light work. They also expanded their views of occupations and learned desirable attitudes to work and labor. 22 Q u ali ty and E n v iro n m en t a l M anage m en t S y st em s Management System 23 QUALITY POLICY As a supplier of products and solutions oﬀering a clear added value to the customer via design / prototyping, provision of components, distribution of inventory and more, KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs ﬁrst priority is to ensure the trust and satisfaction of our customers by oﬀering a reliable source of quality which fulﬁlls customer demand. We therefore adhere to the following policies regarding quality at KURODA ELECTRIC : ⑴ As a business primarily concerned with supplying materials for production it is our duty to fully grasp the business environment, to conform to our clientʼs vision and demands, and, furthermore, to proactively oﬀer products and services which will contribute to our customersʼ proﬁts. ⑵ In the area of manufacturing, we will work with associated domestic and overseas companies in order to form a global response and further maintain and improve partnerships with our customers. ⑶ We will fulﬁll our social obligations by adhering to all applicable laws and regulations, will establish pertinent quality management systems, and through punctual implementation of the PDCA cycle will continually work to improve the eﬀectiveness of quality management. ⑷ In order to reduce the environmental burden and contribute to a recycling society we will manage our environmental burden and promote environmentally friendly products, thus raising environmental quality. ⑸ In order to continually oﬀer higher quality products and services we will analyze prior problems and complaints and adopt appropriate prevention measures. In addition, through eﬀective development of this analysis, we will also work to prevent possible future problems and complains. We will fully fulﬁll our administrative responsibilities, including the provision of appropriate management resources, in order to ensure, through the concrete objectives and plans of individual departments, all possible implementation of the above policies. June, 2009 K U RO D A ELECT RI C Co ., Lt d . Pre si d e n t a n d Ch i e f Ex e c u t i v e O ﬃ c e r T a k a sh i K a n e k o 1 Quality / Environmental ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Policies As environmental awareness grows increasingly Fundamental Philosophy pressing, ecological care has become a valued At KURODA ELECTRIC we are aware that, in every sphere of business, global environmental conservation is the most important issue shared by component in the development of new products. us as human beings. In order to promote environmental awareness and conservation we aim to proactively contribute to such issues as energy In addition to recycling and the elimination of and resource conservation, waste reduction and the recycling of resources. SOC(Substance Of Concern), the presence of radiation, noise pollution and electromagnetic Environmental Policies ⑴ To pursue work in a manner which reduces the environmental burden to waves are all important issues for companies to its utmost minimum and to engage in environmental conservation and precautions against pollution. address. ⑵ To set environmental objectives and targets, to provide a framework for revision, to periodically review our environmental actions and to work for continual betterment. ⑶ To adhere to all laws and internally accepted regulations regarding At KURODA ELECTRIC, in order to eﬀectively environmental conservation while addressing the following: deal with problems of quality and the environment ① CO 2 Reduction ② Waste Reduction we have established oﬃcial quality and ③ The Sale of Environmentally Friendly Products ⑷ To show appreciation for the ecological services we are gifted with through environmental policies, as well as specialized the supply chain, to work to reduce the eﬀect of business activities on biodiversity, and to promote biodiversity conservation. in-house organizations. ⑸ To concretely manifest and maintain these policies, and promote their awareness among all employees. ⑹ To publish these policies widely and also furnish other appropriate information. Revised March, 2012 (Original Policy Adopted June, 2009) KURODA EL ECTRIC Co., L td . P resid en t an d Ch ief Ex ecu tiv e Oﬃcer Tak ash i Kan ek o 24 2 Quality and Environmental Controls ⑴ G l ob a l l y-Integr ated ISO C ert iﬁcat ion KURODA ELECTRIC acquired globally integrated ISO certiﬁcation in September 2009 and has been maintaining its certiﬁcation since then. The latest renewal was made in October, 2016. ⑵ Continue using Forest Management (CoC) Certiﬁed Copy Paper throughout the company KURODA ELECTRIC changed the copy paper it uses, company-wide, from the previous paper used (undisclosed raw materials, not environmentally friendly) to Forest Management (CoC) Certiﬁed copy paper on August 1st, 2013. Since then, the copy papers have been continuously used company-wide. ※Forest Management (CoC) Certiﬁcation: An international certiﬁcation system that ensures that lumber and wood products are obtained from an appropriately managed forest. ⑶ Management of Chemical Substances in Products In order to comply with all domestic and international laws and to meet customer demand, we at KURODA ELECTRIC are strengthening the reasonable management of chemical substances in products along all stages of the supply chain. Additionally, in order to provide pertient information to suppliers, we will hold periodic information sessions, maintain the newest version of client Green Procurement Guidelines, hold audits and more. In order to enforce reasonable management of chemical substances in products, we strive to work as a capable medium between our clients and suppliers. ⑷ Investigation of Conﬂict Minerals Detailed rules based on Section 1502 of the Dodd‒Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), which were adopted by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (hereafter: SEC) on August 22, 2012, require companies listed on the US exchange to report on eﬀorts to avoid the use of conﬂict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold) originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and /or adjoining countries to the SEC. While the KURODO ELECTRIC Group is not listed on the US exchange, through its supply chain, in order to respond to customer requests (for investigation), KURODO ELECTRIC gathers information on conﬂict minerals from its suppliers. In 2016, in response to requests from a total of 419 customers, KURODA ELECTRIC gathered information on conﬂict minerals from a total of 1,367 suppliers and provided customers in question with responses based on the information gathered from its suppliers. 25 ⑸ Efforts for Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations ● We are working to strengthen our compliance with laws and regulations by improving the understanding of our employees concerning legal requirements. We have also investigated approximately 90 environmental laws and regulations to create our List of Environmental Laws, Regulations, and Other Requirements, which presents information on applicability by location, notiﬁcation documents, and periodic report deadlines. ● In order to comply with the Waste Management and Public Cleaning Law and appropriately dispose of industrial waste generated as part of our business activities, we have established a system for the advance veriﬁcation of the content of disposal applications via our ISO Oﬃce. By issuing electronic manifests, the ISO Oﬃce (a portion of which is located at the Chubu Logistics Center) helps ensure thorough compliance with the Waste Management and Public Cleaning Law. ● When conducting an internal ISO audit at each location, the ISO Oﬃce not only evaluates ISO 9001/ISO 14001 conformity but also compliance with environmental laws and regulations, helping to ensure thorough compliance. ● As the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons came in to force on April 1, 2015, we are conﬁrming compliance with the law by requiring the implementation of simple inspections of subject machinery each quarter at relevant locations based on inventory surveys of Class 1 Speciﬁed Products (subject machinery), as well the presentation of inspection results to the ISO Oﬃce. 3 Environmental Performance KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. Data Concerning KURODA ELECTRICʼs Environmental Performance 2014 Financial Year 2015 Financial Year 2016 Financial Year ① Business Paper Use（Unit : 1,000 Sheets） 2,816 2 ,657 2,674 ② General Waste（Unit : kg） 8 6,986 95,328 119,165 ③ Recycled Waste（Unit : kg） 6 9,764 78,074 102,414 ④ Recycling Rate（Unit : %） 80.2 81.9 85.9 ※ The coverage of Kuroda Electric Co., Ltd.'s environmental performance data includes the contracted outside warehouses as well as the sites covered under the Globally-Integrated ISO Certiﬁcation. KURODA ELECTRIC Group（Domestic Only） Energy 2014 Financial Year 2015 Financial Year 2016 Financial Year Consumption & CO2 Electric Gasoline Gas Oil CO2 Electric Gasoline Gas Oil CO2 Electric Gasoline Gas Oil CO2 Usage Consumption Emissions Usage Consumption Emissions Usage Consumption Emissions Emissions （MWh） （kℓ） （m3 ） （kℓ） （t-CO2） （MWh） （kℓ） （m3 ） （kℓ） （t-CO2） （MWh） （kℓ） （ m3 ） （kℓ） （t-CO2） KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. 2,055 78.4 0 0.0 1,264 1,901 68.3 0 0.0 1,100 1,842 66.4 0 0.0 959 KURODA TECHNO Co., Ltd. 261 1.1 17 0.0 141 279 1.2 16 0.0 144 231 1.2 22 0.0 110 KOMURATECH Co., Ltd. 4,072 4.1 381,065 0.0 2,985 3,944 4.2 328,597 0.0 2,836 3,898 2.1 331,185 0.0 2,727 Sohwa & Sophia Technologies Inc. 517 5.6 15 0.0 299 467 5.1 20 0.0 255 463 4.9 22 0.0 225 NICHIDODENKO Co., Ltd. 2,109 65.5 367 4.7 1,268 2,001 62.0 319 3.6 1,219 1,784 61.7 422 5.3 1,068 ※ Gas=municipal/LP gas. Oil=diesel/kerosene. 26 Wo rking with o u r E m p l o y ees with Employee 27 1 Developing Skilled Human Resources ⑴ E du c a t io n and T r aining by Job C at egory We carry out web training to raise fundamental awareness and knowledge of daily business practices for employees. Programs have been established to provide training not only for full-time employees but also to present equal opportunities for training for part-time and dispatch employees. In ﬁscal 2016 four web training modules were oﬀered, with a total of 1,076 persons participating. Every year, introductory training is also carried out for new employees when they ﬁrst enter the company, as well as follow-up training after they are assigned to a department. ⑵ E du c a t io n and T r aining by Posit ion C lass We conduct education and training by position class to improve relevant skills for young personnel, new management staﬀ, and human resources anticipated to serve as management candidates in the future. In ﬁscal 2016 we held training for fundamental skills required for management, with participants selected from young employees who present as strong candidates for future management. Going forward, we will continue to cultivate human resources, with such training being expanded to other position classiﬁcation. ⑶ Sk i l l M anagem ent and Lifelong Learning We have introduced a system for education and training by position class and job category. We are focusing in particular on lifelong learning that provides employees not only with knowledge and information on their professional duties but also enables them to grow as members of society and of their organization. In addition, in order to tackle the challenges of globalization, we are also working to support our employees in learning English, including promoting TOEIC testing and the provision of English language lessons by ability. Training System Training for Top Management ● CSR & Compliance ● Risk Management New Management Training for Candidates of Training Next-Generation Leaders ● Management ● Fundamental Knowledge On ● Labor Management Management and Accounting ● Accounting ● Analysis Of Business Challenges ● Competitor Analysis Training To Cultivate Management Skills ● Reinforcement of Leadership ● Reinforcement of Human Skills Basic Awareness Reinforcement Training ● Compliance ● Information Security Training / Follow-up Training for New Employees ● Morale Training ● Business Manner & Business Communication ● Work Process (PDCA Cycle) New Younger Mid-Career New Higher Senior Employees Employees Employees Management Management Management WEB Training Training for selected employees (Training for Linguistic Ability, Training Prior to Overseas Assignment, Training for Life Plan 28 2 Employee Welfare Programs Gr ou p L ong T er m Disab ility Income I ndemnit y Insurance (G LTD) At most companies, when an employee is unable to work for an extended period of time due to illness or injury they are often entitled to Special Paid Absence so long as their tenure continues. But if they are still unable to return to work at the end of their appointed leave and their employment is thus terminated, the strain of hospitalization and doctorʼs fees on their household budget can be extreme. However, in order to create a work environment where employees can enjoy consistent peace of mind, and to help guard against any worst-case scenario, we at KURODA ELECTRIC provide Group Long Term Disability Income Indemnity Insurance (GLTD), guaranteeing a portion of an employeeʼs regular salary as compensation, potentially until the age of retirement, should they be unable to work for an extended period due to illness or injury. Additionally, this insurance provides ﬁxed period compensation for employees who take a temporary leave due to mental disorder. 3 Mental Healthcare Programs In order to help support our employeesʼ mental health, an employee assistance program was introduced in 2007. In order to ensure primary, secondary and tertiary precautions concerning workplace mental health, the program has adopted the following measures. Mental Checkups Once per year we carry out online mental checkups for all employees. In ﬁscal 2016 we switched to a stress check method, in line with the revised Industrial Safety and Health Act, striving for early detection and treatment of mental health issues. Follow-up by External Specialists Just as follow-up exams are carried out when cause is found to worry after a physical exam, in the event that a stress check should show that something is amiss follow-up exams and treatment guidance are carried out by external specialists (psychiatrists or clinical psychologists) (consultation regarding employees or family members also available). EAP Consultation A consultation window is open for those with physical or mental health concerns. In principle, this window is available 24 hours a day to oﬀer support via email, phone and direct consultation（Consultations are also open to the families of employees）. 29 T he Ment al H e a l t h ca r e P r og r a m An Employee Assistance Program (EAP) oﬀering support to employees and family via external specialist institutions. Overview of Support Programs The incidence of mental health related workmanʼs comp claims and settlements is on the increase, with some reports placing the ratio of disabled workers out due to mental disorders at 40%, thus making workplace mental healthcare more important an issue than ever before. In previous years, while employees were required to have periodic physical checkups, no such checkup was carried out for similar mental issues. With the addition of mental checkups to regular physical exams, our goal is to provide more comprehensive total healthcare. Periodic Examination Results & Feedback Reexamination as Necessary Appropriate Treatment Phys Yearly Diagnosis of Notiﬁcation / Diagnosis of Health Health Exam Physical Results Reexamination Physical Results Mental Health Diagnosis of Follow-up Early Treatment Mental Counseling Health Check Mental Results via Clinic, etc. with Doctor Implementation of period mental checkups makes regular diagnosis simple and possible. Additionally, EAP consultation need not only apply to personal problems, but may also concern coworkers, family members and other people close to the consulting person. When necessary, medical treatment and consistent follow-up care by a doctor is also possible. Diagnosis / Consultation Treatment / Countermeasure Mental Checkup via Counseling Specialist Assessment By Specialist or Counselor At Fixed Intervals as Appropriate per Individual EAP Consultation Medical Treatment Medical Care Geared Towards Physical and Mental Consultation Early Treatment and Recovery, via Reliable Specialists as Necessary 30 T h e K U R O DA E L E C T R I C Roadm a p This is an image after joining a company until we retire. Preparation will be made to fullﬁlling employment life by three systems, Personnel and Labor Relations,HR Development, Employee Beneﬁts&Welfare. ● Retirement Allowance ● Reemployment ● Special Incentive Leave ● Life-Planning Seminar The KURODA Alumni Club GOAL ● Nursing / Family Care Leave ● Adjusted Hours Commendation ● Employee Aid Programs for Long Service ● Employee Stock Options ● Promotion to Management ● Transfer to New Work Category Personnel and Labor Relations HR Development ● Volunteering Leave Commendation for High Results Employee Beneﬁts & Welfare ● COMPREHENSIVE INSURANCE ● GLTD INSURANCE ● Maternity Leave ● Childcare Leave / ● Job Speciﬁc Training Adjusted Hours Skills Training by Welcome to Position & Work Class the Company! ● Housing Subsidies for TOEIC Examination Young Workers ● Promotion of Property English Conversation Asset Building School Subsidies Mentoring System ● Jiseikai Club Support START ● Honeymoon 31 Publisher KUR ODA E L E CT R I C Co . , L t d Te l（ : 0 3 ）5 7 645505 Inquiries CSR / ISO Division M a i l : k r d-cs r@kuro da e le c tric .c o m
