MAY 2017 EFICO Group Communication On Progress Year 2016 Based on the COP of the United Nations Global Compact Foreword T his annual repor t, May opportunity to look beyond the local UNGC Network Belgium, as 2017 edition, is based on boundaries of its core activities well as other sustainability events, the Communication On and to share its know-how with both locally and globally. Progress (COP) requests many partners, stakeholders and of the United Nations Global approximately 450 coffee roasBecause of this cross-polination of Compact (UNGC). ting companies worldwide. thoughts and ideas, we continue to learn and improve our dynaIt reflects our corporate engageAs a Global Compact signatory mic sustainability journey. ment to their Ten Principles and since 2003, EFICO is committed to our progress made in 2016. publicizing its implementation Sustainability is part of EFICO’s progress of the Ten Principles on DNA. At EFICO, we embed susThis new EFICO COP report does an annual basis. Through this tainability within our supply chain not only focus on the main sustaipublic communication towards approach. This results in extra nable activities that were impleour internal and external staketools for clients and suppliers to mented by the EFICO Group in holders, EFICO can transparently promote responsible business 2016, but it also highlights the report on its achievements, as practices in the coffee sector. progress of EFICO’s formulated well as on its challenges. ambitions with regard to the The UNGC provides the basis for Sustainable Development Goals, We share our UNGC engageEFICO’s corporate citizenship initiated by the United Nations. ment in all our communication model. material and in meetings with our EFICO has been a coffee trading stakeholders. We report according to the GC company since 1926. With offices ACTIVE LEVEL. in Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, Welcoming the exchange of Brazil, Ethiopia and Guatemala, ideas with people within the same EFICO operates in an internatioand/or other sectors, we actively nal context, which creates the participate in the events of the Just like the previous reports, this COP report is published on www.unglobalcompact.org and on www.efico.com/un-global-compact. i Coffee picking Finca El Platanillo, San Marcos, Guatemala Table of Contents Foreword ................................................................................................................................................................. i Statement of continued support 2016 .............................................................................................................. 1 EFICO Group’s Vision, Commitment and Values ........................................................................................... 2 United Nations Global Compact Principles versus Sustainable Development Goals ........................... 4 EFICO’s Progress Implementation UNGC Principles ............................................................. 4 EFICO’s Progress Implementation SDGs ................................................................................. 5 EFICO .................................................................................................................................................................... 10 SEABRIDGE ........................................................................................................................................................... 16 EFICO FOUNDATION ........................................................................................................................................... 18 What is next ......................................................................................................................................................... 20 ii Planting coffee Santander, Colombia Statement of continued support 2016 Dear Partner, Dear Stakeholder, Dear Member, The EFICO Group subscribed to the ten United Nations Global Compact Principles covering Human Rights, Labour, the Environment and Anti-Corruption since 2003. Founded in Antwerp, Belgium, in 1926, EFICO is a group of companies with core activities in green coffee trading and logistics. EFICO continues to drive innovation across its business, optimizing and sharing qualitative solutions, which underpin the Group’s knowledge and passion. Our long-term approach combined with extensive expertise in the coffee producing countries, trading activities and logistic services, has led to the development of EFICO’s sustainable Green Coffee Supply Chain. Along our supply chain, EFICO provides tailor-made solutions “with a personal touch” and establishes partnerships based on mutual trust. The United Nations Global Compact Principles constitute the cornerstones of EFICO’s sustainable entrepreneurship and ethical practice. Within the framework of these UNGC Principles, EFICO integrated 5 out of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), an initiative of the United Nations, developed end 2015. The 5 SDGs in focus for EFICO are: SDG 12: Responsible Consumption & Production SDG 8: Decent Work & Economic Growth SDG 4: Quality Education SDG 7: Affordable & Clean Energy SDG 17: Global Partnership for Sustainable Development At EFICO, both the UNGC principles and the SDGs are essential drivers towards a more sustainable coffee future. Today, the most pressing challenges of the coffee sector are climate change and price volatility, leading to unreliable farmer income. Since coffee is a natural product, it is extremely delicate and its quality is subject to ‘terroir’, preand post-harvest practices and weather conditions. Climate change is leading to rising temperatures, more extreme weather events and changing rainfall patterns. This puts significant pressure on the availability of fertile land and gives way to pests, diseases and fungi, even on higher altitudes. Coffee leaf rust (la roya), for example, is one of the most common diseases, and has been gravely affecting coffee crops during recent years. Consequently, experts predict an overall decrease in crop yields, increasingly unpredictable harvests, ripening of coffee cherries at different points in time, more defects, and a negative impact on the coffee flavor. It is clear that immediate action is required. Through investing in combating climate change, we aim to delay global warming and therefore protect our natural resources, secure their supply and drive sustainable development. We consider EFICO’s impact on the environment within the coffee supply chain as one of our responsibilities, and commit to act accordingly. This commitment is reinforced and discussed at international and local networks, such as the Sustainable Coffee Challenge and The Shift, in alliance with the UNGC Network Belgium. All levels private sector & companies, public institutions & government, NGOs & non-profit, local authorities & citizens are represented and work together to achieve transition. After all, sustainable development cannot be met unless everyone contributes. In October 2016, EFICO signed the Belgian SDG Charter, defining the role of the private sector, public sector and civil society in international development. This EFICO Group Communication-On-Progress report reflects our actions taken in 2016 and our ambitions for the future. The continuation of our sustainable journey is mapped out below. We kindly invite you to evaluate our progress and welcome your feedback. Michel Germanès Philip Van gestel Managing Director Executive Chairman 1 RESPONSIBLE ENTREPRENEURSHIP AS PART OF EFICO’S COFFEE GENES OUR VISION Efico is a green coffee trading This process involves the selection Our ambition towards a sustaicompany, established in 1926 and flow of raw materials from nable coffee supply chain is and ranked among the top-ten origin up to delivery including, but reflected in the investment in European coffee trading houses. not limited to: Quality and Food Seabridge, a state-of-the-art With headquarters in Antwerp, Safety controls, understanding a sustainable warehouse and disBelgium, and offices in Germany, customer’s request, knowledge tribution center for green coffee Switzerland, Brazil, Ethiopia and of the product or the analysis of in the port of Zeebrugge, where Guatemala, we aim to provide needs and markets, and the logisgreen and high-qualitative logistailor-made services to our clients tical, financial and administrative tics prevail. ‘with a personal touch’. aspects related to our activities. With the Efico Foundation we EFICO’s family tradition of being a The EFICO Group has a longstanmake a difference by suppormedium-sized company gives us ding family history and differentiting sustainable multi-stakeholthe advantage of being able to ates itself by offering a complete der projects in coffee producing establish long-term strategies and concept throughout the Green countries with the aim to improve partnerships based on mutual Coffee Supply Chain, From Flower hereby the livelihoods of many. trust and respect. We hold these to Cup. policies in high regard. Likewise, The Efico team strongly belieat EFICO “a personal approach” Tradition and technology go hand ves in the United Nations Global is key. in hand. Quality, Food Safety, Compact (UNGC) Principles, to Traceability and Sustainability are which we were the first to sign up Every stage of our business is Efico’s cornerstones. to in the coffee sector in 2003. important to us and is considered as an integral part of the whole These cornerstones are deeply We are proud responsible entreprocess that we call the “Green rooted in each entity of our preneurship is part of our ‘Coffee Coffee supply chain.” Group. Genes’. OUR COMMITMENT Efico strives for excellence in providing correct and safe products, that are traceable at all times, together with a personalized service to our key stakeholders. By committing to the 10 UNGC principles and to 5 out of the 17 SDGs, we aim to take up our responsibility and track our progress. International and local initiatives add up impact to achieve transition: by signing the Belgian SDG charter for example, EFICO acknowledges the importance of the role and shared responsibilities of the private and public sector and civil society towards the implementation of the SDGs. Working together as true partners in crafting impactful solutions to common global challenges is key. Photo : Philip Van gestel together with Minister Alexander De Croo during the signing of the charter 2 EFICO GROUP’S INTERNAL CODE OF CONDUCT INSPIRED BY THE UNGC FRAMEWORK EFICO’s corporate values “IMPROVE” describe what we strive for and shape the ethical Integrity personality of our Group. These values are inspired by the UNGC Framework. Tailor-Made Passion They guide and determine the way we trade, the services and products we offer and the Respect support we provide to our stakeholders. Open minded Values This internal Code of Conduct lays out the principles and expectations our EFICO Team Ensure Quality strives to comply with: (I) INTEGRITY Act respectfully towards internal and external stakeholders. Care for an open and honest communication towards internal and external contacts. Deliver a trustworthy service. Act consequently in accordance to the EFICO Group company values. Confidentiality and discretion are a requirement. (M) TAILOR-MADE Adjust the offer of services and products to our clients’ needs through continuous dialogue. Continue to inform clients via a state of affairs, actions and adaptations in order to reach agreed results. In doing so, ensuring an even better service from the EFICO Group towards the client. (P) PASSION Express a personal engagement to the Group. Show your commitment towards your own specific professional field. Keep a drive to explore new insights and opportunities. Permanently improve personal expertise and competences. (R) RESPECT Address clients on an equal base and with required respect. Accept mutual differences. Stimulate and value the mix of different talents, visions and experiences. Encourage teamwork through active listening, constructive feedback and a good working climate. (O) OPEN-MINDED / FLEXIBLE Adapt attitude and ideas to changing circumstances in view of improvement and quick response to altering needs. Help to make colleagues realize challenges in their job function – through dialogue and pro-active actions. (V) VALUES Our VALUES are the basis to support each EFICO team member, appreciate and motivate their further development. (E) ENSURE QUALITY Continuously improve high professional standards and working methods. Permanently strive for required quality via a proactive approach. Making Take on new opportunities and challenges using creative ideas. a difference, TOGETHER. 3 THE 10 UNGC PRINCIPLES EFICO integrates the ten United Nations Global Compact principles in its strategies and actions: HUMAN RIGHTS Principles based on the Universal Declaration Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses LABOUR Principles resulting from the International Labour organization’s Declaration Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and recognize effectively the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Principles derived from the Rio Declaration principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle based on the UN Convention against Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery 4 THE 17 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) The Millenium Development Goals Goal 6 Ensure availability and Goal 15 Protect, restore and prowere transformed into the postsustainable management of mote sustainable use of terrestrial 2015 Sustainable Development water and sanitation for all ecosystems, sustainably manage Goals. forests, combat desertification, Goal 7 Ensure access to afforand halt and reverse land degraThe UN Member States agreed on dable, reliable, sustainable and dation and halt biodiversity loss the proposed 17 goals at the UN modern energy for all Summit in September 2015; Goal 16 Promote peaceful and the new framework came into Goal 8 Promote sustained, incluinclusive societies for sustainable effect as from January 2016: sive and sustainable econo development, provide access to mic growth, full and productive justice for all and build effective, These new goals give an overemployment and decent work accountable and inclusive instituview on how to tackle the world’s tions at all levels most pressing problems, including Goal 9 Build resilient infrastrucpoverty, inequality and environture, promote inclusive and sustaiGoal 17 Strengthen the means of mental destruction: nable industrialization and foster implementation and revitalize the innovation global partnership for sustainable Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms development everywhere Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutriGoal 11 Make cities and human tion and promote sustainable settlements inclusive, safe, resilient agriculture and sustainable Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and Goal 12 Ensure sustainable conpromote well-being for all at all sumption and production patterns ages Goal 13 Take urgent action to Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and combat climate change and its equitable quality education and impacts promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Goal 14 Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and Goal 5 Achieve gender equality marine resources for sustainable and empower all women and girls development 5 ACTIONS & AMBITIONS EFICO GROUP IMPLEMENTATION UNGC PRINCIPLES AND SDGS THROUGHOUT EFICO GROUP’S SUPPLY CHAIN ENSURE SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION PLANTATION AND PRODUCTION PATTERNS UNGC HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR & ENVIRONMENT Ambition: 40% sustainable sourcing by 2020 dards might fit better than others. PROCESSING 50% latest by 2025 We share our responsible business code, In March 2016, EFICO formulated the ambiincluding our commitment towards sustaition to have 40% of our volume sustainably nable sourcing with our coffee partners sourced by 2020. – coffee cooperatives, local exports and By implementing a sustainable sourcing international exporters – to encourage and policy, we aim to support the long-term motivate further efforts towards more TRANSPORT, supply of quality coffee, whilst preserving sustainable production. SHIPPING & ecosystem services for future generations. UNLOADING With our customers, we work together and FROM VESSEL We are proud to announce that in 2016 support them in responsible consumption already 41% of our coffee sourced is verified by providing and discussing several options or certified according to various sustainabion sustainable sourcing and supply chain. lity standards. Within the broad range of coffees that we We apply an inclusive approach where offer, from about 40 countries, and accorseveral sustainability standards are suppording to different certification schemes, TRADING ted and promoted. Depending on the local solutions can be found regardless of the context, infrastructure and skills some stansize and requirements of our customers. PROMOTE SUSTAINED, INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC GROWTH, WAREHOUSING FULL AND PRODUCTIVE EMPLOYMENT & VALUE-ADDED SERVICES AND DECENT WORK FOR ALL UNGC HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR & ANTI-CORRUPTION Ambition: Decouple economic growth from Thanks to this close contact we understand environmental degradation the local context, and the related needs of our suppliers and help them to further deveTRANSPORT Create win-win partnerships lop their business. This creates win-win partTO CLIENTS within the supply chain nerships were we buy the right product at the right price. At EFICO we have a policy of responsible sourcing and personal relations with our At EFICO sustainability and economic suppliers. In 2016, we sourced 90% of all our growth go hand in hand. By using safe, envicoffees directly from cooperatives, unions ronment-friendly products and sound techor local exporters. nologies, we aim to decouple economic MANUFACTURING growth from environmental degradation. We believe that thanks to the close link with several actors in the supply chain, where EFICO’s corporate values “IMPROVE” deseverybody builds on his or her expertise, cribe what we strive for and shape the ethiadded value is brought into the chain. cal personality of our Group. We expect our Our offices in Guatemala, Brazil and stakeholders and the EFICO Team to take Ethiopia are key in building personal relatiownership of these values, hereby impleons and partnership with our suppliers. menting a future-oriented approach. 6 ENSURE INCLUSIVE AND EQUITABLE QUALITY EDUCATION AND PROMOTE LIFELONG LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL UNGC HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR Ambition: Access to education, important factors to further work on persoreinforcement & empowerment nal and professional development and can via EFICO Foundation projects be stimulated through social workshops, in addition to the technical trainings. Investment in training Efico Team Training and teambuilding is equally imporEducation is the most powerful tool to allow tant within the EFICO Team. By providing change and progress to occur. both internal and external trainings on Via our EFICO Foundation, several projects different important topics, each EFICO focus on training and education. Gender co-worker can improve his or her current equality is key. knowledge. This adds up to their competencies, skills Obtaining quality education is the foundaand values. By giving opportunities to grow tion to improve people’s lives and their own on-the-job, people also receive opportunisustainable development. By sharing knowties to grow as a person. ledge, skills and abilities can be developed This eventually results in continuous improand one’s life goal can be fully discovered. vement, and can have a positive impact on Confidence and feel-good are very the company’s results. ENSURE ACCESS TO AFFORDABLE, RELIABLE, SUSTAINABLE AND MODERN ENERGY FOR ALL UNGC ENVIRONMENT Ambition: Use 100% green energy EFICO’s commitment towards affordable and clean energy fits within a broader conExpand our own production of cept, launched in 2008: of green energy by 2020 CO2 reduction and compensation within to compensate total energy use the green coffee supply chain. of the Group ~ SEABRIDGE We are convinced that action should be taken at the place where emissions occur, Recycling of minimum 95% of but we should look further than our direct all waste streams sphere of influence. Transport optimization EFICO’s offices and warehouses operate 100% on certified green energy. Promote renewable energy Additionally, our premises at Seabridge in remote areas in coffee have 4,600 photovoltaic panels, or 1 MW countries and climate peak production of green energy annually. adaptation and mitigation This means more than 60% of the total green strategies energy use is produced at Seabridge, resulting in a CO2 reduction of 1,190 tonnes. 7 With regard to transport we proThanks to this project: mote green logistics by optimizaI tion and barge & train transports El Platanillo Farm saves between the Belgian ports. 15,080,173 liters of water per year, equivalent to the water Regarding waste management, consumption of 20,660 persons; we apply the cradle-to-cradle The farm’s emission has been principles where we aim to decreased by 1,360 kilograms reduce waste and upcycle it to of CO2; the maximum. The farm saves up to 38,327 liters of fuel annually in compaIn 2016, 91% of all our waste rison with a traditional coffee streams are upgraded and recyprocessing station. cled for new materials. We are proud to announce that For the remaining 9%, energy is this pioneer project was the only recuperated but no new materione of its kind since it was the als are developed. start to integrate climate mitigation and adaptation within the In September 2016, the SAN and Also in coffee producing counSAN (Sustainable Agriculture Rainforest Alliance announced tries, EFICO promotes renewable Network) standard, also known a newly revised certification energy in remote areas and clias the basis for establishing a standard, encompassing best mate adaptation and mitigation standard for Climate Friendly practices and recent innovastrategies. Products. tion in sustainable agriculture. In 2009, a Pilot Project was iniDuring the period 2011-2016, the Amongst the changes were the tiated by EFICO, the Rainforest optional climate criteria were inclusion of the Climate Module Alliance and Anacafé: “Climatedefined in a generic module criteria co-developed by EFICO Friendly Practices at Finca El called “Climate Module” on top and Anacafé. This new standard Platanillo, Guatemala”. of the generic standard. will be appicable as from July 2017. STRENGTHEN THE MEANS OF IMPLEMENTATION AND REVITALIZE THE GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT UNGC HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR, ENVIRONMENT & ANTI-CORRUPTION Ambition: Think global, act local such as the Sustainable Coffee Challenge and The Shift, in alliance with the UNGC Be an inspiration within the Network Belgium. coffee industry and beyond All levels private sector & companies, Active participant of CSR events public institutions & government, NGOs & and discussions non-profit, local authorities & citizens are represented and work together to achieve Federate and stimulate publictransition. private partnerships with our Efico Foundation A multi-stakeholder approach is needed to take on this international challenge. Together you can achieve more. EFICO considers its impact on the environWe stimulate our suppliers and our clients ment within the coffee supply chain as one towards a more sustainable coffee future. of its responsibilities, and commits to act accordingly. By actively listening to the needs of our partners, we aim to bring built-up partnerThis commitment is reinforced and disships amongst private, public and civil socicussed at international and local networks, ety actors and join efforts to make change. 8 Harvesting coffee Santa Cruz, Bolivia 9 YOU CAN ALWAYS LEARN A TRADE, BUT YOU HAVE TO EXPERIENCE PASSION EFICO KEY FACTS RESPONSIBLE SOURCING This presence in origin allows us to make accurate decisions Sourcing our raw materials resaccording to the market needs. Trading green coffee since 1926 ponsibly is key to EFICO. We receive thorough reporting Sourcing from around 40 countries EFICO’s family tradition of and detailed information of being a medium-sized comthe market situation, producOffering more than 300 coffee pany empowers us to establish tion levels, weather conditions, varieties and blends long-term strategies and partstocks and so on. of which more than 40% nerships based on mutual trust In doing so, the EFICO trading verified/certified coffee and respect. Herein, a personal team can provide its clients to about 450 coffee roasters approach is important to us. relevant market information, worldwide and the various coffee products The selection of our business required by our customers. Product and market knowledge, partners has always been a ensuring quality at competitive special focus. At EFICO, we are Our teams in origin visit the prices convinced that we can only cooperatives, farmer organimake progress in the long run zations and private exports to Sustainability is in our ‘Coffee Genes’: when all actors in the coffee continuously improve product * Stable and long-term partnerships supply chain can make a sustaiperformance and proactively * Vision and advice on Supply Chain nable living out of their work. work on alignment of service Management requirements. EFICO sources coffee from Following the highest standards around 40 coffee producing They play an essential role in Conform ISO 9001 / 22 000 / HACCP countries. selecting the desired coffee ISO 26 000 / AEO / ISO 45001 progress flavor and also organize visits With strategic offices in Central of our team, customers or partOne of the finalists/Nominees for America, Brazil and Ethiopia we ners willing to gain some field SDG Voice by The Shift have sources all over the world experience. to closely assess and monitor Photo on next page illustrates a the performance of our supplicupping at KURU, Efico’s office ers and exporters in an efficient in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. and effective way. Ethiopia is known as the birth10 place for Arabica coffee and has Changing weather conditi many delicious coffees to offer ons have even strengthened with taste pallets varying from the appearance of coffee rust. floral up to citrusy. Therefore, it is important to seek solutions together. Amongst others, a lot of scientific research leads to the development of rust-resistant coffee varieties, contributing to the assurance of a sustainable coffee future. EFICO Brazil field visit In EFICO’s view, you can only SECURING A RELIABLE SUPPLY create such a future when realiCHAIN zing your own impact on the environment, and subsequently limit EFICO’s trading team has daily and reduce this impact and take contact with both its suppliers Our offices in origin also follow-up action, either via partnerships or and customers. several sustainability projects, e.g. multi-lateral relationships. To highlight the importance EFICO Foundation projects, proMore and more people are becoof our choice of business partjects following our client’s special ming aware of the consequences ners, EFICO implements a sustainable programs, UNGC supof climate change, realize they Responsible Business Conduct plier audits and so on. can do something about this, and Policy. are motivated to act accordingly. Our offices in origin are also actiThis is what is needed for collecWhen the EFICO Group acquively involved in participating in tive action. res raw materials, the choice and contributing to coffee sciof our partner relationships is ence and CSR events. based on: Risk assessment of the supplier In February 2016 for example, Quality, food safety and traceEFICO Central America’s Renaud ability in a free, competitive Cuchet spoke at the Second market Coffee Rust Summit in Guatemala Willingness to improve responCity. See photos below. sible agriculture practices A report was set up, including Well-managed and reliable Renaud’s contributions. Click link partners operating ethically to read. and following the local and international legislation and As mentioned in this COP’s In addition to research, assistance the standard European Coffee Statement of Continued Support, in the field, including training and Contract of the European coffee leaf rust (la roya) is one of guidance of coffee farmers, it is Coffee Federation (ECF) the most known coffee diseases essential to fully put good agriculBusiness integrity and transpaand has been affecting coffee tural practices into action. rency, that can be used by all crops heavily during the past Photo above illustrates EFICO our customers years. Central America’s agronomist Openness to welcome all Elmer Nij during field assistance. our requests and those of our partners 11 Green coffee, EFICO Antwerp 12 DELIVERING QUALITY COFFEE EFICO has close contacts with 4C, Rainforest Alliance, Organic, EFICO’s multilingual traders are UTZ, Fair Trade and so on and not only excellent negotiators can provide all. Through the who thoroughly understand the EFICO FOUNDATION, we also market, they also possess a vast support certification and verifiknow-how about the underlying cation programs. commodity. Every day, coffee is tasted and verified on its sensoAs mentioned earlier in this rial and physical aspects. report, EFICO has set up an ambition to increase this susCoffee quality is the basis for tainable coffee volume in the EFICO’s buying and selling actiEFICO SA Swiss colleagues at coming years. We actively provities. We assess this quality sysFrench coffee Fair in Nantes mote this growing conscioustematically, from harvest up to ness and choice for sustainable delivery. In 2016, EFICO was a.o. reprecoffee. sented at both the SCAA event EFICO has two cupping laborain America and the SCAE event tories for these controls one in in Dublin, Europe, as well as at EXPERT EVALUATION Antwerp and one at SEABRIDGE COTECA Messe in Germany, the in Zeebrugge, see page 17 French Coffee Fair in Nantes All coffees that are sourced are where coffee samples from and Sintercafé in Costa Rica. cupped at several moments in around the world are verified the supply chain. and tasted. These cupping and sample This detailed evaluation by our rooms are unique in Europe. experienced Quality Control They store the samples of all and Trade Team includes phycoffee varieties that EFICO can sical, sensorial and micro-biodeliver. Samples from previous logical analysis. Our range of deliveries are gathered in this products is described in Product coffee library as well. This library Specification Sheets, available has evolved into a true treasure upon request. box for the coffee connoisseur. Our Trading Team and our The sensorial appreciation that Green Coffee Quality Expert a consumer experiences is very EFICO GmbH represented at Team are very competent. To personal. COTECA Hamburg, Germany keep their knowledge level This is why we select and offer a accurate, they attend scientivery wide range of coffees from fic coffee events. Ivan Lamilla various regions, climates and SPECIAL COFFEES Muñoz for example, attenwith different taste sensations. ded the 26 th Inter national We have more than 300 coffee Apart from the conventional Conference on Coffee Science varieties and blends from difcoffees, our team selects a ASIC in China. Photo below ferent origins for our clients to wide range of “Special Coffees” choose from. every day: coffees that are Each year, there are different grown in particular and ideal local and international fairs climates and that are distinctive where coffee knowledge and because of their unique flavor passion is shared and additioand taste. nal knowledge is gathered. They range from niche market coffees such as micro-lots, to specialty coffees and single estates up to gourmet coffees. Similar to wine, this is the result of the “terroir” where the coffee grows. Internal trainings are organized to keep the EFICO Team up-toEFICO also offers certified or date on the knowledge in the verified sustainable coffee. different coffee topics. Throughout the past years, we Cuppings according to the reported a substantial increase SCAA standards or in-house of demand in these coffees, as cupping sessions with our clients At the SCAA Fair well as in blends. ensure passion is sparked. 13 CLOSE COLLABORATION WITH OUR CLIENTS AND PARTNERS At EFICO we have a wide range The root-cause analysis allows of clients, all with very different the EFICO Group to optimize requirements. Claims Management, KPI monitoring and improve customer satisfaction. On frequent basis, Traders can look into the detailed analyses and action can be taken where necessary so that EFICO’s relation towards suppliers and customers can be optimized. Efico SA and Central America colleagues at Finca Las Brisas, Guatemala Cupping session with clients Besides claim management, With a personal approach we liquidity optimization is key. always aim to meet our client’s requirements and deliver tailorAn accurate followup of made services. EFICO’s account receivables and full screening of (new) supOur cof fee suppliers a re pliers and clients allows us to evaluated on their global limit possible risks. performance. This is part of our risk manageThe results of this analyEfico Antwerp Trade Desk ment policy. sis are used to improve our collaboration. FOLLOWING THE HIGHEST STANDARDS INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SEABRIDGE, the logistics serviTo counter the trafficking SYSTEMS ces provider within the Group, of drugs and all illegal subalso possesses an ISO 9001 certis ta n ce s , E F I CO e s ta b l i s Quality and Food Safety are ficate, an ISO 22 000 certificate h ed a M em o ra n d u m of two of EFICO’s cornerstones. (Food Safety), including HACCP Understanding with the customs Team, an AEO certificate and authorities in 2001 and in 2011 Since 2003, EFICO is ISO 9001 succeeded for an Ethical Audit anew with SEABRIDGE. certified for its management based on ISO 26 000 (SMETA). systems (Quality). Several external parties revieSafety and Security are also very wed our processes and working The EFICO Group wants to proimportant. Therefore the EFICO methods: clients, external audivide its clients with solutions and Group is working to obtain an tors, federal authorities etc. answers to legislative questions, OHSAS or ISO 45 001 certificate In November 2016, both EFICO and towards a more demanon occupational health and and Seabridge succeeded for ding consumer profile. safety for SEABRIDGE. the external ISO audits. Also Chain of Custody audits such as Rainforest Alliance, UTZ, BIO and FairTrade resulted positively. All EFICO Group’s certifications are available on www.efico.com/certifications and www.seabridge.eu/certifications. 14 HUMAN RESOURCES SUPPORT People Management, also These values are weighed known as Human Resources together with all employManagement (HRM), is a very ees. Additionally, other topics impor tant aspect when it such as Performance evalucomes to getting the most out ation, defining future growth of your Team and eventually and training requirements are your company’s success. discussed. This yearly evaluation also At EFICO, we believe that our allows to measure employee success is based on human satisfaction. capital. During the past years, the EFICO The motivation, enthusiasm Group’s internal training proEFICO Central America Training and satisfaction of our Team gram has also been re-develoon-the-job is directly linked to business ped and ‘Teambuilding’ activiresults, since it are the main drities have been integrated. Encouragement, People vers towards result-oriented attiEmpowerment and Coaching tude, tailor-made services and are all part of Human Resources. problem solving. Employees are “Partners in the Business”. EFICO’s Human Resources Department is therefore a The good practices of the supportive factor in this process. UNGC are based on transparency, partnership, dialogue, Yearly, an employee evaluation voluntar y commitment and is carried out. EFICO’s corpocommunication. rate values “IMPROVE” describe EFICO shares this vision and what we strive for and shape adopts the same approach, not the ethical personality of our only with its Team, but with all its Group. Internal Trade Training stakeholders. EFICO GROUP COMMUNICATION Besides HR, Communication is EFICO also disposes of a ‘Coffee Social Media Channels Youtube, also considered as a supportive Quality Information & Origins Facebook and LinkedIn, allow process within the EFICO Group. Library’: Grading sheets, sensocustomers to follow our activities. rial and organoleptic informaContact with international and Good internal communication tion, farm info and so on can be local press is also maintained, as is key to provide professional discovered. well as blogs. external communication and a good service towards our EFICO also has solid backEFICO is member of numerous multi-stakeholders. grounds in sustainability proorganizations and was also in grams. We guide our partners 2016 present at different coffee Efico disposes of a Sharepoint through the process of becorelated events, working on platform to share information ming a sustainable actor in coffee and sustainability related internally. Set-up of a yearly the coffee sector. EFICO gives topics. See photo below Corporate Communication advice on Certification and Plan is important to monitor and Verification Programs, EFICO adjust communication. FOUNDATION projects, Climate Change, Green Coffee Supply Externally, EFICO disposes of Chain training and other topics. many different communication tools: Tailor-made PowerPoint preTo keep our clients informed, sentations are provided upon EFICO sends a ‘Daily Market request. Additionally, brochures News’ report. This can be downincluding this COP report are loaded from our website: handed out to explain our vision www.efico.com/market-news. and strategy. Our website, At the SDG Voices Event, The Shift 15 TAKING CARE OF YOUR COFFEE SEABRIDGE KEY FACTS STATE-OF-THE-ART The 20,000 m 2 warehouse is a WAREHOUSE solid construction with state-ofthe-art machinery and highSEABRIDGE is one of the major qualitative laboratory equip20,000 m2 warehouse only achievements during the last ment and is solely dedicated to dedicated to green coffee decade that allow EFICO to green coffee. position itself as innovator in the Conditioned warehouse; clean air, development of sustainable REDUCING OUR CO2 temperature & humidity controlled solutions to meet our stakeholFOOTPRINT ders’ concerns and illustrate Track-and-Trace System ambition towards a sustainable SEABRIDGE’s energy policy supply chain and involvement combines energy reduction 100% green energy used; in our sector. and compensation. Energy effi1,190 tonnes annual CO2 reduction cient building materials, sound This independent company tracking systems and green Waste Management within the EFICO Group locaenergy production on-site result ted in the port of Zeebrugge in a substantial decrease of our Automatic reception shares the same values of ecological footprint. tailor-made services, expertise, On-site Quality Laboratory quality, and sustainable entreThe 4,60 0 solar panels on preneurship. Here, green and SE ABRI DGE’s roof su r face Railway and barge connection high-qualitative logistics prevail. supply more than 60% of the energy need of SEABRIDGE. The Following the highest standards remaining part is certified green ISO 9001 / ISO 22 000 / HACCP / AEO energy from the grid. ISO 26 000 / ISO 45001 progress In 2016, we record a reduction of 1,190 tonnes CO2, or the energy use of 355 households. A fur ther focus on waste management resulted in the recycling of 91% of all waste streams. See also page 8 SDG 7. 16 For these combined measureFOCUS ON QUALITY Samples are stored under the ments, we received a Green same temperature and relative Building Certificate and Award The driver and differentiator of humidity as in the storage zone, from the European Commission. SEABRIDGE is quality. for two years. This allows our customers to By applying “smart logistics”, or Highest quality, food hygiene, recall samples at any time intermodal transport for both in occupational health and safety to eventually control their and outbound, we further limistandards are combined in conformity. ted our gobal CO 2 footprint. an integrated management system. As mentioned earlier, safety is one of the key elements at TAILOR-MADE LOGISTICS The warehouses, solely dedicaSEABRIDGE. ted to handling and storage of Coffee travels a long way before coffee, are designed to store In 2016, SEABRIDGE implemenarriving at our customers’ roasting coffee in the best conditions. ted an action plan to reduce plant. stress effects at work after a sur vey in cooperation with Each and every step within the Cewez VZW. green coffee supply chain is duly controlled by our logistic team to Job rotation is encouraged on make sure that coffee batches the floor and further investment are stored, loaded and transporin automation took place to ted according to our customers’ improve ergonomics for loading requirements. containers. We strive for continuous improveIn 2017 a gap analysis will be ment in efficient and just-in-time made with the OSHAS 18001 deliveries. guidelines and draft guidelines on ISO 45001 Occupational Here, temperature, relative health and safety. humidity and air ventilation and filtration are continuously monitored and adapted to the product requirements to prevent (cross)-contamination. A dedicated team is trained to rework, screen, dry, blend and package green coffee according to our customers’ requirements. A unique track-and-trace system Our quality team uses a dedicawhich is developed by our inted coffee laboratory for phyhouse IT team, allows full traceasical and sensorial analysis of Europe is more and more known bility of all coffee batches up to coffee samples. as a Special(ty) Coffee hot-spot. delivery to our final customers. This laboratory is not only used At EFICO and SEABRIDGE, we All batches are labelled with for daily control of our coffee are convinced that quality will unique reference codes, allowing samples and tests of the reworgenerate the ultimate consuadditional controls. See photo ked coffee, but also offers a mer satisfaction for a cup of customized service towards our coffee. Next to the state-of-the art wareclients, as well as quality traihouse in Zeebrugge, SEABRIDGE ning sessions that can be orgaTherefore we believe it is our also operates a warehouse in nized on request. See photos duty to deliver such a special Antwerp: NOORDKAAI. high-qualitative coffee and serAutomatic sampling is made on vice, on which our clients can With the same services, two difbag per bag basis and homorely. ferent locations allow a greater genized to get a representative flexibility and efficiency. sample. After all, a high-quality coffee deserves to be stored in a highEvery sample is barcoded and quality environment. part of the laboratory inventory. 17 COFFEE FOR PEOPLE, PEOPLE FOR COFFEE With the EFICO Foundation we determined criteria, through an make a difference by supporindependent jury of experts. ting sustainable multi-stakeEFICO FOUNDATION KEY FACTS holder development projects 100% of the generated funds in coffee producing countries goes directly to the selected with the aim to improve hereby projects as operational costs of the livelihoods of many. the structure are financed by Private Foundation, initiated in 2003 the EFICO Group. Established in 2003 as a priImproving the environment vate foundation, the EFICO This unique and strong model and livelihoods of many Foundation is an open initiative, guarantees 100% transparency coffee families independent, apolitical, phiand 100% funds allocation to losophically and idealogically the selected projects. Today, about 60 multi-stakeholder neutral. development projects in MULTI-STAKEHOLDER producing countries Today, about 60 projects are PROJECTS supported in 16 producing 60 coffee roasters spread over countries. 60 coffee roasters We work together with various 7 countries joined to support spread over 7 countries joined, organizations, including NGOs, 4 governments par ticipate research institutes, universities, Efico Fund within King Baudouin financially or through their national coffee associations, Foundation, initiated in 2005: development agencies, togelocal partners, cooperatives * Management financial means ther with about 70 different or producing countries. There * Jury of experts organizations. is no commercial obligation between the beneficiary of a 100% of funds go directly to projects TRANSPARENCY project and EFICO. In 2005, the EFICO Fund was The Efico Foundation projects established within the King require close monitoring and Baudouin Foundation. This fund control for the best results, which manages, finances, selects and is possible thanks to the support monitors projects based on preof all our project partners, 18 our Team in Central America and primary education. Also the The installation of the vegetathe KURU Team in Ethiopia. skills of the teachers, stakeholbles production garden and ders and communities will be wood efficient stoves, increMAIN ACHIEVEMENTS 2016 enhanced. ased the quality of nutrition and at the same time less resources EDUCATION FOR A have to be used to cook. There SUSTAINABLE FUTURE IMPROVING WASTE WATER is a reduced consumption in MANAGEMENT kg of wood per family, which is In Coromoro, Colombia, a coogood for the environment too. peration between the Collibri In 4 coffee communities in Increasing the level of educaFoundation, the Regional Coffee Huehuetenango, Guatemala, tion of the children gives them Grower Committee of Santander; the finalization of the construcbetter opportunities. t h e Co l o m b i a n Te c h n i ca l tion of a coffee wet mill module This project was supported by Education Plat fo r m (SENA), considers the right technology a Belgian coffee roaster and Florentino Gonzales Rural School for small coffee producers, follow-up provided by EFICO and the EFICO Foundation was which reduces the water conCentral America. set up end of 2014. This is already sumption with 60%. In 2017, there is a follow-up prothe third partnership together in ject, with the continuation of the Colombia in more than 10 years Waste water is processed in an vegetables garden and edible time. evaporation pool and is later mushrooms, focus on quality ‘Education for the Future’ is a on used for organic fertilizer. education including scholarlocal initiative to foster capacity Thanks to the standardization ships and school maintenance. building, peaceful coexistence of coffee processing, improved and income generation for 100 coffee quality is obtained. youngsters and their families Thanks to reduced water use In La Campa, Lempira, Western (+/300 family members). and clean water, the commuHonduras, the quality of life of Indirectly, younger students and nities directly see and feel the 50 coffee families was improteachers of the school and 200 benefits in their daily life: ved by providing them with a neighbour farmer families of the cleaner water in the river and concrete kitchen floor, a woodbeneficiaries benefit from the less water use. On the long run efficient stove and water filter actions and improvement of eduthis leads to an improved health per family. Also 7 workshops cation programs (+800 people). situation. Training also focuses were given, focusing a.o on on preventive health and optidisinfection and storage of In three years time the project mization of coffee knowledge. water, food hygiene and so on. will end in October 2017 an innovative education and training An additional training phase in This project was carried out by program for young students and the project, running from July Fundación Amigos del Café graduates is implemented that up to November 2016, focused and supported by a Dutch integrates the use of IT technoon governance, strengthening coffee roaster. logies, practical training on the of administrative management, field, family support and certificaassociative marketing, gender tion of technical skills. See photo difference & youngsters and WOMEN EMPOWERMENT AND page 18 integral system for entrepreneuINCOME DIVERSIFICATION rial development. In Jinotega, Nicaragua, microI n Sidama Zone, Eth iopia, The partners in this project are credits or small loans are proviaccess to school ing, qua ANACAFÉ, FUNCAFÉ and Cruz ded to 25 women coffee smallit y education and str uctuGrande Integral Agriculture lholder producing members of ral development of 4 primary Cooperative. EFICO Central Aldea Global. schools was initiated early 2016. America provides project follow-up and a Danish coffee The funds are used to invest in This project is the third phase of roasting company is the funthe purchase of agricultural the collaboration between Fero ding partner. inputs, work tools and equipCooperative, Sidama Union, ment for maintenance of a Dutch coffee roaster and plantations. the EFICO Foundation. For this IMPROVED LIVING new 3-year phase, new partner CONDITIONS The aim of this project is to AFSR Action for Self Reliance address the unmet need for Organisation joined. In San Marcos, Guatemala, the working capital for individual project that was set up earlier farmers and for farmers in soli442 school children are supporin 2014 at El Platanillo was finidarity groups in the coffee ted in 4 selected schools (Gejaba, shed, focusing on improving the sector. Follow-up by EFICO Hanafa, Fero and Halekena prihealth of 25 adults and 35 childCentral America and project mary schools) to complete their ren living there. support by a French roaster. 19 WHAT IS NEXT ? In 2016, we reached some major risk-assessment, product requion responsible production and milestones even though we still rements, food safety and occuconsumption. have quite some challenges and pational health will drive these ambitious goals ahead of us. systems. We aim to apply an inclusive strategy that also reaches the most We will continue our actions Given the sectoral challenges of vulnerable farmers and empower as formulated in our ambition climate change and price fluctuthem towards sustainable income up to 2030 for the Sustainable ations in the international market, creation. Development Goals and prowe will continue to focus on partvide a stronger voice in the call nership building with both our With the EFICO Foundation we for international collaboration customers and suppliers, as well will continue to invest in quality and action to tackle sectoral as with institutional parties. education for a.o. children and challenges. youngsters in coffee communities We look at a coffee future were since they are the future of our An impor tant focus area in all actors within the coffee supply society. 2017 and 2018 will be to review chain can benefit without harand reorganize our integrated ming the potential for the future This long-term investment will management systems towards generations. This vision goes hand guide us towards a tranformatioa practical and bottom -up in hand with our continued focus nal, sustainable coffee future. approach: www.efico.com www.facebook.com/EFICO-218238252574/ www.youtube.com/eficogroup www.linkedin.com/company/efico 20 This EFICO report is also available on the United Nations Global Compact Website and on www.efico.com/un-global-compact. Italiëlei 181, B-2000 Antwerpen Tel. : +32 (0)3 233 78 65 efico@efico.com www.efico.com
