2016 COMMITTED Sustainability Report to sustainable care 3 Letter from Our CEO 5 About this Report 01 02 03 04 05 6 15 21 31 35 Sustainable Approach Genomma Lab Profile of Genomma of Genomma Lab Corporate Corporate Internacional Lab Internacional Internacional Governance Ethics Quality • About Genomma Lab international • Materiality and stakeholders • Board of Directors • Code of Conduct and Ethics • Regulatory compliance • Sustainability Strategy: turnaround • Key Stakeholder of Genomma Lab Internacional• Steering Group of Genomma Lab Internacional • Updating the Code of Ethics and • Incidents • Relevant Figures Communication with stakeholders • Committees Conduct • Commitment to quality • Milestones in our history: Genomma Lab Internacional • Participation in Initiatives and Associations • Report to the Board of Directors • Ethics Committee • Quality Management System (QMS) • Our products and operations • Acknowledgments and certifications • Appointment processes and functions of the Superior • Complaint line • Manufacturing supervision of our products • Main launches by country Body of Government and Senior Management • Anti-corruption measures and pro› Pharmaceutical and Cosmetic Clinical Research › Appointment and Selection of Directors tection of Human Rights › Remuneration of Directors and Steering Group › Management of conflict of interests › Board Evaluation and Efficiency • We renew our permanence as issuer of the sustainable IPC of the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV). 06 07 08 09 10 41 46 48 52 65 Responsibility The Consumer as Responsibility for the Value Generation Social in Our Supply a Central Entity of Information about Through Our Impact on Chain Genomma Lab Our Products Workforce Communities • Audits • Knowledge and satisfaction of our • Advertising and labeling of products • Integration of our workforce • Donations • Privacy policy with suppliers of efficacy and safety consumers • Digital Marketing • Diversity, inclusion and gender equity › Genomma Lab Foundation grants cosmetics’ studies • Customer service • Talent Management: Global Competencies donation to Xuajin Me´Phaa A.C • Agreements with manufacturers Genomma Lab › Mexican Red Cross • Local supply • Training and Development › Cancerotón • Human capital policies › Silka Medic 11 12 • Employee benefits › Covenant for child nutrition in • Pillar of culture 69 75 78 GRI Index › Program of Academic Excellence Colombia Environmental Supply Chain: › Celebration of the Day of the Dead • Supporting groups in vulnerable Care And Link of Positive 87 Contact › CEDIS Festivities social conditions › Community QG5 Protection Social impact › Cheer up a Heart › Volunteering: Cheer up a Heart • Occupational Health and Safety • Our Environmental Policy • Environmental responsibility in our waste management • Implementation of SAP version S/4 HANA • Energy in Genomma Lab Internacional • Co-processing of waste • Our Carbon Footprint • Committed to the preservation of biodiversity • Use of materials and waste › Waste management › Materials › Reduction of raw materials › Biodegradable labels • Commitment to Water Use Sustainability Report 2016 2 Letter from Our CEO Letter from Our CEO At Genomma Lab Internacional we have consolidated the expansion Innovation has been a key factor in the creation of megabrands and of our operations and we have strengthened ourselves as a worldpower brands through the diversification of successful products in (G4-1) (G4-2) class company. The road was known as a challenge, but substantial by-products, which meet the requirements and needs of the market, achievements were reached, which strengthened our positioning in being offered in different presentations. order to grow in a more sustainable and profitable way. The expansion took place as part of a comprehensive strategy that not As part of these results, we are pleased to present with great satisfaction only improved margin and income, but was accompanied by greater our sixth Sustainability Report, through which we demonstrate the efficiency with its consequent reduction in costs, through an optimal growing importance of sustainable development for our business and organizational structure for business development. our stakeholders. We focus on strengthening our position as a leading company in our Our commitment to sustainability is reflected in the objectives, the categories of over-the-counter medicines (OTC) and personal care definition of goals and those responsible for their achievement, integrating products (PC), implementing responsible actions that ensure proper economic, environmental and social aspects in our management. reputational management in our goal of positively impacting the health and well-being of people, communities and the environment. This allows us to make sustained progress in the positioning, diversification and strengthening of our brands, products and We are aware that strategic achievements and business progress are distribution chain. only feasible through proper talent management, continuous training and organizational culture across all levels of the Company. Our vision and actions in terms of sustainability translate into constant generation of value for the long-term permanence of the business. Our supply chain, one of our main pillars, is made up of more than 1,700 The growing global expansion and strengthening of our operations is suppliers. This structure has been key to achieving a solid penetration reflected in a greater consolidation and capitalization of investments, and diversity in the markets in which we operate. Our relationship is resulting from a formal, focused, standardized and sustained key, given the quality standards we demand from this chain, so we carry international business planning. out a strict process of audits on expected quality and service. In 2016 we operate in 19 countries. Our positioning at international Our operations are developed in a business environment with highly level is the result of various actions such as strategic acquisitions and demanding regulations, especially for products related to the health focus on core brands taking into consideration the preferences of our and well-being of the human being, thus we adhere to the specific target markets and growth segments, as well as a reduction of nonregulations of each country. By ensuring that the quality of our products key brands; which had a positive impact on product turnover, higher is in balance with the applicable regulatory compliance, we align our revenues, improved cash flow and financial margin. processes to agencies recognized by their high performance standards Sustainability Report 2016 3 Letter from Our CEO such as the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the US Food and technological update in over two decades and replaces the old R3 IPC, with Genomma Lab Internacional being one of them. In this way, Drug Administration (FDA). version. An interdisciplinary team, under the leadership of Engineer our Company demonstrates its invaluable and strategic commitment Antonio Zamora Galland, Executive Vice President of Administration to sustainability. In addition, we were recognized by the Issuers' On the other hand, we work steadily and aim to obtain attractive financial and Finance, successfully concluded its implementation this year, with Committee of the Sustainable IPC for our outstanding performance in results with the least possible environmental impact. This is achieved the collaboration of different areas in our operations in Mexico. Social Responsibility. by defining specific goals and actions for our internal operations, as • The signing of agreements with our manufacturers to comply, and well as for our business partners and supply chain. We voluntarily In order to ensure the quality, safety and efficacy of our products, during standardize processes that satisfy and exceed the quality of our prodconduct our Greenhouse Gas Inventory (GHG) on an annual basis and 2016 we continue investing in research and development, encouraging ucts, which at the same time will be reflected in all stages of the value establish measures for the adequate management of water, packaging innovation and creativity of our collaborators, thus promoting our chain, from the purchasing of materials, innovation, development, and waste generated, implementing mitigation measures, thus showing culture of improvement. manufacturing, storage and distribution, up to the shelf where our our commitment to minimize the environmental impact of our actions. consumers take the product. I thank all those who contributed to the establishment of our strategy We recognize the great work and relevance of the communities where • The creation of an independent whistleblower hotline to report aband the achievement of our goals and objectives to promote the we operate, it is because of them that we maintain our commitment to normal situations occurred in the workplace or that undermine the sustainable development of Genomma Lab Internacional. have programs to support vulnerable groups with concrete actions of Company’s assets. social responsibility. • The signing of the Covenant against child malnutrition in Colombia, GEN CERO in which our commitment to support the eradication of The presentation of this report gives us the opportunity to maintain a chronic malnutrition in Colombia by 2030 becomes official. clear and transparent communication with our stakeholders who are Máximo Juda a key factor in the performance of our activities. We are aware that all • Environmental measures aimed at efficiency in the use of materials CEO Genomma Lab internacional, S.A.B. DE C.V these actions are the reflection of a current and future profit generation and water and energy resources. platform, which generates greater value especially for the investors. On the other hand, the generation of our report allows us to analyze In Genomma Lab Internacional we continue adding achievements in with a strategic vision the actions taken as a whole always compared to terms of sustainability and social responsibility, having been honored the requirements of the market. We seek to contrast our investments for the tenth consecutive year, with the award as a Socially Responsible and achievements against the possible areas of business opportunity, Company (SRC). Likewise, we were awarded the Acknowledgment of achieving a constant evolution. Family-Responsible Company and in 2014 the Award “Gilberto Rincón Gallardo” as Inclusive Company with a validity of three years. Similarly, We keep relationships with Chambers and Organizations at national since 2007, we adhered to the Global Compact as a company active on and international level, endorsing our commitment to the development, human rights issues, health and anti-corruption, we joined the Global growth and strengthening of the industry in the social, environmental, Compact initiative Call to action: Anti-corruption to prevent or avoid the economic and ethical fields. practice of acts of corruption in all its forms. This year we made significant achievements that generated substantial For the fourth consecutive year, we endorse our permanence in value both within and outside of the Company. These include: the Sustainable Index of Prices and Quotations (IPC, for its acronym in Spanish) of the Mexican Stock Exchange. Of the 80 sustainable • The implementation of the SAP ERP IT system version S/4HANA, which companies qualified in Mexico to make up the group of sustainable is a new generation business system, that is being called the biggest issuers in our country, only 30 were selected within the Sustainable Sustainability Report 2016 4 About this Report About this Report Our commitment in this sixth Sustainability Report is to inform clearly operations in Mexico and incorporate relevant data on our international and transparently the achievements, impacts and main challenges of operation, where it is as such indicated. The countries where we operate Genomma Lab Internacional in economic, environmental and social at international level are Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Costa matters. The content of this report is based on the principles of Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, materiality, completeness and participation with stakeholders, to ensure Paraguay, Peru, Dominican Republic, Trinidad and Tobago and Uruguay. the transparency of our information. Our report is aligned with the requirements of agencies that set the guidelines for Sustainability Reporting, under the guidelines of the Global We reveal through the three principles of materiality, aspects that reflect Reporting Initiative (GRI), reporting for the third time under the version of the economic, environmental and social effects of the Company. We also the GRI G4 Guide under the essential compliance option. The reporting share information on issues that impact our stakeholders' decisions and processes used are aligned with the Principles of Inclusiveness, Relevance assessments and on our practice to their expectations and interests. and Responsiveness defined by AccountAbility AA1000APS (2008). Through the principle of the context of sustainability we expose our We also reaffirm our commitment to responsible practices that strengthen sustainable performance and vision based on the opportunities and the respect and protection of human rights, care for the environment and risks that we identify about conditions in our environment and business permanent work with anti-corruption principles, and we have since 2007 strategy, sharing our impact and contribution in the countries in which reaffirmed our commitment to the Global Compact initiative (The Global we are present. Compact) of the United Nations, as well as our permanence as of 2013, as an active issuer in the Sustainable Index of Prices and Quotations (IPC) This report is the result of a strategic transformation in our operation, of the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV). faced with a changing and innovative environment. We share relevant information from the Company from an external perspective, we focus our work on emphasizing the practices of our supply chain seeking to promote sustainable development and driving the social responsibility that we have as a Socially Responsible Company before our value chain. The information in this report covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2016 and in some specific cases we make a comparison with respect to the year 2015. We present the performance of our Sustainability Report 2016 5 01 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional 01 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional (G4-DMA, G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8, G4-9, G4-13) About Genomma Lab international We are an extensive network that brings together companies and institutions that research, manufacture and market pharmaceutical and dermo-cosmetic products that meet the highest quality standards, adhering to national and international regulations, and the good manufacturing, documentation and analytical practices. The formula for achieving success in each of our brands lies in the fact that they efficaciously improve the well-being and health of our consumers. Most of the activities we carry out at Genomma Lab Internacional revolve around this purpose and are based on research, analysis, development and commercialization of pharmaceuticals and personal care products. Through our actions, we seek to distinguish ourselves as an organization that considers the needs and concerns of its key stakeholders. We have an international presence, not forgetting our Mexican roots, and we are characterized by being an avant-garde company, young, dynamic, flexible and innovative, focused on finding solutions to improve the quality of life and health of people. We stand out for being one of the leading companies in the pharmaceutical over-counter (OTC) and personal care (PC) industry, highlighted by our brands that have positioned themselves in the first places of the national and international market. Sustainability Report 2016 6 01 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional Our operation, which began and was strengthened in Mexico, has crossed borders, extending to 19 countries of the American continent and positioning itself significantly in Latin America and the Caribbean. Our business model is based on the continuous improvement and development of innovative, safe and efficacious products. All our efforts are aimed at improving the well-being and health of our consumers. To achieve this, we have a team of highly committed partners, an extensive network of distributors and an efficient supply chain. Our products are based on scientific research and international quality standards. The principles that define us are: quality, growth, expansion, consumer satisfaction, development and safety. Here's how we live them on a day-to-day basis. Quality Growth Expansion We work together with our We focus on maintaining We are constantly growing in Latin suppliers and customers to sustained growth with the America and the United States. provide products of the highest highest return level for the Sustainability Strategy: turnaround quality and available to the investors. consumer. In 2016 in Mexico we continue with the turnaround process we announced in the previous year. The objective of this strategy was to geographically diversify our presence, to reinforce the most important brands in our portfolio, to restructure operations, to strengthen financial policies, to implement additional procedures and controls and to establish mechanisms that will increase profitability in the long term. Satisfaction Development Safety We have achieved the goals established for this year, taking into We solve the needs of our We create products that improve We thoroughly analyze account the following strategic imperatives: a) creation of value for consumers, improving their health and quality of life, through our products, scientifically shareholders, b) sustainable business model and renowned brands, health and well-being. a high investment in research and demonstrating their efficacy and c) international expansion (balanced geographic reach)1. development. and safety. Source: page Genomma Lab Internacional: http://www.genommalab.com/es/index.html 1 Genomma Day 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 7 01 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional Note 2016 2015 2014 Net revenue $11,316,310 $11,042,452 $11,540,998 Cost of goods sold 3,635,327 3,777,058 3,538,831 Gross profit 7,680,983 7,265,394 8,002,167 Selling, general and administrative expense 7,491,077 7,334,154 5,569,258 Relevant Figures Other expenses (income) net 22 86,676 6,850 (12,187) Impairment of long lived assets 1,770,194 899,612 In this exercise the Company's global sales increased 2.5% compared to 2015, 9,347,947 8,240,616 5,557,071 reaching the amount of $11,316.3 million pesos. Mexico's sales accounted for Operating (loss) income (1,666,964) (975,222) 2,445,096 41% of total sales for 2016, while Latin America and the United States accounted Interest expense (329,941) (392,562) (360,003) for 45% and 14% of total sales, respectively2, in line with the objective of further Interest income 33,241 20,586 11,827 diversifying our operations to decrease dependence on Mexico. Exchange (loss) gain, net 379,349 (119,512) 32,525 For the fourth quarter of 2016, Mexico's sales exceeded our expectations. They Equity in income (loss) of associated 12 68,002 12,024 (11,684) reached $ 1,315.3 million pesos, reporting an increase of 41.5% compared to (Loss) income before income taxes from discontinued operations (1,516,313) (1,454,686) 2,117,761 the same period of the previous year. Income taxes 23 126,478 (373,895) 623,598 Consolidated net (loss) Income from continuing operations Below, the Profit and Loss Statement of Genomma Lab S.A.B. De C.V. and its (1,642,791) (1,080,791) 1,494,163 subsidiaries: Income for the year from discontinued operations, net 13 68,154 12,943 Consolidated net (loss) income (1,642,791) (1,012,637) 1,507,106 Other comprehensive income for the year: Consolidated Statements of Profit and Loss and Other Items which will be reversed to results in the future Comprehensive Income Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 182,637 262,741 160,330 Consolidated comprehensive (loss) income $(1,460,154) $(749,896) $1,667,436 For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 Net (loss) income attributable to: (Thousands of Mexican pesos, except earnings per share information expressed in pesos.) Controlling interest $(1,680,925) $(1,068,519) $1,444,558 Non controlling interest 38,134 55,882 62,548 $(1,642,791) $(1,012,637) $1,507,106 Consolidated comprehensive (loss) income attributable to: Controlling interest $(1,509,566) $(800,330) $1,581,285 Non controlling interest (48,729) 50,434 86,151 $(1,558,295) $(749,896) $1,667,436 Basic and diluted (loss) income per ordinary share: From continuing operations $(1.71) $(1.11) $1.37 From discontinued operations $0.00 $0.07 $0.01 Source: Financial Statements audited by Deloitte. Basic and diluted (loss) income per share $(1.71) $(1.04) $1.38 Weighted average shares outstanding (thousands of shares) 980,808 1,031,553 1,048,255 2 Financial information http://www.genommalab.com/Inversionistas/Upload/Documents/8/Genomma%20 Lab%20Internacional%204Q%202016%20ESP%20Final.pdf Sustainability Report 2016 8 01 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional Milestones in our history: Genomma Lab Internacional 1996: Genomma Lab is constituted as an advertising categories include over-the-counter (OTC) pharmaceutical 2008: we adopted the publicly traded stock corporation reduced dependence on Mexico3. Sale of the Commercial company with a direct-to-consumer approach and products. regime therefore the company name is currently, and Industrial Group Marzam, S.A.P.I. de .C.V. production capacity of infomercials on television. Genomma Lab Internacional, S.A.B. Of C.V. 2003: we started with the sale of our products to 2016: the company's turnaround strategy was consolidated, 1997: We restructured our operations in order to pharmaceutical wholesalers. 2013: Entry to the sustainable IPC of the Mexican Stock with a successful inventory adjustment process, demand concentrate our activities on beauty products, starting to Exchange (BMV). supported by the strength of our brands, convergence of develop our own products. 2006: We modified our organizational structure, hiring the processes of sell-in and sell-out, and the integration of staff with extensive experience in pharmaceutical and 2015: We innovate our business strategy based on the experienced executives in key areas. 1999: We began to develop a platform for product personal care products. turnaround process under the strategic imperatives of development and advertising thereof, establishing a value creation for shareholders, sustainable business network of distributors and wholesalers in order to place 2007: We acquired new brands and expanded our portfolio model and stronger brands, international expansion and our products in strategic points of sale. Our product to new areas considered as strategic opportunities. 2015 The company announced a strategy in the third quarter for the turnaround process 2013 of its operations in Mexico, with the aim of diversifying its geographical presence and Business 2011 Entrance to IPC Susfocusing on the “core” brands, restructurRealignment Acquisition tainability Index and 2009 of the brands MSCI Index. ing operations and establishing a path to long-term profitability. (19962002) Launch of Primer Nivel, Genoma Lab Branded Vanart, Pomada de la Campana, 2016 Acquisition of Tafirol in Consolidation of the Generics Line. Sale of the Commercial and Industrial 2007 Widlroot, Alert and Nórdiko. Argentina, and Losec Group Marzam, S.A.P.I. de .C.V. turnaround strategy, Expanded product and package of OTC obtaining favorable 2004 portfolio through Acquisition of Medicinas brands in Mexico. results in the areas of 1999 Nexxus Capital development of new y Medicamentos Nacionales, Jockey Club, Flor de operation, finance and 1996 Changed Business Invested 30% of Equity. products and line extensions. Naranja, Sanborns, Teatrihuman capital. Funded as Infomercial marketModelto cal and Henna Egipcia. 2014 ing company. OTC/PC. Acquisition of 2 package of 2012 brands in our International Acquisition of the brands: Fermodyl, operations. Zan Zusi, Altiva, Amara, Larizá, Bioskin 2002 2010 and XL3 in Mexico, Babysan and 2008 Acquisition of the brands NasPiecidex in Argentina and Dermaglós Acquisition of Marzan. salub, Micotex, Ossart, English 2006 Performed in Brazil. 2003 Expanded its IPO in the Leather, Galaflex, Affair and Santé. Organic growth Mexican Stock management through brand Market. Launch of operations in Brazi team. and product and USA. development. Accelerated Expasion 3 https://www.bmv.com.mx/docs-pub/prospect/00120080626121850.pdf Sustainability Report 2016 9 01 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional Our products and operations (G4-9) Cicatricure Is the # 1 dermatological brand of Genomma Lab Our portfolio consists of 60 brands. In 2016, we launched 30 products to the market, of which 29 Internacional, expert in skin care. It has an extensive Goicoechea were line extensions of existing brands and/or portfolio of facial and body portfolio renewals and one under a new brand. The products which over the years The specialist in legs, has a main categories we market include: have provided consumers range of products specially Categories: Facial creams, body creams, anti-acne with benefits that help reverse designed to provide superior care to women's legs. Teatrical skin damage (from scars to products, cosmetics, shampoos, hair treatments, major signs of aging). GoicoTabs relieves tiredness and heaviness of the legs The iconic brand in skin care hair stylers, flu treatments, antitussives, oral and with more than 90 years in caused by varicose veins and topical analgesics, intimate hygiene, electrolyteadded beverages, condoms, athlete's foot its line of creams moisturize the Mexican market evolves its formula incorporating a Asepxia and relaxes the legs instantly antifungal, onychomycosis, multivitamins, body unique ingredient: Stem Cells providing specialized benefits. A leading brand in the soaps in bar, antihaemorrhoidals, antidiarrheals, It also has a specialized of the Buddleja Davidii Flower, Anti-acne category, it has a antiparasitic agents, antacid products, colitis, nasal product in the skin care making an accessible product portfolio available to Mexican product line designed to help solutions, products indicated for stress and anxiety. of people with diabetes: women inspired by the current adolescents fight against Goicoechea Diabet TX. imperfections. Always looking needs of women. to be at the forefront, in 2016 the new formula “Hydro Force” was launched; the perfect balance between technology and nature, to provide consumers with maximum anti-imperfection effectiveness while caring for and protecting the skin. Sustainability Report 2016 10 01 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional Vanart The brand with more than 60 years in the market today evolves by Sistema GB introducing its Brilliant Repair line, a whole The leading brand family of products with expert in hair loss, natural coconut oil that, knows that this problem Tío Nacho combined with the best can only be solved ingredients, take care of with the right system: Natural and specialized the hair daily providing GB System contains a anti-hair loss brand extraordinary results unique formula with 3 with the best of XL3 and making the Mexican active ingredients that nature combined in its families shine. stimulate hair growth by homemade formula, An anti-flu brand with decreasing hair loss. Royal Jelly with natural more than 40 years of ingredients that experience relieving the Next revitalize your hair. flu of Mexicans. With one of the broadest The brand of anti-flu portfolios in Mexico. medicines recognized XL3 has solutions to for its efficacy and Lomecan V relieve a mild flu, to a speed of action to severe flu that requires relieve all the symptoms The expert brand for antiviral action. of the flu and help the intimate care of you continue with Mexican women. With Nikzon your day thanks to its the widest portfolio powerful formula with covering the OTC The leading brand paracetamol, caffeine, market with ova and in hemorrhoid phenylephrine and creams as well as daily relief, market leader chlorphenamine. hygiene products such thanks to its effective as intimate shampoos pharmaceutical form in and soaps. chewable tablets. Sustainability Report 2016 11 01 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional Main launches by country The main launches by country in 2016 were: Launch of Cicatricure Plasma Relaunch of the Suerox brand Launch of Triatop Clinical Mexico Mexico Argentina Launch of MaEvans Hialubot Line, Tukol and Launch of Asepxia’s BB Cream Launch of Vanart Brilliant Repair Cicatricure Micellar Water Argentina Mexico Argentina Sustainability Report 2016 12 01 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional Launch of Cicatricure Beauty Care and Launch of Farmaderma Concept and Launch of Cicatricure SPF Cicatricure Roll-on Eyes New Hair Packs USA Chile Peru y Bolivia Launch of Next, launch of Cicatricure Beauty Care and launch of Nasalub Colombia Launch of Tío Nacho: Conditioners Younger Launch of Tío Nacho Herbals Looking & Mexican Herbs Chile USA Launch of Lomecan V Ova and X-Ray Capsules Ecuador Launch of Lomecan V ova and launch Launch of Genozol of Fermodyl USA Central America Sustainability Report 2016 13 01 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional During the year 2016 we developed In the following web sites, we present each of our brands and new products with the objective of products according to their classification. strengthening our existing brands, as well as penetrating into categories where we Pharma: http://www.genommalab.mx/farma do not yet have a presence. Derma: http://www.genommalab.mx/derma Well-being: http://www.genommalab.mx/bienestar During this year the Company decided to enter the grocery market where the main All our products are made with international quality standards benefit is to facilitate the movement of and are supported by scientific research. This is the result of our brands such as Genoprazol, Next, Alliviax, commitment to the health and well-being of our consumers. Nikzon and Condoms M. Sustainability Report 2016 14 02 Sustainable Approach of Genomma Lab Internacional 02 Sustainable Approach Of Genomma Lab Internacional Materiality and stakeholders (DMA, G4-17, G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-22, G4-23, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27) The analysis of materiality or relevant aspects in sustainability of Genomma Lab Internacional covers the entities included in our financial statements and that, as a whole, make up to Genomma Lab Internacional S.A.B. Of C.V. and subsidiaries. Genomma Lab Internacional S.A.B. de C.V. and subsidiaries Genomma Laboratories México, S.A. de C.V. Genomma Lab Perú, S.A. Television Products Retail, S.A. de C.V. Genomma Lab Chile, S.A. Medicinas y Medicamentos Nacionales, S.A. de C.V. Genomma Lab Ecuador, S.A. Iniciativas de Éxito, S.A. de C.V. Genomma Laboratories Argentina, S.A. Aero Lab, S.A. de C.V. Genomma Lab Colombia, LTDA Servicios Logísticos Genomma, S.A. de C.V. Genomma Laboratories do Brasil, LTDA Genomma Lab USA, Inc. Genomma Lab Dominicana, S.R.L. Genomma Lab Centroamérica, S. A. The Dutch-LATEM Royalty Company, B. V Sustainability Report 2016 15 02 Sustainable Approach of Genomma Lab Internacional Genomma Lab Internacional's Corporate Social Responsibility strategy integrates the relevant aspects identified in the analysis of materiality and the corporate imperatives derived from our business strategy. The points that our main stakeholders consider important, as well as the priorities for each of the national and international entities of Genomma Lab Internacional, are considered in the information disclosed in this report. The methodology of the analysis of materiality consists of the identification, prioritization, review The assessment is based on international standards, supporting our analysis and validation of the issues that our company and stakeholders consider relevant. To carry out this on comparable and robust information. As a result, we obtained a materiality evaluation, information was obtained from various sources, among which the following stand out: matrix that classifies the information into two main areas: risk and maturity: Risk: refers to the level of impacts that have not yet materialized, but if they do so, may eventually affect our stakeholders. Issues that Internal fall into this category should be included in action plans in order to Sector Stakeholders management mitigate them. Maturity: should be understood as the level of attention that our stakeholders pay to certain sustainability aspects. It includes those Issues relevant to our Aspects revealed by Customers issues that are addressed from within the organization and are industry. Genomma Lab in various media. externally communicated by public media. Sustainability aspects Employees critical to our industry. The two previous criteria allow us to classify the aspects of sustainability as Evaluation of critical emerging, generalized, urgent and necessary, thus determining the approach issues by our management team. with which we must address them. Calculations, weights and scores are performed to obtain reliable, repeatable and consistent results, which serve as a Regulators basis for prioritizing future strategic actions, investments and communications; Important topics in the same way, we rely on these to define the scope and coverage of the according to our social content of our Sustainability Reports. and sectorial prescribers (Chambers, associations and regulators). Suppliers Other stakeholders Sustainability Report 2016 16 02 Sustainable Approach of Genomma Lab Internacional Within the materiality analysis of Genomma Lab Internacional, several Key Stakeholder of Genomma Lab Internacional companies from the pharmaceutical and personal care sector were considered, identifying the degree of maturity of those companies for those aspects of Our stakeholders are those entities or organizations with which we interact on an sustainability that are publicly disclosed. We identified the following topics as ongoing basis through commercial and/or social transactions, and whose operations those of greater disclosure: are significantly impacted by strategic or operational decisions. Below, we show our main stakeholders, referring to issues of major importance to them. Management of sustainable development. Policy and environmental management system. Relationship with government and public policy. The commitment and dedication of our employees is very important to Waste management. Employees reach the achievements and results of the company. We continually seek to strengthen their sense of belonging to Genomma Lab Internacional through We also identify topics that represent a greater risk for Genomma Lab programs that promote their professional and personal development, which Internacional, which are: at the same time foster a healthy and competitive work culture. Management of sustainable development. Customers are the most important channel in order to bring our products to Customers and Relationship with government and public policy. consumers and thus provide to the latter benefits to their health and wellconsumers being. We seek at all times to meet their expectations and needs through Financial topics. research and development of high quality and efficacy products. Operations. Access to health. Through our supply chain we can potentiate our impacts on the quality of Suppliers and our products, environment and communities. For us, our suppliers and Management of water resources. manufacturers manufacturers are our allies, organizations with which we establish long-term Talent attraction and retention. relationships of trust. Ethics and Integrity. Corporate Governance. We continuously implement programs that benefit the health and wellCommunity being of the communities in which we operate. Both Genomma Lab Corruption, bribery and transparency. Internacional and the Genomma Lab Foundation are key players for these to be carried out. Of the topics that were classified as generalized (environmental affairs, employee satisfaction and human rights), we compared our performance against that of the companies that are considered leaders in the sector. As We seek to generate return on investment for our shareholders through a result of the above, we established strategies and action plans to continue Shareholders the sustained growth of Genomma Lab Internacional, based on a business improving our performance in these matters, thus generating more value to strategy that aims to strengthen our presence in the domestic and our stakeholders. international markets. Sustainability Report 2016 17 02 Sustainable Approach of Genomma Lab Internacional Channel Stakeholder Frequency Expectations Communication mechanism Consumer • Market studies Ongoing/Annual • Assortment • Satisfaction Surveys • Prices • Service-hotline for customers and • Product Quality consumers • Quality of Service Communication with • Environmental care stakeholders Employees • Permanent contact Ongoing/Annual • Training • Work Climate Survey • Programs and benefits for employees and their • Compensation Survey families The channels and mechanisms of communication • Acknowledgment systems with which we interact with our stakeholders, • Environmental care the frequency of such interaction and what they expect from us, is detailed in the following table. Vendors and • Permanent contact Ongoing • Development of the value chain manufacturers • Fair trade • Long-term relationships Authorities and • Permanent contact Ongoing • Compliance with laws and regulations regulatory agencies • Active participation in key industry issues • Environmental care Financial Institutions • Permanent contact Ongoing/weekly • Transparency • Timely and accurate information • Compliance with laws and regulations Communication Media • Permanent contact Ongoing • Constant communication • Timely and accurate information Communicators/ • Permanent contact Ongoing • Constant communication opinion leaders • Timely and accurate information Society • Community perception studies Annual • Community support • Information of activities • Access to medicines Shareholders, • Meetings Continuous / monthly / quarterly/ • Generation of economic and social value investors and analysts • Telephone conferences annual • Environmental care • Internet • Transparency • Permanent contact • Fair treatment • Timely and accurate information • Constant communication Civil society • Meetings Half-yearly • Support organizations • Synergy • Environmental care Chambers • Meetings Monthly • Support • Sharing Best Practices Experiences • Driving the sector’s agenda Sustainability Report 2016 18 02 Sustainable Approach of Genomma Lab Internacional Participation in Initiatives Country Association or Initiative and Associations (G4-16) Mexico • Cámara Nacional de la Industria Farmacéutica [National Chamber of the Pharmaceutical Industry] (CANIFARMA) We participate in different chambers and initiatives • Sociedad de Químicos Cosmetólogos de México, A.C. [Mexican Society of Cosmetic Chemists] through which we identify more clearly the expectations • Consejo de la Comunicación A.C. [Communication Council] and needs that our stakeholders have in relation to the • Centro Mexicano para la Filantropía [Mexican Center for Philanthropy] (CEMEFI) personal care and pharmaceutical products industry. Peru • Cámara de Comercio de Lima [Lima Chamber of Commerce] • Cámara Integración Chileno Mexicana [Chamber of Chilean Mexican Integration] (CICMEX) Chile • Consejo de las Américas [Council of the Americas] • Cámara de Comercio de Bogotá [Bogota Chamber of Commerce] Colombia • Programa Punto Azul [Blue Point Program] • Asociación Nacional de Empresarios de Colombia [National Association of Entrepreneurs of Colombia] (ANDI) Ecuador • Asociación de Empresas Productoras y Comercializadoras de Cosméticos del Ecuador [Ecuadorian Association of Cosmetics Production and Merchandising Companies] (PROCOSMETICOS) Argentina • Cámara Industrial de Laboratorios Farmacéuticos [Industrial Chamber of Pharmaceutical Laboratories] (CILFA) • Cámara Argentina de Productores de Especialidades Medicinales de Venta Libre [Argentine Chamber of Over-The-Counter Medications] (CAPEMVEL) • Dirigentes de créditos de la industria farmacéutica [Credit Directors of the Pharmaceutical Industry] (DICRINFA) • Asociación Argentina de Farmacia y Bioquímica Industrial [Argentine Association Pharmacy of Industrial Biochemistry] (SAFYBI) • Cámara Argentina de la Industria de Cosméticos y Perfumerías [Argentina Chamber of the Industry of Cosmetics and Perfumeries] (CAPA) • Consejo de la Industria de Cosméticos, Aseo Personal y Cuidado del Hogar de Latinoamérica [Council of the Cosmetics, Personal Care and Home Care Industry of Latin America] (CASIC) • Sindicato da Indústria de Produtos Farmacêuticos no Estado de SP [Syndicate of Pharmaceutical Products in the State of SP] (SINDUSFARMA) Brazil • Associação Brasileira da Indústria de Higiene Pessoal, Perfumaria e Cosméticos [Brazilian Association of Toiletries, Perfumes and Cosmetics] (ABIHPEC) • Sindicato do Comércio Atacadista de Drogas, Medicamentos, Correlatos, Perfumarias, Cosméticos e Artigos de Toucador No Estado de São Paulo [Trade Union of Drug Wholesalers, Manufacturers, Related, Perfumery, Cosmetics and Toiletries of São Paulo] (SINCAMESP) • Associação Brasileira da Indústria de Medicamentos Isentos de Prescrição [Brazilian Non-Prescription Medicine Industry Association] (ABIMIP) USA • Consumer Healthcare Products Association (CHPA) • Personal Care Products Council Sustainability Report 2016 19 02 Sustainable Approach of Genomma Lab Internacional Acknowledgments and certifications (G4-15) Country Acknowledgment Institution Mexico • “Gilberto Rincón Gallardo” Inclusive Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión Social Company” [Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare] (STPS) In this way, we continue to endorse our commitment to strengthening this industry in the countries where • Acknowledgment of Socially Responsible Centro Mexicano para la Filantropía we have presence. Company [Mexican Center for Philanthropy] (CEMEFI) • Acknowledgment of Family-Responsible Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión Social Company [Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare] (STPS) • Global Compact Membership Renewal United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) • Issuer in the Sustainable IPC Index of the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) Mexican Stock Exchange • Member of the “Call to Action: AntiUnited Nations Global Compact (UNGC) corruption” Initiative Sustainability Report 2016 20 03 Corporate Governance 03Corporate Governance (G4-DMA, G4-34, G4-35, G4-36, G4-37, G4-38, G4-39, G4-40 G4-41, G4-42, G4-43, G4-44, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47, G4-48, G4-49, G4-50, G4-51, G4-52, G4-53) The creation of value for the shareholders of Genomma Lab Internacional is based on a sustainable and diversified business through a stable market with presence in 19 countries. The growth we have achieved through strategic acquisitions and a core brand focus has been driven in carefully selected markets in Latin America and the US Hispanic market. The result of this effort has not only involved higher revenues, but it has been achieved along with an efficiency effort, where the organic structure has been optimized during the last two years. There was a reduction of the workforce in Mexico and an increase in the international workforce, necessary for the expected expansion with better financial results. Likewise, in order to provide stability in the day-to-day, the current management team has focused on improving cash flow and participating in attractive and growing business segments, always with recognized leading brands defined specifically for each market according to their needs. Sustainability Report 2016 21 03 Corporate Governance There is also a board of market penetration progress by Currently with a global business vision, we are working on megabrands, country, strengthening those countries where there is a strong a mirroring of previous successes in several markets by duplicating critical presence and position, and developing and implementing success factors and meeting the local specifications that may exist. Likewise, brand penetration and consolidation strategies in those new we continue the effort of generating power brands, which means diversifying markets where the presence is considered of value. successful products into by-products that meet the market requirements and needs in different presentations and versions. In Mexico, a strategy of strengthening core products has been pursued, expanding their presence and reducing nonInnovation is another platform of the global plan where there are currently key brands, seeking to focus our investment and sales effort over 90 innovation base products in the pipeline. The work has taken place on products with better rotation as well as greater margin, during this last year and is the success platform for the coming years. always to the benefit of the market needs as well as of the organization’s return on investment. The fulfillment of our objectives remains aligned to the effort and constant commitment of transparent disclosure of information and the strengthening of corporate policies and procedures that are characterized by being highly demanding with strict supervision aimed at achieving the future strategy. Becoming a leading company in our over-the counter (OTC) medicines and personal care products (PC) is a cornerstone of our ongoing reputational improvement efforts. This implies to be recognized for positively impacting the health and well-being of individuals, the community and the environment. Issues that are seriously considered by our governing bodies and executives. Transparency, equity, accountability and adherence to laws and regulations are part of our culture and the actions we undertake to generate value and our long-term permanence. Our Corporate Governance framework is essential to achieve adequate risk management, performance evaluation, transparent communication, collective decisions and for the prevention of conflicts of interest in the performance of our operations. Sustainability Report 2016 22 03 Corporate Governance Board Members Experience Summary Member Independent (3) Board of Directors The legal representation and strategic management of Genomma Lab Internacional Rodrigo Alonso Chairman of the Board. He has more than 20 years’ experience in marketing and brand positioning strategies. President His main functions focus on the coordination and supervision of advertising material produced by the rests with the Board of Directors, which has Herrera Aspra (1)(2) Company and the marketing of products and advertising campaigns. He holds a degree in engineering the powers of authorization and execution of and administration from the Universidad Anáhuac and is a graduate of the Master's Degree in Senior Management from the Colegio de Graduados en Alta Dirección. any action that is not expressly reserved to the Shareholders' Meeting. Scott R. Emerson Founder and President of The Emerson Group and its subsidiaries, Emerson Healthcare and Emerson Marketing. Independent Director He has more than 30 years of experience in management positions in the areas of brand management, new The Board of Directors is chaired by Rodrigo business development, sales operations and field sales at Fortune 500 companies including Johnson & Johnson, Alonso Herrera Aspra, founder of the Company, Unilever and Novartis Consumer Health. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Consumer Health Products Association, National Association of Chain Drug Stores, Efficient Collaborative Retail Marketing, among who has more than 20 years of experience in others. He holds a Master's degree in Accounting from the University of Texas. marketing and brand positioning strategies. Leandro Martín CEO of Chemo Corporation. Has extensive management knowledge in Marketing & Sales, Business (Independent Director) Full Sigman Gold Intelligence & Development, and Strategic Planning. Worked as Executive Director of Laboratorios Elea, and member of the Board of as Director of Marketing at Parke-Davis Argentina. Holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Economics, and a Bachelor’s Degree in Journalism, as well as a Master’s (MBA) Directors from the Instituto de Altos Estudios Empresariales (IAE), Universidad Austral de Buenos Aires, Argentina. He chairs the Argentinian Chamber of Commerce in Spain. Héctor Carrillo He studied in the United States his professional studies in Economics and specialization in Marketing. His Independent Director and González work experience includes more than 47 years in the pharmaceutical industry, having held important and Chairman of the Corporate strategic positions in leading transnational pharmaceutical companies in the United States, Mexico and South America. He began his professional activities in Scheramex, today Schering Plough, subsequently his career Practices Committee extended into different companies such as ICN, Merrel, Smith Kline & French, Searle, Wyeth, Lakeside, always in commercial areas, both in the domestic and international markets, especially in the Latin American area. He later joined Apotex Inc., a Canadian company, a leader in the generics market, where he held the position of General Manager for Apotex Mexico and Latin America. He has more than 30 years’ experience in risk capital, investment banking and commercial banking. Managing Arturo José Saval Independent Director Partner of Nexxus Capital since 1998, and co-founder of the private capital funds managed by Nexxus Capital. Pérez Has held several senior positions in companies such as Santander Financial Group (Mexico), GBM Atlántico Financial Group, Interacciones and Serfín Financial Group. He is Board Member of companies including Nexxus Capital, Grupo Sports World, Crédito Real, Harmon Hall, Genomma Lab Internacional, Diamex, Grupo Hotelero Santa Fe, Taco Holding, Moda Holding and BOMI de México, among others. Graduated from the Universidad Iberoamericana with a Bachelor’s degree in Industrial Engineering, and studied for a Graduate Specialization in Financial Analysis at the University of Michigan, and a Diploma from Instituto Tecnológico de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey. Sustainability Report 2016 23 03 Corporate Governance Board Members Experience Summary Member Independent (3) Luis Alberto Harvey He is a partner of Nexxus Capital and co-founder of the private capital funds managed by Nexxus Capital. Independent Director Has approximately 25 years’ experience in investment banking and risk capital. He held various positions at MacKissack Grupo Bursátil Mexicano, Fonlyser, Operadora de Bolsa and Servicios Industriales Peñoles. His experience includes several private capital and public company operations, including the initial public offerings of several Mexican companies in the Stock Exchange and in several international markets. Mr. Harvey is a member of the Board of Directors of Nexxus Capital, Homex, Grupo Sports World, Crédito Real, Harmon Hall, Genomma Lab Internacional, Crédito Real, Harmon Hall, Diamex, Grupo Hotelero Santa Fe, Taco Holding and Moda Holding. He graduated from Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México and studied a Master's Degree in Business Administration with a major in Finance from the University of Texas at Austin. Founder and President of Grupo Vale Euro RSCG, which is one of the four leading agencies in its field in Independent Director Javier Vale Castilla Mexico. He has extensive experience in advertising, marketing and corporate communications, he directs the operations of the advertising agency in 18 Latin American countries. He served as General Manager of the Pacific Television Group in Sinaloa. He then spent a decade in Televisa, where he was Director of Sales, managing five radio stations, five magazines, four television channels and the Cable TV division. He has an engineering degree in Communications and Electronics from the ESIME of the National Polytechnic Institute. Due to his merits and achievements in the field of communication and advertising, the University Center of Communication presented him the Doctor Honoris Causa award. Certified Public Accountant by the National Polytechnic Institute with a Master's degree in Finance from Jorge Ricardo the La Salle University, he has been a member of the Board of Directors of Mexichem S.A.B. de C.V., Grupo Independent Director Gutiérrez Muñoz Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V., Grupo Pochteca, S.A.B. de C.V. y Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, S.A.B. de C.V. He has also served as CEO of Mexichem S.A.B. de C.V., CEO and Board Member of Grupo Industrial Camesa and Industrias Synkro, Vice-President of Corporate Development at Empresas Lanzagorta, and Director of Finance at Indetel/Alcatel. (1) Mr. Rodrigo Alonso Herrera Aspra and Mrs. Sabrina Lucila Herrera Aspra and Renata Virginia Herrera Aspra, are Managing Director of ZAO Future Technologies, one of the largest luxury home builders in Russia. In Russia. Independent Director siblings. Juan Alonso The brand is known as SUN CITY Developments. In March 2007, he entered into a partnering agreement with (2) Renata Virginia Herrera Aspra is the Alternate Director of BSG Investments, an Israeli real estate development company operating in Russia and the Commonwealth of Rodrigo Alonso Herrera Aspra and Sabrina Lucila Herrera Independent States to develop around one million square meters of commercial and residential real estate Aspra. in Russia. He is also a majority shareholder of ZAO SILVER Nizhny Novgorod, Nestlé’s national water bottling (3) At the Ordinary General Shareholders' Meeting held on company in Russia. He was previously chairman of Domino’s Pizza Jalisco, a master franchiser of Domino’s April 29, 2016, the following resignations were received: of Pizza in Central Mexico, and majority shareholder of Baskin Robbins D.F. Mr. Roberto Simón Sauma to his positions as full member of the Board of Directors and member of the Corporate Practices Committee; of Mr. José Luis Fernández Fernández She collaborated for 15 years in different companies, including Posadas de México, in the areas of Related Proprietary Director Sabrina Lucila Public Relations and Administration and Finance. Joined Genomma Lab Internacional in 1998 to manage to his positions as full member of the Board of Directors and member of the Audit Committee; of Mr. Alejandro Diazayas Herrera Aspra (1)(2) international sales. In 2004, then serving as Director of International Operations, she led the opening up of Latin American markets. She has a Degree in Computer Science from the Universidad Anáhuac, and a Oliver to his position as alternate member of the Board of Master’s Degree in Senior Management from the Colegio de Graduados en Alta Dirección. Directors; of Mr. Arturo José Saval Pérez to his position as President of the Corporate Practices Committee; and of Mrs. Tatiana Suzette Treviño García (1) (2) to her position as alternate Secretary not a member of the Board of Directors. Sustainability Report 2016 24 03 Corporate Governance Management Job Title Experience Steering Group of Genomma Lab Internacional Máximo Juda CEO Mr. Juda is General Manager since July 2015; previously he served as Executive Vice President of Operations since December 2014, and prior to that served as the Vice President of International Operations from March 2013 where he consolidated the international area as one of the fundamental pillars of the company’s growth. Our Steering Group is comprised of leaders with Mr. Juda joined Genomma Lab Internacional in October 2002 as Director of Sales, then he was promoted to the position of Director of Commercial Operations being responsible for the areas of Purchasing, Sales specialized technical skills and advanced skills and Operations. In 2006 he served as Vice President of Strategic Development and then was Founder that bring to the Company experience, ideas and President of operations in Argentina, Brazil and the United States, which quickly became the largest and actions of great value. Their work enables company’s operations outside of Mexico. Prior to joining Genomma Lab Internacional, he was Sales Manager for half of Casa Saba's branches and performed some advisory duties for Sanborns in Grupo Carso. Before the materialization of the business objectives arriving in Mexico, he studied the Bachelor's degree in Business Administration from the University of and the effective execution of our strategies. San Andrés in Argentina, and founded Farmaciaonline.com, the first portal in Latin America for the sale of medicines and cosmetics online. Mr. Ramon Neme is Executive Vice President of Institutional Relations since the year 2012. Before joining the Ramón Neme Executive Vice President of Company, Mr. Neme held various positions both in the public sector and private initiative. In the private sector, Sastre Institutional Relations Mr. Neme was the Vice President of Corporate Relations for Empresas ICA, S.A.B. de C.V., Consultant and Project Developer of Enron Corp., and General Manager of Corporativo de Asesoría y Promoción Jurídica, S.C. In the public sector, Mr. Neme has held the position of General Manager of pharmacies and pharmaceutical distributors of the Institute for Security and Social Services for State Workers, Assistant Managing Director of the Secretariat of Energy and Brands’ Director of Secretariat of Education. Mr. Neme member of the Mexican Bar Association of Lawyers and the Mexican Institute of Copyright. He has been a delegate of Mexico at various conferences related to the protection of intellectual property rights. Mr. Neme holds a degree in law from the National Autonomous University of Mexico, has completed various programs at Harvard University and has a certificate from the World Intellectual Property Organization in Geneva, Switzerland. Ing. Antonio Zamora Galland joined Genomma Lab Internacional in December 2015, after having held Antonio Zamora Executive Vice-President of the position of Corporate General Manager at Cydsa. His professional career encompasses 25 years of experience in Consumer Products, Strategic Consulting, Financial Services and Capital Markets. Mr. Zamora Galland Finance and Administration Galland held for five years the position of CFO at Grupo Lala, where he coordinated its IPO (Initial Public Offering). Previously, he was Director of Financial and Strategic Planning of PepsiCo (Mexico and Central America) for five years. He also has an extensive experience in Strategic Consulting at McKinsey & Co. and EuroPraxis, as well as Corporate and Investment Banking in Bancomer and Banamex. He holds an Industrial Engineering degree from the Universidad Panamericana and holds an MBA from Stanford University. Sustainability Report 2016 25 03 Corporate Governance Management Job Title Experience Marco Sparvieri Executive Vice President of Mr. Marco Sparvieri is an Industrial Engineer from the University of Buenos Aires. He is the former Commercial Director of Procter & Gamble in Mexico, has over 20 years of experience in mass consumer companies, Commercial Operations occupying leadership roles in commercial areas. He also has international experience, having led businesses in six different countries, including the United States, Puerto Rico and the Caribbean, Venezuela, Argentina, Chile and Mexico. The years of experience have given him an in-depth knowledge of the commercial dynamics in the different channels and an understanding of how to design the architecture of a successful business plan of promotion and marketing at the point of sale. Mr. Alejandro Bastón is Vice President of Business Expansion and Human Capital. Mr. Bastón joined the Alejandro Bastón Vice President of Business Company in October 2008 as Vice President of Business Strategy. He previously served as General Manager of Depilité from October 2007 to October 2008. From 1999 to 2007 he served as commercial Director of Patiño Expansion and Human Capital OCESA, where he was responsible for the sale of sponsorships and government, as well as the operation, promotion and structure of the reopening plan for the Hipódromo de las Américas. He has held various marketing and sales positions in companies such as Hotel Inter-Continental (Mexico D.F.), Hotel Stouffer Presidente (Ixtapa, Gro.) Hotel Las Brisas (Acapulco, Gro.) Camino Real Hotels and Westin Hotels. Mr. Bastón holds a Diploma in Senior Business Management from the Instituto Tecnológico de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, two courses in business and marketing from Cornell University in the US, and a course in marketing from the University of California at Berkeley, as well as several training and formation seminars taught by leading companies in the hospitality industry. Mr. Stefano Curti is Global President of Brands at Genomma Lab. He is responsible for the brand portfolio Stefano Curti Global President of Brands of the company and performs with a focus on growth, strategy, innovation, research and development, advertising and design of leading brands. He is a business executive with more than 27 years of experience in the areas of consumer health, well-being, beauty, OTCs, venture capital and private equity. He has held positions as Regional President, Global President and CEO. He was Senior Advisor and member of the Board of Directors of private equity firms, as well as Global President of Pfizer Consumer Healthcare. Previously, he was President, CEO and Board Member of ExploraMed, a Silicon Valley-based innovation incubator, backed by the venture capital firm New Enterprise Associates (NEA), focused on developing innovative advances for the well-being of the consumer. He began his career at Johnson & Johnson, where he boosted the growth of the J & J beauty business to lead the US market. He was Global Chairman of the divisions Beauty and Baby (Baby Johnson, Neutrogena, Aveeno, Clean & Clear and Lubriderm, among many others). Stefano was also President of J & J Consumer USA and General Manager of Neutrogena, where he was responsible for the operations in North America. He was also the Managing Director of J & J in Europe and Director of Marketing for Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Sustainability Report 2016 26 03 Corporate Governance Members of the Committees Job Title Experience Time at the Shareholder Another Committee/ company Information Board in which Committees (G4-34, G4-37, G4-48) Rodrigo Alonso Herrera President of the Board Founder of the company. More than 9 years 29.9% of the Chairman of the Board of Aspra of Directors and the 20 years’ experience in marketing company's shares Directors, member of the The Board of Directors must be assisted by an Operating Committee and brand positioning strategies. Committee on Mergers and Operating Committee, an Audit Committee and Acquisitions a Corporate Practices Committee, as set forth in our bylaws. Likewise, according to Genomma Leandro Martín Sigman Member of the Corporate CEO of Chemo Corporation. Has 2 years Confidential Board of Directors Lab Internacional's corporate governance Gold Practices Committee extensive management knowledge in Marketing & Sales, Business structure, the following committees are Intelligence & Development, and responsible for the analysis and suggestions to Strategic Planning. the Board of Directors for the decision-making on economic, environmental and social issues: Juan Alonso Member of the Audit Mr. Alonso is currently Managing 9 years Confidential Board of Directors Committee and Director of ZAO Future Technologies, • Operating Committee. Corporate Governance one of the largest luxury home Committee builders in Russia. • Auditing Committee. • Corporate Practices Committee. • Committee on Mergers and Acquisitions. Arturo José Saval Pérez Chairman of the More than 30 years’ experience in 8 years Confidential Board of Directors Committee on Mergers risk capital, investment banking and and Acquisitions commercial banking. Héctor Carrillo González Chairman of the Almost 50 years of experience in 1 year Confidential Board of Directors Corporate Practices the pharmaceutical industry, with Committee important positions in transnational companies in the United States, Mexico and South America. Scott R. Emerson Member of the Audit Founder and Managing Director 1 year Confidential Board of Directors Committee of The Emerson Group and its subsidiaries. He has more than 30 years of experience in Consumer Companies. Jorge Ricardo Gutiérrez Chairman of the Audit He has served as CEO and member 4 years Confidential Board of Directors Muñoz Committee of the Board of Directors of different recognized companies. Note: During the year 2016, the committees presented changes in their structure, Arturo José Saval Pérez served as Chairman of the Committee on Mergers and Acquisitions; while the Presidency of the Corporate Practices Committee was chaired by Héctor Carrillo González. For his part, Jorge Ricardo Gutiérrez Muñoz participated as Chairman of the Audit Committee standing-in for Jose Luis Fernández Fernández. Sustainability Report 2016 27 03 Corporate Governance Report to the Board of Directors The CEO submits to the Board of Directors the quarterly (or annual, if The management of impacts, risks and opportunities of economic, applicable) results relating to future economic, environmental and social environmental and social nature, considers possible business risks for operations, strategies and plans, taking into account the recommendations the organization and they are shared with our Board of Directors for their and suggestions of the Presidents of each of the committees. The committees knowledge and decision making. receive feedback from the Steering Group to inform the Board of Directors of the issues to be addressed. The Board of Directors analyzes, evaluates and Since 2013, the most relevant issues in economic, environmental and social makes decisions regarding the actions and results of the company, approving aspects of the organization have been identified. They have been analyzed or rejecting projects and business strategies. from the point of view of reputational risk, compliance, regulatory and operational risks; which has allowed the redefinition of our sustainability The Board is informed of the management and performance of all the directors strategy and the strengthening of the actions of Genomma Lab Internacional of the company, of the executive positions or with responsibility in economic, in all its operations and throughout its value chain. environmental and social matters, such as: General Manager, Executive Vice President of Institutional Relations, Executive Vice President of Finance and During the year 2016 there were no relevant concerns to report, since the Administration, Executive Vice President of Commercial Operations, Vice Board of Directors limited themselves to analyzing the information submitted President of Trade Expansion and Human Capital and Global President of to them and to grant, where appropriate, the corresponding authorizations. Brands, who are accountable to the Chairman of the Board. Through the reports developed for such purposes by the Business Management, the Board of Directors is informed about the management and performance of the organization. The report emphasizes critical aspects, achievements and potential challenges in economic, environmental and social matters, compared to its strategic objectives, as well as the possible risks and/ or obstacles to achieve them. Sustainability Report 2016 28 03 Corporate Governance Appointment processes and functions of the Superior Body of Government and Senior Management (G4-40, G4-41, G4-42, G4-43, G4-44, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47, G4-51, G4-52, G4-53) Appointment and Selection of Directors Management of conflict of interests The Shareholders' Meeting accepts or rejects the integration of the The Securities Market Law maintains stipulations regarding the Our Corporate Governance framework is aimed at a transparent, members of the Board of Directors and the respective Committees. handling of conflict of interest, to which we strictly adhere. By virtue clear and timely management and communication of the information The names and curriculum of the aspiring members to the Board of the foregoing, the persons who are in this case abstain from we disclose to the market, integrated by analysts, potential investors and the respective Committees are proposed, in order to receive knowing and voting on the matter concerned. and shareholders. Our Investor Relations area is committed to their feedback and approval. The diversity of profiles is taken into communicating information to provide timely response to the account so that all areas of the Company are represented and The mechanisms for the prevention of conflicts of interest are information requirements of the shareholders and stakeholders the independence is considered in compliance with the Securities established by the Internal Audit area and the Ethics Committee; relevant to the organization. At Genomma Lab Internacional we Market Law, as well as the technical plurality in various areas of should a conflict arise, they analyze it and take appropriate actions. comply with all obligations provided for in the Securities Market opportunity and risk for the organization. Law. Further technical and detailed information can be found in The selection of our Independent Directors is based on their ability the public information of the Mexican Stock Exchange: http://www. and their compliance with independence, given the importance for bmv.com.mx All information provided to the National Banking and Remuneration of Directors and Steering Group them to disclose any concerns about their status as independent, Securities Commission (CNBV, for its acronym in Spanish) and to in which case, subsequent to their notification, they should refrain the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV, for its acronym in Spanish) is The remuneration is approved by the Shareholders' Meeting, after from commenting and voting on the specific point under discussion. also published on the Investors’ Relations website: http://www. carrying out an analysis comparing different companies of similar genommalab.com/Inversionistas/ activity and size, observing at all times the applicable legislation in force. Each member of the Board and the Committees of Audit and Board Evaluation and Efficiency Risk, and Corporate Practices receives a compensation of $127,500 Pesos per session, the chairmen of the Committees receive Our Supreme Governance Body plays a fundamental role in the $170,000 Pesos. The members of the Board, who are owners do Company’s strategy, in defining and renewing the purposes and not receive any remuneration, such is the case of the Chairman of values of the organization. The efficiency and approach that the Board, Rodrigo Herrera Aspra, and the Counselor to the Board it provides are key to our long-term permanence. The Board of Sabrina Herrera Aspra. Directors is evaluated by the company’s Shareholders, since the members of the Board are ratified or approved at the Annual Shareholders’ Assembly. Sustainability Report 2016 29 03 Corporate Governance We renew our permanence as issuer of the sustainable IPC of the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV). In 2016, Genomma Lab Internacional endorsed for the fourth consecutive year its permanence in the Sustainable Index of Prices and Quotations (IPC, for its acronym in Spanish) of the Mexican Stock Exchange. This index has been driven by international stock markets, aware of the growing importance and trend in environmental, social and corporate governance issues. Of the 80 companies qualified in Mexico to make up the group of sustainable issuers in our country, only 30 Companies were selected within the Sustainable IPC, with Genomma Lab Internacional being one of them. Recognition to Genomma Lab Internacional by the Issuers’ Committee of the Sustainable IPC By virtue of the above, our Company demonstrates its invaluable and strategic commitment to sustainability. The social and environmental efforts integrated The Committee of Issuers of the Index of Prices and Quotations (IPC) of the into the business strategy increase our value as a company, being recognized Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) recognized Genomma Lab Internacional by the stock market. for our outstanding performance in Social Responsibility. This award was presented during the Seventh Forum of Issuers held in Cancún, Quintana Roo. Genomma Lab Internacional within the Ranking of the 100 companies with better reputation in Mexico, according to the study conducted by Merco For the second consecutive year, Genomma Lab Internacional, is among the top 100 companies with the best reputation in Mexico according to a study conducted by the international company Merco (Business Monitor of Corporate Reputation), which is one of the reference monitors and the first audited monitor of the world by the firm KPMG International. Sustainability Report 2016 30 04 Corporate Ethics 04 Corporate Ethics (G4-56, G4-57, G4-58, G4-LA16, G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5, G4-SO7, G4-SO8) Based on ethical principles are the standards that direct our behavior and establish the guidelines of corporate and individual behavior of our stakeholders. Through a Code of Conduct and Ethics, we institute a framework of behavior that defines the principles that lead to the integrity and good judgment of those who maintain a business or work relationship with Genomma Lab Internacional. Code of Conduct and Ethics Our Code of Conduct and Ethics establishes the regulatory framework that allows us to develop and maintain relationships of equality, honesty, trust, non-discrimination and mutual respect towards all those with whom we maintain a professional or commercial relationship. We strengthen relationships based on honesty, trust and respect with all the people with whom we establish a bond and we convey the Code of Conduct and Ethics to our main stakeholders such as partners, suppliers, manufacturers, business partners and subsidiaries, throughout our labor or commercial relationship. We convey our Code of Conduct and Ethics both internally with our collaborators in a personalized way, as well as to all our stakeholders in a public way through our website Responsible Communication Genomma Lab Internacional, which is our digital platform that operates as a reference to consult Sustainability Report 2016 31 04 Corporate Ethics information of the Company about the topics related to the actions of Social Responsibility and Sustainability. There you can consult all our Sustainability Reports generated since 2011, the Code of Conduct and Ethics, the Policy that governs us on the subject of anti-corruption, our Diversity Policy, Environment Policy, among other topics. The general ethical standards that govern our Code of Conduct and Ethics are: Show loyal, diligent and respectful behavior. Recognize the dignity of people, their freedom and privacy. Operate the business in accordance with principles of equality and discrimination. Promote Human Rights, prohibit and report harassment and bullying. Updating the Code of Ethics and Conduct Comply with the laws, regulations and legal systems in the As every year, we conducted a review of the Code of Conduct and Ethics, carrying out certain modifications of countries in which we operate. the same with the aim of enriching it. These modifications were made known through training sessions for all Comply with regulations regarding money laundering. the collaborators at International level. 100% of our human capital has voluntarily signed the Code of Conduct and Ethics and the Anti-Corruption Policy. Protect and preserve the tangible assets of the Company. Maintain confidentiality of information and documentation of In order to continue the program of dissemination of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, an induction course on the Company. the subject is given to new collaborators and, on the other hand, we update the Code of Conduct and Ethics and the Anti-Corruption Policy in our website on Responsible Communication to make it of public knowledge. The specific topics of the code are: Business Practices, AntiCorruption, Conflict of Interest, Extraordinary Payments, Gifts and Entertainment Activities, Intellectual Property and Management of Insider Information. Sustainability Report 2016 32 04 Corporate Ethics Ethics Committee The Ethics Committee is the body responsible for Holders coordinating and ensuring compliance with the • Executive Vice-President of Finance and guidelines set forth in the Code of Conduct and Administration Ethics of Genomma Lab Internacional. • Corporate Legal Director • Internal Auditing Director Its mission is to promote, regulate and monitor • Patrimonial security proper compliance with the Code of Conduct and • Human Capital Director Ethics and the internal policies by all individuals Complaint line related to the company, to boost the development of people fulfilling the Company’s mission. In our constant quest to reaffirm the level of transparency and Secretary confidence of our Company, we extend the mechanisms of denunciation, • Social Responsibility Manager The vision of the Committee is to be the body guaranteeing the confidentiality and deepening the investigation of any that regulates and promotes a healthy working anomaly that is presented. Ombudsperson4 environment in which the fundamental rights of all • General Manager of the Research and Training individuals linked with the Company are respected in To this end, this year we hired an outside company specialized in the Center for Development the workplace through compliance with the Code of management of the complaints’ line. Complaints about anomalous Conduct and Ethics. situations that occur in the workplace or that harm the Company’s assets are received via different means such as web page, telephone and email The Committee's objectives are: Our Ethics Committee is currently made up of 5 in all countries where we have operation. Holders, 1 Secretary and Ombudsperson4. • Ensure the correct application of the Code of The Ethics Committee is governed by the Procedure of attention to Conduct and Ethics. complaints about breaches of the Code of Conduct and Ethics, which • Clarify any doubts or queries about the appliaims to deal with complaints of the collaborators of Genomma Lab on cability of the Code of Conduct and Ethics. breaches of the Code of Conduct and Ethics, through: • Receive, handle and solve complaints of cases and situations that deviate from the desired The establishment of means and ways to report non-compliances. behavior of the Code of Conduct and Ethics. The investigation of the facts relating to the possible non-compliance. • Inform Senior Management about the Ethics Committee's activities and their results. Establishing the responsibility of those involved. The resolution of the complaint and determination of the correIn order to plan and carry out work sessions sponding sanction. that enrich its functioning, the Ethics Committee The determination of preventive and corrective measures to prevent meets periodically or when there is an urgent the recurrence of such acts. case to address. 4 Figure with the capacity and independence necessary to meet confidential and impartial complaints concerning human rights of employees. Sustainability Report 2016 33 04 Corporate Ethics The procedure is governed by the protocol of Attention to Complaints, which aims to address the actions of noncompliance with the Code of Conduct and Ethics, as well as internal policies in order to ensure optimum working conditions. Anti-corruption measures and protection of Human Rights (G4-HR1, G4-HR3, G4-HR7, G4-SO6 y G4-SO11) Complaints are made through an external entity to Genomma Lab Internacional that acts neutrally in the analysis of the For the tenth consecutive year, Genomma Lab reconfirms its adherence to the Global Compact by reaffirming its commitment complaint, treating it confidential and providing prompt to support the Sustainable Development Objectives (ODS, for its acronym in Spanish ), dealing with issues related to Human follow-up to each case, keeping the corporate guidelines of Rights, Labor Standards, Environment and the fight against corruption. our Company. Genomma Lab Internacional is one of the companies that supports the Global Compact’s Call to Action: Anti-corruption” During the year 2016, four complaints were reported, three Initiative. With this action, Genomma Lab reaffirms its commitment to prevent and/or avoid the practice of acts of corruption of which were received by telephone and one via email. Of and influence peddling by employees and/or third parties related to the company strengthening its transparency. the total number of complaints received, one was submitted by a collaborator denouncing a possible small-scale pilferage, Through the Code of Conduct and Ethics of Genomma Lab Internacional, we reject any practice of corruption inside and which is still in progress and the remaining three did not outside the company. The scope of our obligations includes to prevent acts of corruption and influence peddling, and our proceed due to lack of evidence. employees must commit not to solicit or accept any stimulus from a third party that compromises their work performance. Disapproved practices can constitute a crime and will be sanctioned by the authorities as appropriate. For the dissemination of the complaint line, the General Management in conjunction with the Human Capital area Any offer, act of corruption or influence peddling that might exit related to Genomma Lab Internacional, must be denounced and the Ethics Committee, coordinated the through the authorized means in the external line of denunciation. In the year 2016, Genomma Lab Internacional was invited implementation of the dissemination and to an exclusive encounter with the pioneers of the Global Compact, who are working hard in the implementation of the communication program of the new 2030 Agenda regarding the Objectives of Sustainable Development. At the meeting the first document was developed with complaint mechanism and reinforced prospects of companies towards the implementation of these objectives. Genomma Lab Internacional, played an important the message in all the group's role in the working table on the objectives of health and well-being. The report derived from this work was published in operations at global level. October of this year at the UN offices in Mexico. The General Management In addition, the Global Compact Network in Mexico hosted 15 local networks, including Genomma Lab Internacional, at together with the Social the Regional Meeting of Local Networks of America, which aims to generate regional and global partnerships for the best Responsibility area launched a implementation results of the 2030 Agenda. This Regional Meeting was attended by Lise Kingo, Executive Director of the UN communication video to spread Global Compact and Javier Cortés, Director of Local Networks of Latin America, Caribbean and North America, where they and transmit the corporate highlighted the work of the companies that make up the Global Compact Network in Mexico. message about the line. The Ethics Committee conducted joint workshops to communicate the mechanism and use of the line. Sustainability Report 2016 34 05 Genomma Lab Internacional Quality 05 Genomma Lab Internacional Quality Regulatory Compliance In Genomma Lab Internacional we maintain a strict adherence to the regulations that govern us to ensure that our products comply with all the regulatory requirements of the countries where we have a presence. The legal framework that regulates us consists of rigorous standards, resolutions and decrees among which the following stand out. Regulatory framework in Mexico • General Health Law • Regulation of Health Supplies • NOM-059-SSA1-2013: Good manufacturing practices for medicinal products • NOM-072-SSA1-2012: Labeling of medicines and herbal remedies • NOM-073-SSA1-2005: Stability of drugs and medications • NOM-137-SSA1-2008: Labeling of medical devices • (NOM-141-SSA1, SCFI-2012): Labeling for pre-packaged cosmetic products. Health care and commercial labeling. • NOM-177-SSA1-2013: Procedures to demonstrate that a drug is interchangeable. • NOM-220-SSA1-2012: Installation and operation of pharmacovigilance. • NOM-240-SSA1-2012: Installation and operation of technovigilance. • NOM-241-SSA1-2012: Good manufacturing practices for establishments engaged in the manufacture of medical devices. • Supplement for establishments dedicated to the sale and supply of medicines and other health ingredients FEUM. Sustainability Report 2016 35 05 Genomma Lab Internacional Quality International Regulatory Framework • RTCA 11.03.59:11 Pharmaceutical products. Medicinal products for human use. Health Registration Requirements. In addition, we comply with the guidelines and regulations of the agencies that regulate the products we sell. One of the main institutions to whose • RTCA 11.03.47:07 Pharmaceutical products. Medicinal products for human use. Quality verification. requirements we follow is the Federal Commission for the Protection • RTCA 11.03.39:06 Pharmaceutical products. Validation of analytical methods for the quality of medicines. against Health Risks (COFEPRIS), which protects the population against health risks and establishes measures for the regulation, control and • RTCA 11.01.02:04 Pharmaceutical products. Labeling of pharmaceutical products for human use. prevention of health risks. • RTCA 11.01.04:10 Pharmaceutical products. Stability studies of medicinal products for human use. • Ministerial Resolution No. 0909 Manual for Health Registration. Also, at international level we are in line with the provisions of the following agencies. • Decree Number 677 of 1995 (April 26) which partially regulates the Regime of Registrations and Licenses, the Quality Control, as well as the Regime of Health Surveillance of Medicines, Cosmetics, Pharmaceutical Preparations based on Natural Resources, Toiletries, Hygiene and Cleaning and other products for domestic use and enacting • National Health Surveillance Agency (ANVISA) other provisions on the subject. • National Administration of Medicines, Food and Medical Technology • Technical Standard No. 129 Guide for the completion and submission of stability studies of pharmaceutical prod(ANMAT) ucts in Chile and its annex. • National Institute of Food and Drug Surveillance (INVIMA) • Decree 3 regulation of the national system for the control of pharmaceutical products for human use. • European Medicines Agency (EMA) • Technical Standard No. 127 Good manufacturing practices, related with the Supreme Decree No. 3, 2010, of the • National Center of Documentation and Information of Medicines Ministry of Health, by which the regulation of the National System was approved for the control of pharmaceuticals (CENADIM) for human use. • National Agency of Regulation, Control and Sanitary Surveillance (ARCSA) • Agreement No. 00000586 Substitute regulation for health registry for medicines in general. • National Directorate of Medicines (DNM) • Decree 246-06 Regulation of drugs. • Institute of Public Health (ISP) • Law 1 of 10 January 2001 on medicines and other products for human health. • US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) • Executive Decree No. 178 That regulates the Law 1 of 10 January 2001, on medicines and other products for human health. • Supreme Decree (S.D.). No. 002-2010-SA Single Text of Administrative Procedures for registration and re-registraThe bodies and provisions that regulate us may differ between countries. tion approved with S.D. 013-2009-SA modified by S.D. No. 002-2010-SA As an example, some of our OTC products may be marketed in certain • CFR Code of Federal Regulations Title 21 countries by prescription only, while in other countries no prescription is required to purchase them. • Manual of Procedures for registration of Specific Medicines ANVISA • Provision 3554/2002 ANMAT Sustainability Report 2016 36 05 Genomma Lab Internacional Quality Incidents (G4-HR12, G4-HR18, G4-SO2, G4-SO5, G4-SO7, G4-SO8, G4-SO9, G4-SO11, G4PR2, G4-PR4, G4-PR46, G4-PR7, G4-PR8, G4-PR9, G4-EN29) In Genomma Lab Internacional we implement strict security measures to comply with the applicable regulations regarding the quality of our processes and products, compliance with ethical codes and best practices in the industry, product safety, consumer information regarding our products, as well as in relation to the protection of personal data, the above through a strict sense of integrity. In Mexico, there have been no incidents of non-compliance with the legal framework applicable to our activities, as well as compliance with voluntary codes regarding the impact of our products in terms of health, safety, environment, marketing communications and Commitment to Quality product labeling. By virtue of the foregoing, no sanction has been received from the Federal (G4-PR1, G4-PR2, G4-PR3, G4-PR4, G4-PR5, G4-PR6, G4-PR7, G4-PR8, G4-PR9) Consumer Protection Agency (PROFECO) or the Federal Commission for the Prevention of Health Risks (COFEPRIS) arising from the supply or use of our products. Neither has there Our permanent commitment to quality and continuous improvement at Genomma Lab been any claim or penalty for non-compliance with the regulations resulting in the payment Internacional about our products and processes is reflected in all stages of the value chain, of a fine. from the purchasing of materials, innovation, development, manufacturing, storage and distribution, up to the shelf where our consumers take the product. To guarantee that In Mexico, there have been no judicial and/or administrative proceedings arising from quality is a standard aspect at international level, in 2016 we made a significant investment acts linked to monopolistic practices or acts that violate the free competition, and no in the consolidation of our Quality Management System (QMS) to comply and standardize confirmed cases of corruption have been reported in our corporate structure. Genomma processes that meet and exceed the quality of our products. Lab Internacional does not market banned products in other relevant markets. Our Quality Management System (QMS) was developed and strengthened by an expert Likewise, no violation of privacy or leakage of customer data or complaints about human consulting firm, which has extensive experience in the implementation of management rights claims have been filed in any country where we have presence. Also, in our supply systems in companies with high complexity and international presence. As a result of chain, no non-compliances were identified regarding the infringement of human rights or our work in coordination with this organization, we managed to consolidate a robust the affectation of any local or indigenous community. Management System that consists, mainly, of the following aspects. Sustainability Report 2016 37 05 Genomma Lab Internacional Quality Quality Management System (QMS) The design, implementation, documentation and evaluation of the Genomma Lab Quality Policy Internacional QMS has the purpose of establishing the necessary elements to support the quality of our products and to ensure the following aspects. “Genomma Lab Internacional is a Mexican company dedicated to the innovation, development, manufacture, storage, distribution and marketing of medicines, personal care products, and others; • Ensure that all our products are manufactured based on Good Manufacturing Practices committed to the satisfaction of our customers and consumers requirements and standards. through safe and efficacious formulas with the highest Quality • Establish defined responsibilities for meeting objectives. of the market; complying with applicable legal requirements and regulations. We work in teams committed to innovation, achievement • Ensure that our products can be marketed having fulfilled all the applicable regulatory of objectives and results, focused on continuous improvement of the requirements and quality standards. efficiency of our processes of the Quality Management System”. • Ensure the safety and quality of products throughout the value chain, mitigating and eliminating operational risks. • Establish a documentary control that allows us to determine the activities to be carried The reception, storage and distribution of the products out, to ensure their timely implementation and to demonstrate what has been achieved. manufactured for Genomma Lab Internacional is carried out in strict adherence to the applicable regulations and in compliance with Good Storage Practices. These different processes are In order to achieve the application of an appropriate SGC, we have undertaken the task of detailed in procedures, where they are described and related to determining the needs and expectations of clients and other stakeholders, establishing a other documents or procedures, thus ensuring the interaction policy and quality objectives, in addition to the following elements. between all of them. • Identify the processes required for the QMS and their application, sequence and interaction. • Establish methods and criteria for the effective operation and control of these processes. • Determine means to prevent nonconformities and eliminate their causes. • Carry out measurements and follow-ups in such a way that allows us to carry out the necessary actions to achieve the planned results and continuous improvement of the system. Sustainability Report 2016 38 05 Genomma Lab Internacional Quality Quality processes developed at Genomma Lab Internacional CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT OF QMS Quality Policy Quality Objectives Organizational structure Internal • Regulatory • Customers Management Audits responsibility Claims Measurement, analysis The commitment we have to offer products of Requirements Product non-conformity Satisfaction recognized attributes has led us to strengthen CAPA Resource the workforce of the Quality area, currently Human Resources Annual product review made up of 50 people strategically located in Documentary Infrastructure Product withdrawal all the countries in which we are present. The System management & Improvement Work environment Risk management whole team works with reference standards Change control based on four important aspects: quality Technovigilance control and regulatory compliance, quality Pharmacovigilance assurance, manufacturing supervision and Product Devolutions customer service. Elaboration Our future goals are based on ensuring quality Manufacturers´ evaluation in synergy with all our manufacturers through Purchasing Technology transfer the standardization of processes, creating Manufacturing supervisión quality agreements and closing agreements that Reception commit both parties to comply with this process. Storage Distribution Product Activities that add value Information flow Reporte Sustainability de Sustentabilidad Report 2016 39 05 Genomma Lab Internacional Quality Manufacturing supervision of our products During the year 2016 we made quality agreements with sub-contracted manufacturers, who have several Pharmaceutical and Cosmetic Clinical Research certificates issued by COFEPRIS which endorse the manufacturing of our OTC medicines and cosmetic products. Additionally, at Genomma Lab Internacional we have a strategy to 2020 in which we intend to raise our quality In order to measure and monitor the quality of our pharmaceutical products, standards throughout the following cycles. we have two very important programs: Cycle 2020 • Pharmacovigilance: monitoring of possible adverse reactions that any of Quality as our medicine consumers might present. Cycle 2019 strategy Quality backwards: • Technovigilance: monitoring of medical devices to determine if they comply improvement in Cycle 2018 • Quality as the protagowith the required safety measures. raw materials Quality forwards: nist to achieve stable by measuring the product and at lower Cycle 2017 • Consolidation of specicost. In relation to cosmetic products we have promoted the program customer Expansion fications’ definition for COSMETOVIGILANCE, through which we perform analysis of adverse reactions. • The quality know-how is of process raw and packaging • Metrics for customer materials of the most used to have product in Although the program is not legally required by any official body, our commitment improvement satisfaction and product important products. the market in less time as a Socially Responsible Company (ESR, for its acronym in Spanish) leads us to Cycle 2016 and with stable prorepurchase are initiated. include it as part of our continuous improvement processes. GEN. C • Improvement projects cesses. • Quality is controlled. • Consolidation of specifiare focused on the raw • Quality is controlled • Audit group certification cations’ definition for raw material suppliers. During 2016, studies of efficacy and cosmetic and pharmaceutical safety were • Quality is controlled in from the supplier to the on management systems. and packaging materials laboratories for manuof the most important • Start of the certification customer. carried out at Genomma Lab Internacional. All the studies we carry out are facturers. • Development of improveof raw materials’ supproducts. based on international methodologies such as The European Cosmetic and ment projects accompliers. • Key procedures are Perfumery Association (COLIPA)5 and the National Agency for Health Surveillance plished by implants on • Conclusion of the supplidefined. • The implants act mainly the floor. ers’ certification process. (ANVISA). with suppliers. • Start of work with qual• Signed physical stan• Continuous improvement ity dashboard. dards are defined for all essentially comes into The cosmetic-efficacy studies that we perform to our products are always • Implementation of launches. development. carried out by a third party in order to keep objectivity with regard to the results exchange controls. • Delivery, purchase and of these tests. Likewise, we carry out safety studies on all our cosmetic products development manuals and our directives in each case prohibit the use of animals in any of the studies are set that are carried out. The great challenge that we determine for 2017 is to achieve the processes standardization at international level, The innovation, quality and efficiency in our operations allow us to focus on as well as to engage our value chain at global level to adhere to the good labor practices, to our own quality implementing and monitoring processes to prevent loss or waste, creating standards and to those of our regulators. value with high productivity, safety, costs and ethics, aimed at the continuous improvement of customer and consumer service. *Chart shared by the Quality area 5 http://www.eesc.europa.eu Sustainability Report 2016 40 06 Responsibility in Our Supply Chain 06Responsibility in Our Supply Chain (G4-12) The sustainability, quality and innovation at Genomma Lab Internacional are fundamental links in our value chain and serve as a strategic axis in the operations of our supply chain. We establish lasting ties with our suppliers based on transparency, respect and communication, so that in the different stages from product development to the delivery of the final product, we commit ourselves to achieve together the creation, distribution and strategic positioning of our brands. First, we develop our formulas internally and in cooperation with various specialists to subsequently manufacture our products through third parties. Second, we practice strict control and monitoring through an internal department and independent suppliers that ensure the control of our quality, purchase and billing processes. In the same way, we have logistics suppliers who are in charge of registering and managing of inventories, storage and control of our products. Moreover, our line of cosmetics is subject to various studies and analysis of efficiency, efficacy and safety, through third parties authorized by health authorities. This research is conducted under the guidelines of an independent Ethics Committee that issues suggestions and recommendations on Human Rights and ethical principles. Likewise, the distribution to the consumers of our products is efficiently regulated and carried out primarily through self-service channels, pharmacy chains and drug and grocery wholesalers. Additionally, for the international marketing of our products, we rely on international customs services and tax specialists. Sustainability Report 2016 41 06 Responsibility in Our Supply Chain Finally, our suppliers and marketing specialists are responsible for managing advertising media and spots coding that ensure the production and communication Audits of our products to the public. Internally, (G4-EC7, G4-EC8, EG-EC9, G4-LA12, G4-LA14, G4-LA15, G4-EN32, G4-EN33) we ensure a highly specialized attention to our customers before, during and after In order to confirm that the suppliers responsible for manufacturing our products comply with high quality, the purchase of our products. environmental, social and ethical standards, they are evaluated through audits that verify the basic aspects mentioned below, as part of the establishment and standardization of high level processes. In 2016 we operated with more than 1,700 suppliers under high standards of quality and innovation. Our supply chain reflects our aspirations and commitments Basic aspects evaluated in audits for the selection and in the social and environmental spheres, monitoring of suppliers so we seek to work in coordination with our suppliers to create synergies and thus to increase the efficiency and optimization Product quality and responsibility Labor considerations of production processes, while promoting the sustainability of our business model and our stakeholders. Regulatory framework, applicable certificates and licenses Organizational structure Quality management system Academic training and experience Analytical and testing methods Health, safety and hygiene Product handling, transportation and storage Health responsibility Safety and hygiene controls Training and capacity-building Purchase of raw materials and packaging Facilities, equipment and maintenance Management of subcontracted input, process and activities vendors Staff services areas Control of input handling, distribution and storage Workplace violence prevention mechanisms Input analysis certificates Risk management Technology transfer systems Control of manufacturing operations Product revisions Release of finished product Complaint management Non-compliant product handling Product returns and market withdrawal Sustainability Report 2016 42 06 Responsibility in Our Supply Chain Pharmacovigilance and Technovigilance Environmental concerns Social Responsibility (SR) Training Legal, ecological and health provisions Code of ethics and/or conduct Suspicion reports Waste management, storage and disposal Working conditions (remuneration and hours) Adverse reactions or adverse incidents Precautions for preventing product contamination Respect of human rights (principles of equality, non-discrimination, non-forced Safety reports Water systems labor, non-child labor, freedom of association and collective bargaining, rights Safety and hygiene guidelines of the indigenous population, etc.) Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Equity and inclusion Actual or potential impact on communities Measures against corruption and unfair practices Acknowledgment of third-party regarding SR Genomma Lab Internacional investigates and requires that its value chain does not work with conditions of forced labor, child labor, or under any other condition that violates the Human Rights of our suppliers' workers, as a result of our good practices, in 2016 none of these practices occurred in our supply chain. Likewise, the suppliers who work directly manufacturing our products have signed our Code of Conduct and Ethics. Sustainability Report 2016 43 06 Responsibility in Our Supply Chain Privacy policy with suppliers of efficacy and safety cosmetics’ studies The suppliers that perform cosmetic efficacy and safety studies for us are worldclass companies located in several countries such as Mexico, Brazil, Colombia and Argentina. They are committed to providing highly specialized laboratory Privacy Policy services for the cosmetics industry and trade. They operate with methodologies, procedures, equipment and personnel of high level subject to quality standards and in compliance with the regulations of local and international regulatory Protecting confidential customer information and proprietary rights thereof, including those stored and entities such as ANVISA, INVIMA, ANMAT, COLIPA, FDA and COFEPRIS. transmitted electronically. Our suppliers also have a quality system in compliance with the standard NMX-ECTreatment of personal, commercial and tax data requested to any person, either in person, by email or 17025-IMNC-2006 (ISO / IEC 17025) which outlines the general requirements for web site, in accordance with the Law on Protection of Personal Data held by individuals and its regulations. the competence of the testing and calibration laboratories. They are approved as Third Party Testing Laboratory Authorized by the Ministry of Health for the case of Access to data only to adequately provide the services for which it is hired. Mexico, so important companies in the commercial, industrial and service sectors recognize them as a reliable supplier. Avoid transfer of personal, commercial, and fiscal data to third parties. Our suppliers have a Code of Ethics which goal is to provide assurances of moral Communication of the purposes for which the data are collected, which are: solvency and establishing standards of professional performance of the company • Provision of required products and services. and its members, seeking to comply with the society, serving it with loyalty, diligence and respect. • Information about changes to products or services. • Information about changes in providing the required service. Likewise, our suppliers have also issued a Declaration of Independence of Technical Judgment to provide guarantees of judgment and establish professional • Management of collection or payment. performance standards of the company, respecting their customers’ information • Communication, promotion or dissemination of products and services. and decision-making. • Compliance with the obligations arising from the commercial and legal relationship. Our suppliers perform their operations based on privacy and quality policies characterized by the following commitments. Sustainability Report 2016 44 06 Responsibility in Our Supply Chain Studies made by our suppliers are carried out in accordance with good clinical practices (ICH), in addition to an instrument called informed consent from the volunteers who participate in them. As part of the requirements specified by the Ethics Committee, our supplier will clearly inform to the volunteer, Agreements with manufacturers the purpose of his/her participation and what it is expected of him/her. At all times our suppliers guarantee independence During the year 2016 we work on quality agreements with our and technical judgment to the volunteers. sub-contracted manufactures through contracts where they The teamwork we have achieved with our suppliers, establish the guidelines and standards they must meet on Local supply the following topics: procedures and provisions for product manufacturers and customers is aimed at seeking high quality manufacturing and handling; supply and requirements The sustainability of our business model is also reflected standards and excellence in our products and processes. of raw materials and active substances; provisions and in the commitment to the economic development of the approvals of primary, printed and packaging materials; regions where we operate. In Genomma Lab Internacional analysis and manufacturing of products; product monitoring we try, when the conditions allow it, that the products we and regulatory aspects. market internationally are locally sourced, since in this way we support the communities of the region and, at the same Through these agreements we establish the criteria that time, we reduce transportation costs. In Argentina, the suppliers must meet to ensure the best quality of our manufacturing percentage is 96%, 26% in Brazil, in the United inputs. Sustainability recognition for our manufacturers and States 93% and 47% in Colombia. The rest of the products suppliers has been a practice that we continue to encourage come mostly from Mexico. so that they become involved in sustainable initiatives, with solutions and strategies defined to achieve positive impacts in the areas of economy, environment and society. Sustainability Report 2016 45 07 The Consumer as a Central Entity of Genomma Lab 07The Consumer as a Central Entity of Genomma Lab During 2016 our marketing strategy was oriented to placing the consumer as the central axis of our Company, reinforcing the positioning of our core brands and strengthening the quality of our products to delight our consumers. The aspects that characterize the consumer-focused approach are: Innovation. Aspect that is characterized by investing the necessary time to develop and launch to the international market innovative products of high quality and reliability for our consumers, maximizing efficiency and minimizing waste. Communication. Key aspect to capture the interest of our consumers, creating synergies and strengthening our brands through different media such as the web, social networks and television spots. Portfolio of Brands (project portfolio). Central aspect of our core brands’ development and positioning, through innovation, research and development, regulatory compliance and digital communication. Understanding the consumer (insights). This aspect aims to delight the consumer through a portfolio of products with proven efficacy and differentiated attributes, based on a deep knowledge of the consumer. Points of Sale (retail). Aspect that seeks to gradually increase the presence of our products in the stores, placing them in strategic and visible places, allowing greater interaction with consumers and a stronger relationship with our business partners. Sustainability Report 2016 46 07 The Consumer as a Central Entity of Genomma Lab All these elements are interrelated based on the culture and talent of our people, with the objective of achieving a synergy of the capabilities, strategic focus and experience of each of the team members integrating our workforce. In this year, we continue with the standardization and globalization of our formulations and innovations at international level, adapting to the different regulatory environments and the particular characteristics of our consumers in each country. The globalization of our brands resulted in maximizing efficiency, minimizing waste and reducing costs in terms of manufacturing, packaging and marketing. Knowledge and satisfaction of our consumers Consumer centricity (consumer-focused approach) This year we achieved greater investment efficiency with more assertive results. With the permanent challenge of We take the time needed to develop and launch maximizing our Return of Investment (ROI), optimizing innovative products of high quality and reliability to the international market for our consumers, maximizing times and streamlining the budget, we achieved the efficiency and minimizing waste. objectives set out in 2015, evolving at the same speed of the industry in which we operate and executing memorable campaigns with which the consumers feel identified. We have used and gained greater advantage of Innovation the existing market research methodologies to understand our consumers and to establish closer Gradually increase the and stronger relations with them towards our brands, Multiply the channels of presence of our products communication through the web, where the consumption of our products generates in stores, placing them in recommendation and future brand loyalty. social networks and television spots; strategic and visible places, Point of sale Communication devising strategies to capture the allowing greater interaction (retail) interest of our consumers, creating with consumers and a Consumersynergies and strengthening our During 2016 we expanded our understanding of what stronger relationship with our consumers are looking for to meet their personal our business partners. focused approach brands through different media. care needs or to improve their health conditions. We (consumer also increased our understanding of what the shopping centricity) experience means for the shopper, from the moment they enter the store until they are in front of our product. Similarly, we consolidated the way to attract consumers We seek to delight the Development and positioning of our to our brands and products by creating a link with high consumer through a Understanding Brand Portfolio core brands, through innovation, levels of satisfaction; achieving a transformation of portfolio of products the consumer with proven efficacy and (insights) (project portfolio) research and development, regulatory their yearnings, aspirations and feelings into emotional compliance and digital communication. differentiated attributes. relationships with a high level of loyalty to our brands. Culture and talent Sustainability Report 2016 47 08 Responsibility for the Information about Our Products 08Responsibility for the Information about Our Products (G4-PR3, G4-PR4, G4-PR5, G4-PR6, G4-PR7, G4-PR8, G4-PR9) Our marketing strategy is framed by the trade regulations of the countries where we are present, being fundamental for us to respect the legal frameworks and criteria established through responsible advertising. It is for this reason that the Internal Advertising Committee of Genomma Lab Internacional must approve that all types of publications, dissemination and advertising materials comply with the regulations of the agencies in charge of the industry in which we operate. In addition, voluntarily we have decided to adhere to: • Cámara Nacional de la Industria Farmacéutica [National Chamber of the Pharmaceutical Industry] (CANIFARMA). • Código de Ética Publicitaria de la Asociación de Fabricantes de Medicamento de Libre Acceso [Code of Advertising Ethics of the Association of the Over-the-Counter Medication Manufacturers] (AFAMELA) relating to the dissemination of information about our products. • Consejo Nacional de Autorregulación Publicitaria [National Council of Advertising Self-Regulation] (CONAR). • Código de Ética Publicitaria del Consejo de Autorregulación y Ética Publicitaria [Code of Advertising Ethics of the Council of Advertising Self-Regulation and Ethics]. Sustainability Report 2016 48 08 Responsibility for the Information about Our Products In view of the above, we work closely with the Health Promotion Commission (CFS, for its acronym in Spanish), which is responsible for reviewing and validating the preliminary advertising of the Company before its submission for advertising approval to the Advertising and labeling of products corresponding authorities in each country. (G4-PR3) The changes we face as a world class organization, The information that Genomma Lab Internacional provides occur rapidly and without pause. Therefore, at through websites, social networks, traditional media and Genomma Lab Internacional, we evolve to the pace of advertising spots, among others, seeks to give advice on the the industry to meet the needs and requirements of use and benefits of all our products in a responsible manner, our consumers, shoppers (real buyers) and retailers. in order to convey to the public the importance of the personal and family care, as well as of the environment that surrounds Digital Marketing With the commitment to meet the demand for quality them through the consumption of our products. Close monitoring and updating of our advertising allows us better The digital area is committed to the transmission of products for our consumers, we strengthened a control the communication strategies. information with a high degree of responsibility towards the more accessible and direct interaction through the consumer with the purpose of promoting their health and follow-up of requests or complaints presented. We Likewise, Genomma Lab Internacional is committed to the well-being. It is for this reason that it manages Genomma served and monitored the number of complaints transmission of accurate, reliable and real information in the Lab's official websites, social networks and other digital received, measuring them in units of parts per million labeling of our products, through rigorous guidelines on: channels, seeking the continuous reinforcement of our (PPM), which means that for one million products, a brands in the consumer's mind and following up on the certain number of complaints are received. At the doubts and feedback they express. beginning of 2016 we received 17 PPMs, while at the • Origin of the product. end of the same year we were able to reduce them to • Safe way to use the product. Likewise, the digital area responds in a timely manner 1 PPM, which positions us as a world-class company questions about points of sale or channels the questions committed to continuous improvement. • Best way of disposal. that are not of its scope to the customer service area; where • Substances that may have a negative social or environmenthey are given answers to their questions in consultation with tal impact. the corresponding areas. This way of working represents the creation and strengthening of our business identity in virtual In view of the above, we refer to the standard NOM-141-SSA1 platforms and is an essential part of our Company's success. / SCFI-2012, regarding the labeling for prepackaged cosmetics, health and commercial labeling and the applicable additional Among many others, digital communication strategies have regulations, as well as the regulations that apply in each country allowed our products to capture the attention of our current where we are present. and potential consumers, in whom we focus our content, among which the following stand out: Sustainability Report 2016 49 08 Responsibility for the Information about Our Products #AhoraEsCuando das tu mejor cara al mundo [It is now when you show your best face to the world] This year our Asepxia brand messages focused on highlighting the importance for teenagers' of living the best stage of their lives, being driven by the values of friendship, trust and self-confidence, while addressing their concerns about their physical appearance through consistently good skin care habits with Asepxia products. Asepxia has a presence in various media to be in the minds of the consumers, achieving a rapprochement and understanding of the sensitive issues faced by young people, such as bullying, rejection and low self-esteem. Customer service The focus of the customer service area goes beyond answering calls, questions and complaints or following up on requests for Suerox product reimbursement, change or replacement. The Suerox brand was positioned this year as a renewed product with the best formula on the market. Suerox now Today we have innovative achievements in the consumer has a unique formulation that allows the recovery of lost attention process, responding in a timely manner to their electrolytes and vitamin C during the day. complaints and nonconformities, providing attention and adequate solution to their requirements. This process is part The solid communication strategy carried out is strengthen of the database of our call center system and our internal by the attributes of this new formula and it counteracts the management system Genovigilance, through which 15,451 calls negative effects of dehydration caused by high temperatures, were received, serviced, monitored and completed globally. excessive physical activity and gastrointestinal diseases, among others. Following, a general description of the customer service process. Sustainability Report 2016 50 08 Responsibility for the Information about Our Products The country with the highest number of calls was Mexico with 52.63% of the total calls, followed by Brazil with 13.78% and the United States with 13.25%. Consumer care process Percentage of calls by country 2016 Enter the call center system, evaluate and Salvador .01% Chile 2,28% Immediate categorize Yes No response Panama .01% Peru 3,10% USA 13,25% Contact manufacturing supervisor Contact customer care Mexico 52,63% Brazil 13,78% Contact the appropriate manufacturer Global complaints coordinator provides a folio number, categorizes and solves Analyzes the product Colombia 13,33% retention sample with batch Costa Rica .55% Ecuador .45% Response to the client Venezuela .01% Guatemala .02% Nicaragua .01% Honduras .04% Answer in less than three days Bolivia .55% Delivery to the Generates analysis The highest recorded percentage of calls (59.08%) corresponded to solving doubts. report of the global complaints While the reason others accounted for 35.91% of the calls. This category groups a coordinator retention sample large number of missed calls or wrong number calls. Since 2015 and during 2016, other communication channels have been strengthened to achieve greater proximity to our consumers. We continue following the path of digitization with greater force, through web pages, Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat and customer service emails, where we carry out online research that has become a key source of information about market and consumers. A major challenge for 2017 is to pay the same attention to both our customers and our consumers; improving, enriching and expanding our process of attention and continuous improvement in the interactions and relationships we establish with them. Sustainability Report 2016 51 09 Value Generation Through Our Workforce 09Value Generation Through Our Workforce (G4-LA1, G4-10, G4-LA4, G4-EC6) At Genomma Lab Internacional, we recognize and value our team of employees, who are aware that it is they who integrate our workforce and focus their performance on generating value for the Company and our stakeholders. Therefore, we offer a work environment in which our collaborators can create with development opportunities for personal and professional growth with a vision to the future. During the year 2016, the Steering Group, headed by our General Manager Máximo Juda, has worked to bring the Company to an important position in the market. Together with him, our directors and executives from the different areas that integrate Genomma Lab Internacional have participated in the implementation and promotion of the strategy with a sustainable vision, on the basis of our business model and driving the global competencies of the company. In particular, the focus of the Human Capital area is to support our employees to develop their talent and strengthen their abilities to operate inside and outside the Company with a high level of performance and commitment, developing qualities and skills that enable them to meet our business goals and achieve their personal and professional objectives. At Genomma Lab Internacional we have clear guidelines that govern our operation, however, each area has the freedom to work according to its particular requirements and taking advantage of its strengths, without losing sight of the business model and strategy. The performance and commitment of each of the areas, together with the work in synergy with our collaborators, provide the company with the necessary strength to meet the challenges we face year after year. Sustainability Report 2016 52 09 Value Generation Through Our Workforce Integration of our workforce The workforce of Genomma Lab In 2016, there was a slight reduction of staff compared to Internacional is integrated by 828 2015, as a results of the Company’s strategic approach to employees who make up our global efficiency, with which we seek high quality, commitment and talent, which brings experience, efficiency to meet the company's objectives, optimizing the knowledge, skills, challenges and necessary activities and resources. innovation proposals into a work community distinguished by its diversity Workforce Genomma Lab and equity, in which we promote Internacional 2016 Workforce 2015-2016 strategic thinking, leadership and teamwork. 2015 878 22 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 2016 828 MEXICO 516 0 40 COLOMBIA 22 CENTRAL AMÉRICA ECUADOR 19 BRAZIL PERU BOLIVIA 20 76 TOTAL: 828 CHILE 17 * Central America includes the following countries: Salvador, Trinidad and Tobago, Guatemala, Honduras, 96 ARGENTINA Nicaragua, Panama, Dominican Republic and Costa Rica. Sustainability Report 2016 53 09 Value Generation Through Our Workforce Our commitment as a Socially Responsible Company is to create working From our total employees, per hierarchy 81% is distributed occupying positions relationships with our employees based on their performance and the conditions at the level of Coordination, Specialist, Analyst and Auxiliary, and 19% of the of our operations. For this reason we prepare working contracts for an indefinite employees hold positions of Vice-Presidency, Direction, Deputy Direction and duration or for a specific period of time. During 2016, 98% of our employees had Management. In the case of Argentina, 60% of the staff in management positions contracts of indefinite duration and the remaining 2% were hired for a certain are women. period of time. Regarding the provenance of top managers, in Argentina 100% come from the local community, in Colombia 82%, in Brazil 66.7%, in Central America 70% come Total employees by type of from this region and in Chile 20% of senior managers come from their country. contract 2% 20 We continuously reinforce the mechanisms of talent attraction and retention, as well as the development of our people over time to reinforce their permanence. The factor that determines our hiring is always focused on talent, without making distinctions by gender or age. Undetermined Determined With respect to new hires in 2016, 58% of them were concentrated in people between 30 and 50 years, followed by 37% of under 30 years and 5% of people older than 50 years. On the other hand, the staff recruited corresponds to 56% male employees and 44% to female staff. 98% 808 Breakdown of recruitment by gender at global level This year, 99.64% of all our employees worked full time, while 0.36% did so partially. Male 110 Total employees per Female 86 workday 0.36% 3 Full time Part time 99.64% 825 Sustainability Report 2016 54 09 Value Generation Through Our Workforce Turnover rate This year we were able to reduce the global turnover rate by more than 35%, Of the total workforce, 276 people left the organization, of which 61.59% were from 68.52% in 2015 to a turnover rate of 33.29% in 2016. The turnover rate in men and 38.41% were women. Also, the highest turnover percentage, according Mexico was 37%, while the turnover rate in the rest of the countries was 21%. to age, occurred in the group of people between 30 and 50 years of age. Turnover rate in Mexico and international Breakdown of turnover by gender turnover rate Male 170 61.59% México 211 Female 106 38.40% International 65 (excluding Number of people leaving the organization Mexico) Breakdown of turnover6 by age Under 30 years 81 29.35%% Between 30 and 50 years 176 63.77% Over 50 19 6.88% Number of people leaving the organization It is inevitable that there are decisive moments in which important changes take place that could impact our collaborators, so they are notified when these happen. In these situations, we perceive any organizational change, as a challenge that commits us to improve and update our performance in the management of talent retention. 6 In reference to the number of people who leave the organization. Sustainability Report 2016 55 09 Value Generation Through Our Workforce Diversity, inclusion and gender equity At Genomma Lab Internacional we have undertaken the task of forming a team In relation to our commitment to gender equity, the number of men and women of collaborators distinguished by their diversity and equity, where different tastes who made up the workforce in 2016 was comprised of 41% men and 59% women, and preferences are respected, discrimination in all its forms is avoided, it seeks a percentage that has remained from 2015. to ensure that equal rights and opportunities are given to all collaborators and applicants aspiring to be part of our talent team. Distribution of the workforce by gender The Code of Conduct and Ethics is the tool that establishes the guidelines and norms that regulate the behaviors of people within the company. Based on the Code, our Mission, Vision and Values lead us in the fulfillment of our objectives, Male 343 contributing to the generation of a healthy and friendly work environment. Female 485 During 2016, we continue the process of internal awareness that promotes social equity to avoid workplace violence, discrimination and harassment in any of its forms, using the different media we have both internal and external. We are constantly searching for tools and updating them that help us ensure equal Regarding the distribution of the workforce by age, most of our employees are in access to opportunities within the Company. The policies, regulations and codes the range of 30 to 50 years, representing 66.43% of the total workforce, followed by we have today help us to apply these principles in the recruitment, selection, those under 30 years of age with 28 % and 6% corresponds to those over 50 years. evaluation and development of human capital. Distribution of the workforce by age Under 30 years 229 Between 30 and 50 years 550 Over 50 49 Sustainability Report 2016 56 09 Value Generation Through Our Workforce Talent Management: Global Competencies Genomma Lab (G4-HR2, G4-LA9, G4-LA10, G4-LA11) During the year 2016 we followed the mechanisms of talent management that The mechanisms implemented for the retention of talent motivate us to continue we started in 2015. Our performance culture has favored the development of driving these initiatives, since for the second consecutive year the special award our human capital, encouraging them, motivating them and supporting them in CEO AWARDS 2016 was granted, whose objective is to reward those collaborators their personal and career plans to establish professional goals to grow within who stood out for making extraordinary contributions in their daily work, in line the Company. The strategy we set for their development is based on global with the Global Competencies of Genomma Lab Internacional7. competencies that seek to enhance the talent of our collaborators, aligned with the objectives of Genomma Lab Internacional. Global Competencies of Genomma Lab Internacional Strategic Adaptation to Effective Capacity Leadership Teamwork thinking change communication building Competencies that impel the Ability to integrate knowlAbility to adapt to different Competence to collaborate, Ability to communicate orally Sustained focus on the employee to: edge by designing managesituations quickly and flexbe inclusive, create partnerand in writing, in a clear and development of processes, ment strategies focused and ibly. It refers to the ability ships, build working netconcise manner. systems and structures that • Envision: recognize the prioritized, for the short, to respond and be versaworks, respect others, create will last even when the indiopportunities that arise. medium and long term, tile in a changing business synergies, share information vidual changes positions. • Engage: achieve the comalong with action plans that environment. and work as a team. mitment of others. reflect their implementation. • Energize: motivate their peers. • Empower: do the possible and remove obstacles. • Execute: develop and establish plans for achieving the strategy. 7 http://blog.genommalab-esr.com Sustainability Report 2016 57 09 Value Generation Through Our Workforce Training and Development Hours of training 2015-2016 (LA9) The talent of our collaborators and their performance in carrying out their activities is 2015 3,925 strengthened through the development of abilities, knowledge and skills that are fostered 2016 5,473 through training enabling our team to perform optimally. We provide courses, diploma courses and programs aimed at all collaborators at Genomma Lab, focused on their specific activity and level. During the year 2016, 5,473 hours of training were given, that is 39.44% more hours than in 2015. 688 employees were trained, of which Regarding the total number of hours given In Chile, our employees attended external 552 belonged to Mexico and the rest to other countries. by hierarchical level, 67% corresponded to diploma courses with a duration of 6 months high levels categorized into Vice-Presidency, to one year, as well as internal programs Direction, Deputy Direction and Management, developed by the company. The topics while 33% corresponded to the levels of in which they were trained are: logistics, Coordination, Specialist, Analyst and Auxiliary. negotiation, teamwork, product knowledge Hours of training 2016, broken down by country and legislation. In addition, all the collaborators have the opportunity to participate in training and In Brazil, technical issues addressed in cultural exchanges when visiting other training are: products, regulatory affairs and 4,139 h 360 h 322 h countries where we have a presence, which tax updates, the same as in Ecuador. For new enriches their cultural and professional employees in Brazil, there is a program of knowledge. integration and coaching by their direct boss. Mexico Chile Colombia Training needs vary from one contributor to In Mexico, some of the training programs focus 558 3 36 people people people another, therefore we perform assessments on regulatory, safety and hygiene issues. Our to determine the allocation of courses, collaborators also receive technical training diploma courses and postgraduate courses in data processing programs and specialized according to their different business areas. finance and purchasing software. Likewise, In countries like Colombia, financial support they are trained in effective communication 12 h 624 h 16 h was provided to employees to attend skills and teamwork. seminars, courses, professional training and graduate programs; in order for them to have Peru Bolivia Brazil Ecuador updated information and the best knowledge regarding their field of work. 17 78 2 people people people Training in health and safety at work has also been provided to promote a culture of self-care, thus enabling them to acquire safe Total training hours: 5,473 routines while doing their work. Total number of people trained: 688 Sustainability Report 2016 58 09 Value Generation Through Our Workforce Genomma Lab Internacional's training programs offer shortand long-term benefits, as Program Finish your high school our employees are prepared for the challenges they face on a day-to-day basis, but at the same time they gain expertise for their future professional life; thus contributing to the With the aim of promoting the academic and professional development of our talent, empowerment of our employees. An example of specialized training within Genomma Lab we offer more and better education initiatives such as “FINISH YOUR HIGH SCHOOL” Internacional is the one carried out at the Distribution Centers (CEDIS). with the participation of 55 employees of the Distribution Center. They were offered lessons within the facilities, with specialized teachers in different subjects. Students were prepared to take the CENEVAL examination and obtain their high school certificates. Of the total number of participants, 60% received their high school degree in 2016 and the remaining 40% will submit their examination in 2017. Model Parvada: specialized training in CEDIS In 2016, we prioritized time efficiency and reduction or elimination of losses, which prompted us to carry out mappings of constant processes, looking for continuous improvement to establish action plans in productivity, quality, service and safety, driving “Generators of ideas” us to improve the staff’s productivity. During 2016 we continued working with the “Generators of Ideas” program which For this, we implemented a comprehensive training program that we named “Model started in 2015. As a result of this program, an innovative case stands out, which arose Parvada” in which the employees are trained in several of the functions performed at from the breaking down of a pallets’ turner and resulted in significant money savings. the CEDIS, so that all the staff has the skills and knowledge to participate in all the stages That is, with a proactive attitude of innovation, the CEDIS employees created and built a of the different processes that are carried out there. This program was very motivating turner made by themselves at a cost well below the market. since we managed to increase the productivity of our employees by about 60% compared to 2015; by empowering them technically and strategically, we optimized the times and This represents a tangible demonstration of Genomma Lab Internacional's interest in the resources assigned to each activity. growth and training of its employees and their empowerment by supporting them in the materialization of their ideas. Within the Model Parvada program we have a monthly performance evaluation system in which we evaluate our employees in terms of quality, productivity, service and (moral) In addition to the above programs, several trainings took place regarding good storage safety. We classify the results obtained, and the best evaluated employees are invited to practice, documentation management, handling of forklifts and electric skates, among others. an event in which they are recognized and rewarded. This has led to a healthy competition and a solid growth of our workforce. The CEDIS programs have generated real satisfaction for our employees, which is reflected in a 50% decrease of absenteeism in 2016 compared to 2015. As a result of the increase in efficiency, the reduction of the workforce at the CEDIS was 36%, combined with the reduction and use of physical spaces. However, the employees The development and quality of life of the employees is a priority for Genomma Lab have taken these changes with a positive attitude, since their economic perceptions have Internacional, this is the reason why we are carrying out initiatives and programs that improved and their leisure time has increased, thus raising their family quality of life. have a positive impact. Sustainability Report 2016 59 09 Value Generation Through Our Workforce As we have done in recent years, we endorse our public commitment to corporate sustainability through an annual review of our socially responsible management in the areas of quality of life in the company, link with the community, business ethics and care and preservation of the environment. As a result, we receive for the tenth consecutive year the Acknowledgment of Socially Responsible Company. At Genomma Lab Internacional we seek through our programs of Our sense of responsibility towards the well-being of our human capital is supported by the social responsibility and human capital development, to improve the Life Balance Policy, which sets out the guidelines for reconciling work life with the family and environment in which our employees thrive. That is why, in the year personal life of our employees, promoting their performance in an environment of well-being 2015, we were honored the Award Family-Responsible Company, and productivity within a climate of trust, credibility and respect. granted by the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS, for its acronym in Spanish) with a validity of two years, which will be endorsed during 2017. “A Family-Responsible Company is one that proves to be a promoter of good labor practices in the areas of gender equity, the prevention and combating of workplace violence and sexual harassment, as well as actions and policies to help workers meet their family responsibilities.” 8 Within our workforce we have employees with a professional career, who are also mothers and with whom we have a very important commitment. For this reason, we offer several benefits for them, including compressed working weeks, flextime, telework, agreed working hours and maternity leave, according to the labor regulations of each country. We also grant maternity and paternity leave to all our employees, in which women and men are entitled to request a leave for the days established by law, depending on the country where they are. During 2016, 13 female employees and five men employees requested a maternity or paternity leave, returning to the company without any inconvenience, which represented a 100% reincorporation and retention during 2016. 8 Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS) Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión Social, http://www.stps.gob.mx/EMPRESA_FR/002%20%20Manual%20de%20Aplicacion%20EFR%20(PDF).pdf Sustainability Report 2016 60 09 Value Generation Through Our Workforce Human capital policies Employee An added value to the training as part of talent management within the benefits Company, are the benefits we give our employees for their personal G4-LA2 well-being. At Genomma Lab Internacional we offer benefits superior The constant revision, updating, modification and renewal of to those required by law, granting competitive salaries accompanied by policies has helped us to strengthen the processes of recruitment, compensation where we consider gender equity and non-discrimination, training, development and retention of talent, promoting continuous all this in order to support our employees to achieve their business, improvement in the management of our human capital. personal and professional goals. The Company offers additional benefits such as medical service, canteen service, transportation allowance, educational supports, daycare and Policy for training, development and performance parking, among others; which may vary between countries and job management: commitment to foster professional development levels. Likewise, we grant corporate bonuses following the internal based on knowledge, skills, experience and career path. policies of Genomma Lab Internacional according to results obtained. Policy for talent attraction: commitment to allow access to In the same way that we seek benefits that add value to our employees employment respecting human dignity, human rights and determining within the company, we do support their personal economy by providing our inalienable obligations, complying with the legal and social security discounts with external suppliers such as restaurants, clothing stores framework. and entertainment centers, seeking to raise their quality of life outside the company. Policy for compensation and benefits: commitment to guarantee benefits, agreements and additional compensations to those required At Genomma Lab Internacional we fulfill our social employer-employee by law, to enable our employee to enjoy a better quality of personal obligations within the benefit plan, which vary between countries and family life. according to local regulations; however, the Christmas bonus, vacations, fund savings for retirement and vacation bonus are benefits that all our Policy for apprentices and trainees: commitment to promote employees receive. the recruitment and development of the best talent, focused on the interaction between the company and the participant to achieve objectives in a responsible, inclusive and sustainable manner. Policy for job severance: commitment to give the corresponding and additional bonuses to the employee who is being separated from the company. Sustainability Report 2016 61 09 Value Generation Through Our Workforce Program of Academic Excellence According to the plan defined by the Committee in order to support their studies. Later, the children on Culture, the Academic Excellence Program was were transported to our corporate facilities, where they were given a tour with an excellent reception Pillar of culture developed in Mexico with the objective of recognizing, for its academic performance, the children of from all areas. our employees, who are students of primary and secondary school who have an annual school average This group of distinguished students was received At Genomma Lab we develop programs for of over nine. by Rodrigo Herrera Aspra, Chairman of the Board our employees focused on strengthening of Genomma Lab Internacional, who had a pleasant the working culture, developing their talents We had the registration of 38 children, who were talk with them giving motivating speech advising them and directing them to the achievement of invited to a famous amusement park (Kidzania), to to continue with their preparation to become great our objectives. As a result, they participate enjoy the attractions, receive a diploma from our VP professionals. in a series of programs and events aimed of Commercial Operations and the Country Manager at strengthening their quality of life on a of Mexico, as a special recognition for their effort and Congratulations to all of them and their parents who personal and family level. dedication to their studies, 13 economic scholarships made this great achievement possible. and an honorary mention were award to those who During the year 2016, we followed up on obtained grades with an average between 9.7 and 9.9, the social programs undertaken previously, so that several events were held with great success, among which “Rola tu libro 2016” [Pass your book around] stood out. This program was carried out for the Celebration of the Day of the Dead fourth consecutive year in partnership with the Council of Communication, which Due to the importance of the celebration of the Day In addition to this, at the Distribution Center (CEDIS), encourages the habit of reading in our of the Dead in Mexico, in the month of November, the traditional “Contest of Offerings (or altars)” took employees and their families. During these activities were organized for the employees to place, in which the employees and their relatives years we have accumulated a total of 39,317 reinforce the teams’ integration. participate. In this activity there were also winners reading hours with the participation of more and with that, Mexican traditions were preserved and than 200 employees. The Corporate office launched a literary skulls coordination and teamwork strengthened. contest, to receive verses and prose written individually or as a team, addressing the issue of death differently and featuring their peers and areas of the company. 23 papers were published and the best of them were awarded. Sustainability Report 2016 62 09 Value Generation Through Our Workforce Occupational Health healthy work environment without risks through programs that provide and Safety information about health and self-care, (G4-LA6, G4-LA5, G4-LA8) motivating them to develop their skills both in the workplace as well as in their For Genomma Lab Internacional, our personal environment. CEDIS Festivities collaborators are the heart of the Company, so we value and protect D u r i n g 2 0 1 6 w e r e c o r d e d a n d In the same way, at the Distribution Center, the their health and physical integrity as monitored the accidents occurred at traditional year’s end celebration was organized, a fundamental part to develop their the corporate offices and the CEDIS in which employees and their families have the goals and achieve their personal and Distribution Center. Compared to 2015, opportunity to spend time together and celebrate professional objectives. the number of accidents at the CEDIS their achievements of the year that ends. During the celebration, there is a Mass to the Virgin of Guadalupe, decreased considerably during 2016, The work efficiency and performance with an 80% reduction by men and the traditional Christmas Posada and the Piñatas of our employees depend to a large 100% by women, achieving our purpose Contest . On this occasion, an acknowledgment was extent on their mood, which is why of reducing or eliminating them. also given to the co-workers, who obtained their highwe care about their health and that school certificate through the certification program of their families. We also recognize At international level only Chile reported promoted by Genomma Lab Internacional, to whom that our employees are exposed two accidents. we reiterate our congratulations. to musculoskeletal diseases due to repetitive movements and stress. Consequently, we are committed to Cheer up a Heart providing and preserving a safe and As every year, Genomma Lab Internacional volunteers took up their annual collection of new toys through the Cheer up a Heart campaign to celebrate Three Kings Injuries, illnesses, days lost and fatalities at Day. On this occasion it was decided to celebrate the Genomma Lab Internacional children of the CEDIS employees, giving them a total of 438 gifts collected and a visit of the Magi. Indicator 2016 The campaign was a great success, exceeding the amount of toys collected last year and achieving the Men Women goal of making an unforgettable day for children. Number of accidents with injuries 8 4 Number of days lost 231 110 Fatalities 0 0 Sustainability Report 2016 63 09 Value Generation Through Our Workforce Among other activities, this year we carried out the influenza vaccination campaign together with the Ministry of Health, as part of our health and safety Implementation programs. In addition, it is important to note that all our employees are represented in the Health, Safety of SAP version In Genomma Lab Internacional we have tools that contribute and give value to and Hygiene Committees, and in collective contracts S/4 HANA our daily operation. managed by the company, as in the case of Brazil, yes, the conditions of health and safety care for the Among them, the Company opted to start the implementation of the SAP ERP IT employees of the Company are considered. system version S/4 HANA in 2015, which is a new generation business system, which is being called the biggest technological update in over two decades and M o r e o v e r , our c ommi tme nt t o safet y in our replaces the old R3 version. Distribution Center is reflected through various insurance mechanisms, such as damage insurance The implementation of this new system in the Company paved the way to improve to protect our facilities, furniture, machinery and the communication of internal areas through different functionalities by increasing products in case of accident, natural disasters or the speed and interaction of the data and generating useful information for other conditions of vulnerability to which our valuable decision making, resulting in a better overall management and adaptation to new capital may be exposed. digital technologies. During the year 2016, an interdisciplinary team, under the leadership of Engineer Antonio Zamora Galland, Executive Vice President of Administration and Finance, successfully concluded the implementation of SAP S/4HANA, with the collaboration of different areas in our operations in Mexico. The main modules implemented improved processes for finance, controlling, sales, distribution and logistics, achieving significant improvements in our main business processes. “Genomma Lab Internacional is the first In addition, in that same year Argentina began preparations to also implement SAP S4/HANA. The processes and the operational company to implement this version of definitions of the areas that will have SAP have been developed: Sales SAP in Latin America and one of the first and Distribution, Supply, Finance, Management Control and Quality, in the world”. and the project is at an advanced stage. A key success factor of the project has been the involvement and active participation of all employees of our Company. Sustainability Report 2016 64 10 Social Impact on Communities 10Social Impact on Communities (G4-DMA, G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-EC9, G4-SO1) The commitment we have with the present and future generations drives us to continuously strengthen our ties with the communities in which we operate and with whom we have a relationship. This motivates us to actively participate in programs that seek to positively impact the areas of health, well-being and personal development of the internal and external communities where we have interference. Donations In the year 2016, Fundación Genomma Lab, A.C. which is under the General Management of Lic. Sabrina Herrera Aspra, who is a Member of the Board of Directors of Genomma Lab Internacional and who also occupies relevant positions in the following Institutions: President of the Board of Trustees of the National Institute of Perinatology Isidro Espinoza de los Reyes , Member of the Board of Trustees of the Hospital Juárez de México, Member of the Board of Trustees of the National Institute of Perinatology and Member of the Committee of the Foundation Duerme Tranquilo, A.C., showing our commitment to the Health sector, made donations of Suerox to the Mexican Red Cross and to the Cancerotón initiative. In addition, Silka Medic was donated to the population of Mexico City. On the other hand, a financial donation was granted to the Foundation Xuajin Me Phaa, AC. Sustainability Report 2016 65 10 Social Impact on Communities Genomma Lab Foundation grants donation to Xuajin Me´Phaa A.C Silka Medic Genomma Lab Foundation makes a donation of $ 500,000.00 to the Civil Society Organization In partnership with the Government of Mexico City, through the Ministry of Health, in 2016, Xuajin Me Phaa, AC., to support the farmers of the Me Phaa community located in the High 67,830 pieces of Silka Medic were donated. This product that was available at health centers Mountain of Guerrero being one of the poorest areas of Mexico, to commercialize the flower and timely detection units located at the underground transport system (Metro) from Mexico of Jamaica at a fair price and improving the quality of life of the population. City. In this way, we continue to collaborate strategically and securely in the prevention of athlete's foot through the program of the Ministry of Health Detecta, Medica, Eliminates Through the organization Xuajin Me Phaa A.C., producers of the area are trained with [“Detect, Medicate, Eliminate”]. sustainable agriculture techniques that promote caring for the land and that benefit the production of their vegetables for self-consumption and sale. On behalf of the Genomma Lab Foundation, the donation was presented by the President of Covenant for child nutrition in Colombia the Company Lic. Rodrigo Herrera Aspra and it was received by the General Coordinator of Our Country Manager in Colombia, Juan David Fajardo, signed the Covenant for Child Nutrition Xuajin Me Phaa, AC., Mrs. Margarita Muciño. Gen Cero , in which our commitment to support the eradication of chronic malnutrition in Colombia by 2030 becomes official. The brands Asepxia and Tío Nacho support the cause Mexican Red Cross Cancerotón by donating a percentage of their sales. In total, around 10 companies participated in this Covenant promoted by the Éxito Foundation. Due to the high temperatures that were re50,200 pieces of Suerox were delivered to corded in the State of Sonora during this year, cancer patients and their families. The prod“With Gen Zero we feel that we are doing the right thing and that we will have an impact on which ranged between 48°C and 50°C, 50,500 uct was distributed to the following instituthe future of the country. In 20 years we can be hiring young people who have grown up in pieces of Suerox were donated, with the aim of tions: General Hospital of Torreón in Coahuia scenario full of opportunities” said our Country Manager Juan David Fajardo. preventing and combating dehydration. Furnila, University Hospital against Cancer in the ture for medicines’ storage were also donated. state of Nuevo León and General Hospital of According to the National Nutrition Situation Survey (ENSIN, 2010), one of every eight children This with the aim of combating the dehydraCiudad Victoria in Tamaulipas, as well as medin Colombia suffers from malnutrition, a condition that affects their development with lifelong tion caused by the extreme temperatures. ical brigades in rural areas. consequences. By virtue of the foregoing, we were able to also support the achievement of the Sustainable Development Objectives (ODS, for its acronym in Spanish) through this project. Sustainability Report 2016 66 10 Social Impact on Communities Supporting groups in vulnerable social conditions At Genomma Lab Internacional we are committed to equity and Our commitment is supported, among other aspects, by the Policy of Integral Diversity, inclusion, fostering a culture of support for people with disabilities or which aims to promote practices for a healthy, safe, non-violent, non-discriminatory special conditions. and inclusive work environment that allows full development of people with real equality of opportunities between women and men and full respect for human rights within the The Acknowledgment Inclusive Company that we obtained in December organization and the different stakeholders. Through this policy we commit ourselves to: 2014 and which has a validity until 2017, recognizes us as a company committed to good work practices towards groups in a situation of vulnerability. We maintain our equity model based on policies and i. Promote the rights of equality and non-discrimination x. Ensure the maintenance of an optimal working practices so that our internal processes operate of people. environment by preventing and addressing any possible under the conditions of equality and equity ii. Promote gender equality. occurrence of inappropriate behavior. necessary for men and women to fully develop iii. Promote and respect diversity and inclusion of people. xi. Provide an environment of freedom of expression of their potential. iv. Promote access to employment to people in situations comments or suggestions. of vulnerability. xii. Foster a culture of health, self-care, nutrition, physical v. To grant a correct, respectful and dignified treatment, activity and safety and hygiene at work. protecting the physical and moral integrity of people. xiii. Use of inclusive and accessible language in order to vi. Ensure respect for human rights. avoid reproducing discriminatory and exclusionary vii. Lead with righteousness in all areas of the business. situations. viii. Promote the integration of all people. xiv. Raise awareness in people on issues of equality, ix. Promote an optimal and accessible work environment human rights, gender mainstreaming and prevention complying with the requirements of ergonomics that of workplace violence, harassment and bullying, labor Civil Protection indicates. inclusion and diversity. We are also working together with the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare to obtain in a future the certification in the Mexican Standard on Labor Equality and Non-Discrimination NMX-R-025 SCFI-2015. We remain committed to our community, to provide a healthy, safe and respectful work environment that promotes gender equity, diversity, professional development and quality of life, where inclusion is a fundamental part of the respect for Human Rights. Sustainability Report 2016 67 10 Social Impact on Communities Community QG5 Volunteering: Cheer up a Heart (G4-EC8, G4-EN11) The guava leaf is the raw material from which As every year, the team of volunteers integrated by our employees carried out their Quercetin, active ingredient in our QG5 drug, is annual collection of new toys through the Cheer up a Heart campaign to celebrate obtained, it is used for the treatment of colitis. The the Three Kings Day. On this occasion it was decided to celebrate the children of the positive impact provided by the manufacturing of CEDIS employees, giving them a total of 438 gifts collected and a visit of the Magi. guava leaf is the result of a community business model that has its origins in 2007, which was created The campaign was a great success, exceeding the amount of toys collected last year in response to an initiative by the Government of and achieving the goal of making an unforgettable day for children. Veracruz that has the purpose to diversify crops in municipalities with a high degree of marginalization in the region of Totonacapan. The productive business model benefits the totonacan farmers of the municipalities of Zozocolco of Hidalgo, being the exclusive suppliers of guava leaf. Creole guava tree plantations are based on agro-ecological production processes, totonacan harvesters have sustainable practices that prevent the application of agrochemicals and foster the protection of biodiversity in their environment. Also the guava leaf selling is based on practices of fair trade that benefit the communities. Through market opportunities, strengthening self-management and development of productive capacities, we contribute to the improvement of the economic and living conditions of the inhabitants of the region, through the agreement made between Genomma Lab Internacional and the University of Veracruz, with the intervention of Diversificadora Agroindustrial y Comercializadora del Trópico S.A. de C.V. “DYCTRO.S.A.”. Since 2010 until today, 58 tons of guava leaf have been produced to manufacture QG5. Sustainability Report 2016 68 11 Environmental Care and Protection 11 Environmental Care and Protection (G4-DMA, G4-14, EN11, G4-EN27, G4-EN29 y G4-EN34) At Genomma Lab Internacional we are convinced of the importance of inheriting a healthy environment and a sustainable environment for future generations. For this reason, we have reaffirmed our commitment to environmental protection and responsible management of our resources, both in the areas where we have direct influence as well as in our supply chain. Our supply chain has become a key player in ensuring the success of our environmental strategy. This year we collaborated with our suppliers to continue promoting the use of environmental-friendly materials in our packaging, responsibly managing our waste and promoting programs in favor of biodiversity. In addition, we continue applying environmental criteria in our supplier assessments in order to identify areas of opportunity and accompany them in a process of continuous improvement. Undoubtedly, these actions bring us closer to the high environmental performance to which we aspire, thus fulfilling our business strategy and our commitment to future generations. Our Environmental Policy Our commitment in environmental matters focuses on offering products that improve the quality of life of people, promoting favorable conditions for social benefit and protection of the environment, promoting clear and measurable programs. Our objective is to continue improving our environmental performance to mitigate our negative impacts and to take advantage of our resources in a more efficient way, standardizing our Sustainability Report 2016 69 11 Environmental Care and Protection commitment and performance in all other countries where we have a presence. Our lines of action are aimed at increasing energy efficiency and reducing the use of materials, emissions and waste. In this way, we aim to minimize our ecological footprint gradually over the next few years. Energy in Genomma Lab Internacional Our Carbon Footprint (G4-EC2, G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN7, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17 G4-EN18, G4Electricity consumption is the most significant category for Genomma Lab due to EN19, G4-EN20, G4-EN21, EN30) its connection with climate change. Our efforts in this area have focused on the implementation of energy efficiency projects, such as replacement of luminaries and We recognize that climate change poses a risk to people's health and quality of life, as well as generating negative updating of electronic equipment. and irreversible impacts on biodiversity. For this reason, we identified and quantified our greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) with the objective of disseminating to our stakeholders our commitment to climate change mitigation. In The operational area with the highest electricity consumption in 2016 was the 2016, we completed five consecutive years of our GEI inventory for our operations in Mexico. Distribution Center (CEDIS) in Mexico. However, thanks to the reduction programs mentioned above, it was possible to reduce its consumption by 31.5%, going from The methodology we used for the quantification of emissions is based on the “GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting 2,572.33 MWh in 2015 to 1,760.95 MWh in 2016. and Reporting Standard”, issued by the World Resources Institute (WRI, for its acronym in English) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD, for its acronym in English). We also align our calculations to the agreement of the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT) that establishes the technical particularities and formulas for the application of methodologies for calculating GHG emissions, issued in the Official Gazette of the Federation. The following three categories were considered for the measurement of Carbon Footprint: Scope 1 emissions, Scope 2 emissions and total emissions. The first category refers to the emissions associated with the consumption of diesel, gasoline and LP gas; the second refers to the consumption of electrical energy; and the third, to the sum of the first two categories. This year, our Carbon Footprint was 1,654.79 tons of CO2e, representing a reduction of 14% compared to 2015. The business unit that most contributed to the total emissions was the Distribution Center (CEDIS) with 66% of them, the rest of the emissions were issued by the Corporate Offices. Sustainability Report 2016 70 11 Environmental Care and Protection Total emissions of Genomma Lab broken down by categories, in tons of CO2e* 1,800.00 1,600.00 1,400.00 1,200.00 1,000.00 800.00 Scope 1 emissions (diesel, gasoline and LP gas), in tons of CO2e 600.00 400.00 200.00 Scope 1 Scope 2 Total emissions Corporate Offices 39.18 525.31 564.49 Distribution Centers 283.79 806.52 1,090.30 Genomma Lab de México 322.97 1,331.82 1,654.79 Emissions in Corporate Offices Emissions in CEDIS (Distribution center) *For the calculation of Scope 2 emissions, the emission factor for the year 2015 was used, due to the fact that at the time of writ2014 198.5 176.0 ing this report the factor for 2016 had not been updated by the corresponding authorities. 2015 134.2 109.7 2016 39.2 283.79 If we analyze only the CEDIS emissions for 2016, it will be noticed that total emissions decreased by 15% over last year, while emissions from electricity consumption decreased by 31%. On the other hand, the Corporate Offices showed a decrease of 12% in their total emissions compared to 2015, as well as a reduction of 95 tons of CO2e derived from fuel consumption. Sustainability Report 2016 71 11 Environmental Care and Protection Scope 2 emissions (electrical energy), in tons of CO2e The following is a breakdown of the information on fossil fuel consumption and electricity in 2016: Emissions in Corporate Offices Emissions in CEDIS (Distribution center) Consumption of fossil fuels and electrical energy in Genomma Lab Internacional 2016 Emissions from electricity consumption. 2014 570.70 2,080.20 Gasoline (liters) Diesel (liters) LP Gas (liters) Electricity (kWh) 2015 503.93 1,167.84 2016 525.31 806.52 Corporate Offices 16,824.51 0 0 1,146,962.00 Distribution Centers 23,117.60 74,567.50 19,359.10 1,760,950.00 Total Genomma Lab 39,942.11 74,567.50 19,359.10 2,907,912.00 The consumption of fuels from mobile sources is mainly associated with the gasoline used to transport our associates to their workplaces. One of the mitigation actions that we implemented is to motivate our employees to use less their particular vehicle, providing transportation to our facilities in Samara and to the CEDIS Distribution Center. Sustainability Report 2016 72 11 Environmental Care and Protection Use of materials and waste (G4-EN1 y G4-EN2, G4-EN23 al G4-EN26) Waste management Materials At Genomma Lab Internacional, we focus an important At Genomma Lab we quantify the materials we use part of our efforts on the correct management of waste, throughout our value chain. Some polymers such In our offices we managed to reduce the use of 50,000 sheets compared to the previous not only because it is stated in our environmental as stretch film, transparent tape and polyolefins are year, representing a reduction of 4% in paper consumption. policy, but also because it is one of the most direct used throughout the customer delivery process to ways of protecting the environment. We implement protect products from potential damages. On the As a result of a greater rationalization of the materials used in CEDIS, this year we corporate awareness campaigns based on the 3Rs other hand, sheets of cardboard and pallets are used reduced the amount used by an average of 18% over the previous year. The use of (reduce, recycle and reuse), as well as specific measures for the separation and transport of products within materials with the highest reduction were the blue insulation tape, the strech film and to reduce the use of paper. CEDIS, as well as paper for various uses within offices. the cardboard corner. Most of the waste we generate comes from the CEDIS and it is finished products that did not meet the Material 2015 2016 Unit Variation minimum quality requirements, or were returned due to their expiration date. After an assessment, they can either be sent to destruction or recycling through a Stretch film 74,998 24,590 Rollos -67% third party. In 2016, 52.51 tons of waste were sent Sheets of cardboard for separation 120,000 136,214 Piezas 14% to destruction, while 97.41 tons were shipped to Transparent Tape 10,000 5,107 Piezas -49% recycling, consisting mainly of plastic and cardboard. Cardboard corner 150,000 58,500 Piezas -61% In addition, 100% of the paper used in our offices was recycled. On the other hand, 624 m3 of waste were Filament Tape 7,000 5,617 Piezas -20% sent to final disposal. Polyolefin 422 195 Piezas -54% Transfer label different measures 3,360 2,138 Millar -36% In our supply chain there is also an environmental commitment from our label supplier, who White paper sheets 120 218 Cajas 82% demonstrates responsible management of their nonWhite pallet 44,238 42,000 Piezas -5% hazardous waste (cardboard, plastic and polyethylene), Black wax ribbon 493 821 Piezas 67% as it is reused by a third party. Blue tape 4,000 1,148 Piezas -71% Sustainability Report 2016 73 11 Environmental Care and Protection Reduction of raw materials Biodegradable labels Commitment to Water Use The environmental efforts we carry out together We work with a Mexican company specialized in the G4-EN10, G4-EN22, G4-EN31 with our suppliers, are focused on the reduction manufacture and development of labels through of raw materials’ consumption for core flexographic printing processes. They have a highly Water consumption in our facilities is mainly for sanitary purposes. products. Such is the case of a 15% decrease experienced team whose objective is to deliver quality However, we work with our partners to reduce water consumption in our in the cardboard used for QG5 achieved by labels and printing alternatives for related products supply chain. Our focus is on reducing the amount of packaging used and reducing the size of the secondary packaging. and services. the introduction of recyclable materials, always taking care of the quality Likewise, in Devlyn Manzanilla the consumption of the product and its compliance with the applicable regulations. of polyethylene in the primary packaging was For our product labels, this supplier uses inks formulated reduced by 10% and the label was modified by without toxic heavy materials, which can be reused. In this way, we seek to go beyond our distribution and manufacturing reducing the heat shrinkable material, which The paper used comes from suppliers with FSC chain processes, integrating an active supply chain into water use saving made the manufacturing process more efficient. of custody (responsibly managed and reforested programs and promoting environmental awareness lectures that woodlands). generate change. The environmental commitment of our supplier is also In 2016 we replaced the bottles of water with demijohns in our facilities, reflected in the responsible management of its nonthus reducing the consumption of this liquid and its cost substantially. hazardous waste (cardboard, plastic and polyethylene), In total, we reduced our consumption from 496,800 to 47,760 liters per since they are reused by a third party; and in the year, which represented a reduction of 90.4% over the previous year. case of waste that cannot be reused, it is delivered On the other hand, with this initiative we managed to save a total of $ to companies specialized in the management, control 439,488, demonstrating a serious commitment to the eco-efficiency of and recycling of hazardous or non-biodegradable waste our operations. authorized by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. With respect to the subject of effluents, it is important to mention that part Our supplier is also certified by the ISO 900:2008 of our wastewater is directed to the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) Quality Management Standard and it is in the process of an authorized third party. Throughout 2016 in Mexico, a total of 3,248 for the ISO 900:2015 certification. m3 of wastewater was generated at CEDIS, of which 100% were treated through this system. Other countries have examples of good practice in The relationship with Genomma Lab Internacional is this regard. In Ecuador, for example, a total of USD $ 18,000 was invested based on the supply of self-adhesive labels for products in the construction of their own WWTP and in the analysis of the chemical such as Teatrical, QG5, Fermodyl and Sistema GB composition of the effluents. among others. Sustainability Report 2016 74 12 Supply Chain: Link of Positive Social Impact 12Supply Chain: Link of Positive Social Impact Throughout our supply chain we have suppliers, who are highly committed to the preservation of the environment, and who implement actions based on innovation promoting environmental awareness with their stakeholders. In these cases, we seek to create an alliance, which through specific actions, helps us both to achieve the objectives of our sustainability strategy. Together with our waste management supplier, we have managed to reduce the negative impact associated with the final disposal of waste, through an initiative an initiative to generate energy from waste by means of a system called co-processing . In addition, this organization has implemented relevant actions for the conservation of biodiversity, specifically of the green and black iguana in Guerrero. Here is their case: Environmental responsibility in our waste management Our commitment to the integral waste management establishes the guidelines for its separation and appropriate use. As a result of this, we have made significant progress in this area since our waste management provider uses our waste to generate alternative energy. Sustainability Report 2016 75 12 Supply Chain: Link of Positive Social Impact Following waste in NOT ACCEPTED Radioactive Not Infectious biological Co-processing of waste accepted Asbestos Explosives Urban solid waste can be used as alternative fuel in high temperature furnaces, such as those used in the cement Approved industry. It is a safe and viable alternative that is becoming sample increasingly important in Mexico and that many companies are beginning to adopt because of the benefits it generates for them and their stakeholders. In our operation we identified an area of opportunity given that the products that are sent to shredding were not used in any Shred way. It was then that through a company with global presence in Mix 60 countries, we identified the solution of sending this waste to Feed a process of energy generation alternative to fossil fuels. Approved waste Throughout 2016, this treatment was given to all the waste sent for shredding. After analyzing their physico-chemical characteristics (calorific value, humidity and percentage of biomass), these were formulated and sent to a high Solids temperature furnace as alternative fuel. The gases emitted during combustion are constantly controlled and monitored by our supplier through sensors, which indicate that the emissions are kept below the levels established by SEMARNAT. The Sludge process followed is shown below: Liquids Alternative fuel This is an example of shared value in our supply chain, where by the adequate utilization of waste reduces the contribution to climate change and generates a benefit for both parties, in a safe manner and preserving the environment. Sustainability Report 2016 76 12 Supply Chain: Link of Positive Social Impact Committed to the preservation of biodiversity Our supplier also demonstrates its commitment to the preservation of biodiversity through a robust conservation strategy for the green iguana (Iguana iguana) and the black iguana (Ctenosaura pectinata). Both species have been severely affected by the loss of habitat, intense persecution, immoderate hunting and introduction of exotic species. Their efforts are key to avoiding the loss of these species, because due to these negative impacts their population has seriously decimated. Conservation actions focus on a 12-hectare site of green areas, which were accredited in 1998 as the first Environmental Management Unit for green and black iguanas in the state of Guerrero. It is there where more than 500 iguanas are provided with a favorable environment for their reproduction and conservation with the support of specialized personnel. It is importantly noteworthy, that on the platform of our supplier in The Iguanario also carries out Acapulco, an average survival of 61% of the animals has been achieved; programs together with the whilst in its natural habitat only 5% survive. neighboring communities to strengthen a culture of environmental Also, in this space research projects on the species are care, foster environmental forums and carried out in collaboration with various universities provide free advice to individuals or groups in Mexico. Some of these are: the development of interested in creating similar projects. Since its the use of zinc oxide for the elimination of fungi opening, more than 29,000 people have visited the facilities, in the iguanas, analysis of breeding behaviors, in 2016 there were 1,443 visits. Without a doubt, this is an identification of mites and their relation to exemplary case of good practices in biodiversity conservation, the reproductive stage, observation of the which will greatly favor the preservation of the green iguana behavior during mating season, as well as and the black iguana. improvements in food for a better growth. In total, more than 1,023 specimens have been donated to other institutions for their breeding and research. Sustainability Report 2016 77 GRI Index GRI INDEX GENERAL BASIC CONTENTS Indicator Description Page G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization 3 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities (I, R&O). 3 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,3,65,69 G4-3 Name of the organization. 6 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. 6 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters. 6 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant 6 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 6 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). 6 G4-9 Scale of the organization, including: number of employees, number of operations, net sales, capitalization broken down in 6.1 terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); as well as quantity of products or services provided. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract and gender; total number of employees by employment type: external 52 workers and gender; total workforce by region and gender, reporting the portion of workers who are legally recognized as selfemployed; and, report any significant variations in employment numbers. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain. 41 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or itssupply chain. 6 G4-14 Organization’s approach, if applicable, precautionary principle. 69 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 20 subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization participates. 19 Sustainability Report 2016 78 GRI Index Indicator Description Page G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 G4-17 List of entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents, reporting whether any 15 of them covered by the report. G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries; explaining the Reporting Principles for Defining Report 15 Content. MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-19 List of material aspects that were identified during the process of defining the content of the report. 15 G4-20 Coverage within the Organization of every material Aspect. 15 G4-21 Coverage outside the Organization of every material Aspect. 15 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 15 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. 15 G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 15 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 15 STAKEHOLDER G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, 15 ENGAGEMENT and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to 15 those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. G4-34 Governance structure of the Organization. 21,27 G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior 21 executives and other employees. G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, 21 environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social 21,27 GOVERNANCE topics. G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees. 21 G4-39 Description of the function of the Chair of the highest governance body and whether he/she is also an executive officer. 21 G4-40 Processes of nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for 21,29 nominating and selecting highest governance body members. G4-41 Description of the processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report 21,29 whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders. Sustainability Report 2016 79 GRI Index Indicator Description Page G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the 21,29 organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts of the Organization. G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and 21,29 social topics. G4-44 Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, 21,29 environmental and social topics G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, 21,29 and opportunities. G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, 21,29 environmental and social topics. G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. 21,29 G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all 21,27 GOVERNANCE material Aspects are covered. G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 21 G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) 21 used to address and resolve them. G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives. 21,29 G4-52 Process for determining remuneration. 21,29 G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on 21,29 remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to ND the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country NO of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 31 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational 31 integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to 31 organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Sustainability Report 2016 80 GRI Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMICS Indicator Description Page G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: ECONOMIC G4-EC2 Financial implication and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. 70 PERFORMANCE G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from Governments. We do not receive financial assistance from Governments. G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE G4-EC6 Percentage of senior managers from the local community in places where significant transactions are carried out. 52 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: DIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-EC7 Development and impact of investment in infrastructure and type of services. 42,65 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of the same. 65,68,42 MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 G4-EC9 Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of operation spent on local suppliers. 65 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT Indicator Description Page G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 MATERIAL ASPECT: G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 73 RAW MATERIALS G4-EN2 Percentage of the materials sued that are recycled input materials. 73 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. 70 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization. 70 G4-EN5 Energy intensity. 70 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 70 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. 70 Sustainability Report 2016 81 GRI Index Indicator Description Page G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: WATER G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 74 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 68 protected areas. G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 70 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) to generate power. 70 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). 70 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. 70 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 70 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). 70 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions. 70 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 74 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 73 MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant accidental spills. There have been no significant accidental spills G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the 73 organization’s discharges of water and runoff. ASPECT: PRODUCTS G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 AND SERVICES G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services. 69 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: REGULATORY COMPLIANCE G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws 37,69 and regulations. ASPECT: TRANSPORT G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: GENERAL G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 74 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. 42 Sustainability Report 2016 82 GRI Index Indicator Description Page ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. 42 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 69 CATEGORY: SOCIAL PERFORMANCE SUBCATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Indicator Description Page G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 52 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of 61 operation. G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements. 52 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor 63 ASPECT: RELATIONS BETWEEN THE and advise on occupational health and safety programs. WORKERS AND THE MANAGEMENT / ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work related fatalities, 63 RELATIONS by region and by gender. G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 63 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 57 ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them 57 in managing career endings. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee 57 category. ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 OPPORTUNITY G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, 42 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Sustainability Report 2016 83 GRI Index Indicator Description Page ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 WOMEN AND MEN G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria. 42 LABOR PRACTICES G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken. 42 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 31 SUBCATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS Indicator Description Page G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that 34 ASPECT: INVESTMENT underwent human rights screening. G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant 57 to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 34 ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: FORCED LABOR G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to 34 operations. ASPECT: RIGHTS OF THE INDIGENOUS POPULATION G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: ASSESSMENT G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASSESSMENT Sustainability Report 2016 84 GRI Index Indicator Description Page G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 37 SUBCATEGORY: SOCIETY Indicator Description Page G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. 65 ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities. 37 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified. 31 ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. 31 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. 31,37 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient. 34 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 31,37 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 31,37 ASPECT: SUPPLIER G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society. 37 ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 34,37 Sustainability Report 2016 85 GRI Index SUBCATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Indicator Description Page G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. 37 ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of 37 products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 G4-PR3 a. Report whether the following product and service information is required by the organization’s procedures for product and 37,48,49 service information and labeling: • The sourcing of components of the product or service • Content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an environmental or social impact. • Safe use of the product or service • Disposal of the product and environmental/social impacts ASPECT: INFORMATION ON • Other (explain) MANAGEMENT APPROACH b. Report the percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information 37,48 and labeling, by type of outcomes. G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 37,48 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: MARKETING G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products. 37,48 COMMUNICATIONS G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, 37,48 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 37,48 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 6,21,65,69 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products 37,38 and services. Sustainability Report 2016 86 Contacto Contact The Sustainability Report 2016 presents our annual performance in the field of sustainability. In addition to the information referred to in the body of the report, we are attentive to any comments or suggestions you wish to share in relation to its content. Through the following points of contact you can send us your communication. Email Address: sustentabilidad@genommalab.com Via telephone: (5255) 5081 0000 Address of Genomma Lab Internacional S.A.B. de C.V.: Antonio Dovali Jaime # 70 Piso 2 Torre C Interior A, Colonia Santa Fe, Delegación Álvaro Obregón , C.P. 01210, México, Distrito Federal Reporte de Sustentabilidad 2016 87
