Communication On Progress for 2016 SUMMARY 01 CEO MESSAGE 02 ABOUT ALFA 03 Alfa’s Purpose 03 Alfa’s Vision 03 Alfa’s Beliefs 03 Alfa’s Commitments 03 Alfa’s Aspirations 04 COMMITMENTS TO UNGC AND 17 SDGs 05 OUR APPROACH TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES AND 17 SDGs 06 People Employees 08 People Customer Engagement 09 Process 11 Programs 19 AND OUR JOURNEY CONTINUES... In today’s ruthless competitive environment, where organizations are working smart to maintain their leadership and positioning on the technological side, we understand the importance of agility and innovation as main catalysts not only CEO of continuous improvement, but also as drivers of positive social change and we MESSAGE embrace them on the strategic, tactical and operational levels. To lead change in the telecommunications industry and to be able to respond swiftly to the market with versatile portable answers, Alfa relies on a culture that fosters continuous learning and innovation. We welcome improvement ideas arising from anyone, at any time, from anywhere in our organization. We also welcome ideas that have a social benefit. At Alfa, we thrive and capitalize on new ideas and work to channel them into concrete improvements that we grow organically from within to enable our organization to swiftly respond to the changing ecosystems and shifts in the social markets around us. The Information and Communication Technology sector (ICT) is increasingly becoming influential in the life of every individual in the community. As technology continues to shape the patterns of our lives, we felt it was necessary for us to enhance our active presence in the dynamic and rapidly growing telecommunications sector by constantly innovating and improving, all while enhancing and solidifying our commitment to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Hence, at Alfa, we reaffirm our recognition of our social duties and our commitment to cultivating a culture of responsibility within our firm and to have a positive spillover on other stakeholders we engage with. Our corporate identity illustrates this commitment to be a moral and innovative organization and our sustainability strategy translates these principles into real on-ground initiatives, which create value for our stakeholders, whether these are our employees, business partners or the surrounding community. In our Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are likewise dedicated to impart and share this data with our partners, utilizing our essential channels of correspondence. 01 Alfa is guided by a long-term commitment to community development and environmental stewardship. Alfa is Lebanon’s first mobile network, managed by Orascom Telecom, Media and Technology (OTMT) since 2009. We capitalize on ABOUT the vast know-how and international expertise of our Management and Leadership, ALFA in order to deliver quality and professional solutions to the country’s mobile sector. Being a pioneer operator and innovating continuously has been a constant focus at Alfa since its inception and is particularly important nowadays with the rapid changes that the telecommunications sector is currently witnessing. Moreover, the versatile mobile telecommunications segment is generally viewed as the foundation of financial development, providing network and access to data in a rapidly transforming world. This is key to Lebanon whose economy is seeing consistent stagnation because of the local vulnerability and neighborhood political turmoil. The broadcast communications division is an opportunity to challenge the current monetary recession and report strong development regarding market infiltration and benefits. For all these reasons, Alfa, as a pioneering telecom operator, strives to invest its capabilities and expertise in technology to develop innovative solutions and sophisticated platforms that respond to complex requirements and demands to put at the service of our various partners and stakeholders. In 2016, for example, we were the first to complete a nationwide deployment of the 4G LTE-A (4G+) network. Currently, Alfa serves more than 2 million subscribers (75% of them data users), through a state-of-the-art network (2G, 3G+, 4G and 4G+/LTE-A) that covers 99% of Lebanon. We are even more proud of being good citizens in our community and upholding our commitment to sustainable development as reflected in our corporate identity while providing Competitive Telecommunications Services and maintaining the highest quality of service. As highlighted in this report, our commitment to Sustainability is ingrained in our culture, is embedded across our processes and guides and orients our approach to managing people, while playing a positive role in the community around us. While we are proud of everything that we stand for as Alfa, we are even more proud of our achievements and continuous improvements in the domain of CSR and Sustainability. 02 Alfa’s Purpose We are the citizens of our community, proud of our belonging, We provide competitive telecommunications services while maintaining the highest quality of service by upholding our sustainable commitments yer after year. Alfa’s Vision We aspire to lead the change in the Telecommunications Industry by employing advanced technologies and adaptable mobile solutions to the Lebanese Market, creating an innovative model of social responsibility and fostering our stakeholder engagement through an agile value creation system. Alfa’s Beliefs We believe in the potential of our PEOPLE by building on talents through the development of the right knowledge and skills, enabling our Talented and Engaged PEOPLE to lead the way and secure sustainable growth. We believe in building a Sustainable Business Model by investing our talents and engaging our stakeholders for the benefit of our Society, our People and our Environment through pioneering Responsible operations and initiatives. We believe in the Power of AGILITY by constantly enhancing our Business Processes, Talent Management and Technologies, stimulating thus, Competitive Advantage and Strategic Differentiation. We believe in delivering an Outstanding Customer Experience by striving for Excellence and anticipating our customers’ needs, thus, turning them into our Brand Ambassadors. Alfa’s Commitments We are willingly committed to the well-being of our PEOPLE by improving their lives, creating OPPORTUNITIES and building their capacities in an equal and synergistic environment. We are committed to being a Socially Responsible Corporate Citizen, by contributing to the community in which we live and grow, and by achieving and maintaining the highest standards of ethical conduct and integrity. We are committed to act with agility by reinforcing our ability to adapt to complex clients’ requirements while keeping abreast of the changes in markets and business environment and by embracing the latest technologies in terms of energy savings and operational efficiency towards renewable energy sourcing. We are committed to provide state-of-the-art and innovative services to our clients by maximizing satisfaction through continuous improvement of our quality management system. Alfa’s Aspirations We aspire to be the CARETAKERS of our people by being a leading corporate citizen and by sparking positive change in their lives. We aspire to maintain our leading position by aligning our SUSTAINABLE engagements with our Business Strategy, thus steering towards an ADVANCED ENGAGEMENT PERSPECTIVE. We aspire to lead the CHANGE by creating Innovative Business Opportunities and to model emerging trends for the INTEREST of our community, resulting in peak business performance. We aspire to provide an Exceptional Customer Experience, by placing our customers at the CENTER of our business and strategy and delivering GREATER value towards 03 long term Customer Loyalty. More than just being the leading telecom operator in Lebanon, Alfa strives to be an active agent of change in society and contribute to sustainable patterns of COMMITMENT development in the community. Achieving our business objectives is an important TO UNGC priority for us given that the telecommunications platforms and sophisticated AND 17 SDGS telecom solutions are at the core of people’s lives. Nevertheless, Alfa believes in a responsibility that goes beyond generating economic value and to creating positive social value for the community and its people. In 2014, Alfa become a signatory to the UN Global Compact, which is the largest sustainability initiative on the planet, and has been since 2015 a founding member of the Global Compact Network Lebanon (GCNL) and a key member of its steering committee. We reiterate our commitment to principles of social responsibility, green stewardship and good corporate governance. Through Alfa’s corporate sustainability vision and well-integrated CSR strategy, we ensure that our initiatives not only meet customers’ needs but also the needs of our community, our environment and of course, our Alfa family. In 2016, Alfa focused on re-aligning its sustainability programs in order to ensure that they map closely with the newly launched UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, revolving around seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Through the active role we have assumed in GCNL at the local level, as well as members of its steering committee, we recognize that setting a model for others in this domain is a top priority and that Alfa has a responsibility to model the way and to inspire other organizations working in the domain of sustainability. 04 OUR This year, with the rapid changes that the telecommunications sector is witnessing, APPROACH we decided to focus on the power of agility as an enabler to help us translate our TO THE 10 corporate identity and firm commitments to sustainability into practical practices PRINCIPLES and programs. AND 17 SDGS To sustain our leadership in this important sector and to preserve our pioneering stand on sustainability, we have worked hard to foster and embed an agile culture that permeates our business, starting from our mindsets, to our business processes, to our organizational structure, to our network optimization and to our state of the art products and services. Throughout this report, we illustrate how agility is integrated across our value chain touching on all the core competencies that drive organizational excellence, namely People, Process, Programs. In turn, all activities organized under these 3Ps are at core of what we do and what we stand for as a business and map in turn to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and the seventeen SDGs as outlined below. AGILITY PEOPLE PROCESS PROGRAMS 05 Our Alfa’s commitment towards our employees is to remain the employer of PEOPLE EMPLOYEES choice, starting with recruiting the right talents, recognizing our outstanding performers, creating a health and safety environment that ensures the wellbeing of Alfa employees, commitment to diversity, talent development plan, compensation and benefits and the diligent management of grievances and concerns. Some of the initiatives we have implemented in 2016 include: (Mapped across SDGs 3/4/5/8/10): “On Site Safety requirements” We give our technical teams practical advice and recommendations for securing their work and activities on sites in line with internationally approved standards, such as use of appropriate safety equipment for climbing and high altitude operations or the use of only appropriate suits, fabrics as instructed. Training A clear training procedure for the treatment and handling of training needs and requests at Alfa is implemented with focus on efficiency measurement and control. Employee Diversity At the end of 2016, we had 1247 employees, comprising of 60% male and 40% female. Gender diversity is increasingly important for Alfa and we are intent to keep nurturing it and creating new career opportunities for women within our organization. Youth diversity is also important and 40.58% of Alfa employees are below the age of 30 years. We are proud that Alfa is an employer of choice for people with disability, exceeding the 3% employment quota stipulated by law 220/2000, providing a friendly and fostering environment to their talents. Promotions In order to cope with the challenges of our industry technological and trends’ evolution while capitalizing on the expertise of our employees, Alfa is keen to create succession planning and promotion opportunities for talent within the organization. In 2016, 12 new promotion opportunities were created, out of which 25% were allocated to females. Equal career growth opportunities 100% of our full-time employees receive regular performance and career development reviews regardless of gender. Individual final rating being divided as follows: 45% related to competencies assessment (core, technical and managerial), in addition to other criteria related to corporate culture adherence and security awareness. 55% based on yearly objectives achievements. 06 Healthy Mind in Healthy Body We encourage our colleagues to unleash their full potential and support them in their sports journey in order for them to achieve outstanding results. To name a few: Colleague Success Stories Relevant SDGs Walid Najjar wins Silver Medal at International Shooting 3 Grand Prix Kuwait 2016 Moustapha Kheireddine wins 3rd place in Tripoli half 3, 8, 10 marathon Our colleague Walid Najjar wins second place at the 3 Arab Shooting Championship Our Colleague Ahmad Abou Hachem wins a Bronze 3, 8, 10 Medal at the Romanian International Table Tennis Kazbek Mountain taken over by our colleague Issam 3 Diab 194 Alfa colleagues participated in Beirut Marathon 2016 3, 8, 10, 11, 16 This time it’s Everest! Issam Diab 3 Bronze Medal in trap shooting at the United Arab 3 Emirates Grand Prix 2016 to our Colleague Walid Najjar Our colleagues achieve great results at the ‫دورة جمعيــة‬ ‫التعاطــف والعطــاء‬: Elie Rahbani wins 1st place in ping pong 3, 8, 10 tournament and Moustapha Kheireddine wins 2nd place 07 We believe in embedding a culture that places the customer at the heart of our PEOPLE CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT strategy and operations. Therefore, this year, we further bolstered and reinforced our commitment to customer centricity through a bundle of interventions and processes, placing our customers at the center of the value creation process, and making sure that we not only meet their needs but also exceed them. In 2016, we have further reinforced our commitment to Industry Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG 9) and we responded to our customers’ feedback by: Designing innovative solutions Prioritizing customer complaints based on customer type (Prepaid, Postpaid, VIP, etc.) to enhance the complaint resolution time Rotation of 2 Alfa Tablets in all Alfa Stores all year long for daily acquisition of customer feedback Added OLAs (Operational Level Agreement) and SLAs (Service Level Agreement) to all complaints, and specially technical ones, in order to decrease complaint resolution time Expanding Alfa Stores Our expansion strategy is ongoing based on regular assessment of population distribution and our market needs. In 2016, we opened our 9th store, in Batroun – Thoum, to lessen the distance to customer and serve our community as best we can. Offering voice roaming services In 184 countries, connected to 383 operators, and dispersed all over the globe. Increasing our Digital Presence As we aim at building sustainable relationships with our customers, we understand the importance of engaging our customers on different digital channels, including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn and YouTube. Our increased online presence is demonstrated by: Number of interactions per 1000 fans in 2016 Interactions per 1K / Jan. 01, 2016 Dec 31, 2016 08 As we aim at leveraging and enabling an agile culture, we are mindful of the need PROCESS for continuous collaboration and learning as well as the infusion of continuous improvement across our processes in order to increase our operational and tactical responsiveness. At Alfa, we aim not only to accomplish our business objectives but also to deliver value to customers and our community through sustainable operational processes, cohesive team structures and a continuous improvement framework. Cohesive Streams of Team Engagement We capitalize on the efficient deployment of resources for the different projects and plans that we have underway to run our business in the most effective way possible. In this respect, we are proud that our flexible stream leaders are selected based on their skills, talents and expertise regardless of their functional positions, allowing us to create cross-functional highly cohesive teams that coordinate together and synergize. These teams invariably demonstrate agility and teamwork at its best with sustained support and empowerment from top management, providing them with a sense of ownership and accountability. Various strategic and tactical committees drawing other champions from within the firm also help support this team structure to sustain the high level of service delivery that Alfa is known for. Continuous Improvement Framework We are also keen to set in motion a continuous improvement culture that allows us to learn from experience and to embed customer and stakeholder feedback across what we do. A continuous improvement mindset is indeed crucial to make the business more efficient and agile. It also contributes to the intuitive agility mindset of our employees, opening the door to further innovative solutions and breakthroughs. Hence our continuous improvement ethos permeates everything that we do, helping us to improve our products, services and processes and leading in turn to enhanced competitiveness, improved problem solving, improved customer and employee satisfaction as illustrated in the figure below. Improved competitiveness Improved consumer satisfaction Increase in efficiency tends to Coming from higher quality services contribute to lower costs and higher with fewer faults and swifter quality services with the same responses, with the same current resources resources Improved problem solving Increase in employee satisfaction Investing in the development of staff Investing in the development of staff knowledge and skills, and giving them and empowering them to do more the authority to solve problems for for customers increases employee customers makes the workforce more satisfaction, motivates them to do versatile and better able to deliver the more and helps produce high quality services that customers need work 09 Sustainable Operational Processes/Green Stewardship As we evolve in our sustainability journey, green stewardship takes more of a critical role in what we do, and we place increasing priority on minimizing the impacts of our operations on the environment. We hence try to embed a precautionary approach across our business operations and practices, reaffirming in turn our commitment to the various environmental SDGs (SDG 12, 13, 14, and 15). Pillars and Initiatives Aspirations Relevant SDGs 3 Pillars of our Green Our aims: Stewardship Program: Improving overall environmental 1. Raising awareness of our employees impact 2. Engaging our employees for Reducing waste adopting green habits Improving resource efficiency 3. Embedding environmental Increasing stakeholder and systems and routines within our customer trust business operations Developing corporate image and credibility 12, 13, 14, 15 Driving down costs Achieving strategic business aims Catalyzing new business opportunities Gaining competitive advantage in supply chain design Meeting legal obligations About the Green Stewardship Program: 1. Raising awareness of our employees with respect to Environment challenges Energy savings Green best practices 2. Engaging our employees for adopting green habits Reconciling the power of the team and the stewardship of adopting green habits, we created the Green Agents team, which comprise proactive green change agents who are trained about the green best practices and serve as facilitators of change thus playing a major role in enabling the endorsement of green habits and processes within Alfa. Weight of waste recycled in 2016 by type: Paper (KGs) Card board (KGs) Books (KGs) Bottles (KGs) Cans (KGs) 2146 2218 1625 395 125 3.Embeddingenvironmentalsystemsandroutineswithinourbusinessoperations In the context of our culture of agility and within the spirit of continuous improvement that we have adopted and endorsed, we regularly develop, update and review our quality documents and specifically our work instructions in order to make sure that all our business activities are run in alignment with best practice environmental quality standards. For example, Alfa takes several energy conservation measures on site in order to decrease energy consumption and overall network power. These include optimizing the site’s space usage, decommissioning and swapping of the traffic from older nodes onto newer and more eco-friendly nodes and installing solar control window film on clear glass among other measures. 10 Our long-term strategic involvement towards our community grows wider in scale and PROGRAMS reach as we focus on better integrating CSR programs into our sustainable business model. Community investment initiatives have always been at the heart of our CSR program and our Corporate Sustainability Strategy that saw the light in 2015. This year, as a responsible telecom operator and active participant in the development of our society, we made sure to expand our focus areas and to work hand in hand with various stakeholders in order to promote long-term sustainable initiatives that will create opportunities for shared value creation. Our community programs cover several of the UNGC principles and many of the SDGs that lie at the heart of the UN 2030 agenda. Our community investment initiatives for the year can be summed by our commitment to engage our community, support it and protect it. Engaging our community Through Alfa 4-Life Programs In 2006, driven by our belief that children are our future, we launched a program to support Children in Communication needs by collaborating with our local community and teaming up with local NGOs that focus on children. Our program, which today reaches more than 1500 children, consists of several social initiatives, which add the most value to the lives of children and open up new horizons for their development by tackling relevant areas for their growth and development and their full integration into their community. “Expanding children horizons, offering them new prospects and giving meaning to their existence is our motto that enlightens our journey with unabated vigor and determination” In 2016, We partnered with leading therapists and mentors to give our children the opportunity to express themselves and improve their communication skills We collaborated with NGOs to create programs that improve the quality of lives of our children and fulfill their needs by enabling them to excel in handmade arts and furniture We continued to work with well-known vocalists to coach our children on vocal techniques and help them explore their own potential We organized many events to celebrate our children’s success and accomplishments and bring joy and fulfillment to their hearts: Acsauvel Sports Day “Lebanese Icons” exhibition by the artist with Autism Ali Tlais at the Beirut Art Fair with the Lebanese Autism Society Exhibition by the students of the Lebanese School for the Blind and the Deaf at the Beirut Garden Show & Spring festival “De la Vannerie au Design” Christmas Choir by the SOS Children’s Villages Lebanon at the UNESCO Palace Association Francophone pour les Malades Mentaux: The renovation of the Psychiatry Service ward of the Hotel Dieu Hospital Exhibition of Mosaic Furniture by the Father Andeweg Institute for 11 the Deaf (FAID) students at the Beirut Garden Show & Spring festival Give 4-Life As we seek to support social causes and spread happiness in our community, we created the ‘’Give 4-Life’’ platform which is all about giving. The “Give 4-life” platform through Alfa app and Alfa website, allows our subscribers to donate to our partner NGO, which are part of our Alfa 4-Life program and, thus, contribute to improving the lives of our children, who are the leaders and shapers of tomorrow. For better engagement and reach, we put at the disposal of our customers a variety of means that enable them to donate by sending a short message to 1004, or by using Alfa Mobile App or Alfa’s website. As a recognition gesture to our donors, each respective NGO offers the top donor a handmade gift, crafted by the children. Through its Alfa 4-life program, Alfa has contributed $89,000 in total in 2016 for 6 associations supporting people and children with special needs. 12 Through Youth Programs As a leading telecommunications company, we understand that we must embrace technology and technological development, and capitalize on technology as a driver of positive social change and innovation. Technology is shaping all aspects of our lives, yet, we are equally concerned how to leverage technology as a facilitator of social innovation. We also realize that we have a responsibility to nurture and embed this positive attitude vis a vis technology among the youth who are the leaders of tomorrow. “Alfa and Ericsson IoT Award” The First IoT Competition for university students in Lebanon In this context, and capitalizing on the idea of the youth as future leaders of change, who can leverage technology as a tool for digital transformation and impact, we proudly launched in collaboration with the Lebanese Ministry of Telecommunications, the first of its kind competition, “Alfa and Ericsson IoT Award”, driven by an operator and vendor and targeting Telecommunications, Computer and Electrical engineering students, in cooperation with IEEE Young Professionals Affinity Group. This competition has created space for young talents from across Lebanon to compete to design an IoT-based business case project, using an IoT kit provided by Alfa and Ericsson and including a connectivity aspect over Alfa network. This competition encouraged young minds and talent to channel their creative energy in new directions, while granting them needed exposure with telecommunications experts and decision makers from public sector, operators, vendors, academics, as well as incubators. 13 We capitalize on technology not only as an impactful driver of change in business, affecting every aspect of our lives, but also as a driver of continuous social transformation. Especially with the gender gap in the ICT sector remaining salient and significant across the globe and in the Middle East, Alfa identified an opportunity to focus on enhancing the participation of women and amplifying their voice and their presence in the dynamic and rapidly growing telecommunications sector. Moreover, Alfa continues to affirm its belief in a world free of discrimination and gender biases. With full conviction that the inclusion of women will entail enormous social and economic benefits, Alfa continues to create an enabling environment for women in the ICT sector. Girls in ICT Day Since 2013 and until this day, Alfa continues to organize the Girls in ICT Day event on the occasion of “the International Girls in ICT Day,” an International Telecommunications Union (ITU) initiative aiming to encourage young girls to engage in the ICT sector. Alfa celebrated it for the fourth year by holding round tables, hosting several activities, providing a tour in the company and creating technological innovation competitions for female students from several Lebanese schools. 14 Supporting our community Reviving Local Communities As part of Alfa’s commitment to local community empowerment and revitalization, and in response to a community call for action, Alfa was the first telecom operator that responded to the call of the Lebanese farmers, and took an initiative to help Lebanese farmers discharge their agricultural crops. Hence, in solidarity and support, Alfa distributed Lebanese apples to its customers and visitors by placing baskets of apples at the entrance of Alfa stores and Alfa main premises from October 2016 till May 2017. Contributing to Build Community Capacity Also as part of our drive for continuous local community revitalization, we have continued to empower small and medium-sized businesses as well as NGOs to build their capacity and consequently boost productivity and economic performance, which spillover in turn to positively affect the socio-economic growth and development of our country as a whole. Alfa contributes to different causes, including supporting culture and heritage, women empowerment, youth development, community health and environmental sustainability. 15 Culture & Heritage At Alfa, we consider arts and culture as important levers of change in our community. They are a reflection of the pulse of the community and help capture the vitality of our local economy; when our cultural life is glowing and vibrant, it means that the development of our community is on the right path. For this reason, Alfa supports local festivals and exhibitions like Beittedine international festival, Beirut cultural festival, Beirut spring festival, Cedars international festival, Batroun international festival, Byblos international festival, Zouk Mikael international festival, Tripoli festival, Ehden and Saida Christmas festivals. In addition, Alfa supports and encourages all regional festivities, like Ehmej festival, Rechmaya summer festival, Jisr el Madfoun festival, Ghalboun festival, Amchit Festival, as well as concerts and musical events like Lebam annunciation, Jazz and Christmas concerts, one Lebanon concert, and Beirut Chants festival among other local cultural events. Sports At Alfa, we do believe that sport is essential for the health and the wellbeing of our community and consider it an opportunity for unity and cohesion. In line with this belief and Alfa’s culture, we proudly support our local sports and national Lebanese leagues and are the main sponsor of many marathons, tournaments, national Lebanese teams and leagues.. Sponsorships SDGs Signature ceremony of the 2016 sponsorship contract with Riyadi 3, 4 Women’s Basketball Team Alfa sponsors the Tripoli Half Marathon 3, 10, 16 Alfa Sponsors the race organized by Myschoolpulse 3, 4, 10 Alfa Sponsors Fair Game on the occasion of the Army Day 3, 16 Alfa Sponsors PUMA HANNIBAL RACE in Ainata Al Arz 3 Alfa is sponsoring Patrouille Des Sommets Race 3, 8, 16 Alfa Sponsors Fast and Famous Karting Event 3 Alfa sponsors Lebanese football league 3, 11 16 Protecting our community Drive 4-Life The health and wellbeing of the community lie at the heart of what we do across our CSR programs. Alfa walks the talk and leads the way by taking actions and embedding best practice norms as per the international quality systems, towards ISO 39001:2012. Since road crashes are the first killer among our youth (aged between 0-35 years) and knowing that they cost the country yearly between 1% & 3% of the GDP of Lebanon, Alfa took the initiative to develop its Alfa Drive 4-Life program which complements Alfa’s CSR commitment and complies with ISO 39001, ISO 26000 and the UNGC principles. In fact, the structure of our program is adapted from ISO Management system standards and illustrates Alfa’s management commitment to provide Alfa’s car fleet with safe journeys and increasing the awareness of our community on this important topic through targeted external initiatives. Alfa’s Safe Driving Culture encompasses the following: Working in a safe environment Riding a safe and clean fleet Enjoying free, safe, and modern transportation modes Avoiding claims and liability raised out of malfunction Sharing our commitment with our community Alfa internal initiatives Alfa External Initiatives Extending awareness and training for Putting at the disposal of the public a Hotline employees number related to Alfa fleet driving manners Creation of “Alfa Car Fleet Team” Alfa and Kunhadi launch Road Safety Installation of GPS tracking application on Campaign ‫مــا فــي ارســال تحــت ســابع أرض‬ operational cars on February 2016 Integration of car management operations on Alfa sponsors ‫حتى_ما_اشــتقلك_يوم‬# ERP system awareness campaign on December 2016 Performing Weekly Physical inspection to all 17 Alfa car fleet Green Initiatives Earth Hour: we keep glowing even when we turn off the light Alfa took part, for a second consecutive year, in Earth Hour international initiative by switching off the lights from Alfa main premises in order to support the message around the importance of clean energy and protecting the environment. This is in line with the precautionary principle that we hold dear. The Earth Hour event is an international celebration where lights are switched off for one hour aiming at raising awareness about climate change and protecting our planet. Alfa tree planting day Also consistent with the environmental precautionary principle, and as part of a joint CSR initiative with one of our civil works suppliers, QTS, and in collaboration with the environmental NGO Jouzour Loubnan, Alfa organized a Tree Planting Day on the 15th of October in the Ehmej Mountains. We are proud to have participated in the reforestation of Lebanon by planting 500 Cedar trees in 2016. 18 AND OUR JOURNEY CONTINUES... As outlined in this report, we are committed to Sustainability and to the SDGs, which we are embedding in our business across the domains of people, processes and programs. We have also injected agility as a key enabler to our business, and as a driver of continuous innovation. We are strong believers in the role of Alfa as a stronghold pillar in its community and as an enabler of change through people and technology. We are committed to this journey of being good citizens, doing more with less, and further embedding the SDGs and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact across what we do. Our CSR activities, as briefly outlined in this report, address several SDGs (SDG 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,16) and principles of human rights, labor rights and environmental stewardship that lie at the heart of the UN Global Compact. We hope to continue through this journey of continuous improvement and pushing the envelope in the domain of sustainability, serving as a 19 role model in this domain within Lebanese society and beyond. www.alfamobile.com.lb
