Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 value stream Design Supply Chain Performance Check Performance Check Certifications / Awards / Patents Supplier Code of Conduct Chemical Material Declaration Performance Check Product Take Back Program Continued Manufacturing + + After Use People and Community Logistics Performance Check Performance Check LEED® / Case Studies Healthy Materials Usage + Performance Design Supply Chain Manufacturing + Logistics Usage + Performance Continued + After Use People + Community We are committed to designing with Through our global network of Since 2010, all Haworth manufacturing We strive for solutions that are neutral to Once a Haworth product reaches Haworth is proud of its commitment the environment in mind through supplier partners, we engage in facilities globally have achieved ISO the environment, with positive impacts the end of its desired life, we want to operate as an ethical business and sustainable material choices and continuous dialogue, education, 14001 certification. In 2012, we attained on human health. Our products are to ensure our customers know support the communities in which we engineering processes, and the and share best practices to Zero Waste to Landfill status globally, designed and built leveraging global their options for recycling, resale, live—all around the world. Through removal of Haworth banned chemicals. ensure their codes of conduct strengthening our commitment to knowledge and best practices, earning refurbishment, and donation. We volunteer hours, health and safety Our designers implement sustainable include socially and ecologically continuous improvement through top certifications such as GREENGUARD, provide product certifications and protocols, and continuing education objectives that contribute toward responsible sourcing. Nurturing waste, water, and energy reduction BIFMA level, FEMB, NF Environment, life cycle assessments, and encourage (including ethics and anti-corruption), certifications from BIFMA level®, FEMB, these relationships maintains initiatives. We are also committed to and GECA. They also contribute toward our customers to contact us regarding we engage our employees—whom and GREENGUARD®. This drive toward integrity and transparency green transportation by increasing LEED® building certifications. We are also end-of-life options in their region to we call members—to help protect sustainable solutions helps protect the throughout our supply chain. resource-efficient transportation. experimenting with the WELL Building prevent products from being discarded and restore our environment, create planet and meet client expectations. Standard™ to support well-being. into landfills. economic value, and strengthen our 2 communities. 3 who we are At Haworth, we believe inspiring spaces can enrich lives and businesses around the world. We provide each of Our Beginnings Contents our customers with tailored spaces that enhance their Founded by G.W. Haworth in 1948, Haworth is a privately business, stir their spirit, and sustain the planet. held, global leader in the contract furnishings industry. What began from humble roots—crafting wood furnishings in 02 Value Stream We partner with our customers, our dealers, and relevant influencers in redefining the way interiors are designed, a Midwestern town on the shores of Lake Michigan—has evolved into a global company with a focus on Organic 04 Who We Are built and maintained over time, resulting in more efficient real estate utilization and contributing to a more effective Workspace® that helps people perform their best. and innovative workforce. 06 Message from Haworth Leadership Over the years, our company has grown and evolved, investing Work happens everywhere. Haworth helps our customers in research, design, and acquisitions that expand our portfolio 07 A Global Leader create spaces where people can perform their best— and network to meet changing market dynamics. We align at work, on the go, and at home. our strategies to ensure we’re providing our customers with the workplace knowledge, innovation, design, and global 09 Safety + Diversity expertise required to enable their success. 10 Continuous Improvement Our Leadership Our Values 12 Design Our executive management team is held accountable for We have a strong set of values that guide our business, meeting our sustainability goals and objectives. A crossinform our decisions, communicate our brand, and help us 14 Supply Chain functional steering committee of executive sponsors, align with our customers. They have been and continue to sustainability objective champions, and sector-based be a foundation for our growth, and a code for our company. 15 Manufacturing + Logistics leaders sets company-wide goals and metrics based on In our world of rapid change, our values are a guide for our long-term strategy. today’s activities and tomorrow’s growth. 17 Update: Zero Waste to Landfill The steering committee drives the metrics and reports We value our customers We value continuous learning progress quarterly to the steering committee chairperson, 18 Usage + Performance We value members We value results our Vice President of Global Design & Innovation. The steering committee is chartered by our Chief Executive We value integrity We value our world 19 Continued + After Use Officer (CEO). Our VP of Global Design & Innovation is responsible for the direction and pace of our sustainability Our Financial Performance 20 People + Community plan reporting to the CEO. The CEO provides formal Haworth’s 2016 global sales totaled $1.94 billion—an increase sustainability oversight twice a year through corporate 22 GRI and UN Global Compact Considerations global sector reviews. of 6.4 percent from 2015. The sales increase is evidence of the effectiveness of Haworth’s strategy and continued market share growth around the world. Expandable Content More to the Story Champions help drive progress toward sustainability objectives and set priorities based on the corporate (Viewable in PDF Readers for Windows and MacOS) As a product of Haworth’s continuing strategy. Region-based functional leaders are the core pursuit of responsibility, our 2016 members of our local sustainability committees. They Corporate Responsibility Report is represent and provide the conduit for regional issues published in electronic format only. and priorities. To delve further into some of the 2.0 Our Sustainability Vision Billions of U.S. Dollars / Year topics featured in this report, click By the Numbers 1.5 on the “+” icons to open links and Haworth will be a sustainable corporation. We engage our members reveal more of the story. • $1.94 billion in global sales for 2016 in more sustainable practices, we initiate and use processes that are 1.0 neutral or improve our environment, and we utilize our resources in • 6,500 members worldwide • ways that create adaptable and sustainable workspace solutions for More than 650 dealers worldwide 0.5 our customers. We do all of this globally to protect and restore our • Presence in more than 120 countries environment, create economic value, and support and strengthen • 1 vision 0 our communities. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 4 5 Dear Stakeholders: A Global Leader Haworth is a family-owned company driven by foundational values to serve global Our Global Reach markets and the communities in which we live. These values guide our vision to operate as a company with purpose, as well as our commitment to corporate social responsibility. Haworth serves markets in more than 120 countries We report our progress in three business sectors: through a global network of sales members and more We know we are on a journey. Since we first launched our annual Sustainability Report than 650 dealers—independent businesses that provide • North America and Latin America (NA) (now the Corporate Responsibility Report) in 2005, we have continued to make strides sales and support to our contract market customers. • Europe (EU) in our corporate social responsibility efforts while helping our customers transform their • Asia Pacific and Middle East (AP) spaces. From our innovative design to final installation of product, and everything in between, we are committed to having the most positive effect on environmental and social well-being. Through continuous improvement and evaluation of materials and processes, we maintain our dedication to reducing the impact of production on the environment. One goal has been to eliminate 56 banned chemicals, identified within our industry as adverse to human health and/or the environment, from all product lines. We are encouraged by our progress in eliminating 52 of the targeted 56 chemicals, such as halogenated flame retardants. We continue to grow our product materials knowledge base and eliminate problematic materials while refining product design for end-of-life reuse or recyclability. In 2016, we were pleased to introduce the Fern™ task chair, a new benchmark for sustainable design, accommodating a diverse working population with new levels of all-day comfort, regardless of size, posture, or work mode. From the early development stages, the user was at the center of its design, which was inspired by nature. Fern helps people sit better, work better, and feel better so they can stay engaged at work. Our Los Angeles showroom was one of the venues for piloting an application of the WELL® Building Standard, a performance-focused system for measuring, certifying, and monitoring features of the built environment to promote the health and wellness for people. The pilot provided a learning experience that put well-being at the core of good design, which takes into consideration all aspects of an optimal environment including physical, cognitive, and emotional elements. Going forward, we remain committed to implementing well buiding standards as part of our strategy for space design that benefits both our members and our customers. At Haworth, we foster a culture of collaboration and innovation in an inclusive workplace that engages our members in meaningful work and opportunities to reach their potential. Haworth Headquarters Through their work and volunteer efforts, they are empowered to help protect and restore Haworth Showroom Locally Sourced Manufacturing our environment, create economic value, and strengthen our communities, and we thank Haworth Owned Manufacturing them for inspiring our organization. Dealer We are pleased with our progress, yet there is always more to do. We look forward to building partnerships, enabling our members, and leveraging our global reach to continue our corporate social responsibility journey. Haworth Headquarters Haworth Showroom Locally Sourced Manufacturing Haworth Owned Manufacturing Dealer Matthew R. Haworth Franco Bianchi Michael Warsaw Chairman President & CEO Vice President, Global Design & Innovation Haworth, Inc. Haworth, Inc. Haworth, Inc. 6 7 safety + diversity Awards 2016 Haworth Member Engagement Survey Results Safety • German Design Award 2016 Each year, Haworth conducts an engagement survey among Actual Recordable Accidents Special Mention: YourPlace our global workforce to understand where our organization can Per 100 Members Globally improve the employee experience. For 2016, our response rate • EcoVadis Gold status for Corporate was 85 percent, which is above average for our industry. High Social Responsibility excellence scores were received for overall job satisfaction, which was above 3.4 3.2 Haworth Global the mean globally. Areas for improvement for Haworth include 3.0 2.9 2.5 2.1 communication, especially across departments. • ACESIA Corporate Social Responsibility recognition Haworth France Read More 11 12 13 14 15 16 • Best of NeoCon 2016 Member Training Tools 20 20 20 20 20 20 Silver (Furniture Systems Enhancements) Integrated Palette™ Enhancements (Compose® Member Highlights Connections™ and Active Components™) Supporting World Refugees • HiP DESIGN SOLUTIONS 2016 Our Products presented by Interior Design Magazine In 2016, Haworth Germany welcomed 11 new interns, refugees who Diversity • Benching and desking systems had recently relocated to Germany, seeking asylum. The program was Winner: Fern™ (Workplace: Seating/Task category) initiated by Haworth Germany and the German employment agency Diversity is a critical part of doing Drum (WorkPlace: Seating/Lounge category) • Collaborative furniture to provide refugees with manufacturing experience and help them business. We continue to support • BEST OF YEAR AWARD 2016 assimilate into the German workforce. The interns worked in chair diversity by utilizing different • Ergonomic work tools perspectives, as well as a global presented by Interior Design Magazine and storage production, as well as powder-coating. They also participated in a daily German language course and were assisted framework of knowledge and Fern (Seating: Contract/Task category) • Freestanding filing and storage products by an Arabic-speaking member from Haworth Germany and many skills to facilitate innovation and volunteer mentors. collaboration. One component of • Freestanding wood, laminate, and steel casegoods diversity shared among our global Our Global Network regions is gender, which is reported • Healthcare solutions by sector in the chart below. We continue to partner with companies and institutes that share our commitment to sustainability. • Lighting • United Nations Global Compact UNGC • Moveable walls Global Gender Diversity • U.S. Green Building Council USGBC • Raised access floors Americas Hourly • Business and Institutional Furniture Manufacturers • Seating Salaried Association BIFMA • Systems Asia • European Federation of Office Furniture FEMB Hourly • Tables and conference furniture Salaried • The German Environmental Management Association B.A.U.M. e.V. • Technology solutions Europe Hourly • Health Product Declaration Collaborative HPDC • Wood furniture Salaried • CleanAir Spaces Average • MindClick Global 0 20 40 60 80 100% • IAO Fraunhofer Office 21 Percentage of Members • Green Initiatives Female Male 8 9 continuous improvemenT At Haworth, we value our members, customers, and results. Improved Ergonomics and Safety We continuously work on incremental improvements in the areas of quality, environment, and health and safety to In Portugal, a new cutting machine that easily adjusts to different sizes offer healthy workplaces to our members and add value improved ergonomics for cable tray handling, which was previously overall. Here are some examples. done manually. Making work table adjustments led to increased levels of safety and product quality of the cable trays. Also, an additional safety mirror was installed in the melamine boards storage area as a result of our employee suggestion system. European Management System Certification Material Requisition Improvements In 2016, Haworth Europe successfully completed its first matrix Shanghai, China team members worked to improve a routine process certification—an organizational assessment and realignment requiring multiple people and departments completing numerous method that benefits the organization in numerous ways: better tasks for fabric and painting line material requisition. Through analysis aligned European management processes; increased knowledge of the report preparation process, the team was able to decrease the transfers and best-practice sharing across Europe; improved number of tasks and time spent to save 440 hours annually. transparency for our global clients; reduced certification costs and bureaucracy, allowing us to redistribute resources to more strategic initiatives—all leading to a more united, “One Haworth” in Europe. Reducing Travel, Improving Flow The Components team in Ludington, Michigan looked for ways to Apprentices Add Value simplify flow in the paint load/unload/pre-rack area, which had been congested with cart traffic, racks, and pallets. In their redesign of the In Bad Münder, Germany, manufacturing apprentices managed work area, the team reduced the amount of motion and transportation a number of projects that added value for their colleagues: They of parts and people. By rearranging they were able to lengthen the read technical drawings, took measurements, and manufactured space for unloading, which allowed reorganization of work center furnishings to set quality, health, and safety standards. The carts, making it easier to bring carts to the line and reducing time apprentices mastered a variety of challenges and learned a lot— spent carrying parts to carts. Because of their effort, line stops have both professionally and personally. been reduced by 36 percent and transportation/motion waste was reduced by approximately 50 percent. Scrap Reductions At the Big Rapids, Michigan plant, Components team members tracked scrap to make it more visible and catch variations in volume to address it earlier in the process. This also resulted in a cost savings through scrap reduction. Scrap Cost $.92 $.89 2.86 1.72 May June 10 11 design Product Updated Sustainability Standards Google Portico certifications In 2016, Haworth Europe updated its sustainability standards to Portico is Google’s Healthy Materials Library reporting tool. To date, simplify relevant requirements, especially for the product design Haworth has generated nine health product declarations (HPDs) via and development teams, by adapting recent regulatory changes the Portico tool. These products give Google space designers choice in BIFMA and connecting sustainability even closer to each stage in the value helping them create spaces that contribute to happy, healthy people. BIFMA‘s sustainability certification stream. Key principles include, among others: requirements on program for furniture, level®, material chemistry and healthy materials use; supplier standards and Indoor Advantage Gold guides design and elevates our transparency in the downstream supply chain; material and resource products in the marketplace. management in the manufacturing process; environmentally friendly Haworth Europe adopted a new indoor air quality certificate, Indoor logistics requirements; product quality and safety criteria; reuse and Advantage Gold, for reduced emissions in furniture and storage 34 BIFMA level 1 certified after use concepts. products because of proximity to local laboratories. European 5 BIFMA level 2 certified seating products remain GREENGUARD certified to coincide with FEMB Attestations Haworth’s global seating program. 25 BIFMA level 3 certified North America Haworth continues to address the FEMB (European Federation for Designing for Well-being Office Furniture Associations) European Sustainability Standard for Asia Pacific To further validate the internal and external ergonomics/comfort Office Furniture with four additional Haworth products receiving the preliminary attestation in 2016: Lounge system LTB and desking research completed during the development of Fern, Haworth hired systems Epure, T_up, and Tibas, adding to our 2015 attested products: the United States Ergonomics consulting firm to collaborate with 116 GREENGUARD Vados storage and Comforto 89 task chair. All products were evaluated our senior corporate ergonomist and conduct an assessment of Haworth Europe by an independent third party. the chair, which included an expert ergonomics review, controlled Haworth Asia Pacific laboratory testing, and field validation. The findings indicated that “the Fern chair provides dynamic support and provides an effective Haworth North America range of adjustability to meet the needs of diverse users and work activities. The geometry and range of adjustability of the chair will accommodate individuals beyond the fifth percentile female through 15 SCS Indoor Advantage™ Gold the 95th percentile male effectively. The Fern chair incorporates Haworth Europe the current best practices in ergonomic chair design and abides by ergonomic standards related to fit and function.” Product Stats (Global) • 11 Norme Française Environment certified (French Standard) • 6 Preliminary FEMB European Sustainability attestations • 175 product environmental data sheets completed 12 13 manufacturing supply chain + logistics The Sustainability Code Update: Banned Chemicals To ensure that Haworth suppliers are aligned with Haworth’s values, In 2014, we began an aggressive, proactive initiative to eliminate all suppliers are encouraged to sign and adhere to the Haworth 56 chemicals from our product offerings. With the help of our Supplier Code of Conduct. The agreement addresses worker safety, engineering and purchasing departments, as well as our suppliers, labor compensation, anti-child labor, anti-discrimination, worker we are making great progress. The Haworth task and lounge seating respect, and environmental compliance. Supplier response has been product categories in North America are close to becoming 100 positive, with nearly 97 percent of global suppliers signing the Code percent free of chemicals of concern. of Conduct. By providing suppliers with guidance and education, we help them understand our comprehensive sustainability criteria, Read More form long-term relationships, and work toward a common goal of a more sustainable world. Update: 100 Percent Sustainable Wood FABRIC TREATMENTS We work diligently with our supply chain to increase transparency We remain dedicated to meeting or exceeding the highest social and on our suppliers’ sustainability standards and initiate improvement environmental standards in the market. Offering FSC® (license code We continue to offer measures. A joint approach between our quality and sustainability FSC-C002821) and PEFC (license code PEFC/10-31-1827) certified products free of: departments is dedicated to further advance in this area, including products demonstrates Haworth’s commitment to valuing the world. • perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) in-depth supplier screening and auditing tools to foster transparency and evaluate compliance. While especially focusing on potential “hot Read More • perfluorooctanesulfonic (PFOS) spots” in our supply chain, this thorough approach is characterized by • antimicrobials a partnership mindset, intended to overcome any challenges together Health Product Declaration® Collaborative • PVC with our suppliers. We look forward to partnerships with suppliers The Health Product Declaration® Collaborative (HPDC) is a not-for• phthalates who adhere to the Supplier Code of Conduct and provide sustainable profit organization committed to the continuous improvement of the ingredients for our products. • halogenated flame retardants building industry’s performance. Haworth is partnering with HPDC Global Supplier Signed Code of Conduct in advancing the Health Product Declaration (HPD) web-based tool to enhance the HPD development process and make it easier 100% Goal for material suppliers to disclose ingredients to manufacturers. The partnership will continue into 2017. management 80 Localization of Production system Haworth combines its global research, innovation, and design CERTIFICATION 60 expertise to create a portfolio of products for customers around the world. Our products are sourced and manufactured in the • All global Haworth manufacturing markets where they’re delivered, in support of our commitment sites are certified to ISO 14001 40 to environmental sustainability. • All global Haworth manufacturing sites are certified to ISO 9001 20 Read More • Haworth manufacturing sites in Germany and Switzerland are certified 0 to OHSAS 18001 2013 2014 2015 2016 14 15 UPDATE: zero waste to landfill As part of our commitment to maintaining our Zero Waste to Reduced Paper Usage Landfill (ZWTL) status globally, we continue to work diligently with our suppliers around the globe. Despite several waste management France and Switzerland reduced paper use in obstacles and the current volatility of the recyclables market, our operations processes through technical and commitment to Zero Waste to Landfill has never wavered. We always system advancements. Special characteristics Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions look to eliminate as much waste as possible at the beginning of the on product drawings in France are now created manufacturing process so it is not passed on to our customers. and shared digitally rather than creating multiple Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions Global VOC Tons paper copies for different departments. In Global VOC Tons Switzerland, a new production control system 140,000 120 700 allowed for a smaller format for work orders 120,000 100 600 (improving their attachment to each product), Remarkable Recycling Rates in France thereby simplifying the handling in production. 100,000 80 500 407 (-7%) 80,000 400 Material recycling rates have increased steadily in St. Hilaire de Loulay 60 since 2010 but the team has continued to work diligently to make Powder-coat Paint Reductions 60,000 300 163 151 strides. By switching waste treatment contractors, 38 different types With a steady focus on process material efficiency, 40 40,000 200 (-63%) (-65%) 110 86 of waste are now sorted and recovered. Approximately 100 metric the North America plants reduced the amount 20 (-75%) 55 52 42 40 35 tons of fiberboard waste are recycled annually and the recycling rate 20,000 100 (-80%) (-87%) (-88%) (-90%) (-91%) (-92%) of powder paint scrap, generated and sent for has reached 94 percent, while decreasing waste management costs off-site recycling, by more than 40 percent from 0 0 0 by 43 percent (since 2009). 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 through 2016. MT CO2e MT CO2e/ $1M Sales Recycling and Waste Avoidance in Germany 3D Printing on Wood Scrap In Germany, teams focused on waste-to-energy reduction after Haworth is continuously looking to recycle and volumes increased when a new seating manufacturing line was reduce waste through new initiatives, including Global Sustainable Wood Purchasing Global Water Usage integrated into the manufacturing line in Bad Münder. participation in a Zero Waste to Landfill group 100% Goal 90 70 in Grand Rapids, Michigan that seeks new ways Global Gallons Per $1000 Net Sales Read More 80 60 for recycling challenging waste items. The group 80 even includes Haworth’s competitors. In 2016, 2016 70 50 Sustainable Packaging Efforts in Germany 60 the team worked with Michigan Technological Global Gallons Per Year 60 2015 50 40 With the move of the spare parts delivery process from an external University to test 3D printing on wood scrap 2014 40 30 warehouse to the Bad Münder facility in late 2016, the spare parts from furniture manufacturing and hopes to 40 2013 30 packaging concept was redesigned, leading to both quality and find an entrepreneur that can use waste this 20 20 environmental improvements: The number of packaging suppliers way. Michigan Tech plans to publish a paper 20 10 10 was significantly reduced from 20 to fewer than five. on the process and host a conference for 0 0 Michigan Forest Biomaterials Institute (MiFBI), a 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Europe Asia Pacific North America Global Read More coalition that promotes economic development Global Gallons per Year concerning the growth, utilization, and recycling of forest biomaterials for a sustainable quality of Global Gallons Per $1000 Net Sales life in Michigan. 16 17 Usage + Continued Performance + After Use Sales Support Activities MindClick Global Our global sustainability team conducts regular in-depth sustainability MindClick Global is a sustainability solutions Design Supply Chain training sessions for new members, members in key functional areas, company serving global brands and their supply • 41% recycled content • Comply with code of conduct and for our dealer community (e.g., European Academy). The team chains. The organization measures, verifies, • Free of Haworth banned • Sustainable objectives compliant chemicals also provides valuable support to dealers, architects, designers, and explains, helps improve, and promotes supply sales representatives for tenders, RFPs, or LEED® requests to support chain performance so global brands can meet our sales organization in their projects. This approach also aims to marketplace sustainability demands. When support our clients in reaching their own sustainability goals. These Haworth partnered with Marriott International interactions include regular exchange with sustainability experts and on a renovation project, we had the privilege Fern™ Task Chair sales teams to discuss the latest sustainability news, industry changes, of participating in the Marriott Supply Chain sustainability-related sales projects, and Haworth sustainability efforts. Sustainability Assessment Program. Two of our North America products, Very® seating and Compose® systems, Continued + After Use Product Life Manufacturing + Logistics Read More received “leader” scores as rated by MindClick, • Take Back program Cycle Example • Manufactured in zero landfill which will influence Marriott’s sustainable • 92 % recyclable ISO 14001 certified facility Carbon Disclosure Project purchasing decisions. in Holland, MI CDP, formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, runs the global disclosure Ideation Workshops system that enables companies, cities, states, and regions to measure and manage their environmental impacts. In 2016, Haworth joined A workspace design workshop for a lighting over 80 key suppliers to the General Services Administration (GSA) company headquartered in Germany led to and its partner federal agencies in responding to GSA’s CDP Supply increased employee satisfaction and well-being. Chain request. Collectively, GSA suppliers reported investments of In the new building, the organization used its over $9 billion in emissions-avoiding projects during the 2015 and own sustainable and energy efficient products, 2016 reporting years, generating annual avoided costs of over $2 substantially saving on energy consumption Usage + Performance billion. This effort helps to minimize energy costs, climate risks, and compared to traditional concepts. And thanks • GREENGUARD certified environmental impacts in the federal supply chain. to the “flexible office” approach, the new space • BIFMA level 3 certified is more efficient. Comprehensive Fabrics Assessment For another company, Haworth provided an The Fiber Project To meet client demand for increased material disclosure, Haworth in-depth planning and consultation process to engaged in a partnership with our fabric suppliers and customers. consider and involve user needs. This included Shanghai is a city of fast-moving fashion—with 25 million people trying In 2014, Green Initiatives launched the Fiber We conducted a comprehensive study of standard fabrics with our online questionnaires, workshops, and a co-design to look their best season-by-season. Countless pieces of clothing, fabrics Project, a program that places bins in high traffic textile suppliers to broaden our knowledge of materials that make up process—helping the company develop the for interiors, and other textiles are simply thrown away, destined for a offices and some public areas, where people may Haworth products, and to offer increased transparency to customers. building from the inside out in a transparent way. landfill or an incinerator. Many would consider textile waste in Shanghai conveniently drop off fabric items that are no a problem too vast to tackle, an issue whose staggering scale defies longer used or needed. These textiles are either redress. Green Initiatives saw it as an opportunity. recycled or upcycled, giving the fiber an extended or second life and preventing environmental waste. A long-standing local partner of Haworth, Green Initiatives promotes Our Haworth showroom in Shanghai proudly awareness of environmental issues and stimulates change toward keeps a Fiber Project bin that both employees sustainable growth and consumption. The Shanghai-based organization and showroom guests can use, offering people focuses primarily on issues most relevant to our local context in China, the opportunity to engage in a local sustainability where it is particularly significant to ensure that rapid economic growth effort and see the impact their actions can have on does not come at the expense of the environment. the city. In 2016, three full bins were sent to Green Initiatives, and we are looking forward to growing that number in 2017. Read More 18 19 people + Community futurePREP’d Four Hours of Paid Volunteering Michigan Rehabilitation Services Champion Award Haworth participated in the West Michigan futurePREP’d Academy, Because Haworth believes that each of us can Haworth partnered with Michigan Career and Technical Institute a program that lets students experience career opportunities within make the world a better place to work and live, (MCTI), which conducts vocational and technical training programs various organizations while gaining useful skills that can be applied to North American full-time exempt, nonexempt, and supportive services to prepare individuals with disabilities for future pursuits. The program includes after-school and summertime and hourly members have the opportunity to competitive employment. As part of our outreach efforts, we hired activities for middle school and high school students who create volunteer in the community with up to four 15 graduates who have the technical skills necessary to operate a solutions to challenges and have the opportunity to network with paid hours per year, which is communicated host of complex machinery. It was an honor to receive a Michigan professionals. This year Haworth hosted six teachers and 30 students and encouraged in a variety of ways. In 2016, we Rehabilitation Services (MRS) Champion Award, given to employers from surrounding Ottawa County schools, and provided the venue for hosted a Community Expo at our headquarters who demonstrate outstanding commitment to Michigan’s public four final presentation events for participants and their families, which with representatives from local non-profit vocational rehabilitation programs for people with disabilities. included more than 400 students, teachers, parents, and judges. organizations where members could sign up for volunteer opportunities. Earth Week Celebration Member Garden WELL Building Standard™ Our members have generous hearts and Earth Week was celebrated globally to elevate environmental Haworth is not just about buildings and furniture—it’s also about The WELL Building Standard takes a holistic willing, helping hands, as demonstrated by awareness and show Haworth’s commitment to initiatives and supporting the communities in which we live and work. One outreach approach to health in the built environment, their participation in local community events. programs that improve and maintain the health of our planet. The program located at our corporate headquarters in Holland, Michigan addressing behavior, operations, and design. Our For example, several members volunteered Sustainability team created a quiz to test members’ knowledge of is the Member Garden, now in its sixth year of service. The garden approach to well-being aligns those criteria with for Women’s Service Day, a day of service to general and Haworth environmentally-focused topics for a chance is not only a tool to teach people the benefits of organic gardening; our values, product strategies, and our point of view women and children in Holland, Michigan. A to win a prize. Members’ children and grandchildren were invited it has also provided hundreds of pounds of organic produce for in our consideration and design of spaces to provide grassroots event in the works for 15 years, it had to participate in the Global Kids Coloring Page—translated in 10 a local charity, the Center for Women in Transition. The garden is optimal environments where members and visitors a record number of participants in 2016: 180. languages—to commemorate Earth Week. primarily cared for by the Member Garden Core Team, as well as other can thrive. We have learned a great deal about volunteers they recruit to help with planting, weeding, and harvesting. incorporating additional environmental systems to Project Clarity As part of Earth Week, volunteers from Haworth corporate In 2016, Haworth sponsored two core team members to complete the enhance air and water quality, complementing our headquarters helped remove garlic mustard, an invasive species, Michigan Master Gardener Program, a 15-week course covering topics commitment to optimal work environments through At the Outdoor Discovery Center Macatawa from Ottawa County parks in Michigan to help protect the diversity such as Plant Science, Soil Science, Pest Management, Perennials, elements such as access to natural daylight. Greenway (ODCMG), a non-profit, outdoor of wildflowers and indigenous species. Vegetables, Plant Diagnostics, Water Quality, and more. To receive education organization in Holland, Michigan, certification participants must also perform 40 hours of volunteer Additionally, we have incorporated the aspects of the world’s largest Monarch Waystation is service and five hours of educational training within a year. nutrition and activity for physical wellness within our in development. Through Project Clarity, spaces, such as our corporate headquarters. From an initiative designed to restore the water a research perspective, preand post-occupancy quality of Lake Macatawa and the Macatawa studies in Shanghai and Los Angeles have delivered Watershed, Haworth is providing mentors to results from employee well-being measurements. The work with students from a local school district data shows that incorporating our own knowledge who were given the challenge to help develop about work environments is providing marked the site while generating revenue for ODCMG. improvement in well-being. The Monarch Project Series will guide the development and implementation of the site and business. 20 21 Haworth publishes GRI Content Index UN Global Compact Page an annual corporate Strategy and Analysis responsibility report. G4-1 6 Organizational Profile This report includes data from fiscal G4-3 – G4-10, G4-12, Human Rights, Labor, 2-4, 7-9, 14-15, 22 year Jan. 1, 2016 to Dec. 31, 2016 unless G4-14 – G4-16 Environment, Anti-Corruption otherwise noted for all regions: Asia Pacific, Europe, Latin America, Middle East, and Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries North America (excluding independentlyG4-17 – G4-18, G4-20 2-3, 6, 22 owned Haworth dealerships). Stakeholder Engagement This report was prepared with G4-24, G4-26 – G4-27 2-4, 9, 14, 18, 20-21 consideration for the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Report Profile Guidelines version G4. G4-28 – G4-32 22 Haworth, Inc. continues to support Governance the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to Human G4-34 – G4-39, G4-42 – G4-45, 4-6 G4-47 – G4-49 Rights, Labor Rights, Anti-Corruption, and Environmental Protection. As a Ethics and Integrity private company, we take great pride G4-56 – G4-57 Anti-Corruption 4-5, 9 in our corporate values that include valuing people and the world we live in. Economic We continue our commitment to our G4-EC1 4 business strategy, culture, and operating processes. We continue to work in our G4-EC7 – G4-EC8 9, 12-13, 15, 17-19 supply chain to advance these principles beyond the walls of our facilities and into Environmental the communities in which we operate. G4-EN8 Environment 16 G4-EN13 Environment 21 All financial information is reported in US G4-EN15 – G4-EN16, Environment 16, 18 dollars (unless otherwise noted).Measures G4-EN18, G4-EN21 are English unless indicated. Questions G4-EN23 Environment 17, 19 regarding content should be directed to Haworth Sustainability, One Haworth G4-EN27 Environment 2-3, 15, 18-19 Center, Holland, Michigan, 49423 USA or G4-EN30 Environment 2-3, 14-15, 17 sustainability@haworth.com. G4-EN31 Environment 18 G4-EN32 – G4-EN33 Environment 2-3, 12, 14 Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work / Human Rights / Society / Product Responsibility G4-LA1 Labor 9 G4-LA6 9 G4-LA10 9 G4-LA12 Labor 9 G4-LA14 14 G4-HR10 Human Rights 14 G4-SO1 Human Rights 9, 20-21 G4-SO4 Anti-Corruption 9 G4-SO9 14 G4-PR1 12-13, 15, 18-19 22 For more information, call 800.344.2600 or 616.393.3000, or email sustainability@haworth.com. Download additional copies at haworth.com. Haworth is a registered trademark of Haworth, Inc. ©Haworth, Inc. 2017 04.01 haworth.com | eu.haworth.com | ap.haworth.com
