Contents Contents About the Report CEO Statement About the Report page3 Company Profile The Power of 2 CEO Statement page4 Strategy and Company Profile page5 Governance The Power of 2 page6 People Global footprint Environment Investments Our Values Supply Chain Our Commitments ZF Group Sustainability Program Environment page 54 Product Responsibility Environmental Strategy Organizational structures and compliance GRI Content Index Strategy and Governance page 19 ZF environmental and energy policy and UNGC Strategically managing sustainability Responsible Governance Environmental management system Materiality Energy Engaging Stakeholders Emissions Living Integrity Water Waste management People page 31 Environmental protection costs ZF Group around the globe Lifelong learning Supply Chain page 67 Fair employment practices Responsible Sourcing Promoting diversity Improving Supply Chains Ensuring health and safety Rethinking Transportation Supporting our local communities Product Responsibility page 72 Leveraging innovation Handling Materials Efficient climate protection Automated driving Integrated safety Customer Satisfaction GRI Content Index and UNGC page 83 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 2 About the Report Following our sustainability brochure in 2015, this is the fifth edition report. The report was submitted for the GRI Materiality Disclosures Contents of the sustainability report published by ZF Friedrichshafen AG. It is Service, and GRI confirmed the correctness of the locations of the About the Report based on the fiscal year 2016 in which TRW Automotive was included G4 materiality disclosures (G4-17 – G4-27). CEO Statement for the first time for a full year. While most of the non-financial data have been successfully consolidated for the combined company, there The report is intended to offer transparency, with a particular focus Company Profile are still a few datapoints for which a complete integration could not on our sustainability activities and objectives. At the same time, the The Power of 2 yet be finalized. Wherever data and information provided in this report represents our progress report to the United Nations Global Strategy and report only represent ZF without TRW, this is marked accordingly. Compact that we joined in May 2012. It addresses customers, employGovernance Apart from new disclosures for the combined company relating to the ees, suppliers, politicians, authorities, and all other target groups that People reporting period of this report, there were no restatements necessary are interested in our company and wish to know about our values and Environment from information provided in the 2014 sustainability report – the last principles. full report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Supply Chain Our sustainability report is published annually and was not submitted Product Responsibility for an external assurance. GRI Content Index and UNGC This sustainability report has been drawn up in compliance with the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and meets the “In Accordance” core option. The fulfillment of the GRI indicators is shown in the GRI Content Index (page 83). The G4 guidelines require the company to perform a materiality analysis which sets priorities in reporting and focuses on central elements of the performance indicators in the fields of economy, environment, and society. The process for determining the material issues is described on pages 23 – 26 of the G4-22 G4-28 G4-29 G4-30 G4-32 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 3 G4-33 CEO Statement Dear readers, ecological footprint, maintaining a healthy and highly motivated Contents workforce, engaging with our communities and continually developAbout the Report the automotive industry is undergoing a radical transformation. ing the ecological and social performance of our suppliers. CEO Statement Two megatrends in particular are revolutionizing our entire industry: digitalization and sustainability. Not only is mobility becoming This sustainability report reflects how we performed across all of Company Profile increasingly automated, it is also being impacted by several dynamithese dimensions in 2016 and highlights the targets which will lead The Power of 2 cally evolving developments such as population growth, a shortage of us into the future. It includes – this year for the first time – TRW and Strategy and resources, climate change, urbanization and demographic challenges. represents the progress we have made as an integrated company Governance All of these factors are directly affecting mobility concepts of the towards our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. People future. Today more than ever, a company which is not able to provide Environment solutions quickly enough may put its business success at risk. For this As a signatory of the Global Compact and in line reason, agility and sustainability are both vitally important to us. with our very own values at ZF, we are comSupply Chain mited to working towards strengthening Product Responsibility Sustainability at ZF has several dimensions. Indisputably, the technolhuman rights and improving labour condiGRI Content Index ogies we provide have the biggest impact globally. It is our vision to tions wherever needed. Also we believe in and UNGC cut down both mobility-induced emissions and road fatalities to zero. protecting the environment and fighting With our technologies, we are enabling the global automotive induscorruption with zero tolerance. By doing so, try as well as other industrial sectors to realize these goals. For this ZF will not only support, but shape the purpose, we are continually expanding our portfolio of electric drives, transformation of the automotive industry. holistic safety technologies as well as intelligently connected and automated systems for cars, commercial vehicles, farming and conYours sincerely, struction machines and industrial applications. Two years ago, and in line with our ZF 2025 Strategy, we took one big step in that direction by purchasing TRW Automotive. At the same Dr. Stefan Sommer time, sustainability for ZF also means continually reducing our own Chief Executive Officer ZF Sustainability Report 2016 4 G4-1 Company Profile ZF Friedrichshafen AG was founded in 1915 to produce gears and ZF Friedrichshafen AG is a non-listed corporation in accordance with Contents transmissions for aircraft, motor vehicles, and motorboats. Over the German law. The shareholders of ZF are the Zeppelin Foun­dation About the Report past decade, the company has increased significantly in size and administered by the City of Friedrichshafen and holds 93.8 percent of CEO Statement market importance. ZF is twice as powerful today following the major the company’s shares and the Dr. Jürgen and Irmgard Ulderup Founacquisition of TRW Automotive in 2015 and its successful integration. dation, Lemförde (Germany) that holds 6.2 percent of the company’s Company Profile shares. Employee stocks are not issued. The company is headquarThe Power of 2 As of 2016, ZF has a workforce of 136,820 employees at approxitered in Friedrichshafen, Germany. Strategy and mately 230 locations in 40 countries and 20 main development Governance locations. The group has an international service network with 120 Each year, ZF gives the Zeppelin Foundation a dividend. The funds People service locations and 650 service points that offers ZF customers an are used exclusively for non-profit and social purposes, especially in Environment extensive range of services worldwide. ZF has a portfolio of several the fields of science and research, art and culture, as well as child thousand products in approximately 130 different product groups and and youth development. The Dr. Jürgen and Irmgard Ulderup FoundaSupply Chain generated sales of EUR 35.2 billion in 2016. tion in Lemförde supports the education and vocational training of Product Responsibility young people as well as nature and landscape conservation. Jürgen GRI Content Index The Engineered Fasteners & Components Business Unit was sold in Ulderup was the founder of the Lemförder Group, a company that is and UNGC the fiscal year 2016. In addition, Cherry GmbH was sold in October part of the ZF Group today. 2016 to the German private investment company GENUI. As of year­ end 2016, an agreement was entered into with Voit Automotive GmbH on the sale of 51 percent of the shareholding in ZF Fonderie Lorraine S.A.S. The company produces internal transmission parts and transmission housings in Grosbliederstroff (France). In 2016, ZF Group founded Zukunft Ventures GmbH and established joint ventures with Ibeo and doubleSlash. G4-3 G4-5 G4-7 G4-9 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 5 G4-13 The Power of 2 ZF expanded its product portfolio by adding safety and sensor techThe pooled strengths of ZF and ZF TRW in research and development Contents nology products and expertise through the acquisition of TRW Autoenable us to jointly offer customers advanced and holistic solutions. About the Report motive. As a global leader in driveline and chassis technology as well ZF is benefiting vastly from the complementary product portfolio that CEO Statement as active and passive safety technology, ZF operates in particular in contains practically no overlaps. There are also further advantages to the passenger car and commercial vehicle industry. In addition, our our acquisition of TRW: The division of business is much more interCompany Profile activities cover other market segments such as construction and agrinational, with TRW strengthening our presence in North America The Power of 2 cultural machinery, wind power, marine propulsion, aviation technoland Asia. Looking at our customer portfolio, ZF now has a much ▪▪Global footprint ogy, rail drives, special drives and test systems for industry and transbroader base. ZF’s historically strong positioning with premium cus▪▪Investments missions for industrial applications. Alongside transmission systems, tomers is supplemented by TRW's orientation toward volume custom▪▪Our Values units and components, the company also produces chassis systems ers, which broadens our customer base. Thanks to the acquisition, ZF ▪▪Our Commitments and components as well as safety technology, electronics and sensors. has achieved global market penetration as well as profitable diversifi▪▪ZF Group Sustainability ZF offers a wide range of services that are mainly marketed by the ZF cation, while further expanding its technology and cost leadership. Program Aftermarket organization. These services primarily involve the spare Strategy and parts business for driveline and chassis technology as well as mainteGovernance nance and repair services. The Group provides intelligent solutions to Global footprint People successfully meet the mobility challenges of tomorrow. That is how Environment ZF is shaping the future of the mobility industry. The international business activities of the ZF Group traditionally Supply Chain focus on Europe (over 81,500 employees), primarily in the German The most important ZF product brands include: domestic market (over 49,000 employees). The major locations in Product Responsibility ▪▪ SACHS: clutches, dual mass fly wheels, torque converters and Germany accommodate both production and development capacities. GRI Content Index shock absorbers for passenger cars and commercial vehicles and UNGC ▪▪ LEMFÖRDER: steering and suspension systems, rubber-to-metal Sales Distribution by sectors components for passenger cars and commercial vehicles ▪▪ TRW: braking systems, steering and suspension systems and shock Cars and light absorbers for passenger cars and commercial vehicles. Brakes, commercial vehicles Commercial vehicles < 6 t 80% clutches, handle bars, accessories and footrest systems for motorcycles > 6 t 12% ▪▪ BOGE: shock absorbers for passenger cars and commercial vehicles Construction and ▪▪ OPENMATICS: connectivity solutions for passenger cars, trucks, agricultural machinery, industrial applications, manufacturers, fleets and end consumers marine craft, aircraft, special and rail vehicles, wind power 8% G4-4 G4-6 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 6 G4-8 The integration of ZF TRW added locations in Poland, Romania, vehicles as well as global commercial vehicle production grew; in Contents China, the USA and other vital markets around the world – including contrast, the off-road machinery markets continued to contract. One About the Report 22 technical centers and 13 test tracks. In North America, Mexico major growth driver for ZF was the particularly high sales volume of CEO Statement represents the major share of employees with over 18,000 and twelve automatic transmissions for luxury and mid-size vehicles, especially locations, while the U.S. has a workforce of over 12,800 employees. in the USA, Europe and Asia. The Industrial Technology Division Company Profile The ZF Group has almost 17,000 employees in Asia-Pacific, of them, experienced a strong growth in 2016 due to high business dynamics The Power of 2 more than 13,000 in China. Since China is currently the most influenin wind power markets and the acquisition of Bosch Rexroth AG. ▪▪Global footprint cial market for e-mobility, ZF is well positioned with 2 engineering Compared to the previous year, regional sales distribution remained ▪▪Investments technology centers, 32 manufacturing facilities, 3 aftersales service mainly unchanged with 48 percent of sales in Europe, 27 percent of sales ▪▪Our Values and trade companies as well as 239 aftersales service networks all in North America (NAFTA) and 22 percent of sales in Asia-Pacific. ▪▪Our Commitments over the country. ▪▪ZF Group Sustainability The top financial key figures ROCE (Return on Capital Employed), ZF Program Like in previous years, global economic growth remained moderate Value Added, and Operating Result are used to measure and control Strategy and in 2016 and trends in the individual sectors and regions were highly the financial performance of the ZF Group. Furthermore, free cash Governance mixed. The crisis markets in South America and Russia had to absorb flow and gross margin are important financial key figures in terms of People further declines while Asia-Pacific, especially China, as well as Europe financial control in all organizational units. The application of further Environment and North America, were able to enjoy further gains. In terms of vehicle liquidity-oriented key figures such as working capital are supplementSupply Chain sectors, global production of passenger cars and light commercial ing the financial performance management concept. Product Responsibility 2016 was the first year that ZF TRW, acquired in May 2015, was GRI Content Index Sales development by regions included in the ZF Group’s business figures for a full year. The group and UNGC succeeded in increasing sales by 20.6 percent to EUR 35,166 million. Africa 1% Germany 22% The adjusted EBIT also improved from EUR 1,570 million to EUR 2,239 million. The successful integration of ZF TRW is reflected in Asia-Pacific 22% the increase in free cash flow to EUR 2,000 million, adjusted for M&A South America 2% transactions. 2016 also saw the establishment of a joint aftermarket Europe (without organization between ZF and TRW, which is now the second largest North America Germany) 26% in the world. The joint company invested EUR 1,948 million or 5.5 (NAFTA) 27% percent of sales in research and development, with 14,550 employees G4-6 G4-8 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 7 G4-EC1 working for ZF Research and Development worldwide including some Investments Contents 1,600 engineers and technicians. The ZF Group overall donated EUR About the Report 8 million (2015: EUR 12.2 million). In the reporting year 2016, investments in property, plant and equipCEO Statement ment amounted to EUR 1,185 million (2015: EUR 1,290 million). The ZF is one of the biggest employers and customers in all the regions investment ratio of 3.4 percent of sales was below the prior­-year level. Company Profile that the company operates in. On average, ZF products are made up The Power of 2 of around 60 percent supplied materials and products. The ZF A share of 81 percent of capital expenditure was spent on technical ▪▪Global footprint Group’s purchasing volume rose along with sales in the year under equipment and machines, including advance payments and construc▪▪Investments review, particularly on the back of the expansion of business in the tion in progress, while 16 percent was spent on other equipment, fac▪▪Our Values North America and Asia-Pacific regions. Solely for the procurement tory and office equipment, and 3 percent on land and buildings. ▪▪Our Commitments of production materials, ZF maintains a global network consisting of ▪▪ZF Group Sustainability approximately 6,500 suppliers, ranging from small family businesses The largest portion of capital expenditure related to the expansion Program through to large groups. of capacities for existing products and the ramp­up of new products. Strategy and This included capital expenditure for transmission applications (incl. Governance The production materials purchasing volume in 2016 totaled EUR hybridization), electric traction drives, electronics, chassis systems, People 19.2 billion. This includes directed buy volumes. The value of nondamper modules, brakes and steering systems, occupant safety as well Environment production materials amounted to some EUR 5.5 billion. Overall peras body control systems. There were also investments in constructing Supply Chain sonnel expenses totaled EUR 7,125 million (2015: EUR 5,975 million), development and office buildings in Shanghai (China), Northville, including wages and salaries, social security contributions, benefit Michigan (USA) as well as Saarbrücken and Friedrichshafen (Germany). Product Responsibility expenses and pension expenses. Geographically, capital expenditure focused on Germany, the USA, GRI Content Index China and Mexico. and UNGC Ongoing tax payments by region 2016 Since summer 2016, the parking lot for visitors and employees at our in EUR million location in Schweinfurt, Germany, has been equipped with 8 charging Europe 217 stations to promote e-mobility. After a quick registration process, North America 45 visitors can easily make a payment with their mobile phone and ZF Asia-Pacific 97 employees can charge their car at no cost. The electricity comes from Others 5 certified water power. Besides Schweinfurt, employees benefit from Total 364 this service also at our headquarters in Friedrichshafen and at our location in Auerbach, with more locations to follow in 2017. G4-EC1 G4-EC7 G4-EC8 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 8 G4-EC9 Opening of the ZF Forum Government grants Contents In November 2016, we opened our new headquarters in FrieIn the fiscal year 2016, EUR 18 million (2015: EUR 28 million) in About the Report drichshafen, Germany. The building – known as the “ZF Forum” – government grants were received. They have been itemized as follows: CEO Statement offers a unique combination of offices for up to 650 employees, a fully equipped training center and an exhibition area that presents the Government Grants Company Profile past, present and future of ZF. This exhibit is open to the public in EUR million The Power of 2 during visiting hours. 2016 2015 ▪▪Global footprint Investment grants 12 17 ▪▪Investments The new ZF Forum is an important investment in Friedrichshafen Expense subsidies 6 11 ▪▪Our Values and the surounding region. In preparation for the construction, ▪▪Our Commitments part of the city center underwent redevelopment and was upgraded ▪▪ZF Group Sustainability Investment grants were basically received for investments at various over a period of more than three-and-a-half years. ZF has invested Program locations in the USA, Germany, Belgium, Russia and Australia. EUR 92 million in the complex comprising offices, the exhibition Strategy and Expense subsidies mainly comprise research subsidies and subsidies space, a conference level, an auditorium with seating for 350 people Governance for education and vocational training. and a staff restaurant. The ZF Forum also provides rooms for the People Knowledge Workshop (Wissenswerkstatt) Friedrichshafen, a teaching Environment and learning facility for children and youngsters, and the Students’ Our Values Supply Chain Research Center South Württemberg (SFZ). Training opportunities for employees and business partners is another important element in the Product Responsibility We know that a company can only achieve business success in an ZF Forum. The east wing houses training facilities for the ZF TechniGRI Content Index intact economic environment. A company’s focus on success must cal Training, which gives users hands-on experience with ZF prodand UNGC match the development of the surrounding and dependent companies ucts. A workshop area that houses a truck or bus for training purposes so that sustainable corporate governance is possible for all. This prinis also located in this wing. ciple plays a major role in our relationships with business partners, but also in our investments in production materials and capacities. The ZF Forum conforms to the latest structural engineering and That is why we have firmly anchored sustainable corporate manageenergy standards. The buildings have been designed in a way that ment factors in our Guiding Principles. We see them not as individual reduced specific power consumption levels by more than 20 percent. actions, but as a central aspect of entrepreneurial activity in our daily ZF has set up a gas-fired combined heat and power plant to provide decision-making processes. heat and electricity. G4-56 G4-EC4 G4-EC7 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 9 G4-HR2 ZF Charter tion, or political and trade union involvement. These principles apply Contents The ZF Charter is an integral part of the new ZF Management System to the recruitment of new employees, to employees with a valid About the Report and defines the things we regard as most important across all our employment contract, working relationships between employees, our CEO Statement divisions, functions and regions. The ZF Charter unites the strengths dealings with business partners and, lastly, how we professionally of ZF and ZF TRW, combining their existing values according to the promote our employees. The only determining factors here are perforCompany Profile “Best of Both” approach. It supersedes ZF’s “GiveMe5” and TRW’s mance, personality, skills and qualification. Accusations of discrimiThe Power of 2 “Core Principles”. The Guiding Principles of the ZF Charter are Innonation will be investigated. ▪▪Global footprint vation Approach, Customer Focus, Result Orientation, and Commit▪▪Investments ment to People. The Guiding Principle “Commitment to People” helps Correct, responsible and sustainable business management and ▪▪Our Values us creating a corporate culture that supports trusting collaboration accepting corporate social responsibility are fundamental components ▪▪Our Commitments and motivates top performance. of our corporate policy. Compliance is thus an essential element in ▪▪ZF Group Sustainability ensuring the long-term success of our company. Ever since its foundProgram ZF aims to be a fair and responsible employer that has a great deal to ing, the ZF Group has been committed to transparent business manStrategy and offer, but in return, demands serious commitment. This is how we agement and always bases its activities on applicable law and jurisdicGovernance attract and retain the best talent globally. The ZF Management System tion in the countries in which it operates. These include our People and its principles are at the heart of everything we do and represent commitment to sustainable development as well as our adoption of Environment everything that makes ZF special. By concentrating on them, we basic principles in the fields of human rights and working conditions, Supply Chain become stronger, grow faster and sustainably while improving our quality and environmental management, health and safety of employchances in a difficult but enormously promising industry. For further ees, fair market behavior, and combating corruption. Product Responsibility details see chapter People, page 31. GRI Content Index We have signed the United Nations Global Compact and also observe and UNGC We respect and support internationally recognized human rights and the ILO (International Labour Organization) core labor standards, the we respect the dignity, privacy and personal rights of every individcontents of the German Corporate Governance Code, and the OECD ual. We make every effort to create a climate of mutual respect, trust, Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. tolerance and fairness between our employees and with our business partners. We reject any form of human trafficking, forced labor and child labor. All work performed within the ZF Group must be voluntary. We supOur Code of Conduct explicitly states that we do not tolerate any disport the abolition of slavery, forced labor, and exploitative child labor. crimination, especially on the grounds of race, gender, religion, age, At ZF, we always observe the minimum age for employment stipunationality, social or ethnic origin, disability, belief, sexual orientalated in national legislation. G4-56 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 10 G4-HR2 All new joint ventures are bound to implement the ZF Compliance The ZF Group and its companies are committed to a wide range of Contents Management System or at least a comparable management system. associations and interest groups. The following list provides a repreAbout the Report For all existing joint ventures with majority-held ZF participation, sentative selection: CEO Statement ZF Board representatives are called upon to ensure that the ZF Compliance Management System is implemented. ▪▪ Employers’ Association Südwestmetall Company Profile ▪▪ German Aerospace Industries Association (BDLI) The Power of 2 Business Partner Principles (ZF Luftfahrttechnik GmbH, Kassel-Calden is a member) ▪▪Global footprint The Business Partner Principles (BPP) were published in 2014. The ▪▪ German Association of Materials Management, ▪▪Investments ZF BPP and the ZF TRW Global Supplier Quality Manual require all Purchasing, and Logistics e.V. (BME) ▪▪Our Values suppliers and service providers to make a commitment to respect for ▪▪ Carbon Composites e.V. ▪▪Our Commitments national and international laws and regulations at their locations ▪▪ Compliance Network e.V. ▪▪ZF Group Sustainability worldwide. They also have to ensure human rights are respected and ▪▪ German Global Compact Network Program human dignity is protected in all business processes. For further ▪▪ Chamber of Industry and Commerce Hochrhein Bodensee Strategy and details see chapter Supply Chain, page 67. ▪▪ Chamber of Industry and Commerce Oberschwaben, Weingarten Governance ▪▪ Foundation of German Business – Remembrance, Responsibility, People and Future (as a donor) Environment Our Commitments ▪▪ German Association of the Automotive Industry e.V. (VDA) Supply Chain ▪▪ Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG) ZF signed the United Nations Global Compact on May 1, 2012, thus ▪▪ German Engineering Federation e.V. (VDMA) Product Responsibility committing the Group to observe and promote its ten principles. ▪▪ Association of German Engineers e.V. (VDI) – Lake Constance GRI Content Index Since joining, ZF has also become a member of the German Global regional association (as a supporting member) and UNGC Compact Network and participates in exchanges between the member ▪▪ Wissenswerkstatt Friedrichshafen e.V. companies. (as a supporting organization) ▪▪ German Federation for Motor Trades and Repairs ▪▪ German Association of Electrical Engineering and the Electronics Industry (ZVEI) (Member is the Auerbach plant, Electronic Systems business unit) ▪▪ European Association of Automotive Suppliers (CLEPA) ▪▪ German Diversity Charter (Charta der Vielfalt e. V.) G4-15 G4-16 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 11 G4-56 ZF Group Sustainability Program actions are being taken at ZF TRW where sustainability management Contents involves assessing possible impacts of processes in production and at About the Report The strategic framework of our sustainability program is determined the end of the product life cycle on the environment and employees. CEO Statement to a large extent by the global megatrends which are continuously altering the world in which we do business. Taking this into account, During the process of integrating ZF TRW into the ZF Group’s susCompany Profile our sustainability management in 2016 was characterized by the tainability management program, it was determined that the sustainThe Power of 2 implementation and further development of the sustainability proability program required further development, which is to be com▪▪Global footprint gram first published in 2015. As part of this program, the company pleted by the end of 2017. The development involves harmonizing ▪▪Investments committed to meeting non­financial targets such as reducing specific targets, management approaches, definitions of non­financial key fig▪▪Our Values greenhouse gas emissions in production, mitigating the environmenures as well as consolidating data and integrating the corresponding ▪▪Our Commitments tal impact in logistics and continuously improving occupational internal reporting processes. ▪▪ZF Group Sustainability health and safety, diversity and ZF’s appeal as an employer. Similar Program Strategy and Governance Strategic Target Actions Status 2016 Date People Environment Product safety High product Employee qualification and rollout of a new training Action completed Completed Supply Chain safety standards concept Product Responsibility External appraisal and certification of processes relating Examination of the software and electronic processes to Ongoing to product safety ascertain compliance with ISO 26262 and IEC 61508 by GRI Content Index TÜV Süd (Technical Monitoring Association) and UNGC Cooperation in national and international bodies dealing Cooperation in working groups dealing with functional Ongoing with functional safety safety at ISO, VDA, and ZVEI Align ZF and ZF TRW functional safety strategy New action 2017 Environmental protection in production The program for environmental impact of production shows ZF without ZF TRW. Information on former strategic targets, actions and achievements of ZF TRW locations are presented as part of the performance report, chapter Environment page 54. 20 percent reduction in speAnnual review of the key figures and actions for target ▪▪Target achieved: Completed cific CO2 emissions relating achievement – corrective actions by corporate in case Reduction by 20 percent by the end of 2015 to sales by 2020, compared of huge deviations, control through the environmental ▪▪The achieved reduction reached 36 percent in 2016 to the average for the years management system ▪▪Compared to the previous year specific CO2 emissions 2006 to 2010 were reduced by 2 percent ZF Sustainability Report 2016 12 Strategic Target Actions Status 2016 Date Increase in energy efficiency within the framework of ▪▪Implementation of a large number of actions at the Ongoing the environmental management system and energy ZF locations whose effectiveness was confirmed in the management system through a broad range of actions certification audit at the individual locations ▪▪Projecting phase for a combined heat and power plant Installation of own power production with lower CO2 in Passau, Germany Contents emissions About the Report Reduction of specific energy Annual review of the key figures and actions for target ▪▪Target achieved: Compared to the previous year the Ongoing consumption in relation to achievement – corrective actions by corporate in case specific energy consumption in relation to sales reduced CEO Statement sales, compared to the of huge deviations, control through the environmental by 3 percent previous year management system ▪▪Since 2013 the specific energy consumption decreased Company Profile by 27 percent The Power of 2 All European locations are to be certified according to the ▪▪All German locations run the certified energy 2018 ▪▪Global footprint energy management standard ISO 50001 management system ISO 50001 since 2014 ▪▪European locations currently not covered by the ISO ▪▪Investments 50001 matrix conduct an energy audit according to ▪▪Our Values DIN EN 16247 ▪▪Our Commitments Include energy efficiency as a decisive criterion in the proEnergy efficiency criteria were included in a new version Completed ▪▪ZF Group Sustainability curement process for new machines and systems of the technical delivery specifications for new machines Program and systems Reduce or stabilize specific Annual review of the key figures and actions for target ▪▪Target achieved: Specific water consumption reduced Ongoing Strategy and water consumption in achievement – corrective actions by corporate in case by 8 percent compared to previous year Governance relation to sales, compared of huge deviations, control through the environmental ▪▪Absolute amount of water decreased People to the previous year management system (by approx. 497,000 m³) compared to previous year Appropriate planning of water-saving projects (depending ▪▪New demineralization system at Schweinfurt, Germany Ongoing Environment on relevance) Supply Chain Reduce or stabilize specific Annual review of the key figures and actions for target ▪▪Target achieved: Specific wastewater consumption Ongoing wastewater generation in achievement – corrective actions by corporate in case reduced by 10 percent compared to previous year Product Responsibility relation to sales, compared of huge deviations, control through the environmental ▪▪Absolute amount of wastewater decreased GRI Content Index to the previous year management system (by approx. 655,000 m³) compared to previous year and UNGC Resource-efficient design of operational processes Various wastewater specific projects realized in 2016 Ongoing Reduce or stabilize specific Annual review of the key figures and actions for target Target achieved: Specific waste generation reduced by Ongoing waste generation in relation achievement – corrective actions by corporate in case 6 percent compared to previous year to sales, compared to the of huge deviations, control through the environmental previous year management system Resource-efficient design of operational processes ▪▪A plant near Shanghai, China, set up an on-site treatOngoing ment for emulsions Evaluation of hazardous Hazardous substances management at the locations ▪▪Continuous screening of hazardous substances Ongoing substances and substitution ▪▪EHS release process for new substances at the sites as far as possible Rollout/localization in Asia-Pacific region Completed in 2015 Completed ZF Sustainability Report 2016 13 Strategic Target Actions Status 2016 Date Environmental Impact of Products Environmentally compatible Increase the environmental compatibility of product ▪▪Strengthening environmental friendly product design Ongoing product development developments compared to previous generations though new GDPEP development directive ▪▪8-speed plug-in hybrid transmission Contents ▪▪TraXon is in total 6 dB – about one third – quieter than its predecessor About the Report Further strengthen the electronics fields of competence ▪▪ZF Innovation Truck can be controlled from a tablet Ongoing CEO Statement and their integration into ZF products and systems, as outside the cab, moving and parking on battery power well as the field of lightweight design to achieve fuel alone Company Profile efficiency as well as reduced CO2 and noise emissions ▪▪Lightweight rail drives with new aluminum housing for during the utilization phase underground trains The Power of 2 ▪▪„Car eWallet” – fees for charging electric car batteries ▪▪Global footprint are automatically paid without any manual payment transaction ▪▪Investments ▪▪Dashboard app for comprehensive, cost-effective and ▪▪Our Values efficient management of e-mobility fleets ▪▪Our Commitments Further development of hybrid technology and e-mobility ▪▪Division E-Mobility is established Ongoing ▪▪ZF Group Sustainability ▪▪Electrical and hybrid product portfolio further expanded Program ▪▪Projects promoted based on the recommendations of the German Federal Government’s National Platform for Strategy and Electric Mobility (NPE) are now in their final phase Governance Establish a body spanning the different corporate Kick off meeting and two working sessions were held Completed People functions that deals with product related environmental protection Environment Ensuring eco friendly product LCAs (Life Cycle Assessments) for fiber based products Projects launched to analyze the entire life-cycle of Ongoing Supply Chain design over entire life-cycle fiber-based products in comparison to their steel and aluminium counterparts Product Responsibility Environmental impact of transports GRI Content Index Create transparency about Calculate and take account of emissions in transport ▪▪Postponed due to integration process 2018 and UNGC environmental impacts of projects (apart from pure cost analysis of internal projects ▪▪Recommencement once common freight cost reporting transport in overland freight) is in place Introduce a tool to increase transparency within the supply 10 ZF plants and more than 150 suppliers connected to Ongoing chain (ATM – Active Transport Management) the system Ecologically efficient design Pool and consolidate inbound freight transports Extension of transport consolidation via the European Ongoing of transport networks Consolidation Center (ECC) in Bremen Increase FTL share (full truck load) ▪▪FTL tender with a focus on local transports within Ongoing Germany increased the amount of FTL transports ▪▪Further projects are planned Efficient empties management Use of existing round trips for the transport of empty Ongoing loading aids to avoid complete empty runs ZF Sustainability Report 2016 14 Strategic Target Actions Status 2016 Date Shift to alternative modes of Use alternative, environmentally friendly modes of Usage of rail transports from Germany to China to avoid Ongoing transport transport airfreight Avoid and reduce air freight Reduction of airfreight amount of ZF from 12.9 percent Ongoing to 5.27 percent compared to previous year Contents Check air freight shipments with new air freight release Action completed Completed process About the Report Use sustainable logistics Include emission valuation in the tender process for land Postponed due to the integration of ZF TRW’s carriers and Ongoing CEO Statement providers freight (Germany) new tenders Inquire about sustainability aspects of service providers Current project to use long trucks (length of 25.25 meters Ongoing Company Profile (fleet, workload, emissions, empty journeys, etc.) and a total weight of 40 tons) within Germany to increase The Power of 2 utilization. ▪▪Global footprint Employer attractiveness ▪▪Investments Positioning as a globally Intensify cooperation with international universities Innovation laboratory with Duale Hochschule (DHBW) Ongoing ▪▪Our Values attractive employer Ravensburg established ▪▪Our Commitments Internationalize the trainee program further The ZF Global Trainee Program was extended from trainee Ongoing positions focusing on Germany to now 3 x 7 positions ▪▪ZF Group Sustainability with regional emphasis on EU, North America (USA, Program Mexico) and Asia Pacific (India, China, Japan) Strategy and Attractive qualification and personal development oppor▪▪Set up of cross-divisional project team to analyze new Ongoing Governance tunities: establish and expand technical academies, global requirements and qualifications due to digitalization training, promotion programs, LiN (Learning on the Web) and it’s affects to apprenticeships and dual education People vocational training initiative, university student support programs programs, work-study degree models ▪▪New program launched at Gray Court (South Carolina, Environment USA) for extended internationalization of apprenticeSupply Chain ships ▪▪Dual education center in Trnava (Slovakia) officially Product Responsibility opened GRI Content Index Maintain the good positions we achieved in rankings and ▪▪Trendence Graduate Survey places ZF at Rank 16 in Ongoing and UNGC be among the top 20 employers for young engineers in Engineering Edition (Rank 14 in 2015) Germany ▪▪The Universum engineering student Survey ranked ZF 24 (Rank 26 in 2015) Implementation of benchmarks regarding our attractiveDefinition of benchmarks and conducted analysis of the Completed ness as an employer in China and the USA strategic markets China and USA Family-friendly work structures to reconcile work and Since 2015 new day care center in Friedrichshafen Ongoing family (Germany) for up to 60 children Flexible working time models (e.g. sabbaticals) ▪▪Implementation of mobile working opportunities at all Ongoing German locations in 2016 ▪▪Development of flexible working supported by Office 3.0 concept (e.g. shared document solutions, cloud based co-working) ZF Sustainability Report 2016 15 Strategic Target Actions Status 2016 Date Positioning as a globally Global Employee Survey (GES) ▪▪Survey evaluated and about 15,000 measures for imAfter 2018 attractive employer provement developed. Almost one third were put into practice in 2015 with remaining measures following ▪▪The Employee Commitment Index of ZF TRW has been an ongoing process for years. Each site utilizes survey Contents results and face-to-face discussion to develop action plans to maintain and improve the workplace About the Report ▪▪Original GES set for 2017 was postponed due to the CEO Statement integration process. A joint survey for the combined company is being planned Company Profile ZF Leadership Principles Development and Implementation of Leadership PrinciCompleted The Power of 2 ples aiming at establishing one common understanding of management and forming the basis for One Global ▪▪Global footprint Corporate Culture and One ZF in line with the ZF 2025 ▪▪Investments corporate strategy ▪▪Our Values 360° feedback 360° feedback is applied for different groups within ZF 2018 ▪▪Our Commitments and ZF TRW. Consolidated approach will be presented in 2018 ▪▪ZF Group Sustainability Program Increasing the number of Increase the proportion of women from 6.3 percent to ▪▪A mentoring program for women in leadership functions 2017 women in executive 8.4 percent at the first managerial level below the Board was implemented Strategy and management positions of Management ▪▪Further mentoring program open to women and men Governance by 2017 will be implemented in 2017 Increase the proportion of women from 6.1 percent to ▪▪Femtec network was joined as corporate partner to People 8.1 percent at the second managerial level support prospective female students from IT, engineerEnvironment ing and science to plan and organize their studies and careers Supply Chain Occupational health and safety Product Responsibility Preserve and promote our Preventive actions Focus on reduction of the sickness rate with various locaOngoing GRI Content Index employees' health tion specific topics and projects and UNGC Foundation of the Occupational Medicine expert group ▪▪Completed for ZF 2017 for hazardous substances and the interdisciplinary Health ▪▪ZF TRW to be included in 2017 Management expert group Define and implement minimum medical standards world▪▪Completed for ZF 2018 wide ▪▪ZF TRW to be included in 2018 Training courses on leadership and health ▪▪Health management experts from all divisions develOngoing oped binding standards for training courses on leadership and health ▪▪Roll out of these standards started in Germany ZF Sustainability Report 2016 16 Strategic Target Actions Status 2016 Date ZF TRW: New Action 2017 Nominate health expert to join the ZF interdisciplinary Health Management expert group Define health management structure Nominate Executive Medical Officer to join the ZF Health Contents Committee About the Report OHSAS 18001 certification: Include locations within a centrally managed project with ZF: 39 locations are certified within ZF corporate scheme Ongoing Gradually increase the share voluntary participation by the locations (9 new certifications in 2016), 1 location is holding a CEO Statement of Group companies particisingle certification pating in the matrix ZF TRW: 15 sites are holding a single OHSAS 18001 Company Profile certification The Power of 2 ZF: Implementation of accident reduction programs at ZF: global accident rate was reduced from 12.1 (2015) 2025 ▪▪Global footprint Global accident reduction affected locations to achieve individual reduction targets to 11.5 (reduction of 5 percent). The reduction target of Program: Reduction of the (between 5 and 15 percent) at each location 10 percent was not achieved. 13 locations missed their ▪▪Investments global accident rate to less target significantly and as a consequence have to imple▪▪Our Values than 5 work related acciment OHSAS certification ▪▪Our Commitments dents resulting in one or more lost work days per one ZF TRW: accident rate was reduced from 2.45 (2015) ▪▪ZF Group Sustainability million working hours by 2025 to 2.4, resulting in 68 lost days per one million working Program hours (reduction of 12.1 percent) Strategy and ZF TRW: Establish a global organizational structure Qualified safety officers were established at all locations Completed Governance Reduce the accident rate to worldwide 3 accidents resulting in one People or more lost workdays per Binding Group key figures and reporting standardized ▪▪Consolidated Safety targets for the combined company 2017 one million working hours throughout the Group ▪▪Unification of Safety KPIs – future Safety Performance Environment indicator will be LTAR ▪▪Intranet reporting system for the combined company is Supply Chain Reduce the number of lost work days to 50 or less per being discussed Product Responsibility one million working hours Accident management with monthly review of the KPIs as ZF: Monthly reviews have been implemented Ongoing a management instrument at Group and location manageZF TRW metrics system includes all sites worldwide, acciGRI Content Index ment level dents are reported on a monthly basis and UNGC Local actions Site specific accident reduction programs have been esOngoing tablished and are being implemented. A monthly follow up process has been defined Participation of the Safety Officers in planning, procureExpert team for machine safety has been nominated and Completed ment and operation of machines, plants and buildings has developed a procedure for the purchase of machines and equipment. The procedure includes checklists with Safety standards as a guidance document Regular safety inspections Cross divisional safety inspections and audits have been Ongoing implemented ZF Sustainability Report 2016 17 Strategic Target Actions Status 2016 Date Record near-miss-accidents ▪▪Near misses are being discussed at the shop floor Completed meetings performed on a daily basis ▪▪Near miss reporting is part of the Production System and related audits Safety leadership training for Safety Leadership (SL) ▪▪ZF launched SL-program supported by ZF TRW Ongoing Contents executive managers – will be experience from existing program. Initial workshop About the Report extended to: with members of the board of directors and divisional Safety Excellence leaders completed CEO Statement Implementation ▪▪Top down implementation in the entire organization ongoing Company Profile ▪▪ZF TRW focussed on SL-refresher workshops and The Power of 2 SL-workshops for new leaders ▪▪Supplementary Safety Culture Surveys are performed ▪▪Global footprint Employee Involvement ▪▪A ZF pilot site in Brazil implemented the Behavior Based Ongoing ▪▪Investments Safety program with support of ZF TRW – about 5,000 ▪▪Our Values were actively involved at ZF TRW sites and at the ZF ▪▪Our Commitments pilot site ▪▪Safety Kaizen workshops were performed to actively ▪▪ZF Group Sustainability involve employees Program Continuous Improvement ▪▪The backbone of Continuous Improvement are the manOngoing Strategy and agement systems and audit programs. Evaluation of ZF Governance and ZF TRW systems started to promote consolidation process People ▪▪Additional sites have implemented a new ergonomics Environment online tool, the Humantech System (THS), to strengthen the fundamental ergonomics program Supply Chain Product Responsibility GRI Content Index and UNGC ZF Sustainability Report 2016 18 Strategy and Governance In 2015, ZF completed its ZF 2025 strategy process with the aim of Strategically managing sustainability Contents ensuring the entire company remains competitive over the long term. About the Report Based on megatrends and their implications for ZF, the Board of ManThe context for our sustainability considerations is to a large extent CEO Statement agement defined top targets that were fleshed out as part of the new shaped by the global megatrends. For instance, progressive globalizastrategy process in the matrix organization of the divisions, business tion is having a major impact on ZF’s sales and sourcing markets and Company Profile units and corporate functions. This gives ZF robust long-term prostherefore requires a stronger international focus regarding our strucThe Power of 2 pects supported by strategic initiatives and actions. They provide the tures and competencies. In addition, demographic change and Strategy and framework for further Group approaches in strategic and operational increasing urbanization are leading to changes in consumer behavior Governance planning. While drawing up the ZF 2025 strategy, areas of activity in – with a fundamentally growing demand in finite resources which is ▪▪Strategically managing the portfolio were defined that are being further developed to ensure leading to increased conflicts. Several trends require a technology sustainability our long-term business prospects. ZF sees a need for action princishift toward efficiency and resource conservation, which ZF is push▪▪Responsible Governance pally in the areas of efficiency, advanced driver assistance systems, ing for by continually reducing CO2 and noise emissions, for example. ▪▪Materiality autonomous driving and integrated safety. With the acquisition of Megatrends are also playing a central role when we set our targets for ▪▪Engaging Stakeholders TRW, one of the market leaders in these fields, ZF has achieved a innovation. ▪▪Living Integrity major advance that completes its portfolio for a secure future. People Furthermore, we factor in legislation and politics and product-field Environment trends that already display the initial effects of individual megatrends. Supply Chain In our long-term strategy process based on this analysis, we have identified three central topics for product development: driveline Product Responsibility efficiency, vehicle safety systems, plus advanced driver assistance GRI Content Index systems and autonomous driving. All these areas represent changing and UNGC Vision Zero values among car buyers, especially when it comes to fuel efficiency and safety. These findings are directly impacting the ZF innovation process. means zero accidents and zero emissions. Risks and opportunities due to climate change Achieving these ambitious goals requires intelligently connected and automated systems ZF’s business is affected in various ways by climate change. It presents certain risks for our production activities, but also opportunities for our products. G4-2 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 19 G4-EC2 One of the main factors affecting our production activities is the emisscarcity persists, this could worsen or spread to other regions. Contents sion of greenhouse gases. Operating costs are rising due to increasResource scarcity results in increased investment or costs for the techAbout the Report ingly strict legislation with tougher regulations for plant approvals. nical modernization of production equipment. Furthermore, we are CEO Statement These can require even stricter adherence to emission limit values at currently faced with more expensive electricity in Brazil. A large part the locations, for example, or in emissions trading, and may require of the country’s electricity supply comes from hydropower, so if water Company Profile retrofitting equipment. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is a cenbecomes more scarce, the risk of price increases exists. Such a develThe Power of 2 tral element of ZF environmental policy, which is managed worldopment could also lead to electricity rationing which would put Strategy and wide by our environmental management system according to energy supply to the locations at risk. To help us to better estimate Governance ISO 14001. environmental risks in certain regions, we are launching projects ▪▪Strategically managing which will assess, in advance, the extent to which a particular region sustainability Losses due to extreme weather is subject to a certain risk. The findings will provide an additional cri▪▪Responsible Governance Extreme weather situations caused by climate change such as high terion for our decisions on awarding contracts to suppliers, in this ▪▪Materiality water and flooding or extreme drought have so far only affected our way contributing to supply security. ▪▪Engaging Stakeholders production locations in isolated cases. Nevertheless, ZF sees these ▪▪Living Integrity developments as a potential risk with more frequent and more intenSupply chains in light of climate change People sive consequences. That is why we include early precautions against To minimize and more effectively manage risks, the ZF Group is Environment extreme weather and natural disasters as part of our sustainable corworking on localizing sources. The objective here is to reduce transSupply Chain porate development. port costs and actively contribute to lower CO2 emissions. Furthermore, this can limit the effects of failures in the supply chain to the Product Responsibility We have only seen isolated examples of higher property insurance region affected. We are also carrying out initial projects to identify GRI Content Index premiums at locations subject to potential natural hazards such as robust methods for determining the emission values and environ­ and UNGC flooding, storm, or extreme drought. These could increase in the mental impacts of selected products and materials. future if damage incidents occur more frequently. These issues are decisive factors when building new plants or purchasing production Solutions on product level facilities. In an overall social context, ZF actually goes beyond the traditional route of research and development work. With the ZF Denkfabrik Water scarcity at locations worldwide (think tank) founded in 2015, the company took a new direction to Some of our production locations in Brazil and Mexico are in soidentify trends, technologies and future issues, and to apply them called “water stressed areas”. Permits for water withdrawal for proto relevant areas within the Group. There is an equal focus here on duction are in some cases already restricted in these areas. If water energy, sustainable mobility and improving the quality of urban G4-2 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 20 G4-EC2 living. The ZF Denkfabrik was established to create new perspectives sectors, to disclose relevant environmental and social information in Contents of the distant future and to support the company in designing sustainthe management report, with the first reports to be published in 2018 About the Report able developments and creating added value for our customers. (on financial year 2017). Member States had to finalize the transposiCEO Statement tion into national legislation by December 2016. Finally, suitable preZF generates a substantial proportion of its sales with products used cautionary measures must be taken to minimize the diverse and often Company Profile in the combustion engine driveline. The progressive electrification in increased risks. We are also addressing identified risks with our enviThe Power of 2 the passenger car and commercial vehicle drive segment is representronmental management system and our sustainability program has set Strategy and ing a competing technology. ZF is developing electric, electronic and respective environmental targets. Governance mechatronic competence to be prepared for this technology trend with ▪▪Strategically managing its E-Mobility Division. sustainability Responsible Governance ▪▪Responsible Governance The development of competitive products has opened up new sales ▪▪Materiality opportunities for ZF. At the same time, a possible increase in fuel ZF Friedrichshafen AG is a non-listed corporation with two founda▪▪Engaging Stakeholders or energy prices may result in an increase in logistics costs and a tions as shareholders. The corporation is subject to the provisions of ▪▪Living Integrity decrease in the demand for individual mobility on the market side. the German Stock Corporation Act that stipulates a dual management People We can mitigate this risk with innovations in hybrid technology, system comprising the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. Environment e-mobility, and lightweight design. For more information about ZF Friedrichshafen AG is led by the Board of Management, which Supply Chain ZF solutions see chapter Product Responsibility on page 72. manages the company, and by the Supervisory Board, which monitors the Board of Management. For the most part, the activities of the Product Responsibility Further influences Board of Management are strategic in nature and comprise both the GRI Content Index The opportunities and risks for our wind power sector vary widely responsibility for the corporate functions and the divisions. The and UNGC since business development is still heavily dependent on subsidies implementation of the decided strategies is in the responsibility of and overall development on emission related regulations supporting the divisions and the corporate functions. renewable energies. On October 1, 2016, the Board member for Corporate Quality, ComEuropean companies are facing higher organizational costs due to the mercial Vehicle Technology and South America retired. His corporate obligation and the expanded requirements for statutory and regulafunctions were distributed among the other Board members. Accordtory reporting. The EU directive on the disclosure of non-financial ingly, the ZF Group Board of Management comprised seven members information can be seen as the main driver in 2016/17. This ambitious as of the end of 2016. legislation requires around 6,000 large companies listed on EU markets, or operating in the banking and insurance G4-2 G4-14, 34 G4-2 G4-34 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 21 Responsible Governance G4-EC2 The supervision of the Board of Management by the Supervisory ment is responsible for the risk management system and reports to Contents Board, whose 20 members are appointed with equal representation, the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board about the major About the Report is supported by an Executive Committee and an Audit Committee existing risks on a regular basis. The ZF risk management system is CEO Statement which are both composed of members of the Supervisory Board. regularly audited and assessed in terms of compliance by Internal Auditing. In addition, the external auditors annually check ZF’s early Company Profile ZF is set up along the lines of a matrix organization which links the detection system for risks. The Power of 2 Group­wide competencies of the corporate functions with the global Strategy and business responsibility of the divisions and their business units. The The risk management system is set out in a ZF Group Directive, Governance domains of the ZF Group are headed by the members of the Board of which was approved by the Board of Management and which can be ▪▪Strategically managing Management. In a dual responsibility the members of the Board of accessed by all employees. This Group Directive describes processes sustainability Management are supervising the seven divisions. The same applies and responsibilities of the risk management system. Risk areas are ▪▪Responsible Governance to the responsibilities with regard to the Regions of North America, defined as structural elements along the value added chain, including ▪▪Materiality South America and Asia­Pacific. risks such as quality, sales, procurement, restructuring, location and ▪▪Engaging Stakeholders other risks. Risks are captured, assessed and tracked on the basis of ▪▪Living Integrity The supervisory board and its committees are nominated and voted these risk areas. The directive is regularly reviewed and updated and People based on the ZF Corporate Governance Code. In particular, the Execis binding for all ZF Group companies. Environment utive Committee handles strategic topics key personnel matters. The Supply Chain Audit (Committee supervises the Annual Financial Statements as well Risks are captured, assessed and tracked quarterly by the reporting as the topics of compliance, internal audit, and planning. Three of the units. The identified risks are combined on division and Group level Product Responsibility twenty members of the Supervisory Board are women. Three memand tracked in coordination with the responsible corporate function GRI Content Index bers of the Supervisory Board are non-German nationals. The maxidepartment. The ZF risk management system captures risks in terms and UNGC mum term in office for the members of the Supervisory Board are of their potential financial impact in connection with their probability five years in order to ensure their independence. of occurrence where these risks exceed a limit defined by the Board of Management. Essential risks that exceed a defined threshold are The scope of the risk managagement is to identify and assess risks as brought to the attention of the responsible party or person via an early as possible and to mitigate such risks by initiating appropriate ad­hoc reporting process. This enables ZF to initiate effective risk conmeasures. The regular analysis of identified risks increases risk awaretrol measures. Opportunities are included in the ZF risk management ness and enables continuous improvement. The Board of Managesystem if they have a direct material link to a risk. G4-14 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 22 G4-34 Materiality materiality analysis which identified the sustainability topics imporContents tant for the company, and assigned these to the relevant GRI aspects. About the Report This year’s materiality analysis remains unchanged compared to our The essential topics were determined using an impact assessment, CEO Statement 2014 Sustainability Report. Once the integration of ZF TRW has been further backed up by a media analysis and assessed in terms of completed, the ZF Group will review boundaries, topics and materialmedium and long-term relevance for ZF. Topics classified as relevant Company Profile ity with its stakeholers. Nevertheless, ZF TRW’s performance has been from both a social perspective as well as regarding their importance The Power of 2 included in the report with the KPIs available and measures undertaken. for ZF’s business success are reported on as fully as possible with Strategy and regard to the GRI requirements. GRI aspects assigned to other topics Governance To determine the report’s content, ZF followed the G4 guidelines are only included in this report if they have a significant business ▪▪Strategically managing of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The company performed a relevance for ZF. sustainability ▪▪Responsible Governance Prioritization of fields of action according to social and business relevance ▪▪Materiality ▪▪Engaging Stakeholders Social relevance  Product safety ▪▪Living Integrity  Environmental impacts of products People Environment Energy efficiency in production  Water use in production Supply Chain Employer attractiveness Product Responsibility GRI Content Index  CO2 emissions in production and UNGC  Environmental impact of transports Waste & Occupational health recycling and safety  Diversity & equal opportunities Pollutant emissions Compliance in production  Human Rights Environmental impacts in the supply chain  Biodiversity at the locations  Business relevance ZF Sustainability Report 2016 23 G4-18 In the reporting year, the Engineered Fasteners & Components BusiSince January 1, 2016, ZF has centralized the Purchasing OrganizaContents ness Unit was sold. Cherry GmbH (including its subsidiaries) was also tion with the clear goal of bundling its volumes and integrating parts About the Report sold to the German private investment company GENUI in October family strategies in order to optimize the cost of parts in supply chain CEO Statement 2016. Moreover, at the end of 2016, an agreement was entered into management and transport. Our cross-functional Sourcing Decision with Voit Automotive GmbH for the sale of 51 percent of the shareBoard makes unanimous decisions which enables us to ensure that Company Profile holding in ZF Fonderie Lorraine S.A.S. In 2016, we founded Zukunft not only price is paramount but also to consider total costs and enviThe Power of 2 Ventures GmbH which has already concluded initial and very promisronmental aspects when selecting suppliers. Strategy and ing joint ventures with Ibeo and doubleSlash. This will result in only Governance slight changes with regard to the environmental key figures, Scope We are continuing activities in our Global Procurement Offices in ▪▪Strategically managing and Aspect Boundaries. Mexico, India and China. The objective here is to realize the “local for sustainability local” concept with our existing strategic suppliers or to prepare and ▪▪Responsible Governance In addition to ZF Friedrichshafen AG, 22 domestic and 250 foreign develop the local supplier base to meet ZF-specific requirements. ▪▪Materiality subsidiaries controlled by ZF Friedrichshafen AG are included in the ▪▪Engaging Stakeholders consolidated financial statements. The Group structure with seven ▪▪Living Integrity divisions is in line with the market and customers. The seven diviPeople sions are: Environment Supply Chain ▪▪ Car Powertrain Technology Division ▪▪ Car Chassis Technology Division Product Responsibility ▪▪ Commercial Vehicle Technology Division GRI Content Index ▪▪ Industrial Technology Division and UNGC ▪▪ E-Mobility Division ▪▪ Active & Passive Safety Technology Division ▪▪ ZF Services and TRW Aftermarket have been managed as the ZF Aftermarket Division since January 2017 More detailed information about entities belonging to the Group can be found in the 2016 Annual Report on pages 74 and 124. G4-17 G4-18 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 24 G4-23 Material topics GRI aspects of reporting Materiality within the Materiality outside the Contents [ G4-19] organization [ G4-20] organization [ G4-21] About the Report -E  conomic performance ZF Consolidated Group Procurement Practices CEO Statement Indirect economic impacts Company Profile Overall The Power of 2 Product safety -C  ustomer health and safety ZF Consolidated Group Customers Product and service labeling Strategy and Environmental impacts of products -P  roducts and services ZF Consolidated Group Customers Governance Energy ▪▪Strategically managing sustainability Energy efficiency in production Energy ZF Consolidated Group ▪▪Responsible Governance CO2 emissions in production Emissions ZF Consolidated Group ▪▪Materiality Water use in production -E  missions ZF Consolidated Group -W  ater ▪▪Engaging Stakeholders -E  ffluents and waste ▪▪Living Integrity Environmental impacts of -T  ransport ZF Consolidated Group Logistics service providers transport -E  missions and suppliers People Waste and recycling -M  aterials ZF Consolidated Group Environment -E  ffluents and waste Supply Chain Pollutant emissions in production Emissions ZF Consolidated Group Employer attractiveness M  arket presence ZF Consolidated Group Product Responsibility Employment GRI Content Index Training and education and UNGC Labor-management relations Occupational health and safety Occupational health and safety ZF Consolidated Group Diversity and equal opportunities -D  iversity and equal opportunities ZF Consolidated Group Equal remuneration for women and men Equal treatment Compliance Anti-corruption ZF Consolidated Group Anti-competitive behavior Compliance (society) Compliance (environment) Human Rights -S  upplier assessments for impacts ZF Consolidated Group Suppliers on society Investment Environmental impacts in the supply chain Supplier environmental assessment ZF Consolidated Group Suppliers G4-19 G4-20 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 25 G4-21 Engaging Stakeholders Types of stakeholder communication (groups and the media) Contents About the Report There are many significant stakeholders at ZF, including employees, Employees “we>move” employee magazine, Intranet, Internet, internal CEO Statement customers, suppliers, the owners of the company, authorities, trade communication campaigns such as “Year of Energy”, unions, associations, the media and politicians as well as the business ZF Family Day, ZF hilft Company Profile partners and the residents at the locations. An increasingly important The Power of 2 Potential employees Cooperations with universities, Annual Report, “Drive” group includes the next generation of empoyees, which is why company magazine, ZF website, involvement in trade fairs, Strategy and schools, vocational schools, universities of applied sciences, universocial media, advertisements Governance sities and scientific institutes can be found at the top of the list of ▪▪Strategically managing Customers Annual Report, “Drive” company magazine, ZF website, stakeholder groups to be involved. As a B2B company, ZF has rarely brochures, advertisements, customer days, involvement in sustainability been in direct contact with national, non-governmental organizations trade fairs ▪▪Responsible Governance (NGOs) that represent ecological and social issues. However, as is the ▪▪Materiality Suppliers and partners Annual Report, “Drive” company magazine, ZF website, case with local environmental initiatives that are often in direct cominvolvement in trade shows, advertisements, supplier days, ▪▪Engaging Stakeholders munication with the location managements, these NGOs equally brochures, key purchasing strategy ▪▪Living Integrity belong to the stakeholder groups that we consider to be important. People Politics, associations, Annual Report, ZF website, personal discussions interest groups Environment To ensure that we involve a broad and representative range of stakeEducational institutions Cooperations with universities, Annual Report, ZF website, Supply Chain holder groups in the compilation of our materiality analysis, we perinvolvement in trade fairs, advertisements formed an international media analysis during the reporting period. Product Responsibility The objective of this analysis was to filter out the most important Press and the media Annual Report, ZF website, “Drive” company magazine, GRI Content Index press releases, press conferences stakeholder interests and the main topics and concerns from global and UNGC social media, trade publications and press reports on sustainability in Communities ZF Family Day, press, ZF website, advertisements, sponthe automotive industry. The findings of this analysis were directly soring, regional trade shows such as the International Lake Constance Trade Fair (IBO) applied to the materiality analysis. Former employees “Drive” company magazine, ZF Family Day, International Identifying and selecting stakeholders Lake Constance Trade Fair, ZF website, ZF pensioner association Companies that act in a sustainable manner should be aware of the interests of their stakeholders. As a first step, a discussion was initiEnd customers Annual Report, involvement in trade fairs such as Interated with relevant stakeholders in order to identify the significance of national Motor Show, North American International Auto Show, “Drive” company magazine, ZF website, brochures, various sustainability issues from both an external and internal peradvertisements, social media spective. An analysis of the results from an initial stakeholder survey G4-24 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 26 G4-25 indicated which topics must be taken into account and what needs to tions about values, future orientation, development opportunities and Contents be done in order to retain the lasting trust of customers, employees, working conditions are also particularly important to us. We also wish About the Report suppliers and society as a whole. As part of the materiality analysis on to address them in this report. CEO Statement reporting in compliance with the GRI G4 guidelines, the company also set out to systematically integrate stakeholder interests into defining Company Profile priorities for the field of sustainability in 2014. Also talks were conLiving Integrity The Power of 2 ducted with customer and association representatives, among others. Strategy and ZF is one of the world’s leading technology companies and compliGovernance Approach to stakeholder engagement and frequency ance is an essential element of successful management and good ▪▪Strategically managing ZF is in regular contact with its stakeholders through the following corporate governance. It represents an obligation and an incentive sustainability channels: the German Global Compact Network, personal contact to conduct reliable and respectful dealings with customers, business ▪▪Responsible Governance with residents at company locations, the media, customers and supplipartners, employees, and the environment. Compliance also forms ▪▪Materiality ers through direct discussions as well as through surveys concerning the platform for lasting cooperation in an atmosphere of trust. ▪▪Engaging Stakeholders topics such as sustainability, employees via the works council as well ▪▪Living Integrity as through internal events and Group media. ZF Compliance People Compliance with existing laws is a major component for business and Environment Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement sustainable success. We rise to the challenge posed by globalization. Supply Chain and response This requires law-abiding, honest and responsible behavior on behalf We have identified the most important issues from the stakeholders’ of our employees at all levels and in all areas as the core value in our Product Responsibility perspective using the materiality analysis. Apart from product safety, corporate culture. The Compliance Management System gives guidGRI Content Index they included the environmental impact of our products, processes ance and supports the employees worldwide to fulfill this expectation. and UNGC and employer attractiveness. This entails preventing misconduct and ensuring that risks to the integrity and lawfulness of our actions are The other expectations and requirements that are presented to ZF are always widely similar: They include acting in accordance with the ▪▪ identified in advance and in a timely manner, law and regulations, developing excellent and efficient products for ▪▪ prevented through suitable measures, the customers and demonstrating responsibility for employees, the ▪▪ correctly responded to if such risks materialize, and subsequently environment and, increasingly, also in the supply chain. The require▪▪ required to identify the causes in order to prevent recurrence. ments of the next generation of employees that are reflected in quesZF communicates the relevant rules proactively to its employees, for example the Code of Conduct (CoC) or the Compliance Regulations. G4-25 G4-26 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 27 G4-27 Code of Conduct ▪▪ Contacting the Corporate Compliance Office and reporting Contents The Code of Conduct establishes binding principles for the ZF Group incidents About the Report in its dealings with business partners and the environment. It also CEO Statement defines binding principles for correct, law-abiding, and ethical behavZF Compliance Management System ior. Subjects covered include adherence to laws, fair competition, The ZF Compliance Management System (CMS) has created the frameCompany Profile anti-corruption, business and social responsibility, occupational work for meeting these requirements. The objective of the CMS is to The Power of 2 safety, data protection, and transparency. The Code of Conduct as a ensure compliance with internal and external regulations. CompliStrategy and core element of the Compliance Management System (CMS) is availance focuses on preventing and investigating violations in the areas of Governance able in all languages in which ZF conducts business and is communi▪▪Strategically managing cated through different channels depending on the specific target ▪▪ Corruption, sustainability group. Managers at every level – tone from the top and tone from the ▪▪ Antitrust law, ▪▪Responsible Governance middle – are decisive for the compliance culture in the company. ▪▪ Extensive fraud and ▪▪Materiality Therefore they have to confirm to have received and will follow the ▪▪ Reputational damage. ▪▪Engaging Stakeholders principles of the CoC. Their obligation is to act as role models, which ▪▪Living Integrity is clearly stated. The CMS meets the following requirements: independence and effecPeople tiveness of the Compliance Organization, integration of compliance Environment Compliance Regulations into business processes, transparent decision processes, and correSupply Chain The Compliance Regulations describe rules governing anti-corruption sponding HR processes (sanctions). The focus of the CMS is on preand antitrust law. They also define the correct approach for correctly vention, detection and reaction. The Compliance Organization is set Product Responsibility handling favors, gifts, and hospitalities (FGHs). The following topics up in line with the organizational structure of the ZF Group. GRI Content Index are covered by the regulations: and UNGC ZF Compliance Organization ▪▪ Responsibilities, tasks, and authorities of the Compliance Prevent Detect Respond Organization ▪▪Risk analysis ▪▪Notification ▪▪Deriving actions ▪▪ Rules for lawful and responsible behavior ▪▪Regulations ▪▪Investigation ▪▪Sanctioning misconduct ▪▪ Ban on corruption ▪▪Communication ▪▪Monitoring ▪▪Actions relating to ▪▪ Business partner integrity ▪▪Training monitoring ▪▪ComplianceHelpdesk ▪▪ Rules on handling favors, gifts and hospitality ▪▪Business partner due ▪▪ Correct behavior in competition diligence G4-SO3 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 28 G4-SO7 In the reporting year two legal actions were pending following two be attributed to ZF. Business partners who are involved in corruption Contents events: In South America, the antitrust authorities searched a ZF or are guilty of other illegal business activities also represent a compliAbout the Report plant on suspicion of the infringement of competition rules in Sepance risk for ZF. As a result, ZF could be held liable if no suitable preCEO Statement tember 2014. In Germany, the antitrust authorities concluded a dawn cautionary measures were taken, for example to prevent bribery. All raid in June 2016 among various companies including ZF. business functions of our company are therefore obliged to take Company Profile appropriate measures – preferably before business relations with a The Power of 2 Compliance tools partner are taken up – to ensure that the business partners are adeStrategy and The ComplianceHelpdesk serves as a preventive function since quesquately assessed and instructed. As part of ZF’s policy regarding bribGovernance tions can be systematically clarified and documented in advance. If ery, corruption, and violations of antitrust laws, a business partner due ▪▪Strategically managing compliance related questions or uncertainties arise, any ZF employee diligence process is set up and an appropriate guideline was published sustainability can contact the ComplianceHelpdesk. The preventive elements as in 2015. This guideline describes the business partner due diligence ▪▪Responsible Governance legal consulting services, training and communication measures, and process and is an addendum to ZF’s Business Partner Principles. ▪▪Materiality business partner audits are complemented by a case management ▪▪Engaging Stakeholders system. It is connected to the ZF Trustline, an electronic notification Compliance communication ▪▪Living Integrity system which employees and third parties can use to anonymously News and information sharing on compliance issues raise awareness People report suspected serious misconduct. Such cases might include violaamong employees and communicate values and expectations on Environment tions of competition and antitrust law, health protection, occupational employee conduct. A range of communication measures ensure that Supply Chain safety, corporate security and environmental protection, or cases of compliance is firmly anchored within ZF’s culture. Employees are corruption and conflicts of interests. As in the previous year, no concontinuously informed about current compliance topics through Product Responsibility firmed incidents of corruption occurred. newsletters, a compliance page and other channels. As a main comGRI Content Index munication channel, our intranet provides access to necessary comand UNGC ZF developed an internal risk analysis process for compliance risks. pliance contacts and important documents such as guidelines, BusiThe main focus of this risk analysis is on antitrust and corruption. ness Partner Due Dilligence, the Code of Conduct, and our Business The new risk analysis process is performed at Business Unit level. Partner Principles. They are available in several languages. This focus results from the divergent business models and is intended to achieve more precise results. The objective of this analysis is to In addition to the Code of Conduct, new and returning employees in identify and assess, on the basis of the risk profile of ZF, compliance China received a welcome package in 2016 presenting relevant comrelevant risks at an early stage and to counteract them. Business partpliance information. Positive feedback has encouraged the worldwide ners can pose a compliance risk if their actions or failures to act can roll-out of the welcome package scheduled for 2017. G4-SO3 G4-SO4 G4-SO5 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 29 G4-SO7 As multipliers of compliance managers are responsible for regularly Contents providing employees with information about compliance. In 2016, About the Report Compliance therefore deployed a new video about “General CompliCEO Statement ance at ZF” as refresher for employees and a video about “Business Partner Due Diligence”. Company Profile The Power of 2 Training opportunities Strategy and ZF has integrated target-group-oriented compliance training courses Governance into its training concept. The objective of the training program is to ▪▪Strategically managing firmly anchor compliance in employees’ consciousness and prevent sustainability wrong-doing. The courses convey knowledge and promote the ability ▪▪Responsible Governance to act in critical situations. Target groups can be addressed using dif▪▪Materiality ferent solutions, depending on the necessities of a topic. ▪▪Engaging Stakeholders ▪▪Living Integrity Classroom training gives participants the opportunity to directly People exchange ideas and experiences on compliance-relevant topics and Environment issues. In 2016, face-to-face training sessions were offered in a numSupply Chain ber of countries such as China, Brazil, Argentina, Germany, France, Italy and South Korea. Product Responsibility GRI Content Index Online training serves to convey broad, general knowledge to all and UNGC employees. Online training for the Code of Conduct is available on the intranet and should be completed by all new employees. ZF offers online training courses on the following topics to prevent the risk of infringement: international anti-bribery principles, financial integrity, and antitrust law. In the reporting year approximately 13,000 employees completed these training courses. ZF Sustainability Report 2016 30 G4-SO4 People As part of the changing market environment, ZF is responding to megPreparing for future challenges Contents atrends, strong growth in the Asia-Pacific region and North America, We have been consistently realizing our long-term goals set forth in About the Report technological and demographic change, and worldwide population our ZF 2025 Strategy. After the acquisition of TRW Automotive, in CEO Statement growth. At the same time, highly qualified personnel are key to the particular, however, we are improving the way we work together. The company's long-term success. Therefore, attracting and systematically ZF Management System (ZF MS) provides both the theoretical guidCompany Profile further developing talented personnel is one of ZF’s major challenges. ance and practical instructions to make this happen. The Power of 2 That is why ZF is positioning itself as a globally attractive employer. Strategy and Following the best-of-both approach, we have also aligned our princiGovernance ZF is the right place to be for highly qualified employees who enjoy ples and management systems. The new ZF Management System aims People taking on new responsibilities. Our employees are typically geared at shaping our way of working in terms of speed, simplicity and target ▪▪ZF Group around the toward achieving results, growing their career and developing perfocus. To become the leading technology and systems supplier to the globe sonal skill sets. As a result of the acquisition of U.S.-based TRW Autoautomotive industry, we are not just harmonizing, but refocusing our ▪▪Lifelong learning motive, we now offer many diverse international opportunities for management systems. This will enable us to more easily take advan▪▪Fair employment practices nurturing professional development, cultivating teamwork and develtage of current and future opportunities in our targeted markets. ▪▪Promoting diversity oping intelligent mobility solutions for tomorrow. ▪▪Ensuring health and safety Being a core element of the ZF MS, the four equally important princi▪▪Supporting our local Growing together ples “Innovation Approach,” “Customer Focus,” Commitment to Peocommunities As part of integrating the two companies and growing together, we ple” and “Result Orientation” form the ZF Charter and define what is Environment are currently focused on developing and implementing several global important to us and how we do business. The ZF Charter unites the Supply Chain functions, starting with the top leadership. Our teams are not only strengths of ZF and ZF TRW, combining their existing values. It thus Product Responsibility focused on developing integrated organizations, but also on creating supersedes ZF’s “GiveMe5” and TRW’s “Core Principles.” new, integrated processes that make day-to-day activities and commuGRI Content Index and UNGC nication with team members more open and flexible. The combined principles provide direction and guidance regarding necessary behavior and the required mindset for every ZF employee. Sharing experiences and working together is fundamental in supporting The principles define what we regard as important, what we do and the integration process. That’s why the “Intercompany Mobility Initiawhat makes us special: tive” was launched in 2016. As a first step, this program gave a number of managers and non-managerial employees at various levels the oppor▪▪ Innovation Approach: We develop pioneering products and techtunity to move from ZF to ZF TRW or vice versa and is thus contributing nologies that help us achieve our strategic goals – and are finanto the development of a common leadership and company culture. cially rewarding. Our employees and business units alike all strive ZF Sustainability Report 2016 31 to develop innovative and creative solutions. We think like entreZF Group around the globe Contents preneurs. This also means we take risks and learn from our sucAbout the Report cesses and failures. On December 31, 2016, ZF employees worldwide numbered 136,820. CEO Statement ▪▪ Customer Focus: We win over our customers with our quality and This represents a change of -1.05 percent compared to the previous our passion, offering them clear added value. This applies to interyear. The slight decline in the number of employees compared to the Company Profile nal and external customers alike. At the same time, we always aim previous year can be primarily traced back to the sale of the EngiThe Power of 2 to be profitable – and act accordingly, in every part of our organizaneered Fasteners & Components Business Unit concluded in July Strategy and tion. 2016. This business unit had roughly 2,800 employees worldwide. In Governance ▪▪ Commitment to People: We support and encourage our employees addition, Cherry GmbH (including its subsidiaries) with a workforce People in the fulfilment of their duties and responsibilities. In return, we of approximately 400 was sold in October 2016 to the German private ▪▪ZF Group around the expect commitment and performance. We provide constructive investment company GENUI. ZF created approximately 1,800 new globe feedback and foster a culture of trust. jobs last year, which equals growth of 1.3 percent. ▪▪Lifelong learning ▪▪ Result Orientation: We set ourselves challenging goals and measure ▪▪Fair employment practices what we achieve. We deliver as promised, and value agility. By Almost two-thirds of the Group’s employees work in Europe, most of ▪▪Promoting diversity finding the right balance between quality and speed, we ensure them in Germany, and 97.8 percent of employees have permanent ▪▪Ensuring health and safety that we succeed in what we set out to do. contracts with the ZF Group. The percentage of women employed by ▪▪Supporting our local the ZF Group (not including ZF TRW) is 15.74. The North America communities Existing management systems like the ZF Quality Management Sysregion has the largest percentage of women in the workforce at 26.02 Environment tem or various HR systems are not being replaced or superseded. But percent. Gender is not currently traced according to region or type of Supply Chain in time they will be progressively aligned with the requirements of contracts for ZF TRW. Product Responsibility the overarching ZF Management System. GRI Content Index and UNGC G4-10 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 32 G4-LA1 Employee structure worldwide Tackling demographic change Contents Germany’s population structure is changing. People are getting older About the Report Employee structure worldwide and there are fewer births with each generation. At the same time, Number of people1 CEO Statement society is becoming more diverse – not least due to the marked 2016 2015 2014 increase in immigration. While the average age in Germany was Company Profile (incl. ZF TRW) (incl. ZF TRW) (excl. ZF TRW) approximately 38 years in 1995, it has meanwhile increased to over The Power of 2 ZF Group (total) 136,820 138,269 71,402 45. This makes Germany the country with the second-oldest populaEurope 81,667 82,789 50,774 Strategy and tion after Japan. Governance of which Germany 49,094 50,131 41,188 North America 31,900 31,550 8,342 People Different regional challenges South America 5,118 5,428 4,106 ▪▪ZF Group around the From a global perspective, demographic change comes in many difglobe Asia-Pacific 16,974 17,327 7,786 ferent forms. While western industrialized countries are primarily ▪▪Lifelong learning Africa 1,161 1,176 394 confronted with the challenges of an aging population, people in ▪▪Fair employment practices Employee category2 developing and newly industrialized countries are much younger. ▪▪Promoting diversity Direct 72,109 73,371 34,790 In India, for instance, the average age is 26.6 years. Since ZF is a ▪▪Ensuring health and safety Indirect 64,711 64,898 36,612 global player with approximately 230 locations in 40 countries, the ▪▪Supporting our local Work contracts age structure of the company’s workforce is very heterogeneous and communities Permanent 133,802 135,600 68,587 strongly depends on the history of the particular ZF location. The Environment Temporary 3,018 2,669 2,815 percentage of older employees is much higher in Germany, whereas Full time 134,339 135,962 69,388 Supply Chain international locations employ younger people. Part time3 2,481 2,307 2,014 Product Responsibility Apprentices and temporary workers ZF Employees by region and gender in 2016 GRI Content Index Apprentices 2,800 2,300 2,073 and UNGC (excl. ZF TRW) in percent Temporary workers (external) 14,137 14,224 3,638 Women Men 1 Excl. ZF Lenksysteme, number of employees by contracts in accordance with IFRS regulations until the end of the year 2 Direct and indirect participation in value creation processes Europe 13.81 86.19 3 Because of the low numbers of part time contracts at ZF TRW data were not collected of which Germany 13.01 86.99 North America 26.02 73.98 South America 8.51 91.49 Asia-Pacific 18.89 81.11 Africa 15.07 84.93 Total 15.74 84.26 G4-10 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 33 G4-LA1 This requires individual actions to be taken to match local requireDue to changing mobility habits, employees and graduates in the softContents ments. In Germany, ZF is pursuing a comprehensive approach to deal ware and IT fields are becoming increasingly relevant for the automoAbout the Report with the challenges of an aging workforce. For example, workplaces tive industry. In order to develop and produce intelligent mechanical CEO Statement are being designed to accommodate the requirements of an aging products, ZF still requires employees from traditional occupations. workforce and emphasis is placed on finding the right work-life balHowever, the HR Department is also increasing its global activities in Company Profile ance between career and family. ZF is also focusing on health manattracting graduates with IT and electrical engineering degrees or The Power of 2 agement, flexible working time models and lifelong learning. those who have completed vocational training in these fields. A furStrategy and ther employer branding action in 2016 aimed at increasing the brand Governance Employer attractiveness recognition of ZF as an employer in the China and U.S. growth marPeople ZF is looking for qualified experts in all markets. Once hired, they kets. ZF has continued to improve its placement in the employer rank▪▪ZF Group around the enjoy attractive working conditions and qualification opportunities at ings in Germany over the last few years. Among prospective engiglobe all our company locations worldwide. Global market opportunities neers, ZF placed 16th in the “Trendence Graduate Barometer 2016” ▪▪Lifelong learning mean that ZF strives to be a valued, fair and reliable employer. The survey while, in engineering, it rose from 26th in 2015 to 24th place ▪▪Fair employment practices varied cultural backgrounds of our employees, their competencies in the “Universum Student Survey”. ▪▪Promoting diversity and their diligence and motivation are shaping our corporate culture ▪▪Ensuring health and safety and they are the key to our success. Flexible working conditions ▪▪Supporting our local In the face of volatile markets, flexible working time models such as communities working time accounts, temporary employment contracts and agency Environment ZF Employees by gender (excl. ZF TRW) work are important tools to compensate for and mitigate fluctuations Supply Chain in demand and sales. In 2016, ZF had a total of 14,137 temporary 2016 2015 2014 Product Responsibility workers, most of whom (89.29 percent, or 12,623) worked abroad. Men 61,768 62,678 60,549 GRI Content Index Women 11,537 11,483 10,853 and UNGC But new working time concepts are not simply intended to help ZF balance its workforce. The potential for promoting the well-being of Employee turnover for 2016 employees and helping them to find the right work-life balance as percent of headcount between career and family have become increasingly important. We Europe 4.6 value individual development opportunities and compatibility North America 22.2 between work and family. We are working systematically on creating South America 2.2 family-friendly working structures that support time-management Asia-Pacific 10.3 models and offer generous flexibility to assist parents. Africa 2.7 G4-10 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 34 G4-LA1 Support for parents is something we cherish at ZF which is why we Office 3.0 Contents built a ZF children’s daycare center with about 60 places for employee The new corporate headquarters called the ZF Forum perfectly About the Report children. Since 2006, ZF has been positively ranked among certified reflects the increasing digitalization of the working world. It offers a CEO Statement family-friendly companies in Germany, represented by the Friedrichs­ variety of work environments that support team and individual work, hafen location. Specific examples of employee support include full meetings, telephone calls, work requiring total concentration and colCompany Profile daycare at children’s daycare centers, special vacation programs and labourative work. Mobile IT technology makes it easy to switch The Power of 2 support in caring for family members. ZF also offers a variety of partquickly between these different working needs. Technological capaStrategy and time working models, sabbaticals and mobile working possibilites to bilities have enabled the company to take a flexible non-territorial Governance support the balance between career and family and caring for family approach where workspace is shared. A relaxed atmosphere replaces People members. As a partner of Success Factor Family, ZF is involved in a individual desks to create a sense of personal freedom. ZF worked ▪▪ZF Group around the joint initiative by the Federal Ministry for the Family and the German together with the Fraunhofer Institute for Industrial Engineering IAO globe Chamber of Commerce. The network is a platform for mutual in Stuttgart and in close consultation with the works council to ▪▪Lifelong learning exchange and dialog between companies, administration and the pubdevelop and shape this office concept based on the latest workplace ▪▪Fair employment practices lic to raise awareness of the need for a family-friendly working enviand ergonomic findings. Approximately 650 employees in the central ▪▪Promoting diversity ronment. Our worldwide locations have various forms of flexible departments are the first to work in the new Office Concept 3.0 envi▪▪Ensuring health and safety working conditions to support the needs of employees. These include ronment. Currently, the possible rollout of this concept at other ZF ▪▪Supporting our local flexible start and end times, the ability to work from home, time off to locations is being reviewed and a decision will be made in due course. communities address family and health needs, to name a few. Environment Project: “Next Generation Intranet (NGI)” Supply Chain At the end of December 2016, a total of 410 employees took parental Developing an agile, modern, digital working platform is an important Product Responsibility leave in Germany (not including ZF TRW), of this number, 91 were step toward achieving the objectives of our ZF 2025 Strategy. Employmale and 319 female. A total of 214 female employees returned from ees can use digital tools to find information, work together on soluGRI Content Index and UNGC parental leave and 1,189 male employees took parental leave for a tions and brainstorm in teams faster and easier than ever before. short period of time. Implementing a state of the art intranet supports maintaining and enhancing the company’s competitiveness and sustainability. It offers Internal agreements were concluded within the company on remote all employees a powerful platform for working together across the working and were rolled out at all German locations in 2016. These globe in real time – regardless of location, organizational unit or hierallow employees to spend a certain amount of working time each week archical level. The new intranet will include online workspaces, prooutside their company-based workplace. It aims to improve the workject management tools, communication forums, feedback options and life balance while also increasing the appeal of ZF as an employer. many other useful features. ZF Sustainability Report 2016 35 G4-LA3 Lifelong learning tent specifically focused on electronics and IT into the internal Contents apprenticeship program. The Group will also add new job profiles to About the Report Individual and organizational development, qualification and lifelong the current portfolio. CEO Statement learning are decisive success factors when it comes to securing a company’s long-term future. Our employees require the right skills in Company Profile order to guarantee that we retain the power of innovation. That is Ready 4 future The Power of 2 why ZF places importance on digital learning, flexible working and Strategy and cooperation in networks. ZF employees can choose from a wide range Committed to change, the Group has set up the “Ready for Future Technology” Governance of advanced qualification opportunities. project – R4FT. Its purpose is to build up and expand development competences for future technologies in the segments of electromobility, autonomous People driving, safety and intelligent mechanics. Thousands of engineers are needed ▪▪ZF Group around the Apprenticeship in the near future and a prerequisite to master the ongoing megatrends. With globe ZF places a great deal of importance on education and training, ZF’s long-term experience in vocational training, continuing education and ▪▪Lifelong learning strong network in higher education, we intend to nurture a big number of the resulting in improved qualifications. In 2016, about 550 young people needed developers and research engineers from within the company. ▪▪Fair employment practices started an apprenticeship or dual study program at ZF, amounting to ▪▪Promoting diversity 2,800 apprentices (Dec 2016) at more than 16 locations in Germany. ▪▪Ensuring health and safety Around 15 percent of them are students completing a dual study pro▪▪Supporting our local gram at a university. This young target group can choose from 31 difThe internationalization of apprenticeships is also becoming more communities ferent apprenticeships and DH courses of study. important for the ZF Group as a whole and there are several initiaEnvironment tives to expand the apprenticeship model outside of Germany. Supply Chain Once again, ZF Friedrichshafen AG ranked among Germany's major Product Responsibility providers of training and apprenticeship opportunities. ZF is keen to At its Gray Court (South Carolina, USA) location, ZF has teamed up offer all its apprentices a job after they qualify and most graduate with the Piedmont Technical College and launched an apprenticeship GRI Content Index and UNGC apprentices continue working for ZF after they have completed their program similar to the German model of combined degree programs apprenticeship training. within service-training. Apprentices are assigned mentors at the facility and receive intensive on-the-job training, supplemented by a speIncreasing digitalization and connectedness in production are making cially designed curriculum at Piedmont Technical College. In the their way into companies under the moniker “Industry 4.0” and it is future, the training program will be extended to other ZF locations. changing the requirements for apprenticeship. ZF set up a cross-divisional project team to analyze new requirements and qualifications ZF remains one of the three founding companies involved in introaffecting apprenticeships and to identify solutions for dual education ducing the Michigan Advanced Technician Training (MAT²®) proprograms. As a result of this project, ZF is going to integrate new congram. The program was developed based on German training stanG4-LA9 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 36 G4-LA10 dards and monitored by the German-American Chamber of 2025 Strategy. Various internal ZF academies offer employees in Contents Commerce and the German Chamber of Industry and Commerce Materials Management, Quality, Finance, IT, Sales, Production, and About the Report (IHK). ZF is currently involved in the apprenticeship programs for the other associated functions an extensive range of advanced training CEO Statement professions of mechatronics technician, IT specialist, and technical opportunities. In the future, we will expand these learning opportuniproduct designer at various locations, e.g. in Northville and Lapeer, ties by setting up additional academies. Company Profile Michigan. We are also involved in Vernon Hills, Illinois, with a simiThe Power of 2 larly modelled programm called ICATT. The dual apprenticeship The key objective of the ZF Academies is to support the implementaStrategy and training program offers apprenticeship as Industrial Maintenance tion of corporate function strategies through global, systematic, stanGovernance Technician. MAT²® has the potential to become established as a dardized and comprehensive enablement of ZF employees and leadPeople national standard. ers with dedicated functional and cross-functional learning programs. ▪▪ZF Group around the The target audience includes all employees and leaders that are either globe In Europe, ZF is involved in several twin-track education programs directly linked to a corporate function or execute a corporate function ▪▪Lifelong learning based on the national standards applicable for each country, for role as part of their job in a division. Target groups are cross-divi▪▪Fair employment practices example in France, the United Kingdom and Austria. In 2016, the ZF sional, cross-location as well as international. The academy course ▪▪Promoting diversity dual education center was officially opened in Trnava, Slovakia. portfolio is tailored to the functional and cross-functional learning ▪▪Ensuring health and safety needs, thus establishing a globally consistent standard of knowledge ▪▪Supporting our local Further education and expertise. communities ZF is committed to developing people, management and the organizaEnvironment tion by focusing on various layers and target groups and it invests Improving qualification programs Supply Chain accordingly. Talent management, learning and development, educaAll training programs are systematically evaluated. Participants and Product Responsibility tional enhancement and enrichment, and competency management trainers submit an evaluation after every event as part of a continuous are supported and strategically developed. Applying this holistic improvement process. The individual evaluations form the basis for GRI Content Index and UNGC approach to management enables us to systematically monitor and regular reviews and appropriate revisions. We select external service anticipate workforce issues in all corporate areas. This, in turn, allows suppliers such as training course providers and trainers according to us to consolidate the capabilities of our employees and respond to the defined criteria and a tough selection process carried out jointly by challenges of demographic change. the specialist department and Purchasing. The Global ZF Campus promotes advanced specialized training The corporate HR Development and the HR Development departopportunities for managers and employees in all corporate functions. ments in the individual divisions, regions, and technical departments The objective is to achieve systematic and global advanced training of work closely together. They standardized operational processes in employees with technical training programs derived from the ZF HR development and reinforce them permanently. By establishing G4-LA9 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 37 G4-LA10 cross-divisional working groups, we have closely coordinated all While ZF TRW was being integrated, ZF introduced a harmonized, Contents areas involved with the objective of effective employee and executive more performance-oriented Short-Term Incentive (STI) program for About the Report manager training and qualification at all locations. managers in January 2017. The new system is intended to foster a culCEO Statement ture of innovation and performance, resulting in a stronger target We have again increased our international training capacities. For focus. This will help us to be even more successful as a combined Company Profile example, we intensified our cooperation with colleges and univercompany in the future. The Short-Term Incentive consists of key The Power of 2 sities in China, the USA and several European countries. Further financial performance indicators and an individual component based Strategy and successes were also achieved in internationalizing our trainee on individual targets and personal performance. Assessing the comGovernance program. pany and individual components ensures a comprehensive evaluation People of the results achieved throughout the year. The process is transpar▪▪ZF Group around the Nurturing excellence ent and defines the framework for our actions and priorities, and for globe ZF emphasizes the importance of personal and professional developthe behavior and attitudes we expect from the combined company's ▪▪Lifelong learning ment for all employees. Individual performance and development managers. The Individual Target Agreement and Performance Process ▪▪Fair employment practices opportunities are discussed and documented on an annual basis (iTaP) has been moved to a cloud-based IT solution. ▪▪Promoting diversity according to the HR process cycle for non-managerial employees. ▪▪Ensuring health and safety In order to strengthen the focus on a sustainable company develop▪▪Supporting our local There is a different process in place for managers which enables ment, ZF has extended the Long-Term Incentive Program [LTI) to communities Group-wide HR and succession planning and simultaneously ensures include members of Management Group 2. The LTI was previously Environment the evaluation of all managers using consistent performance and only applicable to the Top Management Group. Supply Chain potential criteria. Due to the integration of TRW as the current DiviProduct Responsibility sion A, a new potential and succession planning process is currently Developing leaders being redefined and implemented for all managers of the combined The corporate objective of becoming an attractive employer worldGRI Content Index and UNGC company for 2017 and onward. wide is promoted by the strategic pillars Leadership 2025, Competitive Work Environment and One Global Corporate Culture. Since We traditionally recruit management staff from within the company's leadership excellence is one of the strategic targets of the ZF Group, own ranks. This also applies to the new Division A, formerly TRW, as we revised all of our management development. A combined program well as to international locations. As a result of the integration of ZF was developed to replace the former ZF ”Pro>motion Programs” and TRW and the locations around the world, the management structure ZF TRW’s high potential programs “Executive LEAD and LEAD”. The of the combined company has become even more international than new “ZF Global Leaders” signature program has been developed in before. 2016 and is offered in 2017. G4-EC6 G4-LA9 G4-LA10 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 38 G4-LA11 Fostering partnerships Contents 13,000 ZF makes significant investments in technical professions. We aim to About the Report Over promote interest and enthusiasm for MINT subjects early on among children and young people, with particular emphasis on girls. ZF is CEO Statement achieving this objective for instance by actively participating in the Company Profile children and youngsters have gained hands-on experience in the world of technology in the technical classrooms Girls’ Day and running Knowledge Workshops (“WissenswerkstätThe Power of 2 ten”). The Wissenswerkstätten continue to be very popular. So far, Strategy and more than 13,000 children and youngsters have gained hands-on Governance It comprises level specific modules with a blend of in-person sessions, experience in the world of technology in the technical classrooms. People virtual learning, self-reflection tools, and peer group coaching as well ▪▪ZF Group around the as work on real cases. Main objective is to speed up ability to act In higher education, ZF finances a large number of endowed profesglobe when transitioning from one managerial level to the next. It demonsorships in the Lake Constance region and across the world. Coopera▪▪Lifelong learning strates commitment to people and investment in developing leaders tion with renowned universities, for example at the Zeppelin Univer▪▪Fair employment practices and managers, providing an orientation towards future challenges, as sity and the Baden-Württemberg Cooperative State University in ▪▪Promoting diversity well as encouraging new ways of working together. Friedrichshafen, the University of Ravensburg-Weingarten, the ▪▪Ensuring health and safety HTWG Constance – University of Applied Sciences or the RWTH ▪▪Supporting our local Managers experience business demands in strategic relevant regions. Aachen University is part of the young talent promotion program. communities The ZF Global Leaders landscape creates multiple touch points with China has become more and more important for future mobility Environment ZF top-management and external experts and allows maximum nettrends. Since 2012, ZF endows a professorship for Car Chassis TechSupply Chain working and learning opportunities. nology and Dynamics at the Chinese German College for PostgraduProduct Responsibility ate Studies (CDHK) of the renowned Tongji University in Shanghai. Further targets are to support potential candidates with development The chairholder, his colleagues, students and the ZF development GRI Content Index and UNGC opportunities to strengthen the company’s leadership pipeline and to departments regularly exchange information on mobility trends and provide a global, consistent leadership development throughout the technical questions concerning driveline and chassis technology. different management levels. It offers executive managers the opporThe emphasis is on networking and working together. tunity to systematically prepare for the specific responsibilities of their new role and thus ensures management success within the comFurthermore, internships for students are available at ZF with the pany. By basing learning contents closely on the policies of the ZF prospect of job offers at completion. Two bachelor graduates from 2025 strategy and future challenges, the leadership development Tongji University have also been accepted into ZF’s scholarship prolandscape contributes to establishing and implementing the strategic gram. ZF also supports the university’s Formula Student teams. objectives. G4-EC6 G4-LA9 G4-LA10 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 39 G4-LA11 In 2016, ZF also strengthened the partnership with the international ZF as learning organization Contents UNITECH Network as Corporate Partner. UNITECH International is Currently, the knowledge management approach is only in place at About the Report an European network of top engineering schools and multinational ZF (not including ZF TRW) sites in Germany. The objective is the conCEO Statement companies. At the moment only eight schools from eight different scious, responsible and systematic handling of knowledge as a countries are allowed to propose their 20 best students, of which only resource. Collaboration rooms, Wikis, and virtual communication Company Profile 10 will be accepted. Up to 80 students form the talent pool of media support the virtual cooperation of employees. Best-practice The Power of 2 UNITECH each year. The students then attend three coached moddatabases store valuable practical experience and make it available Strategy and ules of skill and capability development, a semester abroad at one of for reuse. Expert forums ensure the targeted exchange of knowledge Governance the Academic Partners and an international internship at one of the and experience. People Corporate Partners. ▪▪ZF Group around the The suggestion and idea management schemes provide employees globe ZF-Innolab with a platform for submitting improvement suggestions and ideas. ▪▪Lifelong learning As part of expanding its long term commitment to cooperate with uniThe ideas@ZF project has created the conditions for an idea manage▪▪Fair employment practices versities, ZF established an innovation laboratory at the Friedrichs­ ment process across all locations. This allows ideas to circulate ▪▪Promoting diversity hafen campus of the Duale Hochschule (DHBW) Ravensburg. At the between the German locations. Thanks to the continuous improve▪▪Ensuring health and safety ZF-Innolab facility, DHBW students, under an apprenticeship conment process, specific improvement potential has been identified and ▪▪Supporting our local tract with ZF, will conduct research on themes such as autonomous implemented. communities driving and digital business models. Environment Knowledge and ideas management in the Corporate HR function creSupply Chain The students at the “ZF-Innolab” work closely together with the “ZF ates awareness for effectively handling knowledge and ideas; it proProduct Responsibility Denkfabrik” think tank. This department is dedicated to identifying vides advice and supports the professionalization of existing activities long term trends and new growth areas at an early stage. The Innolab as well as building new activities in knowledge and idea management. GRI Content Index and UNGC deals with broad mobility issues internationally and across all modes of transportation. It also explores new business segments that may be In order to keep knowledge in the organization, ZF has created turned into viable business models over the long term. Work at the knowledge batons where employees who are leaving the company Innolab follows the “open innovation” approach of the think tank, make their practical knowledge available to the organization. Existing which connects different knowledge areas and players with technoloexpertise is documented and stored on storage media so that knowlgies. The Innolab is therefore a logical addition to the research work edge can be shared and exchanged using search engines in which of the department. employees can enter specific queries. ZF Sustainability Report 2016 40 G4-LA10 In 2016, the ZF Group created a new program to allow former one third were put into practice in the same year. The planned Global Contents employees to contribute their valuable experience and extensive Employee Survey for 2017 had to be postponed due to the integration About the Report knowledge. The program “Senior Professionals” enables participation of ZF TRW. A full-scale survey will take place after 2018. CEO Statement in specific projects and matches specialist areas with senior experts. These temporary assignments can be managed with little administraZF Excellence Award Company Profile tive effort and provide ZF with a flexible and dedicated workforce. In 2015, we aligned several initiatives and awards (e.g. Environmental The Power of 2 The program initially aims to have 100 registered experts in 2017 Award, TQM Contest), to improve our internal collaboration by Strategy and with about 40 work assignments. increasing transparency, leveraging synergies and becoming better at Governance sharing ideas and solutions. People Involving employees ▪▪ZF Group around the The Employee Commitment Index of ZF TRW has been an ongoing The comprehensive ZF Excellence Award honors innovative solutions globe process for years. Each site utilizes survey results and face-to-face disthat create value for our internal and external customers. It also ▪▪Lifelong learning cussion to develop action plans to maintain and improve the workencourages the spread of best practice and experience across all loca▪▪Fair employment practices place. As for ZF, a first Global Employee Survey (GES), took place in tions and organizational entities. By promoting a “learning organiza▪▪Promoting diversity March 2015. The objective was to sustainably contribute to company tion” in which relevant knowledge is easily shared and accessed, the ▪▪Ensuring health and safety goals through increased transparancy and involving employees on all award constitutes an essential prerequisite for the agility and effi▪▪Supporting our local levels. We asked about issues relevant to the workplace such as workciency we need to maintain our innovative strength and achieve cost communities ing conditions and cooperation between employees. The survey was leadership. Environment evaluated and followed by a worldwide process with specific meaSupply Chain sures. More than 15,000 suggestions for improvement were received, The entrepreneurial spirit and creative energy of our employees at all Product Responsibility levels of the organization is overwhelming. In 2016, a total of 657 projects were submitted by more than 3,000 employees at over 100 ZF GRI Content Index and UNGC locations. The various projects entered for the contest have saved ZF 657 projects a total in excess of EUR 300 million. While cost savings are extremely welcome, the many projects also improve production processes, create value for customers, or improve occupational health and safety measures. The results also bear testimony to a creative, cooperative were submitted by more than 3,000 employees at over 100 ZF locations to make ZF fit for learning ZF Group. the future ZF Sustainability Report 2016 41 G4-LA10 Fair employment practices Employee and employer representatives regularly interact in an atmoContents sphere of trust. Employee representatives are therefore comprehenAbout the Report Responsible, supportive and fair – that’s the kind of employer ZF sively informed in a timely manner about changes in the company. CEO Statement aims to be. This aspiration is in line with ZF’s tradition and history, All legal obligations are respected. A trusting cooperation under the it is part of our identity. We want to create a corporate culture that Works Constitution Act is a fundamental factor in our corporate culCompany Profile strengthens collaboration and trust. And we are convinced that this ture. This applies to all employee representative committees such as The Power of 2 approach also leads to better financial results. We provide support the individual works councils and committees, including the General Strategy and and make offers, but at the same time ask for our employee’s dedicaWorks Council, the Group Works Council or the European Works Governance tion and commitment. We want to create a work environment that Council and the individual contact persons on the employer’s side. People rewards high performance. Fairness, as we see it, provides benefits Fundamental questions about the company’s development are dis▪▪ZF Group around the for employees and employer alike. cussed in communications and at meetings. The discontinuation and globe relocation of companies or sub-units, investments or other changes to ▪▪Lifelong learning Managing the employer-employee relationship the organization are also main topics. The TRW Automotive Forum ▪▪Fair employment Together with its employees around the world, the ZF Group is conrepresents a joint body of the TRW Executive Board and employee practices fronting the challenges of globalization. This calls for collaboration at representatives, which serves to collect information, consultation and ▪▪Promoting diversity all levels based on mutual respect and it represents substantial compothe exchange of ideas. ▪▪Ensuring health and safety nent of our corporate culture. ▪▪Supporting our local communities Adequate salaries The common interest of employees, employee representatives and As a fair employer, ZF is committed to competitive remuneration of Environment company management is to sustain our international competitiveness its employees. The ZF and ZF TRW locations in countries with high Supply Chain in all areas with a view toward achieving sustainable commercial sucemployee headcounts participate in coordinated market benchmark Product Responsibility cess for the entire company and its employees for safeguarding the exercises in partnership with leading benchmark service providers on GRI Content Index future. The company values open communications among its employan annual basis. Locations in countries with lower employee headand UNGC ees and respects the rights of its employees – as is consistent with counts participate in local surveys according to their specific needs. applicable law – to join or assist a labor union or works council, or refrain from doing so. No employee or employee representative shall Germany is the country with the highest ZF headcount (incl. ZF be disadvantaged as a consequence of exercising his or her rights in TRW) worldwide. ZF participates in pay-scale remuneration benchthis regard. ZF respects the right to collective bargaining and negotiamark surveys organized by the relevant employers’ association. Temtions (ILO Convention No. 98) for regulating working conditions. porary and subcontract workers are paid in accordance with standard wages. ZF has negotiated minimum wages for such workers in five different categories with service providers. ZF is entitled to check G4-EC5 G4-LA4 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 42 G4-LA13 that subcontractor employees receive the applicable minimum wage The Consolidated Balance Sheet for 2016 showed a total of EUR 3,257 Contents or agreed standard wage. External service providers must sign the ZF million in net provisions for pensions reflecting DB plans only. This is About the Report declaration of compliance to collective agreements. approximately EUR 305 million less than in the previous year. CEO Statement Although the gross provision for pensions increased in 2016 to EUR Remuneration at ZF is based on compensation structures. In ZF TRW 7,296 million (2015: EUR 6,294 million), the net provision for penCompany Profile compensation structures are based on a global job classification syssions has been reduced in total by earmarking financial assets to penThe Power of 2 tem. In ZF entities, the compensation structure for managers is based sions. The vast majority of provisions (approx. 71.5 percent) affect Strategy and on a global grading system. Compensation structures below managebenefits for employees with an employment contract in Germany. Governance ment levels are based either on collective pay-scale agreements or on Further significant pension plans are located in the UK (21.5 percent), People local grading systems. the USA and Canada. Plan benefits depend upon salary, length of ser▪▪ZF Group around the vice and the cost of living index. globe Job classification, grading systems and collective pay-scale agree▪▪Lifelong learning ments are intended to minimize the risk of discriminating against Compared to previous years the main change in 2016 took place in ▪▪Fair employment women on compensation levels. ZF will finish harmonizing the gradGermany were in order to secure pension obligations, the securities practices ing process and the system for managers worldwide by the end of 2017. have been transferred to the newly founded ZF Asset Trust e.V. Fur▪▪Promoting diversity ZF is an equal opportunity employer and has appointed a global diverther information and figures to this action can be found in the 2016 ▪▪Ensuring health and safety sity manager in 2016 to monitor equal treatment among employees. Annual Report (pages 97-104). ▪▪Supporting our local communities Benefits and retirement planning Health and insurance benefits play a central role in ZF’s offering to Environment Provisions for pensions are set up for obligations from vested benefits employees. Of course, benefits vary according to local standards, regSupply Chain and current pensions for entitled current and former employees of the ulations and market practice. Health benefits in Germany follow Product Responsibility consolidated ZF Group and their surviving dependents. Various retirenational regulations. GRI Content Index ment pension schemes exist depending on the legal, economic and and UNGC tax situation in the respective country, which – as a regular rule – are Following the acquisition of TRW, ZF is in the process of analyzing based on the length of service and emoluments of the employees. In the different healthcare and insurance benefit programs in the major general a distinction can be made in connection with company pencountries and locations. The harmonization of health benefits is comsion schemes between defined contribution plans (DC) and defined pleted in the USA. benefit plans (DB). G4-EC3 G4-EC5 G4-LA2 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 43 G4-LA13 Promoting diversity analyzed and processed on a regular basis, and the results are Contents reported to the Board of Management. The introduction of ZF Career About the Report We believe that diversity and the appreciation of diversity have a posiElements for managers has enabled us to define a binding framework CEO Statement tive impact on society and how people work together. That is why we for job and career decisions. The modules determine criteria for prosigned up with the Diversity Charter and now belong to a group of moting and supporting multidivisional, multidisciplinary experience Company Profile approximately 2450 signatories dedicated to a welcoming, prejudiceand help to internationalize management. The ZF Career Elements The Power of 2 free corporate culture. This voluntary commitment represents our are not yet in place at ZF TRW, but will be by 2018, as part of the inteStrategy and pledge to actively promote diversity within our organization. gration process. Governance People In 2016, a mentoring program to increase the visibility of female manTo increase the number of women in technical professions, ZF has ▪▪ZF Group around the agers within the organization was implemented. Feedback on the probecome a partner company of the highly renowned Femtec Associaglobe gram was very positive – from both the mentees and mentors. A foltion, which was founded by the EAF Berlin and the Technical Univer▪▪Lifelong learning low-up program open to women and men is currently being prepared. sity of Berlin in 2001. Femtec is an international career platform for ▪▪Fair employment practices women in natural sciences and engineering. The organization recruits ▪▪Promoting diversity Managing diversity talented young female students for STEM (Science, Technology, Engi▪▪Ensuring health and safety The HR strategy is part of the ZF 2025 Strategy and highlights the neering, Math) professions, qualifies excellent candidates for a man▪▪Supporting our local issue of diversity. ZF understands diversity as the key to success, a agement career and offers distinguished career perspectives to communities driver of innovations and a factor in enhancing corporate value. ZF focused female students in cooperation with the partner companies. Environment focuses on particular dimensions that will help meet strategic chalSupply Chain lenges in the coming years. They will also contribute to enhancing the Non-discrimination Product Responsibility ZF’s future competitiveness. These dimensions include a balanced ZF is present in many countries of the world and embraces a wide gender ratio, issues such as cultural background and internationality diversity of cultures and people. We foster the exchange of thoughts, GRI Content Index and UNGC of the workforce, a wide range of experience and expertise and soluideas and methods as well as understanding between cultures and tions to demographic changes. All of these factors are systematically people. Our ZF Charter and ZF Leadership Principles contain a definZF Sustainability Report 2016 44 G4-LA12 itive statement on the issue of diversity: Employees at ZF are not disZF has been a member of the Diversity Charter (Charta der Vielfalt) Contents criminated against on the basis of skin color, gender, age, nationality, since 2014. This involves a voluntary commitment to actively support About the Report religious denomination, social background, disability, or sexual oriendiversity in the organization. In 2016, the percentage of women in CEO Statement tation. This applies to the recruitment of new employees, the existing leadership positions in the Group amounted to 11.2 percent. This was employment relationship and professional advancement at ZF. The due to the integration of ZF TRW, which raised the percentage of Company Profile only traits that are important are performance, personality, skills, and women in leadership positions. The aim is to increase this amount by The Power of 2 qualifications. There were no confirmed incidents of discrimination introducing various measures, such as improvements in work and Strategy and in the reporting year. family balance. A career component was introduced in the form of a Governance social module to cover parental leave, leave to care for relatives and People Equal opportunity other types of community and family commitments. The compatibility ▪▪ZF Group around the In light of German legislation governing equal representation of of work and family at ZF is still an important objective for promoting globe women and men in managerial positions in the private and public equal opportunities and employee satisfaction. Since 2006, the ZF ▪▪Lifelong learning sectors, ZF has discussed and set targets for the relevant managerial location in Friedrichs­hafen has been a certified family-friendly com▪▪Fair employment practices levels to be achieved throughout the entire Group by June 30, 2017. pany in Germany. As part of the “career and family” (“berufundfami▪▪Promoting diversity At the first managerial level below the Board of Management, the perlie”) audit certificate, family-related targets and measures have been ▪▪Ensuring health and safety centage of women is planned to increase to 8.4 percent; at the second firmly established. The objective is to expand existing programs in the ▪▪Supporting our local managerial level, the target of 8.1 percent has already been achieved company or to establish new ones. ZF initiated an audit for the fourth communities and actually exceeded by 0.3 percent, reaching 8.4 percent. The pertime in 2015. Environment centage of women on the Board of Management will probably remain Supply Chain at 0 percent in June 2017 as no personnel­related changes are envisProduct Responsibility aged for this period. At the moment, 15 percent of the members of the 700 places Supervisory Board are women. This percentage may change when GRI Content Index and UNGC seats on the Supervisory Board become vacant. Thirty percent of the shareholders on the Supervisory Board are for vacation care at our major locations in women, one member is from outside Germany. Currently, the Board Germany of Management consists of seven men, one member of the Board is from abroad (non-German). G4-LA12 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 45 G4-HR3 Furthermore, additional family-friendly minimum standards were deploys state-of-the-art technology and knowledge. When planning Contents defined and consistently implemented by an expert body for work and procuring machines and equipment, key criteria are considered About the Report and family. We have been actively implementing the aspect of career for occupational health and safety protection. CEO Statement and family care for many years. A major milestone in this area was ZF's decision to build a company children's daycare center at the FrieZF has defined Group-wide targets for occupational health and safety Company Profile drichshafen location with 60 all-day places. This facility opened its management and progress is frequently monitored. Alongside complyThe Power of 2 doors at the end of 2015. We have also expanded childcare places and ing with applicable legal requirements and national occupational Strategy and options for short-term care throughout the Group. Another important health and safety standards, ZF has developed appropriate GroupGovernance building block continues to be providing daycare for employee chilwide minimum standards for health and safety. ZF also expects supPeople dren during school vacations at all our major locations in Germany. pliers and service providers to comply with the applicable occupa▪▪ZF Group around the This provides some 700 places for school vacation daycare. tional health and safety regulations. ZF and ZF TRW targets will be globe harmonized by the end of 2017. ▪▪Lifelong learning As of 2006, Friedrichshafen has been compliant with the statutory ▪▪Fair employment practices requirements for employees with disabilities and ZF has recorded the Organizational structure ▪▪Promoting diversity handicapped rate for Germany. In 2016, the percentage of employees The German Law of Occupational Health and Safety stipulates that ▪▪Ensuring health and with disabilities amounted to 5.8 percent (2016). The level exceeded occupational health and safety committees should be organized at safety the five percent minimum that legislation stipulates for the company. German locations. Members of the works councils are also repre▪▪Supporting our local communities As a result, it was not necessary to make any compensation payments. sented on these committees. Prior to the occupational health and safety committee meetings, specialists in occupational health and Environment safety, medical officers, representatives of the works council and Supply Chain Ensuring health and safety responsible executive managers carry out inspections and audits to Product Responsibility gain an insight into the current status and need for change. GRI Content Index Occupational safety and promotion of our employees' health are the and UNGC foundation of our day-to-day work. They are therefore top priorities International occupational safety management at ZF is controlled by within our corporate objectives. the occupational health and safety committee, which is made up of coordinators from the various divisions and regions. The committee The preventive approach plays a key role here. Risks at workstations has developed guidelines on all major safety topics. are periodically assessed at ZF, necessary measures are implemented and their effectiveness is assessed after the action has been taken. ZF G4-LA5 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 46 G4-LA12 The Global Health, Safety & Environmental (HS&E) Team of Division To support the compilation of risk assessment reports and accident Contents A defines standards, specific requirements and guidelines as part of management, ZF implemented an IT solution that was rolled out in About the Report the HS&E Management System. Implementation of the Management 2015. In the process, a team of machine safety experts defined key CEO Statement System covers strategic program elements such as ergonomics, metalprocesses and interfaces and drew up goodpractice examples on how working fluids, safety leadership and behavior-based safety. to source, commission, and retrofit machinery. Now a Group-wide Company Profile approval checklist for new machinery and plants creates uniform The Power of 2 Managing safety approval standards and is widely used by the safety experts. As part Strategy and Our Integrated Management System (IMS) for occupational safety, of the ZF TRW integration, Accident Management as well as Machine Governance environment and energy conforms to the international standard Safety and Ergonomics have been analysed by deep dive teams People BS OHSAS 18001. The introduction of OHSAS is voluntary at ZF, formed of ZF and ZF TRW specialists to determine the best solutions ▪▪ZF Group around the however those locations that fall significantly short of their accident for the combined company. Realization will start after Board of Manglobe reduction targets are asked to join the certification scheme. One of agement (BoM) approval in the second half of 2017. ▪▪Lifelong learning the occupational health and safety objectives is to see a continuous ▪▪Fair employment practices increase in the number of sites integrated into the Group certification All employees and their representatives are involved in the continu▪▪Promoting diversity scheme. The international occupational safety management system ous improvement of health and safety in the workplace and they are ▪▪Ensuring health and OHSAS was expanded in 2016 to 39 (2015: 26) ZF locations (not subject to regular qualification measures. Staff are motivated to parsafety including ZF TRW) – including all relevant production locations in ticipate in activities such as workshops and suggestion schemes. A ▪▪Supporting our local communities the North America region. About 20 additional sites will be added to Behavior Based Safety program and Safety Kaizen have been implethe OHSAS matrix in 2017 and 2018 based on their safety performented at ZF TRW. Employee involvement activities are designed to Environment mance and customer requirements. increase awareness and create a sense of ownership and responsibilSupply Chain ity for their own safety and the safety of their colleagues. Product Responsibility ZF TRW has implemented a Health, Safey & Environmental ManageGRI Content Index ment System at its sites and this includes the requirements of OHSAS Accident reduction program launched and UNGC 18001; the HS&E Management System is subject to periodical audits In December 2014 the BoM approved an ambitious global accident performed by the Global HS&E Team. In total 15 sites are holding a reduction program for ZF locations (not including ZF TRW) with a single OHSAS 18001 certification and it is expected that more sites clearly defined target. By 2025, all locations must reduce their acciwill be certified in 2017 and 2018 to fullfill customer requirements. dent rate, which is defined as accidents resulting in one or more lost ZF Sustainability Report 2016 47 G4-LA5 days per million working hours, to less than five. This means a reducThe Safety Leadership Program Contents tion of 60 percent compared to today’s figures. Since most accidents Senior management realized the importance of recognizing and supAbout the Report are caused by at-risk behavior, the objective can only be achieved by porting safety leadership at every level in the organization. As part of CEO Statement changing the safety culture. the integration process and the “best of both” approach, the BoM decided to build the ZF Safety Leadership program based on the Company Profile Although strenuous efforts were made, the target to reduce the acciproven ZF TRW program which started about 10 years ago and has The Power of 2 dent rate by 10 percent every year was not achieved in 2016. About helped to significantly reduce accidents. Strategy and 20 percent of the locations fell significantly short of their reduction Governance targets. A decision was taken in 2016 to implement a Safety ExcelZF TRW’s experience shows that Safety Leadership workshops have People lence program directed toward supporting the sites in achieving their been an effective tool in helping to create a sustainable safety culture. ▪▪ZF Group around the reduction targets. The objectives of Safety Leadership are: globe ▪▪Lifelong learning Safety Excellence ▪▪ creating a company-wide value for safety, ▪▪Fair employment practices In September 2016, the BoM decided to launch the Safety Excellence ▪▪ ensuring that all managers understand their important role in man▪▪Promoting diversity program consisting of the three key elements: Safety Leadership, aging safety and building a strong safety culture and ▪▪Ensuring health and Employee Involvement and Continuous Improvement. This program ▪▪ fostering a culture where employees are empowered to play an safety aims to sustainably foster the same culture of shared values regarding active role in ensuring their own safety and that of their fellow ▪▪Supporting our local communities health and safety for every employee and at every location. To build a employees, both of which contribute to building a strong and susculture where safety is valued, ZF will encourage and empower employtainable safety culture. Environment ees to make a positive impact on their work environment. Through Supply Chain the Safety Excellence program, employees are working together to The BoM´s Safety Vision aims for world class safety performance and Product Responsibility build a strong and sustainable culture of safety and security. was summarized in a video message shown to managers at all workGRI Content Index shops. Dr. Sommer (CEO) stated that he considers safety as a prereqand UNGC Since ZF TRW had already developed and implemented the Safety uisite for success, Mr. Hankel (COO) added that safety has the same Excellence program, a team made up of representatives from both priority as productivity, quality and delivery reliability. The Safety companies was created called the Safety Leadership Core Team. The Leadership (SL) Core Team has developed content for Safety Leaderteam is currently focusing on implementing the Safety Leadership ship workshops. Module 1 focuses on the transformation to a high element. safety culture, presenting nine Safety Leadership Elements and introducing five Safety Basics. ZF Sustainability Report 2016 48 The first workshop adopted the top-down approach and was conTRW. One important program element is the ergonomics program. Contents ducted for divisional managers and BoM members in November 2016. Additional locations have implemented the new ergonomics online About the Report They subsequently invited their management teams to participate in a tool which is currently being tested by ZF TRW. CEO Statement similar workshop and also asked the next levels to follow a similar format. The workshops were delivered by the SL Core Team and Rate of Accidents Company Profile internal safety leadership coaches. They took part in a qualification ZF places great value on employee health and safety. Work-related The Power of 2 program consisting of internal training courses held by the SL Core lost time accidents are recorded and analyzed in order to monitor Strategy and Team and external training from a consulting firm. The program is safety performance. In 2016, data included agency workers for ZF Governance accompanied by the introduction of five safety basics to set worldand ZF TRW. Like the previous year, there were no work-related fatalPeople wide minimum standards and make the program visible for all ities in the ZF Group. ▪▪ZF Group around the employees. The safety basics consist of rules related to the use of globe safety shoes, highly visible clothing and mobile devices, unique safety At ZF, (not including ZF TRW) 1,484 work-related accidents resulted ▪▪Lifelong learning flyers for visitors and envisioning accident free days at the locations. in 22,879 lost work days, the Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) – acci▪▪Fair employment practices dents per one million working hours – was 11.5. This represents a ▪▪Promoting diversity Employee involvement reduction of 5 percent compared to the previous year. The severity ▪▪Ensuring health and ZF TRW had also developed and implemented a Behavior-Based rate – lost workdays/lost workday accident – was 15.4. This is an safety Safety (BBS) process as part of its drive to achieve Safety Excellence. increase of 4 percent compared to 2015. ▪▪Supporting our local communities BBS aims to increase employee involvement in safety by making employees more aware of how an individual’s behavior at work Most accidents occurred in Europe (1,295 work-related accidents), Environment largely determines safety outcomes. About 100 locations have implemainly in Germany (1,079 work-related accidents). The South AmerSupply Chain mented this process of safety coaching with employees coaching their ica region improved its safety performance by 35 percent which Product Responsibility colleagues to work safely. In 2016, one ZF location in Brazil started a shows that their safety-improvement actions and programs have been GRI Content Index pilot program to implement BBS. In 2017, the rollout of the BBS proeffective. The Asia-Pacific region reported the lowest accident rate. and UNGC cess at ZF will be defined and planned, with the target year 2018 to start the rollout. As for ZF TRW, 369 work-related lost time accidents caused 10,874 lost work days, the Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) was 2.4. This repContinuous Improvement resents a reduction of 4 percent compared to 2015. The severity rate – The backbone of the Continuous Improvement program is comprised lost workdays/lost workday accident – was 24.6. This is a reduction of of our management systems and audit programs. The systems are 1 percent compared to 2015. being evaluated to start the consolidation process between ZF and ZF G4-LA6 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 49 G4-LA7 Also, the Occupational Medicine expert group on hazardous material Contents How technology improves safety at ZF and the Interdisciplinary Health Management expert group (IEG) About the Report were established. The IEG on “Leadership and Health” (consisting of To increase employee safety, we have also improved various technological CEO Statement representatives from all ZF divisions, not including ZF TRW) develissues regarding daily work activities. For instance, ZF Gusstechnologie has GmbH introduced a new system for tracking and analyzing forklift truck activoped mandatory standards for training courses on leadership and Company Profile ity in 2016. The forklift truck automatically complies with the maximum speed health at the German locations across all divisions. These standards The Power of 2 allowed for transporting the weight of liquid melt, which is important for affect the training programs offered at the locations and the content safety and cost issues. Employees now transport higher volumes more safely. Strategy and In case of incidents, damage costs will be reduced by more than 50 percent. of individual training courses. They also provide information on the Governance Further implementation of the new system is scheduled for 2017. training and qualifications of the trainers. An analysis of the situation People revealed that models for salutogenesis, the bonus crisis, etc. are ▪▪ZF Group around the important here. The nationwide launch of these standards will start at globe Both the North America and Asia-Pacific regions showed an improvethe German locations in 2017. ▪▪Lifelong learning ment of 17 pecent while Europe showed an increase of 5 percent and ▪▪Fair employment practices South America an increase of 14 percent in the LTAR. The overall ▪▪Promoting diversity safety performance remains at a very good level and met targets for ▪▪Ensuring health and both LTAR (3.0) and the severity rate (the target severity rate in 2016 safety was based on working hours). ▪▪Supporting our local Rate of accidents (LTAR) communities Accidents with working days lost per one million working hours A high percentage of lost workday accidents was caused by slips, trips Environment and falls, and contact with moving machines (18 percent each). InjuRegions 2016 2015 2014 Supply Chain ries sustained by employees were mostly to the fingers and hands. Combined Product Responsibility ZF ZF TRW Company ZF ZF EMEA 15.3 3.9 10.5 15.5 17.8 GRI Content Index As part of the integration process a new data bank for combined data of which Germany 16.4 4.5 14.2 17 19.4 and UNGC reporting is being evaluated to ensure consistent reporting. of which Europe1 11.7 3.7 5.9 10.5 11.4 North America2 4.6 1.8 2.6 6.5 4.8 Managing our wellbeing South America 7.7 3.3 6.0 12 12.6 The strategy defined in 2014 to provide a platform for effectively Asia-Pacific 2.3 0.5 1.1 3 3.5 coordinating synergies generated by the large number of decentralZF Group 11.5 2.35 6.5 12.1 13.5 ized activities in health management was implemented. 1 excluding Germany 2 including Mexico G4-LA6 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 50 G4-LA7 For ZF (not including ZF TRW), minimum medical standards have Apart from hearing loss, only one work-related skin disease was diagContents been defined and distributed worldwide in 2016. To cover these mininosed in 2016. The company's medical service becomes aware of About the Report mum standards, the status of meeting these standards was evaluated. work-related skin diseases when symptoms occur, and the spread of CEO Statement At the locations that did not meet these standards, actions were symptoms can often be avoided before they turn into an occupational defined and initial audits were carried out to achieve our standards. disease. In 2016, forty-two employees were diagnosed with potential Company Profile work-related skin disease, but only one case was confirmed. In nearly The Power of 2 Occupational diseases all of the rejected cases, benefits were provided. Strategy and Information on occupational diseases are currently only reported for Governance Germany (not including ZF TRW locations). There were no indicaWe provide the required skin protection to prevent work-related skin People tions of employee groups who have a high rate or risk of disease diseases and stipulate their use in skin protection plans. Whenever ▪▪ZF Group around the resulting from their work at ZF during the reporting year. The risks of employees suspect they have health problems, they can consult the globe occupational diseases and work-related health problems typical in the company doctor or medical service during working hours. All employ▪▪Lifelong learning metalworking industry are well known. Preventive measures and conees have the option of undergoing additional health check-ups along▪▪Fair employment practices tingencies for intervention are in place. For instance, a standard key side mandatory health care at ZF. ▪▪Promoting diversity indicator method is used to evaluate stresses on the musculoskeletal ▪▪Ensuring health and system in the workplace and corresponding prevention and intervenIn the metalworking industry, the risk of occupational infectious dissafety tion actions are taken, such as ergonomic workplace designs. eases is negligible. Only the medical personnel working in the medi▪▪Supporting our local communities cal service are exposed to this risk. and they are entitled to free vacciNoise-induced hearing loss was again the most frequently reported nations. People who take business trips to countries with increased Environment occupational disease among ZF employees. This is not surprising for a health risks including possible infectious diseases receive obligatory Supply Chain long-established metalworking company. In 2016, the company identipreventive care in the form of extensive travel-related medical advice Product Responsibility fied 21 cases (2015: 20 cases). As noise-induced hearing loss usually or check-ups, including the appropriate vaccinations. GRI Content Index develops over years of exposure to noise, the latest figures for occupaand UNGC tional disease identified do not necessarily reflect current working Health and safety agreements with trade unions conditions. In recent years, we have implemented several measures to The system of co-determination in place at the German ZF locations reduce noise emissions. Possible preventive measures include technialso applies to health and safety at work. Close cooperation on these cal measures to limit noise. Strain on the inner ear is also reduced by issues occurs between the Works Councils and the Group Works wearing suitable personal protective equipment (PPE). This hearing Council. Occupational health and safety issues are part of the Group protection equipment is available to all employees affected, and wearDirectives and guidelines applied at the various locations. In Gering it is mandatory in noisy areas. many, the approval process for these regulations includes the involvement of employee representatives regarding issues subject to co-deterG4-LA6 G4-LA7 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 51 G4-LA8 mination. On a location level, there are various guidelines on hand Currently initiatives from Australia, Brazil, China, Germany, MalayContents that cover occupational health and safety. A Group Directive on occusia, South Africa, South Korea, the Netherlands, UK and USA joined About the Report pational health and safety was prepared in 2014, and a draft for the the network and shared their social activities. CEO Statement directive was planned for 2015. However, ratification may be delayed because of the integration of the new structures and processes due to Worldwide recognition of we>care will enable all ZF employees to Company Profile the TRW acquisition. provide disaster relief support and emergency aid within ZF’s annual The Power of 2 project. Strategy and Governance Supporting our local communities The first step was a worldwide online vote. This allowed all employPeople ees to be involved in choosing the annual project as a follow-up to the ▪▪ZF Group around the Corporate social responsibility at ZF is an important and intrinsic “100 Years – 100 Schools” campaign. A team from the trainee proglobe component of the company’s mission statement. In line with this comgram and the members of the “ZF hilft” advisory council selected ▪▪Lifelong learning mitment, we therefore contribute a great deal to our local communithree projects from globally accredited NGOs. The majority voted for ▪▪Fair employment practices ties by supporting education, sports and recreation, culture, environthe Water is Life project which will be launched together with the ▪▪Promoting diversity mental and community projects. Activities of this nature range from global aid organization CARE. Fundraising for the project started at ▪▪Ensuring health and safety funding endowed chairs at universities, through the ZF Art Foundathe end of 2016. ▪▪Supporting our local tion supporting artists and musicians, festivals and nonprofit organicommunities zations, to an owl sanctuary project in northern Germany. ZF spon100 Years – 100 Schools Environment sors the elite volleyball players of the VfB Friedrichshafen team and The fundraising campaign for the educational project “100 Years – Supply Chain also funds many local recreational sports. 100 Schools” was announced during the anniversary year of ZF FrieProduct Responsibility drichshafen AG and it has now been completed. The money is being A new platform we>care to bundle all initiatives invested in building and enhancing 100 educational institutions in GRI Content Index and UNGC Throughout the world, ZF employees strive to help vulnerable people impoverished regions around the globe. Additionally, children from in the global community. However, many of these positive actions go 100 African villages received bicycles to get to school every day. unnoticed. The new platform we>care is going to change that. Many people responded to the call for donations. ZF employees we>care bundles all the initiatives and creates a common identity, around the world, ZF retirees and the Group itself as well as the city including overtime or financial donations, volunteering, even donaof Friedrichshafen and its citizens contributed to this campaign. Comtions of baked cookies. A global network of initiatives will be put in panies from the region also gave generously to this initiative. The place under we>care. money raised by ZF Group amounted to more than EUR 2.4 million G4-LA8 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 52 G4-SO1 at the end of the campaign. With UBS Optimus Foundation adding ZF TRW staff members were encouraged to volunteer and define a Contents more than EUR 1.8 million, the donated money amounted to program of safety presentations and educational sessions aimed at About the Report EUR 4.2 million. young children. This created understanding among the children CEO Statement through fun activities and was supported by educational presentations Together with YOU – Foundation for Children in Need, a total of 85 on the safety equipment available in cars and how it works. Feedback Company Profile new schools are being built in Bangladesh, India and Sierra Leone. from staff, children and parents who attended the events showed that The Power of 2 Our aid focuses on povertystricken areas. In addition, 70 different they were well received. Strategy and educational institutions in China, Mexico, Nepal and Peru and the Governance Philippines were selected to receive support for improving the quality Each year, the campaign builds on previous successes and the team People of education and teaching there. “ZF hilft” joined forces with the encourages more employees to host events through the intranet pages. ▪▪ZF Group around the international “World Bicycle Relief” organization to commit to mobilOutreach is being extended to local primary schools near ZF TRW globe ity. This is the third pillar of its far-reaching aid campaign. As part of locations. Seven school events were held in 2015 with annual return ▪▪Lifelong learning this commitment, it donated more than 4,000 bicycles to Zambia and visits booked. In 2016, the number of events rose to eleven, educating ▪▪Fair employment practices South Africa to make school children from 100 African villages more around 585 young children about the importance of Road Safety – an ▪▪Promoting diversity mobile. increase of 270 over the previous year. ▪▪Ensuring health and safety ▪▪Supporting our local ZF TRW’s Child Road Safety Campaign 2016 This campaign was recognized in 2016 when the China Automobile & communities In 2008, road safety in China was still in its infancy with the number Parts Industry magazine awarded the team a Developing & Innovation Environment of vehicles and pedestrians predicted to swell during the Beijing Award: BEST CSR SAMPLE. Supply Chain Olympics. ZF TRW began a campaign aimed at young children to Product Responsibility create awareness of the dangers presented by road traffic. This was chosen as a sustainability project in 2012. GRI Content Index and UNGC The campaign focused on young children and required an identity they could relate to, thus the “Safety Bunny” mascot was born to spearhead the campaign. An official website was developed. “Safety Bunny” educational materials were created, including stickers, books and a USB containing a video and a ‘cuddly’ Safety Bunny toy. ZF Sustainability Report 2016 53 G4-SO1 Environment We are meeting our responsibility toward people and the environment and develop new strategies in this area. The best approaches from ZF Contents by implementing a range of different environmental protection meaand TRW, and from the automotive industry in general, will be conAbout the Report sures. This responsibility is anchored in ZF values. It protects us sidered here. This integration process will involve the new common CEO Statement against entrepreneurial risks – in the areas of compliance, customer policy, defining areas of activity and targets, and a common baseline. relations and reputation – while improving our operating efficiency A joint environmental and occupational health and safety program Company Profile and benefiting the environment. We continue to operate responsibly with overall policy and objectives will be established in this way. The Power of 2 as a business and a manufacturer of ZF products by constantly strivStrategy and ing to globally comply with legal requirements and internal standards. Governance Organizational structures and compliance People Environmental Strategy The global ZF environmental organization covers all the areas of the Environment ▪▪Environmental Strategy company, from each individual division to different regions, right ▪▪Organizational strucConserving natural resources is the fundamental principle of our down to the locations. The corporate environmental protection officer tures and compliance environmental strategy which is based on the environmental policy is responsible at the Group level and senior environmental protection ▪▪ZF environmental and adopted in 1996. This policy has been amended and added to since officers are appointed at the divisional level. The regional coordinaenergy policy then and it is globally binding for all locations. tors in individual regions provide support for ensuring compliance, ▪▪Environmental the implementation of ZF standards and monitoring of the environmanagement system The environmental policy includes major areas of activity which are mental management system. Our environmental organization works ▪▪Energy essential for us: climate protection, the environmental impact of our closely together with the Occupational Health & Safety Department in ▪▪Emissions production, eco-friendly product design and environmental perfororder to leverage synergies. The leading environmental protection ▪▪Water mance improvement. This policy is based on environmental objectives officers from the divisions and regions meet up several times a year in ▪▪Waste management for the areas of activity and is controlled by our certified environmenthe Environmental Manager Committee (EMC) to coordinate current ▪▪Environmental protection costs tal and energy management system. The locations strive to achieve developments and further develop the environmental strategy. In the objectives at a local level. addition, working groups are established for important specialist Supply Chain areas to perform preparatory work for the EMC. Product Responsibility The strategy, our management approach and environmental reporting GRI Content Index is currently being revised for the combined company. Experts for and UNGC environmental and occupational safety at ZF are working to adapt ZF Sustainability Report 2016 54 ZF environmental and energy policy 3. We continuously improve our energy and environmental Contents performance About the Report ZF’s commitment to sustainable environmental protection is anchored We implement our environmental and energy objectives worldwide CEO Statement in the ZF Charter and the basis for our work. The following principles with the help of appropriate management systems, review the are checked on a regular basis and are binding for all employees agreed performance levels on a regular basis, and, if any discrepCompany Profile worldwide, with our executive managers being role models for their ancy is detected, we take the necessary improvement actions. For The Power of 2 implementation. Corporate Development projects, we perform environmental risk Strategy and assessments. Governance 1. We are committed to environmentally-friendly product design People Our products are designed to be as energy and resource efficient as 4. We strive to be a role model on a worldwide level Environment possible. Our striving for technological innovations and excellent We want to be a role model in terms of dealing with the environ▪▪Environmental Strategy solutions also includes environmentally friendly product design. ment and its resources. In order to meet our claim to excellence, we ▪▪Organizational structures We are convinced that our innovative strength in terms of environnot only comply with the respectively applicable legal requirements and compliance mental issues contributes to our competitiveness. but also work on the worldwide implementation of ZF-internal ▪▪ZF environmental and standards. energy policy 2. We reduce the environmental impact of our operating processes ▪▪Environmental to a minimum 5. We actively involve employees, suppliers, service providers, and management system We design our processes to be as energy and resource efficient customers and engage in dialog with the authorities and society ▪▪Energy as possible and reduce environmental pollution caused by our We involve our employees in the development and implementation ▪▪Emissions activities to a minimum. We take appropriate actions to ensure of our environmental and energy policy. We train and motivate ▪▪Water that environmental hazards are prevented and limited in the event them regularly; our employees actively contribute to shaping our ▪▪Waste management of an incident. For this purpose, we use environmentally friendly environmental protection and energy management. Our suppliers ▪▪Environmental protection costs technologies for our investments that are, at least, state-of-the-art; and service providers are expected to comply with the respectively in particular, we actively support the worldwide climate protection applicable environmental and energy specifications; from our supSupply Chain efforts. pliers with processes especially relevant to the environment, we Product Responsibility demand a certified environmental management system. When dealGRI Content Index ing with environmental and climate protection issues, we engage in and UNGC a dialog with the authorities and all parties interested on site. Furthermore, we report regularly on the outcome of our efforts. ZF Sustainability Report 2016 55 Environmental management system The Board of Management evaluates twice a year whether the enviContents ronmental objectives have been reached. The board also assesses About the Report All ZF production and main development locations with more than whether the environmental management system qualifies to meet curCEO Statement 50 employees are required to align their environmental management rent requirements: A Group review is generated twice a year based on with the requirements of the ZF Group’s environmental management the valuation of the locations and the Group unit for environmental Company Profile system after being part of the Group for more than one year. They protection. This review is presented to the Board of Management and The Power of 2 also have to be certified within the ZF Group certificate in accordance is used to derive the strategic environmental and sustainability objecStrategy and with ISO 14001. In 2016, there were 103 ZF locations (not including tives for the entire company. Governance ZF TRW) worldwide certified in conformity with the corporate People ISO 14001 scheme. All ZF TRW locations with a customer requireIn 2016, the ZF Group Directive for Environment, Health and Safety Environment ment are obliged to organize an environmental management system. (EHS) Management was revised. The high-level document covers all ▪▪Environmental Strategy 109 locations are certified with ZF TRW in accordance to the internaZF sites and defines the EHS organization in concrete terms. The pur▪▪Organizational structures tional ISO 14001 standard. A total of 92 percent of the production pose of the directive is to strengthen the organizational implementaand compliance locations now operate under ISO 14001 certification. tion of the Board of Management's responsibility regarding EHS glob▪▪ZF environmental and ally as well as on all levels of the Group and to define the principles energy policy The Group’s environmental management system covers all regions: of ZF EHS management. ▪▪Environmental Eastern and Western Europe, Africa, North America, South America, management system and Asia-Pacific. It regulates important matters throughout the Group. Prevention ▪▪Energy For example, all environmental protection officers are granted the A core element of the environmental management system is the ▪▪Emissions right to submit a direct report to the location management, or the evaluation of environmental risks and therefrom derived preventive ▪▪Water sequence and cycle are defined for internal audits. measures. ▪▪Waste management ▪▪Environmental protection costs Preventive technical measures in place at the locations ensure that hazardous substances cannot spill into the ground and endanger the Supply Chain 92% groundwater, even in the event of a potential release resulting from a Product Responsibility breakdown. A Group-wide reporting obligation has been introduced GRI Content Index to cover the eventuality of a release. and UNGC of production sites are certified in accordance with ISO 14001 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 56 G4-EN25 Remediation meets twice a year to continously improve the holistic energy manageContents ZF was involved in over 54 remediation projects, whose causes ment approach and to regularly review key figures and actions for tarAbout the Report occurred ten years and more ago. The processing of those projects is get achievement. CEO Statement carried out jointly with the relevant local authorities. The costs for these projects amounted to EUR 14 million in 2016. Also in the reporting year, following the revised ZF EHS Management Company Profile Group Directive, basic elements of energy management were extended The Power of 2 Furthermore, neither committed we any legal environmental offences to all ZF sites worldwide. In accordance to international standards it Strategy and or were required to pay any environment related penalties or fines in became mandatory for all ZF locations to extend their reporting and Governance 2016. target tracking for energy objectives with corrective measures and People actions. Environment Energy Energy use ZF including ZF TRW in 2016 ▪▪Environmental Strategy ▪▪Organizational structures and compliance Energy management is a top priority for an industrial company like Others 6% ▪▪ZF environmental and ZF. Approximately 66 percent of the energy consumed at ZF comes energy policy from purchased electricity. Energy procurement and consumption is ▪▪Environmental Natural gas 28% therefore a major topic especially at the ZF production locations. management system Electricity 66% ▪▪Energy In 2016, we have established a global energy team to further improve ▪▪Emissions our environmental performance. The cross-functional team (including ▪▪Water purchasing, production, tax and real estate management departments) ▪▪Waste management ▪▪Environmental protection costs Since 2013, ZF’s environmental management system in Germany has Supply Chain 27% included requirements in accordance with ISO 50001. The European Product Responsibility Energy Directive (EED) required all European ZF locations to carry GRI Content Index out an energy audit (EN 16247) or implement an energy management and UNGC system according to ISO 50001 and this requirement has been met. In increase in energy efficiency could be realized 2016 – as the result of an automated selection procedure – ZF was over the past three years assessed regarding its implementation of the German Energy Services Directive (EDL-G) by the responsible German Federal Office for EcoG4-EN25 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 57 G4-EN29 nomic Affairs and Export Control (BAFA). In the course of this samEnergy consumption Contents ple control, ZF had to provide proof for all German locations that the Last year, the absolute ZF Group energy consumption grew by about About the Report company had complied with all EDL-G obligations. The assessment 48 percent because of integrating ZF TRW and an increase in producCEO Statement found that ZF is meeting its legal obligations by having implemented a tion volume, including several locations which were divested at the certified energy management system according to ISO 50001. In 2016, end of 2016. Company Profile the Corporate ISO 50001 scheme covered 43 locations and 10 single site The Power of 2 certifications. By the end of 2018, additional ZF locations in Europe A huge variety of production processes occur within the ZF Group Strategy and will have been incorporated in the ISO 50001 Group Certificate. and they have very different energy consumption requirements. The Governance die-casting processes carried out by ZF Gusstechnologie GmbH are People As an integral part of the energy management system, the locations highly energy intensive production processes. In 2016, 5 percent of Environment define specific targets locally and annually to increase energy effithe energy consumed by ZF, including TRW, was used at the die-cast▪▪Environmental Strategy ciency and they take appropriate actions based on this. The environing sites of ZF Gusstechnologie GmbH. ▪▪Organizational structures mental objectives of ZF (not including ZF TRW) envision an annual and compliance reduction in energy consumption in proportion to sales. This has to be Absolute energy consumption 2014 – 2016 ▪▪ZF environmental and quantified at the local level. ZF TRW, on the other hand, applies an in gigawatt hours energy policy annual goal for reducing energy costs by 5 percent over the previous 4,107 ▪▪Environmental year’s average and in proportion to each part shipped. These objec4,000 management system tives can be achieved by controlling the key performance indicator for 3,500 1,334 ▪▪Energy 2,668 energy consumption within the environmental management system in 3,000 2,476 ▪▪Emissions conformity with ISO 14001. 2,500 ▪▪Water 2,000 ▪▪Waste management A detailed energy program helps the locations achieve this target. The 1,500 ▪▪Environmental protection 1,000 2,773 costs core elements of the program are behavioral changes, energy supply management, energy data management and energy efficiency in 500 Supply Chain buildings. 0 Product Responsibility 2014 2015 2016 GRI Content Index Additional actions to increase efficiency and reduce energy consumpZF › Electricity Natural gas Others1 ZF TRW › Electricity Natural gas Others1 and UNGC tion are planned and implemented at the different locations. In con1 Oil, District Heating, Liquid Gas, Acetylene junction with the energy management system in conformity with ISO 50001, these measures have enabled us to increase energy efficiency worldwide considerably. G4-EN3 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 58 G4-EN4 The percentage of electricity at ZF TRW is higher than within ZF. The Die-casting production processes provide good examples of successful Contents ZF Group’s energy profile therefore changed significantly to a share resource efficiency measures within ZF. In 2016, 5 percent of the About the Report of 66 percent of electricity in power consumption. This is due to difenergy consumed by ZF (including ZF TRW) was used at die-casting CEO Statement ferent production footprints (processes, countries) of ZF TRW. sites. It is therefore a top priority for those locations to have a process of continuous inspection and approval for resource and energy effiCompany Profile As in previous years, ZF and ZF TRW again reduced energy intensity. ciency. In 2016, the Nuremberg location successfully converted its The Power of 2 ZF (not including ZF TRW) brought down energy consumption per tempering concept in the die-casting process from a mixed oil-water Strategy and million euros of sales by 3 percent. Compared to 2013, an overall pressurized system to a hot-cold-water tempering system. This action Governance reduction of 27 percent was achieved in 2016. This improvement in reduced energy consumption in this process by more than 80 percent, People energy performance was reached by increasing production volume increased die service life and decreased the use of release agents by Environment and implementing energy efficiency measures. more than 50 percent. ▪▪Environmental Strategy ▪▪Organizational structures New production lines have been installed at locations in the North AmerOne basic energy efficiency program involves replacing conventional and compliance ica and China regions. These processes were partly rolled out as a trial lighting with modern LED lighting in production and assembly halls. ▪▪ZF environmental and phase in 2016 and did not contribute fully to the increase in production. This reduces energy consumption on a large scale while, at the same energy policy time, improving lighting conditions for employees. Several projects ▪▪Environmental Promoting energy efficency management system Special programs and actions at site level achieved continuous Specific energy consumption 2014 – 2016 ▪▪Energy improvement in energy efficiency. In 2016, ZF implemented more than in megawatt hours per EUR million of sales ▪▪Emissions 110 projects to reduce energy consumption. Most of them are optimiza130 ▪▪Water tions in plant engineering and operation. At ZF TRW, Environmental 120 111 108 ▪▪Waste management 104 100 97 Protection and Occupational Health and Safety initiated a project ▪▪Environmental protection 80 costs called “Cost Determination and Reduction” (CDR) at the individual locations which is intended to uncover potential savings in these areas. 60 Supply Chain In 2016, the project brought in more than EUR 4 million worldwide in 40 Product Responsibility areas such as energy and resource efficiency and waste reduction. 20 GRI Content Index 0 and UNGC A variety of measures enabled us to save 59 GWh of energy world2014 2015 2016 wide in 2016. This is enough energy to supply more than 14,800 ZF › Electricity Natural gas Others1 ZF TRW › Electricity Natural gas Others1 households with an average consumption of 4,000 kWh/a. ZF + ZF TRW (Total) › Electricity Natural Others1 1 Oil, District Heating, Liquid Gas, Acetylene G4-EN3 G4-EN4 G4-EN5 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 59 G4-EN6 were rolled out in this area. Three German locations changed their Emissions Contents lighting systems during the last year, thus saving more than 5,000 About the Report MWh electricity. The majority of emissions generated by our products occur during the CEO Statement utilization phase. That is why, as part of our emissions reduction The ZF TRW location in Koblenz worked in conjunction with Comau efforts, we are focusing on developing products that contribute to cutCompany Profile to complete an intervention called GreenFit. This reduces use of the ting vehicle emissions (see page 76 et seq). The Power of 2 hydraulic pump and brings down high-pressure pump energy conStrategy and sumption in CNC machines. The goal of GreenFit is to evaluate existOur environmental and energy management system simultaneously Governance ing machines for potential retrofits that reduce overall energy conmanages the reduction of emissions from our production facilities. People sumption. Typical savings are in the 10-15 percent range, depending The system takes into account the risks and opportunities associated Environment on the cycle time. with climate change. ▪▪Environmental Strategy ▪▪Organizational structures Technical concepts for systematic machine shutdown have already Prior to the merging of ZF and ZF TRW, the objective of the two comand compliance been implemented at several ZF locations. For example, the ZF locapanies was a 20 percent decrease in CO2 emissions generated by the ▪▪ZF environmental and tion at Sao Bernardo do Campo in Brazil has reduced its energy conenergy consumed during production per sales by 2020. This target energy policy sumption by 700,000 kWh every year through the controller system had already been achieved by both companies in 2015. By 2016, the ▪▪Environmental for machine shutdown. specific ZF emissions (not including ZF TRW) dropped by 36 percent management system compared to the baseline (average emission 2006-2010). The reorgani▪▪Energy ZF TRW plants foster behaviors that reduce energy consumption in zation of the EHS organization for the combined company will include ▪▪Emissions the Green Dot Initiative. This initiative empowers employees to idenrevising the CO2 reduction target and reallocating it as part of the new ▪▪Water tify and label equipment and lights that can be safely shut down when EHS policy and strategy. ▪▪Waste management they are not needed. While this program contributed to energy sav▪▪Environmental protection costs ings, it has not yet been fully utilized within all work cells and lines. Since the reporting year 2013, ZF (not including ZF TRW) has been The program therefore remains an area of focus and will be evaluated using VDA (German Automobile Industry Association) emission facSupply Chain within the integration process. tors to calculate direct and indirect (Scope 1 and Scope 2) GHG emisProduct Responsibility sions. Since 2016, the emissions calculation has been based on the GRI Content Index latest published VDA emission factors from 2015, and it was estaband UNGC lished for the combined company. The reported amount of CO2 emissions does not include CO2 equivalents (from CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, NF3, or others). Since ZF joined CDP reporting in 2016 for the first time, reporting including ZF TRW is targeted for the near future. In G4-EN5 G4-EN6 G4-EN15 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 60 G4-EN16 Absolute CO2 emissions 2014 – 2016 terms of SF6, in 2016 ZF locations (including ZF TRW) were no longer Contents in thousand tons emitting this gas because of adaption of processes in die-casting or About the Report substitution of relevant substances. 1,570 1,750 CEO Statement 1,500 Reducing GHG emissions Company Profile 1,250 604 The strategy of ZF and ZF TRW focuses on continuously reducing The Power of 2 1,000 956 928 GHG emissions. The improvements achieved were made possible by 750 Strategy and numerous initiatives and projects to increase efficiency and raise Governance 500 967 awareness at a local level. 250 People 0 Environment Over 110 projects were implemented at ZF locations around the 2014 2015 2016 ▪▪Environmental Strategy world. They were mainly in the area of plant engineering, process ▪▪Organizational structures ZF ZF TRW optimization and building technology. Our CO2 balance sheet was and compliance therefore improved by a total of more than 35,000 metric tons. For ▪▪ZF environmental and details on projects, see EN6. energy policy Specific CO2 emissions 2014 – 2016 ▪▪Environmental in tons per EUR million of sales Another important mainstay is the environmental management sysmanagement system 60 tem used at locations throughout the world. This primarily evaluates ▪▪Energy 50 50 energy efficiency in production. ▪▪Emissions 441 39 381 40 ▪▪Water 40 CO2 emission volumes ▪▪Waste management 30 20 The increase in energy consumption means that ZF’s CO2 emissions ▪▪Environmental protection costs 10 also rose slightly in 2016. Supply Chain 0 In the last few years, specific CO2 emissions at ZF have been on a Product Responsibility 2014 2015 2016 continuous downward curve in line with specific energy consumpGRI Content Index ZF ZF TRW ZF + ZF TRW (Total) tion. ZF TRW production processes consume more electricity and less and UNGC 1 The calculation of our emissions is based on the emission factors published by VDA (German Association for the automotive industry) in 2015 gas compared to production at ZF. Electricity has a higher emissions factor than gas and this means that the specific CO2 emissions from G4-EN15 G4-EN16 G4-EN17 G4-EN18 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 61 G4-EN19 the combined company are higher. Another reason for ZF TRW's ters from active carbon adsorption to thermal oxidation. This way solContents higher specific emissions is its larger operational footprint in China vents can be oxidized effectively and solid particles can be extracted. About the Report with consequently higher emissions factors. Also by eliminating the active carbon filter system we significantly CEO Statement reduced freshwater consumption. VOC, NOX, SO2 and other emissions Company Profile A major percentage of ZF’s VOC emissions originates from large paint A number of projects at locations in the Asia Pacific and North AmerThe Power of 2 and degreasing facilities. Wherever possible, we are continuing to ica regions were carried out in this area. The level of SO2 and NOX Strategy and switch over to water-based paints or aqueous degreasing procedures emissions from gas, coal and electricity improved significantly in Governance so as to reduce these emissions. If water-based paints cannot be used some countries, including the USA and China. We managed to reduce People for reasons of product quality, exhaust air filters are being used. To emissions there by 77 percent. Environment further improve our environmental performance, we changed air fil▪▪Environmental Strategy The Friedrichshafen location succeeded in reducing VOC emissions ▪▪Organizational structures Specific VOC, NOX and SO2 emissions 2014 – 2016 by almost 50 percent (2,700 kg) after switching over to a new varnish and compliance in kilograms per EUR million of sales system with a lower solvent content. ▪▪ZF environmental and 2461 energy policy 250 250 233 ▪▪Environmental 225 226 213 Absolute VOC, NOX and SO2 emissions 2014 – 2016 management system 200 in tons ▪▪Energy 175 8,867 ▪▪Emissions 150 8,000 ▪▪Water 3,4021 125 7,000 ▪▪Waste management 100 6,000 5,591 ▪▪Environmental protection 4,329 75 5,000 costs 50 4,000 Supply Chain 25 3,000 5,465 Product Responsibility 0 2,000 GRI Content Index 2014 2015 2016 1,000 and UNGC 0 ZF › VOC2 SO22 NOX2 ZF TRW › SO22 NOX2 ZF + ZF TRW (Total) › VOC2 SO22 NOX2 2014 2015 2016 1 Data for ZF TRW’s VOC solvents are currently not available ZF › VOC SO2 NOX ZF TRW › SO2 NOX 2 The emissions calculation is based on the emission factors published by VDA (German Association for the automotive industry) in 2015. 1 Data for ZF TRW’s VOC solvents are currently not available G4-EN20 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 62 G4-EN21 China will further tighten its energy savings, emissions reduction and The different approaches of ZF and ZF TRW are mainly driven by Contents environmental protection policies over the period of China’s 13th different production footprints and sources, however, these will be About the Report five-year plan. Numerous jurisdictions (Shanghai, Beijing and other aligned in 2017. CEO Statement provinces) have issued specific VOC emission standards for the automotive industry primarily dealing with paint processes. Company Profile The Power of 2 Further potential to reduce VOCs in paint processes are being evaluStrategy and ated in certain products from the off-highway segment, bearing in Specific water consumption 2014 – 2016 Governance mind the specific high resistance requirements. Future reporting and in cubic meters per EUR million of sales People management of these VOC emissions is being revaluated in the inteEnvironment 503,2 gration process and will be adjusted for the combined company. 500 ▪▪Environmental Strategy 475 ▪▪Organizational structures and compliance Water 450 ▪▪ZF environmental and 425 energy policy 379,5 Water is used at ZF locations for production, e.g. for surface treatment 400 ▪▪Environmental processes, washing, rinsing, and cleaning, as a coolant, or for non375 management system 334,6 production purposes such as sanitary water, drinking water, in the 350 ▪▪Energy canteen, or during construction projects. 325 ▪▪Emissions 300 ▪▪Water At locations in water-stressed areas, water consumption in production 275 ▪▪Waste management is a major issue because the use of freshwater might be increasingly 250 ▪▪Environmental protection 225 costs restricted in the future. However, the objective of ZF’s water management goes beyond reducing consumption in risk areas: We want to 200 Supply Chain continually reduce specific water consumption throughout the Group. Product Responsibility We aim to achieve this goal by introducing specific water-saving proj25 GRI Content Index ects and controlling progress within the individual locations of the 0 and UNGC environmental management system and at Group level. 2014 2015 2016 Untreated water Municipal water Treated/recovered water Rain water G4-EN8 G4-EN9 G4-EN17 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 63 G4-EN20 Water consumption authorities and is treated in conformity with state-of-the-art technolContents The water supply at ZF locations is adapted to local circumstances and ogy. Threshold values are strictly monitored here. No bodies of water About the Report comes in general from the public network (municipal water supply). are significantly affected by wastewater drainage. In Germany, instalCEO Statement At some locations water from rivers or underground water (untreated lations for handling pollutants hazardous to water are operated water) is used for cooling processes without any chemical change. according to the regulations of the Water Act. Outside Germany, these Company Profile substances are treated in accordance with country-specific requireThe Power of 2 Wastewater ments. For example, environmental legislation in India prohibits cerStrategy and Wastewater at ZF is usually discharged into the public sewer system tain processes hazardous to water inside a protection zone measuring Governance and treated at local wastewater treatment plants connected to the sysmany kilometers around surface water relevant for supplies. The intePeople tem. However, our environmental management system is continually grated environmental permit does not allow any surface treatment Environment reducing the volume of wastewater it generates. Direct drainage into using solvents within these zones. ZF is committed to installing ▪▪Environmental Strategy surface water only occurs at a few locations where there is no public water-saving equipment that exceeds these statutory requirements. ▪▪Organizational structures infrastructure. In these cases, water is drained only if approved by the and compliance The total and specific volume of wastewater at ZF locations (not ▪▪ZF environmental and Specific waste water 2014 – 2016 including ZF TRW) continued to drop based on the use of fresh water. energy policy in cubic meters per EUR million of sales ▪▪Environmental Water savings and recycling management system 500 486 ZF makes full use of all technical methods for saving water in produc▪▪Energy 450 tion processes, for example cascade rinsing systems for washing pro▪▪Emissions 400 cesses or process water recycling. Modernizing the cooling water sys▪▪Water 364 350 tems at one large location has reduced the use of cooling water by 20 ▪▪Waste management 314 300 percent in the last two years. ▪▪Environmental protection 250 costs 200 Introducing a new demineralization system at our Schweinfurt locaSupply Chain 150 tion in 2016 enabled us to significantly reduce potable water and Product Responsibility 100 energy consumption for our production processes. This new system GRI Content Index 50 replaced four closed water circuits and ion exchangers and resulted in and UNGC 0 annual savings of potable water (11,000 m³/a), energy (65,000 kWh/a) 2014 2015 2016 and process chemicals (43 m³/a hydrochloric acid, 28 m³/a sodium Sanitary wastewater Treated process wastewater Untreated process wastewater hydroxide). G4-EN8 G4-EN9 G4-EN10 G4-EN22 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 64 G4-EN26 Waste management The relevant processes at ZF with a potential risk for the release of Contents hazardous substances are essentially surface treatment, carbide treatAbout the Report ZF is constantly working toward decreasing the volume of waste sent ment, magnesium machining, and hardening. In 2016, no significant CEO Statement for disposal and hazardous waste by altering processes, optimizing spills were reported. procedures, and substituting hazardous substances in operations. For Company Profile example, cooling lubricants for metal processing are needed at many Waste generation The Power of 2 ZF sites. However untreated emulsions cannot be discharged into the The specific amount of waste generated at ZF locations was further Strategy and sewer system. To avoid environmental risks and costs from transporreduced in 2016 compared to recent years. ZF TRW shows a higher Governance tation and outsourced recycling, a ZF plant in China set up an on-site specific amount of waste generation due to different production footPeople treatment of those emulsions. As a result, 90 percent of the hazardous prints. ZF does not export waste from one country to other countries. Environment waste can be avoided. Our waste management is organized locally. ▪▪Environmental Strategy ▪▪Organizational structures and compliance ▪▪ZF environmental and Specific waste 2014 – 2016 energy policy in tons per EUR million of sales ▪▪Environmental management system 25,0 ▪▪Energy 22,5 ▪▪Emissions 20,0 0,94 ▪▪Water 17,5 1,81 0,87 1,21 1,02 ▪▪Waste management 15,0 0,82 1,26 0,93 ▪▪Environmental protection 2,19 2,28 1,80 0,89 1,21 1,53 12,5 1,37 0,86 0,65 1,04 costs 1,27 10,0 0,95 18,27 Supply Chain 7,5 17,06 13,49 13,04 15,43 13,88 14,23 12,83 Product Responsibility 5,0 12,22 12,09 2,5 GRI Content Index and UNGC 0 2014 2015 2016 ZF › Recycled non hazardous Recycled hazardous Disposal non hazardous Disposal hazardous ZF TRW › Recycled non hazardous Recycled hazardous Disposal non hazardous Disposal hazardous ZF + ZF TRW (Total) › Recycled non hazardous Recycled hazardous Disposal non hazardous Disposal hazardous G4-EN23 G4-EN24 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 65 G4-EN25 Environmental protection costs Contents About the Report Expenditure on environmental issues is not calculated as costs, but as CEO Statement investments. We primarily invest in environmentally-friendly technical equipment and eco-friendly operation. Our investment also Company Profile includes nature conservation, landscape preservation and a climateThe Power of 2 friendly energy supply. Strategy and Governance In 2016, ZF (not including ZF TRW) invested at its worldwide People locations EUR 15.35 million in environmental protection (2015: Environment EUR 23.3 million) and EUR 39.5 million on the operation and mainte▪▪Environmental Strategy nance of environmental actions already taken (2015: EUR 39.9 mil▪▪Organizational structures lion). Investments in environmental protection are made up of all the and compliance costs incurred in the area of technical equipment for protecting the ▪▪ZF environmental and environment (water, soil and noise protection and clean air). This catenergy policy egory also includes investment costs for nature and landscape conser▪▪Environmental vation, and investments in energy supply. management system ▪▪Energy ▪▪Emissions Environmental protection cost 1 ▪▪Water ▪▪Waste management 2016 2015 2014 ▪▪Environmental Investments 15.35 23.26 19.00 protection costs Operating costs 39.52 39.92 40.00 Supply Chain Total 54.87 63.18 59.00 Product Responsibility 1 Data for ZF TRW are not yet available GRI Content Index and UNGC ZF TRW does not track these numbers centrally. The future common reporting will be evaluated and redefined during the integration process. ZF Sustainability Report 2016 66 G4-EN31 Supply Chain Since ZF manufactures products in 40 countries worldwide, a major and standardization. Its systematic implementation is supported by a Contents part of value creation in production lies in the supply of components. sourcing process which ensures sourcing decisions based on total cost About the Report The costs for materials purchased from suppliers account for some of ownership criteria. As a result of the TRW Automotive acquisition, CEO Statement 60 percent of our sales. ZF suppliers are normally contractors who the ZF and ZF TRW sourcing decision boards have been aligned to procure the raw materials or basic components for the products guarantee mutual sourcing decisions. This means that materials manCompany Profile ordered, manufacture the products and, in some cases, also design agement not only contributes to achieving business targets, but can The Power of 2 the products. When selecting strategic suppliers, ZF carefully reviews also take into account environmental factors such as energy costs Strategy and their environmental management. alongside pure purchasing costs. Governance People ZF Corporate Materials Management has directed its Advanced ProBusiness Partner Principles Environment curement Strategy (APS 25) toward the ZF 2025 Strategy. The APS 25 The success of our internationally active company is partially based is based on the ZF environmental policy, the ZF Principles of Social on professional cooperation with our business partners worldwide. Supply Chain Responsibility and the ten principles of the United Nations Global Since the foundations of this cooperation are common values and ▪▪Responsible Sourcing Compact. The APS 25 implements these principles in the supply chain. standards, all new and existing suppliers have been under an obliga▪▪Improving Supply Chains ZF requires all suppliers to comply with these three sets of principles. tion to endorse our Business Partner Principles (BPP) since the end ▪▪Rethinking Transportation of 2016, with ZF TRW suppliers onboarding in 2017. A standardized Product Responsibility process for the request and confirmation of our BPP has been impleGRI Content Index Responsible Sourcing mented already in 2014. This process includes a tool based solution to and UNGC track the information about the current BPP status of each supplier. We are aware that economic growth very much depends upon the The information about the BPP acceptance is considered in the supgeneral acceptance of our business activities in the immediate enviplier awarding decision as well as in the new supplier approval ronment and in society at large. Another highly significant criterion is process. customer satisfaction, which is directly linked to the quality of our products. For this reason, materials management is vitally important, Business partners are natural or legal persons, from whom ZF prowhich is why a trusting and reliable collaboration with our suppliers cures supplies or services, or to whom ZF provides supplies and seris a priority for ZF. Only then can we guarantee the high quality of vices, without them being employees of ZF or companies affiliated G4-12 our products as well as ZF's delivery reliability. with ZF. For instance, business partners can be suppliers, customers, G4-EN32 commercial agents, representatives, intermediaries, consultants, or G4-EN33 G4-LA14 Establishing an effective and efficient value creation chain throughother providers of goods and services. G4-LA15 out the Group is the declared objective of the APS 25. This strategy G4-HR1 contains three sub-goals: increasing ROCE, total quality management G4-HR10 G4-HR11 G4-SO9 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 67 G4-SO10 The BPP represent values that ZF recognizes, supports, and communiprinciples help to consolidate a responsible and reliable supplier manContents cates to partners. They specify fundamental sustainability requirements agement. The long-term goal is a purchasing strategy which dispenses About the Report of cooperation with our business partners. These guidelines are based with materials from critical procurement sources. CEO Statement on the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the ZF Principles of Social Responsibility. The principles for our suppliers ZF requires new potential suppliers to submit a self-assessment folCompany Profile include requirements relating to human rights, labor standards, occulowing the Supplier Self-Assessment Sustainability template based on The Power of 2 pational safety and health protection, environmental protection, responthe Business Partner Principles during the approval process. Strategy and sible raw materials procurement, business ethics, and compliance. Governance During the course of the reporting year, 100 percent of new ZF supPeople ZF reserves the right to scrutinize the business relationship and we pliers underwent the self-assessment according to defined sustainabilEnvironment consider it our duty to take appropriate action if we identify deviaity criteria by ZF (not including ZF TRW). No indications of infringetions or violations. ments against our principles of environmental protection, human Supply Chain rights, labor practices, forced labor, child labor, or freedom of associa▪▪Responsible Sourcing External service providers in Germany must sign a declaration of tion were identified. We will continue to apply this procedure consis▪▪Improving Supply Chains compliance to the collective agreements guaranteeing fair wages, nortently in the future. During the year under review, 660 audits were ▪▪Rethinking Transportation mal working hours, and a rejection of unregistered labor and tax evaconducted at the existing volume production suppliers. Product Responsibility sion. This declaration also applies to subcontractors engaged by ZF GRI Content Index and includes the proviso that ZF can check compliance at any time. For 2017 ZF has decided to implement an adapted version of the so and UNGC called Self-Assessment Questionnaire on CSR/Sustainability developed by the European Automotive Working Group on Supply Chain Improving Supply Chains Sustainability. The advantage of using a standardized Self-Assessment Questionnaire by all participants (OEM and Tier 1) is to avoid dupliIn line with the principles endorsed by APS 25 we have integrated cation and to improve efficiency for the suppliers. environmental and social standards into supplier management and the supplier selection process – evaluating potential new suppliers In connection with the process harmonization between ZF and ZF using supplier self-assessments and audits. The consistent implemenTRW one common Supplier Approval Process is targeted for 2017. tation of measures and monitoring of activities are firmly established G4-EN32 in day-to-day operations. Consequently, APS 25 focuses on the G4-EN33 G4-LA14 requirements in newly industrialized countries. Our sustainability G4-LA15 G4-HR1 G4-HR10 G4-HR11 G4-SO9 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 68 G4-SO10 Increasing transparency For 2017 a combined Conflict Minerals Reporting Process will be Contents In 2016, ZF (not including ZF TRW) started a project in which we developed for ZF and ZF TRW. About the Report decided to use a special tool to send supplier inquiries. Information CEO Statement about supplier contact data, existence of a product safety officer as Capacity building well as general company data was the content of the initial survey. In We set up the ZF Supplier Academy to create a strategic cooperation Company Profile the coming year, we plan to obtain information from suppliers about and qualification platform in order to promote and support cooperaThe Power of 2 their certificates and the updates about the suppliers basic information with our production material suppliers. ZF (not including ZF Strategy and tion. TRW) suppliers have an opportunity to take part in seminars held in Governance their regions. Participation provides suppliers with an in-depth insight People Based on the provisions of the Dodd Frank Act, Sec. 1502, all relevant into ZF requirements, standards, guidelines, and procedures so that Environment ZF production material suppliers were obligated in 2016 to meet the they can subsequently apply them effectively in their companies. ZF disclosure requirement for using of conflict materials (gold, coltan, TRW suppliers will be able to participate in seminars by the end of Supply Chain cassiterite, wolframite and its derivatives such as tantalum, tin, or 2017 as part of the ongoing integration process. ▪▪Responsible Sourcing tungsten) from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adja▪▪Improving Supply Chains cent countries in company products, and to verify their origins. Lake Constance Supplier Dialogue 2016 ▪▪Rethinking Transportation The motto of the 2016 Lake Constance Supplier Dialogue held in FrieProduct Responsibility To provide a solution for the reporting and identification of conflict drichshafen in September was “Powerful & Sustainable Solutions”. GRI Content Index minerals along the entire supply chain, ZF (without ZF TRW) has The new event format developed from previous ZF Supplier Dialogues and UNGC been using a web-based solution since 2013. As part of the tool-asand was co-organized by Rolls-Royce Power Systems and BME e.V. sisted supplier inquiry program, a total feedback of 53 percent was The common goal is to establish a shared platform for interdisciplinrecorded in the reporting year. The results of the inquiry indicate that ary communication between suppliers, customers and experts from the reviewed supply chains do not source products that finance conindustry, science and politics in order to gain insights into new perflicts in DRC regions. We intend to increase the feedback rate from spectives, identify individual solutions, and establish networks. suppliers again in 2017. The main topics of this event were drawn from the most important ZF TRW’s Conflict Minerals Team has created and implemented a current social, political and economic developments. Faced with Conflict Minerals policy that requires suppliers to assess their own increasing political tension, ambitious climate protection agreements G4-EN32 products and submit a Conflict Minerals Report using forms from and their consequences, as well as highly volatile commodity markets G4-EN33 G4-LA14 industry standard Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Incorpoand constantly rising cost pressure, holistic and sustainable manageG4-LA15 rated and Global e-Sustainability Initiative. ment is the prerequisite for long-term success. That’s why the Lake G4-HR1 G4-HR10 G4-HR11 G4-SO9 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 69 G4-SO10 Constance Supplier Dialogue addressed issues like sustainable value towards ZF customers. By using modes of transport more efficiently, Contents creation, established markets in Eastern Europe and the risk potential we are striving to reduce the number of transports and actively supAbout the Report of raw materials markets. port global climate protection regulations. CEO Statement Suppliers Award 2016 Localization ratio Company Profile The strategic goals of ZF are difficult to achieve without the perfor83 percent (2014: 85 percent) of our global purchases for non-producThe Power of 2 mance by our suppliers. Raising awareness and support for our stratetion materials (excl. investments) are to be made locally. The local Strategy and gic directions was promoted by the ZF Supplier Award for several procurement of production materials is calculated using a key indicaGovernance years. In December 2016, seven companies were honored at the ZF tor based on total spending including directed buy and internal supPeople Global Supplier Summit in Katowice, Poland. The awards ceremony ply. The average over all divisions for 2016 amounted to 54 percent Environment recognized the performance of ZF suppliers in four categories: Global, Innovation, Production Materials and Non-Production Materials. Supply Chain Canada, Czech Republic, ▪▪Responsible Sourcing Argentina, China, Germany, Poland, Romania, ▪▪Improving Supply Chains South Korea Slovac Republic Rethinking Transportation ▪▪Rethinking > 70% < 10% Transportation ZF’s strategy is to buy where the supplied materials or components Product Responsibility are needed, this means “local for local” which helps to avoid the GRI Content Index impacts of transportation. A strategic decision was made by the Brazil, India, and UNGC Italy, Japan, Localization ratio Group for ZF to be responsible for all transport carried out from supUnited States in Percent 10-30% pliers to ZF plants. For us, this is the best way to ensure that transpor50-70% tation is organized efficiently and that environmental factors are sysSouth Africa, tematically taken into account. In countries where this has not yet United Kingdom, been implemented (for instance China), we have launched projects to Thailand, Turkey, Austria, Belgium, Malaysia, Mexico, 30-50% Russian Federation, roll out this strategy there as quickly as possible. As part of our freight Australia, Hungary, France, Portugal, Spain management, we are making a concerted effort to pool transport and increase the FTL (full truck load) quota to avoid unnecessary transOur main business activities come from China, Germany and the USA, with some ports. Applying suitable actions, we are also ensuring this is impleof the most localized procurement spending. At the same time, a lower localization mented in the management of our goods flows for components ratio does not necessarily lead to increased environmental impact. Cross border transportation for example to or from Poland or Hungary may mean shorter distances compared to national transportation within the USA. G4-EC9 G4-EN17 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 70 G4-EN30 (2014: 69 percent) for production materials. While the figures of 2014 The overall transport costs for incoming deliveries, outgoing deliverContents do not include ZF TRW, the integration lead to a lower localization ies, and other transports amounted to EUR 605,2 million in 2016 About the Report ratio in 2016. (2015: EUR 639,4 million). These figures can be broken down as CEO Statement follows: Modal split Company Profile When selecting transport service providers, we always consider the Transport Mode1 Share (in %) Freight Costs (in TEUR) The Power of 2 company’s “green logistics” credentials. Before awarding contracts to 2016 2015 2016 2015 Strategy and companies, we first check whether they offer CO2 reporting. We also Governance Road Transport 65.61 57.01 397,099 364,549 ascertain whether sustainability is firmly anchored in their corporate Ocean Freight 18.12 16.24 109,645 103,876 People strategy, and if they use environmentally friendly technologies. Air Freight 5.27 12.90 31,896 82,456 Environment Expedited Freight 3.02 4.33 18,264 27,699 The ZF intercontinental supply chains are to be organized based Supply Chain Parcel 3.83 5.34 23,181 34,168 around sea freight. The amount of airfreight was reduced from 12.9 Inhouse-Transports, ▪▪Responsible Sourcing percent in 2015 to 5.3 percent in 2016, resulting in significantly fewer local transport 4.15 4.17 25,112 26,695 ▪▪Improving Supply Chains emissions. This decrease in airfreight is based on stabilization in the Total 100.00 100.00 605,197 639,443 ▪▪Rethinking Transportation supply chain, focus on management solutions and approval work1 Figures of ZF TRW are grossed, based on the best available data basis flows for airfreight implemented in 2013. This process helps to idenProduct Responsibility tify critical supply chains at an early stage. The appropriate measures GRI Content Index can then be taken to transport the goods by sea or rail freight as soon and UNGC as possible. This minimizes the volume of airfreight tonnage. One example of this strategy is the transport of materials for urgent deliveries by rail from Europe to China instead of airfreight. This cuts down on emissions. G4-EC9 G4-EN17 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 71 G4-EN30 Product Responsibility Urbanization, demographic change, sustainable resource utilization and technology planning is based on market and product roadmaps Contents are some of the global megatrends that have been making their preswhich are continuously updated. One focal point for activities in 2016 About the Report ence felt for many years. ZF has already charted the course for the was efficient, intelligent systems for conventional, hybrid and electric CEO Statement future with its Strategy 2025. Following the “Vision 0” for 0 emissions drives. Development also focused on sensors for environment recogniand 0 accidents, ZF products intend to make a strong contribution to tion, electronic control units, occupant safety systems and automated Company Profile reducing emissions and accidents. driving functions. The Power of 2 Strategy and As a technology and cost leader, ZF aims to meet the demands of the Efficiency, safety and automated driving are at the core of all our Governance mobility megatrends of tomorrow, such as efficiency, integrated safety efforts to respond to megatrend challenges. At ZF, sustainability is not People and automated driving. With its “See, Think, Act” guiding principle, another product development objective, rather it is an integral part of Environment the Group has set a clear technology focus. The company’s product our company worldwide. Supply Chain Product Responsibility Megatrends and outside influences ZF products offer systems ▪▪Leveraging innovation solutions for these three main trends ▪▪Handling Materials ▪▪Efficient climate protection Globalization Urbanization Climate change ▪▪Automated driving ▪▪Integrated safety Efficiency ▪▪Customer Satisfaction Demographic Scarce resources and Digitization GRI Content Index change energy efficiency and networking ZF and UNGC Automated driving E-mobilit y War for talents New markets and structures Advanced driver New mobilit y Safety assistance systems concepts and safet y ZF Sustainability Report 2016 72 All of the above trends and ZF’s broad product portfolio form the of sales (2015: 4.8 percent). This increase compared to the previous Contents basis for success. Neither chips nor processors alone can steer a vehiyear mainly results from more intensified development in the Active About the Report cle, accelerate it or slam on the brakes. These actions still require & Passive Safety Technology and E-Mobility Divisions. CEO Statement intelligently networked mechanical systems and these constitute our core competence. ZF is therefore in the unique position of enabling Develop solutions for future mobility Company Profile vehicles to see, think and act. Once again in 2016, many of the topics in advanced product engineerThe Power of 2 ing were related to CO2 target fleet values and the required efficiency Strategy and 2016 essentially focused on analysing the two PLM (Product Lifecycle improvements. With this in mind, ZF is continuously further developGovernance Management) programs of ZF and ZF TRW and on transforming these ing lightweight design solutions for conventional and electrified People into a joint platform. At the start of 2017, work began on implementdrives, for example. Projects promoted based on the recommendaEnvironment ing a joint data platform. This, in turn, will be the basis for jointly tions of the German Federal Government’s National Platform for Eleccoordinated and harmonized PLM processes. Corresponding projects tric Mobility (NPE) are now in their final phase. Hardware specially Supply Chain are being prepared. built for these projects caters for newly developed concepts such as, Product Responsibility for example, the large­scale integration of E-Vehicle drives and range ▪▪Leveraging innovation The new ZF product evolution process (GDPEP – Global Development extender concepts. For ZF, the integration of power electronics into ▪▪Handling Materials & Product Evolution Process), which is based on the tried-and-trusted drive units is an important step toward more streamlined vehicle ▪▪Efficient climate ZF and ZF TRW procedures, was drawn up in 2016. It puts a special design and competitive overall concepts. protection focus on environmental friendly product design and will be rolled out ▪▪Automated driving throughout the Group in 2017. Fundamental principles and technology development driven forward ▪▪Integrated safety To reinforce its automated driving expertise in the field of “See”, ZF ▪▪Customer Satisfaction is working intensively on developing, among other things, 3D lidar GRI Content Index Leveraging innovation sensors, imaging radar sensors and highly dynamic interior cameras. and UNGC In addition, work is being done in particular on technologies that pave 14,550 employees work for ZF Research and Development worldwide. the way for new interior concepts in conjunction with automated Of these, about 1,600 engineers and technicians work for the ZF driving. To this end, ZF is combining innovative sensors with redeGroup’s Corporate Research and Development Departments at the signed occupant safety systems. To reinforce “Think”, ZF is intensively locations in Friedrichshafen (Germany), Pilsen (Czech Republic), promoting the development of intelligent electronic control units and Shanghai (China), Tokyo (Japan) and Northville, Michigan (USA). vehicle systems. In 2016, ZF invested EUR 1,948 million in R&D, which is 5.5 percent ZF Sustainability Report 2016 73 To develop safety and automated driving functions efficiently, a virZF’s approach for managing the materials portfolio in the ZF Group Contents tual development and test environment is being set up in close coopwas defined particularly by the ZF strategy for expanding into interAbout the Report eration with the divisions and external experts involved. It enables national markets as well as advancing our cost leadership by reducing CEO Statement sensor systems, functions and actuators to be specified and tested in the number of our suppliers and pooling purchasing volume. combination with the vehicle and environment. ZF is therefore makCompany Profile ing major efforts with its own activities to suitably factor in the megThe newly established ZF Materials Warehouse provides information The Power of 2 atrend of automated driving. on almost all existing materials, and, in the future, will also classify Strategy and them as approved and preferred materials. It will only be possible to Governance The synergies of the merger between ZF and ZF TRW are manifold use a non-approved material in the future after submitting a release People with regard to “Act”. Here, the long­standing experience is being inteapplication to the Materials Department, which will review the Environment grated into various development disciplines and technologies from all material and check its conformity with the fixed requirements. This divisions. Examples include driveline and chassis systems as well as procedure optimizes costs, simplifies material selection and guaranSupply Chain the development of intelligent control systems, such as electric power tees that only materials are used which comply with technical stanProduct Responsibility steering, electric parking brake, electric brake booster and electric dards and country-specific laws banning certain materials. Materials ▪▪Leveraging innovation pretensioner. in the ZF Materials Warehouse will be regularly screened for hazard▪▪Handling Materials ous substances. This means materials containing hazardous sub▪▪Efficient climate stances can be substituted at the earliest possible stage of materials protection Handling Materials selection process, reducing the environmental impact of ZF products ▪▪Automated driving even before they are manufactured. ▪▪Integrated safety At ZF, product related environmental protection starts with material ▪▪Customer Satisfaction selection. Right from the start, during the product development Lightweight technologies GRI Content Index phase, we look at the total life cycle of a product, including factors With lightweight construction solutions, a higher energy efficiency and UNGC such as product materials, utilization phase as well as disposal and can be achieved in product utilization. The ZF Composites Tech Cenrecyclability, and design our products accordingly. By reducing ter in Schweinfurt (Germany) founded back in 2013 deals with the material variety, ensuring materials are easily separated and using advanced engineering of production technologies for fiber-reinforced consistent materials, we continually increase the recyclability of our plastics (FRP). It cooperates closely with Product Development on a products. We systematically substitute materials containing hazardous host of projects to develop the platform for the volume production of substances. All these principles are anchored by guidelines in the innovative lightweight components made of thermosetting and therdevelopment phase. moplastic FRP materials, for example, a passenger car rear axle composed entirely of fiber-reinforced plastics material. If increased ZF Sustainability Report 2016 74 energy efficiency from reduced vehicle weight, for example, reduces Contents 743,000 22,000 consumption by 0.5 liters per 100 kilometers, this cuts CO2 emissions About the Report by just under three tons per passenger car over a service life of CEO Statement 250,000 traveled kilometers. brake calipers were remanufactured transmissions were remanufactured Company Profile Material and life-cycle analysis at ZF TRW locations in Frydlant and for passenger cars, trucks and The Power of 2 Wrexham in 2016 off-road vehicles Product responsibility for ZF also means a critical analysis of used Strategy and materials, especially when the material is as energy intensive in its Governance production, as carbon and glass fiber materials are, and challenging scrap metal and metal chips, waste oil, paper and cardboard, wood People to recycle. Fiber-based lightweight materials, in particular, can help and demolition waste. As a result of their material composition, ZF Environment reduce the environmental impacts of ZF products during their use. products make a disproportionately high contribution to meeting the On the other hand, the production of the material itself is energy recycling quotas as stipulated in the EU End-Of-Life Vehicle Directive. Supply Chain intensive and presents recycling challenges. To ensure that lightweight Product Responsibility solutions help minimize the environmental impact of our products, Remanufacturing ▪▪Leveraging innovation we successfully launched two projects. In the course of these, the As a leading original equipment manufacturer for automobile pro­ ▪▪Handling Materials entire life-cycle of two fiber-based products are analyzed and comducers and suppliers for the aftermarket, ZF has been committed to ▪▪Efficient climate pared with their steel and aluminium counterparts. remanufacturing procedures for decades and, as such, offers a wide protection range of industrially remanufactured spare parts. Various vehicle ▪▪Automated driving Primary and secondary resources parts are reclaimed through a global reclaiming system at the service ▪▪Integrated safety Steel and aluminum are the primary raw materials that ZF procures. locations and remanufactured for industrial use. Locally remanufac▪▪Customer Satisfaction A standard ZF product, the 8HP70 8-speed automatic transmission, tured spare parts are available for clutches, steering gears, steering GRI Content Index comprises approximately 58 percent steel and 25 percent aluminum. pumps and automatic transmissions, among others. Unlike traditional and UNGC The rest contains lubricating oil (7 percent), silicon (3 percent), rubrepair work, remanufacturing involves disassembling many products ber and plastics (2.2 percent) and copper (1.5 percent) as well as other according to a fixed procedure and replacing worn parts. Remanu­ metals, alloys and solvents in extremely small quantities. facturing transmissions and other parts saves production energy by upwards of 90 percent. In 2016, ZF was able to save over ten thousand ZF frequently uses recycled materials in its production processes. tons of materials by remanufacturing over 22,000 gear-boxes for pasThis includes steel from scrap steel and aluminum from scrap alumisenger cars, trucks and off-road vehicles. Additionally, locations in num. Recycled oils are also used in production, hydraulic oil, for Frydlant and Wrexham managed to remanufacture over 740,000 brake example. Furthermore, ZF channels a high percentage of waste back calipers and 110,000 steering parts and pumps. By remanufacturing into the material cycle via external recycling procedures, especially ZF manages to save over 20,000 tons of material each year. G4-EN1 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 75 G4-EN2 Cradle to Cradle repair workshops or for information technology, communications Contents Since 1963, our plant in Bielefeld has been committed conserving nattechnology, consumer electronics). Through this approach, we have About the Report ural resources by remanufacturing clutches, converters and actuation more than exceeded statutory recycling quotas. CEO Statement systems and returning them to the market. Over the years, we have gained valuable insights about closing the loop. Like nature, the CraIn 2016, a total of 165 tons of packaging was taken back from private Company Profile dle to Cradle concept knows no waste, no renunciation and no restricconsumers. This amount decreased due to the sale of Cherry GmbH. The Power of 2 tions. Biological and technical nutrient cycles provide the right Some 3,751 tons of packaging were reclaimed from other business Strategy and materials at the right time and in the right place. customers. Governance People Ultimately, the result is always better quality. The “from the cradle to the cradle” (C2C) production method directly contrasts the “from the Efficient climate protection Environment cradle to grave” model, in which material flows often ignore resource Supply Chain conservation. Instead of the linear material flows of today's products The vast majority of energy consumption outside the organization comes Product Responsibility and production methods, the Cradle to Cradle design concept looks at from the use of our products. Lower fuel consumption and lower CO2 ▪▪Leveraging innovation redesigning material cycles. This approach creates values that will be emissions are key drivers of efficiency development at ZF. In 2016, ▪▪Handling Materials preserved for humanity and the environment. our activities focused on efficient, intelligent systems for conventional, ▪▪Efficient climate hybrid and electric drives. Moreover, these developments are being protection While the remanufacturing process itself has not yet been assessed, enhanced with intelligent electronics and increasing vehicle networking. ▪▪Automated driving the ZF plant in Bielefeld had their Clutch Cover MFZ 430 assessed ▪▪Integrated safety and was awarded a Certificate in Gold by the Cradle to Cradle ProdHybrid drives the future ▪▪Customer Satisfaction ucts Innovation Institute. The certificate comprises the categories: Hybrid technology will not compete with all-electric drives, rather it GRI Content Index material health, material reutilization, renewable energy and carbon will act as an important bridge between them and the combustion and UNGC management, water stewardship, and social fairness. engine. Based on our extensive experience with conventional drives, we provide solutions for the entire range of hybrid vehicles – covering Packaging everything from individual components through to the entire system. To comply with respective legislation, ZF is required to take back Starting with the mild hybrid, which already supports a host of hybrid packaging. For example, ZF does this in Germany by participating in functions, the lineup extends to the full and plug-in hybrid systems, external collection systems which involves taking back and recycling which feature highly powerful electric motors and suitable power packaging through a dual system or sector solutions (for automobile storage devices. This puts them on par with the all-electric range and speed of pure electric vehicles. G4-EN7 G4-EN27 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 76 G4-EN28 A hybrid-capable basic transmission is based on the volume-produced system enables a predictive driving strategy that ideally adapts the Contents 8-speed automatic transmission 8HP. With the second generation of shift sequence to topography, thus realizing further fuel savings. The About the Report 8-speed automatic transmission, ZF was able to further reduce fuel ConAct clutch actuation mounted on the input shaft switches gears CEO Statement consumption in conventional drives compared to the already highly with exceptional speed, precision and smoothness. And with its modefficient predecessor model. The 8-speed plug-in hybrid transmission ern housing and specific internal design improvements, TraXon is in Company Profile provides all-electric driving up to a speed of 120 km/h – the combustotal 6 dB – about one third – quieter than its predecessor. The Power of 2 tion engine only engages once this speed is exceeded. ZF also recently Strategy and developed an 8-speed dual clutch transmission (8DT) for sports vehiThe future of electric cars Governance cles. The new transmission for rear-wheel and all-wheel drives feaIn 2015, approximately 1.3 million electric cars were registered worldPeople tures incredibly rapid shift times, high levels of efficiency and flexiwide – around 70 percent more than the year before. Although the Environment bility. Power loss can be reduced by up to 28 percent and fuel number of electric cars in the overall market is still small, the increasconsumption is also reduced even when not using electric power. ing importance of e-mobility is impossible to overlook as the driving Supply Chain power of the 21st century. ZF is taking a strategic approach and poolProduct Responsibility The ZF Group has been able to highlight its energy-saving technology ing its power of innovation in its newly created E-Mobility Division. ▪▪Leveraging innovation not only in the passenger car sector, but also in the commercial vehi▪▪Handling Materials cle market with its Innovation Truck. Thanks to intelligent driveline When it comes to electric cars, the main issues for potential owners to ▪▪Efficient climate and steering technology and telematics, the driver can use a tablet to overcome are the short driving distances and short charging cycles. protection electrically operate the semi-truck with trailer easily and reliably from Even when drivers do find a charging station, the multiple types of ▪▪Automated driving outside the driver’s cab. It is equipped with the TraXon Hybrid Drive. charging stations with different charge card and payment systems fre▪▪Integrated safety quently prove to be too much. In response, ZF has joined forces with ▪▪Customer Satisfaction The TraXon Hybrid features an electric motor installed between the partners to develop the blockchain-based Car eWallet featuring sevGRI Content Index combustion engine and the transmission. This parallel hybrid design eral convenient payment and transaction functions. and UNGC allows all hybrid functionalities to be realized in a 40-ton truck. One feature particularly attractive for many applications is that in generaThe Car eWallet will allow users to pay for fees while on the go. The tor mode, the hybrid module can also supply power to other units, fees for charging electric car batteries are automatically paid without during refrigerated transports, for example. Apart from being any manual payment transactions. The capability to carry out installed in truck applications, TraXon Hybrid is also suitable for micropayment transactions on the go opens up possibilities such as motor coaches in which the hybrid drive demonstrates the same inductive charging when the car is waiting at a red light or at a pedesadvantages. The networking between the transmission and the GPS trian crossing which makes ‘charge on the go’ more attractive for G4-EN7 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 77 G4-EN27 power suppliers. The digital eWallet can also accept payments just boxes for multi-MW wind turbines with a power capacity ranging Contents like a real wallet. There are also plans to authorize vehicle access for from 0.85 to 8 MW. Offering reliable transmissions in combination About the Report third parties. Rather than standing idly in a parking lot, the Car eWalwith a global service network, ZF Wind Power makes wind energy CEO Statement let can make cars available for use by car-sharing portals and collect even more competitive. The acquisition of the industrial gears and fees from temporary users. wind turbine gearbox segments of Bosch Rexroth AG in 2015 further Company Profile strengthens ZF's position in the wind power industry. The Power of 2 Emission-free and quiet bus transport Strategy and Efficient public transport is a key element when it comes to reducing Efficient fleet operation Governance traffic congestion in metropolitan areas and emissions.The company The Openmatics telematics solution enables fleet operators to optiPeople is focusing on all-electric drive solutions for urban vehicles and hybrid mally utilize their trucks or buses to reduce emissions. An on-board Environment technologies for use in long-distance transport applications. The latest operating system collects and transfers vehicle and vehicle-handling development is the electric central drive CeTrax, which can be used data. Thanks to a number of interfaces, Openmatics can exchange Supply Chain in delivery trucks and different bus applications in city centers. The data with all relevant vehicle systems. This means that the telematics Product Responsibility new all-electric central drive moves the vehicle from a standstill to a service can be used for fleet management and for passenger informa▪▪Leveraging innovation final speed of up to 100 km/h, comfortably and without interrupting tion, vehicle diagnosis and multimedia applications. Another advan▪▪Handling Materials the drive torque. Increased passenger comfort comes from its lowtage is the platform’s open architecture. Openmatics is manufacturer▪▪Efficient climate noise operation, acceleration free of tractive force interruptions and neutral and third party providers such as vehicle manufacturers, protection quieter vibrations on the driveline. In contrast, the AVE 130 electric component providers or other application developers can also pro▪▪Automated driving portal axle for city buses with its electric drive near the wheels has gram and install their telematics services as Openmatics apps. Finally, ▪▪Integrated safety already been deployed in serial production. tailor-made apps make it possible to identify fuel-inefficient vehicles ▪▪Customer Satisfaction and determine potential savings. GRI Content Index ZF has expanded its portfolio to include drive controls and inverters, and UNGC so that along with components, it can now offer vehicle manufacturers complete drive systems for electric buses. Automated driving Clean energy The traffic sector causes approximately a quarter of all global greenZF does not only deliver solutions to reduce the local emissions on house gas, with individual city transport contributing a large share. In and off the road, ZF Wind Power transmissions also help to reduce response to this, intelligently connected vehicles with automated ZF CO2 emissions of electricity supply itself: ZF is a globally established components offer the greatest possible city center mobility combined designer, manufacturer and supplier of reliable, custom-built gearwith low emission values. G4-EN7 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 78 G4-EN27 ZF Future Study – The last mile Advanced urban vehicle In 2016, the Fraunhofer Institute of Material Flow and Logistics (IML), in Contents ZF can demonstrate the potential of intelligent networking between cooperation with ZF, conducted a 360-degree study on “last mile” logistics, focusing on customer expectations, legal and spatial framework conditions as About the Report mechanical components and sensors with its all-electric concept well as technical trends and their impacts. CEO Statement vehicle. Same-day delivery is already the standard and is trending toward same-hour Company Profile delivery. The main customers using e-commerce today are young people in The basic idea of the smart parker is the perfect interaction between 1or 2-person households, with this demographic growing continuously. CusThe Power of 2 driveline and chassis, combined with an intelligent system network. tomers want increasingly fast delivery, and not just for fresh products. These Strategy and The turning angle of the front wheels is extreme at 75 degrees – and demands can only be met with shorter and smarter logistics paths. While Governance intelligent algorithms will be able to anticipate orders and transport requireverges on a right angle of 90 degrees. A specially designed front axle ments, distribution remains challenging. People combined with a customized electric power steering system and other Findings show that the commercial vehicle industry can lead the way in adEnvironment design changes to the wheel housing made this tight turning angle dressing automotive megatrends such as e-mobility and autonomous driving. possible. Conventionally powered vehicles would be unable to handle That’s because transport operators need to synchronize customer requireSupply Chain such a tight turning angle – they could not perform it from a standing ments, framework conditions and available options in a unique way. Product Responsibility start and would literally “trip over” their turned-out front wheels. Not ▪▪Leveraging innovation The authors of the ZF Future Study believe that new technologies will enable so with the Advanced Urban Vehicle. The two electric motors inteinnovative forms of transport to emerge, or even make transport superfluous, ▪▪Handling Materials grated in the rear axle mounted near the wheels power the vehicle thus triggering the greatest changes. For instance, 3D printing will enter the ▪▪Efficient climate with a total of 80 kilowatts of output, delivering a top speed of 93 mph. mainstream. Additive processes can manufacture many goods on the spot, protection avoiding time-critical transports. 3D printing shops are one conceivable devel▪▪Automated driving opment, similar to the photocopying shops that thrived back in the days when The torque vectoring system distributes the torque individually to not every household owned an ink-jet printer. ▪▪Integrated safety each wheel. If the left wheel stops moving while the right wheel ▪▪Customer Satisfaction The study also identifies a big role for autonomous driving, although drivers moves forward, the car, including its rear end, moves to the left – and will still be necessary. Their job will change, because the transport vehicle will GRI Content Index in doing so, supports the left-hand drive of the tightly turned front automatically follow them from house to house, as an example. In rural areas, and UNGC wheels. This interaction between hardware and software, chassis and autonomous delivery vehicles can reduce the high cost pressure on logistics companies struggling with an increasing shortage of drivers. And road-bound steering, drive and system network makes it possible for the 12-foot transport robots can also be used for the last mile in urban areas. Researchers Advanced Urban Vehicle to slip into a parking space just over 14 feet estimate that up to 400 million package deliveries will be made throughout long in a single move. It also has an exceptionally tight turning circle Germany by 2030. Safety concerns, however, will keep transport drones restricted to niche activities. of 21.33 feet, which means that a quick U-turn on a two-lane road is no problem at all. Electric motors will make overnight deliveries possible because they will be done quickly and quietly on the last mile. However, at least in the near future, internal combustion engines will remain in use outside the major urban centers. The reasons for this are driving distance and economic constraints. G4-EN7 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 79 G4-EN27 Highly automated driving Integrated safety Contents When considering highly automated driving, the vehicle becomes a About the Report chauffeur. It stays in its lane, determines the distance to the vehicle in When it comes to products in the mobility area, safety is paramount. CEO Statement front and initiates braking and evasive maneuvers. Automated assisQuality and safety are high priorites at ZF. tance systems from ZF are already establishing the platform for future Company Profile driving today. A cloud-based driver assistance function stores route Our ZF4Q quality strategy is derived from the ZF 2025 corporate The Power of 2 and vehicle handling data for networked driving. This data is used for strategy. The ZF Quality Management System is based on three eleStrategy and a variety of functions, including optimizing the cornering speed for ments: Quality Planning for prevention, Quality Assurance to secure Governance greater energy efficiency. the current volume production, and Quality Management to shape People processes and structures. The goal is to implement all processes, both Environment In 2016, the Innovation Tractor made its debut as the first innovation industrial as well as business processes, at a high level of maturity vehicle in the offhighway segment. Essential elements include the and evaluate them for ongoing improvements, in line with the ZF ProSupply Chain automated hitching of trailers or other machinery, pedestrian protecduction System. Product Responsibility tion and traction optimization thanks to an electric trailer axle. The ▪▪Leveraging innovation lessons learned are being further developed in innovation projects in Our products are subject to quality and safety management proce▪▪Handling Materials the Industrial Technology Division. Moreover, developments in the dures which are codified in our Global Development and Product ▪▪Efficient climate commercial vehicle sector regarding driver assistance and automated Evolution Process (GDPEP). Group directives implement processes for protection driving are being systematically followed up and presented to the pubadapting specifications to specific products. Appropriate testing is ▪▪Automated driving lic in the Innovation Truck. The Evasive Maneuver Assist function done at different points in the project progress, including testing com▪▪Integrated safety demonstrated an automated assistance system. It could prevent seriponents individually, in assemblies, and in overall systems on test ▪▪Customer Satisfaction ous rearend collisions at the end of a traffic jam, for example, which benches under the relevant duty cycles. We have processes in place to GRI Content Index is a key accident scenario in the commercial vehicle sector. The automonitor our products in the field and work with our customers when and UNGC mated hitching of commercial vehicles in the depot was also demonpotential issues arise. We provide quality training for employees at ZF strated in a more advanced development phase last year, thus raising Q Academy, and employees are empowered to raise potential product the level of automation. performance issues. Our uncompromising approach to product quality continues in manufacturing. In the development process, we identify requirements specific to the production process. Service concepts are also designed G4-EN7 G4-EN27 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 80 G4-PR1 during the development process and then implemented by trained Instead, the algorithm seeks to register and analyze the movements of Contents Customer Service personnel. These efforts promote stable processes road users even if they are hidden behind parked vehicles or around a About the Report in production at ZF manufacturing locations worldwide. corner. X2Safe then calculates the point of the possible collision and CEO Statement provides a timely warning, alerting end users to impending hazards. SEE – THINK – ACT The algorithm learns as it works, enabling it to potentially react even Company Profile ZF’s see, think, act approach furthers safety in our products. faster to repeating patterns. The warnings are issued optically, verThe Power of 2 bally or by means of vibration. Strategy and See – Forward-looking cameras and 360-degree radar sensors monitor Governance complex traffic situations, including the potential to detect passing People cars and pedestrians crossing the road. Customer Satisfaction Environment Think – The central control unit processes information collected by An extremely close and long-standing cooperation between manufacSupply Chain installed sensors and activates the appropriate safety functions, such turers and suppliers is common in the automotive sector. This applies Product Responsibility as the automatic emergency braking system or airbag deployment. particularly to suppliers providing significant and technologically ▪▪Leveraging innovation complex vehicle components. In doing so, they must be follow the ▪▪Handling Materials Act – Actuators turn electric commands from the control units into comprehensive specifications of the manufacturers that are often ▪▪Efficient climate mechanical movements such as braking maneuvers. Recuperation drafted together. Delivery reliability and the ability to innovate are protection makes it possible to convert part of the kinetic energy back into elecimportant criteria for the customers. Since a large number of vehicle ▪▪Automated driving tric energy which can be used to charge the battery of a hybrid or innovations originate from suppliers, R&D activities are crucial for ▪▪Integrated safety electric vehicle. long-term customer satisfaction and business success. Every new ▪▪Customer Satisfaction order should be perceived as an indicator of customer satisfaction. GRI Content Index One of ZF’s latest offerings is X2safe, an application with an intelliand UNGC gent algorithm that warns its user of a potential collision. Using GPS As part of the introduction of key account management for the Group data and data from sensors in the devices, X2Safe is designed to calin 2015, we implemented a global Voice of the Customer (VoC) survey culate if two road users might collide and warns both road users on with a pilot customer from Europe. The VoC is an independent assesstime. The more people and vehicles are connected by such an interacment of customer satisfaction carried out by an independent, extertive safety network, the more effective the accident avoidance. Connal, global service provider. This is intended to ensure a systematic trary to distance warning systems based on radar technology or sysapproach to information definition, collection, and analysis, and faciltems with cameras, X2Safe does not simply react if a hazard is visible. itate data comparability over time. The results have highlighted G4-PR1 ZF Sustainability Report 2016 81 G4-PR5 important areas for improvement that will allow us to develop precise Contents improvement actions. Based on the results of the survey, we have About the Report decided to continue the VoC surveys with other important customers CEO Statement going forward. Company Profile Customer information The Power of 2 ZF operates chiefly in the B2B area and supplies components for Strategy and installation in end-customer products. As our products are not visible Governance to the end consumer, product labelling is of little importance. We supPeople ply our customers with data and information about our products and Environment the materials used to ensure proper handling and safe use. Supply Chain Product Responsibility ▪▪Leveraging innovation ▪▪Handling Materials ▪▪Efficient climate protection ▪▪Automated driving ▪▪Integrated safety ▪▪Customer Satisfaction GRI Content Index and UNGC ZF Sustainability Report 2016 82 G4-PR5 GRI Content Index and UNGC Information on the G4 indicators Page UNGC Omission Check Contents Strategy and Analysis About the Report G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 4 – CEO Statement G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities concerning sustainability 19 – 21 – Organizational Profile Company Profile G4-3 Name of the organization 5 – The Power of 2 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 6 – Strategy and G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 5 – Governance G4-6 Countries with significant operations 6/7 – People G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 5 – Environment G4-8 Markets served 6/7 – G4-9 Scale of the organization 5 – Supply Chain G4-10 Employees by employment type, gender and region 32 – 34 6 – Product Responsibility G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 42 3 – GRI Content Index G4-12 Description of the supply chain 67, 70/71 – and UNGC G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 5 – G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary principle 22 – G4-15 External initiatives that the organization endorses 11 – G4-16 Significant memberships in industry and business associations 11 – Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 24 – G4-18 Process for defining the report content 23/24 – G4-19 Material Aspects identified 25 – G4-20 Aspect Boundaries within the organization 25 – G4-21 Aspect Boundaries outside the organization 25 – G4-22 Restatemtents of information provided in previous reports 3 – G4-23 Significant changes in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 24 – ZF Sustainability Report 2016 83 Information on the G4 indicators Page UNGC Omission Check Contents Stakeholder Engagement About the Report G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged 26 – CEO Statement G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 26/27 – G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement and frequency 27 – Company Profile G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement and response 27 – The Power of 2 Report Profile Strategy and G4-28 Reporting period 3 – Governance G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 3 – People G4-30 Reporting cycle 3 – Environment G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report 89 – G4-32 “In accordance” option with GRI and Content Index chosen 3 – Supply Chain G4-33 External verification of the report 3 – Product Responsibility Governance GRI Content Index G4-34 Governance structure, incl. committees of the highest governance body 21/22 – and UNGC Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 9 – 11 10 – Category: Economic Aspect: Economic performance – Management approach 6–8 7 – G4-EC1 Direct economic value created and distributed 7/8 – G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 19 – 21 7 – G4-EC3 Coverage of benefit plan obligations 43 – G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 9 – Aspect: Market presence – Management approach 6–8 6 – G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage 42/43 6 – G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 38/39 6 – Aspect: Indirect economic impacts – Management approach 7/8 – G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and services provided 8/9 – G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts 8/9 – Aspect: Procurement Practices – Management approach 67/68 – G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 8, 70/71 – ZF Sustainability Report 2016 84 Information on the G4 indicators Page UNGC Omission Check Contents Category: Environmental About the Report Aspect: Materials – Management approach 54 – 56, 74 7, 8 – CEO Statement G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 75 7, 8 – G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 75 8 – Company Profile Aspect: Energy – Management approach 54 – 58 7, 8, 9 – The Power of 2 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 58/59 7, 8 – Strategy and G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization 58/59 8 – Governance G4-EN5 Energy intensity 59/60 8 – People G4-EN6 Reduction in energy consumption 59/60 8, 9 – Environment G4-EN7 Reduction of the energy requirements of products and services 76 – 80 8, 9 – Aspect: Water – Management approach 54 – 56, 63 7, 8 – Supply Chain G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by sources 63/64 7, 8 We report on water consumption by ZF in – Product Responsibility relation to sales. GRI Content Index G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected 63/64 8 – and UNGC G4-EN10 Water recycled and reused 64 8 – Aspect: Emissions – Management approach 54 – 56, 60 7, 8, 9 – G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 60/61 7, 8 – G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 60/61 7, 8 – G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 61 – 63, 70/71 7, 8 – G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 61 8 – G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 61/62 8, 9 – G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 62/63 7, 8 – G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions 62/63 7, 8 – Aspect: Effluents and Waste – Management approach 54 – 56, 64/65 8 – G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 64 8 – G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 65 8 We report on waste volume generated by ZF in – relation to sales. G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 65 8 – G4-EN25 Handling of hazardous waste 56/57, 65 8 – G4-EN26 Water bodies significantly affected by discharges of water and runoff 64 8 – ZF Sustainability Report 2016 85 Information on the G4 indicators Page UNGC Omission Check Contents Aspect: Products and services – Management approach 72 – 75 7, 8, 9 – About the Report G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 76 – 80 7, 8, 9 – CEO Statement G4-EN28 Reclaimed products and packaging 76 8 – Aspect: Compliance – Management approach 32/33 8 – Company Profile G4-EN29 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations 57 8 – The Power of 2 Aspect: Transport – Management approach 70/71 8 – Strategy and G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transports 70/71 8 – Governance Aspect: Overall – Management approach 66 7, 8, 9 – People G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditures and investments 66 7, 8, 9 – Environment Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment – 67– 69 8 – Management approach Supply Chain G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 67– 69 8 – Product Responsibility G4-EN33 Significant environmental impacts in the supply chain 67– 69 8 – GRI Content Index Category: Social and UNGC Labor practices and decent work Aspect: Employment – Management approach 34 6 – G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover 32 – 34 6 Currently, we only report on employee turnover – in the ZF Group in terms of regional differences. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 43 – G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave 35 6 – Aspect: Labor/Management Relations – Management approach 42/43 3 – G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 42 3 – Aspect: Occupational health and safety – Management approach 46 – 49 – G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in health and safety committees 46/47 – G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, and work-related fatalities 49 – 51 – G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or risk of diseases 49 – 51 – G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 51/52 – Aspect: Training and Education – Management approach 36 – 38 6 – ZF Sustainability Report 2016 86 Information on the G4 indicators Page UNGC Omission Check Contents G4-LA9 Average hours of training 36 – 39 6 – About the Report G4-LA10 Programs that support the continued employability of employees 36 – 41 – CEO Statement G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 38/39 6 – reviews Company Profile Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunities – Management approach 44/45 6 – The Power of 2 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by aspects of 44/45 6 We do not report on the share of minorities in – diversity our workforce. This information must be treated Strategy and confidentially and is not collected for reasons Governance of rights to privacy. People Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men – Management approach 42/43 6 – Environment G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 42/43 6 Quantified data on salaries is not published as – it is subject to confidentiality. Supply Chain Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices – Management approach 67 – 69 – Product Responsibility G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 67 – 69 – GRI Content Index G4-LA15 Significant impacts for labor practices in the supply chain 67 – 69 – and UNGC Human Rights Aspect: Investment – Management approach 9 – 11, 67/68 1, 2 – G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights 67 – 69 2 – clauses or screening G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights issues 9/10, 30 1 – Aspect: Non-discrimination – Management approach 44 – 46 6 – G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 45 6 – Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment – Management approach 67 – 69 2 – G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 67 – 69 2 – G4-HR11 Significant human rights impacts in the supply chain 67 – 69 2 – Society Aspect: Local communities – Management approach 52 – G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 52/53 1 – assessments, and development programs Aspect: Anti-corruption – Management approach 27 – 30 10 – ZF Sustainability Report 2016 87 Information on the G4 indicators Page UNGC Omission Check Contents G4-SO3 Percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and risks 28/29 10 – About the Report identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption 29/30 10 – CEO Statement G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 29 10 – Company Profile Aspect: Anti-competitive behavior – Management approach 27 – 30 – The Power of 2 G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 28/29 – Strategy and Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society – Management approach 67 – 69 – Governance G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on 67 – 69 – society People G4-SO10 Negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 67 – 69 – Environment Product Responsibility Supply Chain Aspect: Customer health and safety – Management approach 80/81 – Product Responsibility G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and 80/81 – safety impacts are assessed GRI Content Index Aspect: Product and service labeling – Management approach 81 – and UNGC G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 81/82 – UNGC = United Nations Global Compact ZF Sustainability Report 2016 88 ZF Friedrichshafen AG twitter.com/zf_konzern D-88038 Friedrichshafen facebook.com/zfgroup.global youtube.com/zffriedrichshafenag Phone +49 7541 77-0 Fax +49 7541 77-908000 www.zf.com Contact Christine Betz ZF Friedrichshafen AG Corporate Compliance/Sustainability Graf-von-Soden-Platz 1 88038 Friedrichshafen Email: sustainability@zf.com Editorial deadline: June 30, 2017
