BUILT FOR PROGRESS 2016 Sustainability Report FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 Q + A WITH OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Q: What do you think are FMC’s most important sustainability achievements to manufacturing, to transportation of the last 2-3 years? and product stewardship. We choose to work only with suppliers and vendors A: We have made meaningful progress on our sustainability goals over the past few who share our commitment to ethical years and continue to deepen our commitment to sustainability. In 2016, FMC was and sustainable business practices. But awarded an Aby the CDP Climate Change Program as a first-time participant. it doesn’t end there. We have begun the The ranking recognizes FMC as a leader in addressing climate change. In addition, process of measuring and monitoring we published 2020 and 2025 sustainability goals. I am proud to say that in our our logistics and transportation second “Communication on Progress” for the United Nations Global Compact, we footprints. From optimizing logistics demonstrated progress on several targets, including significant reduction in our to reduce greenhouse gas emissions safety total recordable incident rate, increased R&D spending to develop more and increasing the sustainability of sustainably advantaged products, and reductions in our environmental metrics. our packaging, we are committed to a responsible supply chain that reflects PIERRE BRONDEAU Q: What’s next on FMC’s sustainability journey? our sustainability priorities. A: With our past experience and accomplishments, we are truly built for progress. Now is the time to accelerate that progress toward our 2020 and 2025 Q: What advantages does the acquisition of DuPont’s Crop Protection sustainability goals. For example, we will grow our plant health platform, products provide to FMC’s sustainability program? which includes biologicals, micronutrients and seed treatment applications A: We have a long history of meeting some of the world’s major global that provide growers with more sustainable options. We will continue to challenges. For more than 10 decades, we have helped farmers feed a growing address the environmental impact of our products as well as offer robust world population by protecting their crops from destructive pests and invasive stewardship programs to ensure the proper and safe use of FMC products. weeds. The acquisition of a significant part of DuPont’s Crop Protection business will ensure we can help meet the nutritional needs of people around Q: How have you incorporated stakeholder concerns into your the world. We are excited to welcome the talented DuPont employees to the sustainability journey? FMC family. Combining DuPont’s exceptional products and R&D capabilities A: We actively engage with our stakeholders to understand their issues and with our product portfolio, pipeline and formulation expertise will bring concerns, and we work closely with them to balance business interests innovative solutions to growers while reducing our impact on the planet. with those of society. Each year, we conduct a materiality assessment that includes input from employees and external stakeholders such as investors, It is important to note that the Health and Nutrition team has made great customers, suppliers and NGOs. This assessment identifies sustainability strides in sustainability, including energy and waste reduction, and I know issues that have the greatest impact on our business and our stakeholders. they will bring strong expertise to DuPont’s program. Q: What is FMC’s approach to ensuring a responsible supply chain from sourcing materials through product end use? Pierre Brondeau A: Collaboration and strong partnerships with suppliers and customers are very President, CEO and Chairman of the Board important to ensure we meet our sustainability commitments, from sourcing, 2 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS OUR 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Welcome Guide and Major Global Challenges.........................................................................2 The report complements more • A New Vision for FMC and Organizational Profile...................................................................3 detailed information on the sustainability website at • Historic Milestones.......................................................................................................................... 4 www.FMCsustainability.com, which includes the Global Reporting Initiative • Update on Our Formula for Progress......................................................................................... 6 (GRI) Content Index. Together, this report and the web-based content fulfill • 2016 Progress Report and 2017 Commitments..........................................................................7 the requirements of GRI Standards. • Materiality Assessment and UN Sustainable Development Goals..................................... 8 EXPLORE WWW.FMCSUSTAINABILITY.COM • Stakeholder Engagement and the UN Global Compact....................................................... 9 We invite you to explore our website for more stories and data that highlight OUR PEOPLE................................10 OUR RESPONSIBILITY................26 how we are built for progress through our commitment to sustainability. • Dedication to Safety by All.................... 11 • Dedicated to Understanding The Online Data Center allows you to Our Environmental Impact................... 27 visualize and interact with our data to • Safety Across the Value Chain...............12 better understand FMC’s impacts. You • Logistics Networks • Talented Employees may also explore our resources to access for the Future............................................ 28 Building FMC’s Future Every Day..........13 a wealth of image and video content that will enhance your understanding • Progressing of our sustainability work. We invite you Community Development..................... 29 to read our key statements and policies OUR PRODUCTS.........................18 • 2016 Environmental Results.................. 32 regarding our positions across several topics, including: • Innovation to • Climate Change Statement Meet Global Challenges......................... 19 • Human Rights Policy • Agricultural Solutions............................ 20 • Animal Welfare Policy • Conflict Minerals Policy • Lithium.......................................................22 Assurance Statement.................................. 34 • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct • Board of Directors • Health and Nutrition..............................24 Executive Officers......................................... 35 Sustainability Committee The 2016 FMC Corporation Sustainability For more information about FMC sustainability, please contact Linda Froelich, Global Sustainability Director, at sustainability.info@fmc.com. Report is “In Accordance” with the GRI Standards Core option. FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 WELCOME GUIDE OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH AND FMC VISION The theme for this year’s Sustainability Report, We make constant incremental progress to Our People, including safety, diversity and Built for Progress, continues our momentum become a more sustainable enterprise that employee programs from last year’s milestone report, Our Formula delivers enduring value to our customers. for Progress. Sustainability is an enduring, Developing innovative solutions, maintaining Our Products, including innovation, new fundamental part of FMC’s structure, built into a dynamic workforce and addressing some of product introductions and sustainable who we are as a company. We develop products the world’s most pressing challenges are the supply chain practices for our modern, solution-oriented, global keys to making real progress. Built for Progress customers and an increasingly aware public. is comprised of three key pillars which were Our Responsibility, including With a business-focused approach to sustainability, introduced in last year’s report: environmental footprint and community FMC is built to succeed, advance and grow. engagement MAJOR GLOBAL CHALLENGES Throughout this report and on our sustainability FOOD + HEALTH EXPECTATIONS SCARCE RESOURCES website (www.FMCsustainability.com) you will Food and crop production must increase To cope with limited availability of learn how FMC is helping to alleviate five of the to meet the basic needs and desires of a fresh water, energy, forests and other world’s major challenges. These Global Challenges rapidly growing and socio-economically essential resources, we must carefully have framed our work since we formalized diverse population seeking a wider array manage them and more widely use sustainability at FMC in 2011. We understand the of nutritional options. renewable alternatives. role we must play to help balance the resources of our world with the fast-growing population. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSCIOUSNESS LAND COMPETITION Growing interest in natural and benign Urbanization to accommodate a As a highly focused specialty chemical company, materials is fueling the need for new, growing population and poor land our products, technologies and services are key to improved, bio-based products that management techniques are limiting mitigating these challenges. reduce impact on the environment. the amount of arable areas available for agriculture, which intensifies the need CLIMATE CHANGE to increase farmland productivity and Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions crop yields. is considered a necessary step in mitigating climate-warming trends. 2 2 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A NEW VISION FOR FMC FMC’s vision for the next two to three years is to • Recruit and Develop an Exceptional and be a leading, innovative provider of technologies Diverse Workforce that help feed and power a growing population. • Be More Agile and Efficient Our employees continue to adhere to the guiding principles outlined below to achieve our vision: • Maintain a Global Reach with a Local Focus • Be Safe, Ethical, and Sustainable Stewards FMC employees, working according to these principles, deliver solutions that help mitigate some • Drive Innovation in Technology of the world’s most pressing global challenges. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE FMC REPORTING AND FMC AGRICULTURAL REVENUE BY CUSTOMER LOCATION CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES SOLUTIONS $2.3 69% (IN MILLIONS) = $3,282.4 BILLION The 2016 data in this report Insecticides, herbicides, FMC Total 2016 Revenue include all sites under FMC’s fungicides, plant health operational control, as Latin America well as sites acquired from FMC LITHIUM $821.4 25% Europe, Cheminova in 2015 and environmental data supplied Lithium hydroxide, $264.1 8% 24% Middle East + Africa MILLION by active ingredient contract butyllithium, lithium FMC Total $783.4 2016 Revenue manufacturing companies carbonate (except where noted). The prior year data have all been restated to provide consistency. FMC HEALTH Asia Pacific 24% AND NUTRITION North Microcrystalline cellulose, $743.5 23% $798.5 27% America MILLION carrageenan, alginates, FMC Total $879.1 2016 Revenue natural colorants FMC FMC 2016 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3 HISTORIC WE LOOK BACK AS OUR SUSTAINABILITY MILESTONES JOURNEY CONTINUES • FMC leadership establishes the “Chairman’s Council for Sustainability,” 2010 comprised of key leaders, to determine the strategic direction of the first formal sustainability program • A “call to action” published in the 2014 Report, research and development dedicated to sustainable products 2014 or projects hits 74 percent • Water Risk Assessment conducted, • Waste assessment using World Resources Institute conducted for all Aqueduct tool, to establish areas of manufacturing sites to focus for water reduction understand FMC’s waste footprint • Animal Welfare Policy developed 2013 • Women’s Initiative Network, an employee affinity group, • Supply chain sustainability efforts launched to connect, develop and advance women at FMC take hold. All significant raw • Social Responsibility Audit program continually assesses materials suppliers are screened manufacturing sites on labor and human rights compliance against the Supplier Code of Conduct OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS GOALS FOR 2020 AND 2025 PUBLISHED, INCLUDING: • Reduce our Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) • Reduce our environmental impact by to < 0.30 by 2020 reducing energy, GHG and waste intensities by 15 percent by 2025 2015 • Dedicate 80 percent of our R&D budget to develop sustainably advantaged products by 2020 • Reduce water intensity in high risk areas by 20 percent by 2025 • Achieve 100 on our Community Engagement Index by 2020 4 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • The first Sustainability Report, “We’ve Made a Choice,” is published • To focus efforts on mega trends that affect the global population, the five “market-shaping shifts” are identified these still guide FMC today, and are now known as the Major Global Challenges • The Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors is established, ensuring accountability for 2011 sustainability at the highest level of the organization • Product Stewardship and Sustainability Assessments developed to measure and accelerate sustainability in research and development • Established annual materiality assessment process to determine issues of highest importance • As part of Vision 2015, three targets are established: • Supplier Code of Conduct implemented, including 1. < 0.37 Total Recordable Incident Rate human rights, labor, environmental, health and 2. > 5  0% of total R&D spending dedicated to impact safety requirements major global challenges • Sustainable packaging products launched, including 3. > 90 (out of 100) Community Engagement Index 2012 a Green Family of containers in Brazil derived • Energy Management Center of Excellence formed to from sugarcane implement best energy practices, including conducting regular energy assessments at manufacturing sites • FMC divests the Alkali Chemicals division and • FMC reports to CDP Climate Change finalizes the purchase of Cheminova AG, a disclosure for the first time, receives an ADanish agrochemical manufacturer • Climate Change Statement published • FMC signs the United Nations Global Compact • Human Rights Policy published and reports its first Communication on Progress 2016 • Best safety record in FMC history achieved, • Select environmental data are assured a 0.22 total recordable incident rate • Diversity and Inclusion program formalized; • Select environmental and safety data are Diversity Officer appointed assured, see page 34 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 UPDATE ON OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS In 2015 FMC established goals that will ensure we are a more sustainable enterprise by 2025. These goals encompass safety, environmental and drivers to becoming tomorrow’s FMC. We will deliver safe products that benefit our employees, our society and our impact on the Earth. product development aspects and are important OUR PEOPLE OUR PRODUCTS OUR RESPONSIBILITY + + = CONTINUED PROGRESS GOAL BY 2020... GOAL BY 2020... GOAL BY 2020... WHAT DOES A FUTURE WORLD Achieve a Total WITH FMC LOOK LIKE? Dedicate 80 percent of our Achieve 100 on the Community Recordable Incident R&D budget to develop Engagement Index, which We will impact five global Rate (TRIR) of 0.30 or sustainably advantaged measures interaction with challenges: climate change, lower by 2020. We are products by 2020. A our communities. environmental consciousness, proud to report our injury sustainably advantaged 2020 GOAL (100%) food and health expectations, rate in 2016 was 0.22, the product is one that positively land competition and scarce lowest full-year injury rate impacts one of the Major resources, and ensure that 96% since the company began Global Challenges. 87% 91% by 2025, FMC will have a COMMUNITY tracking TRIR. decreased environmental footprint and an exciting ENGAGEMENT 2020 GOAL pipeline of more sustainably (80%) advantaged products. 74% 76% 67% 2014 2015 2016 TRIR .63 2020 GOAL R&D .51 .51 (.30) GOALS BY 2025... .41 INTENSITY WATER USE FMC reports detailed data on 15% 20% the environmental footprint of .22 each business. For information 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 • Energy in high on energy, GHG, waste and water, • GHG risk areas see pages 32-33. • Waste 6 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 PROGRESS 2017 REPORT ON OUR 2016 COMMITMENTS COMMITMENTS Publish a climate change statement Improve sustainability in operations through waste assessments (2), social responsibility audits (3) and Department of Energy energy audits (2) Have key environmental data in our 2015 Sustainability Report (SR) assured Make measurable progress on our Innovation, Business Practices and Environmental goals Adhere to the GRI G4 guidelines in the 2015 SR Publish sustainability metrics and goals for 2020 and 2025 Implement an External Sustainability Council Publish Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact Expand our employee engagement program Report to the Carbon Disclosure Project Continue measuring our global logistics footprint Investigate sustainability data systems; make recommendations for 2017 Report to CDP Climate Change module, assess potential Reinvigorate the Sustainability Implementation Teams to report to CDP Supply Chain and Water modules Implement a social responsibility audit process for Develop and roll out the sustainability communications plan FMC suppliers Expand human rights elements of Code of Conduct into a Implement best sustainability practices at Philadephia headquarters stand-alone Human Rights Policy Complete sustainability training for Lithium and Agricultural Solutions Improve sustainability in operations through energy audits (2), commercial teams waste assessments (2) and social responsibility audits (5) Implement best sustainability practices at Have key environmental and safety data in our Philadelphia headquarters 2016 Sustainability Report assured Complete sustainability training for Lithium and Agricultural Adhere to the GRI Standards in the 2016 Sustainability Report Solutions commercial teams Completed Partial Not Complete FMC FMC 2016 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 MATERIALITY WHAT ISSUES ARE CATEGORY MATERIAL ISSUE ASSESSMENT MOST IMPORTANT? Marketplace Product environmental impacts Product safety and effects on humanity FMC conducts an annual materiality assessment to identify issues that have Health and safety Operations the greatest impacts to our business from economic, environmental and social Resource efficiency standpoints. It is a rigorous process that includes both internal and external Human rights stakeholder input. Each year we seek to improve our assessment. For example, Workplace Recruitment and retention in 2016 we included investors in the process. Through a series of interviews and meetings, as well as a formal survey, we qualitatively and quantitatively analyzed Product stewardship Environment a list of 62 potential material issues. The detailed process is outlined on our website. Climate change, energy use, water use and waste The issues determined to be the most material to FMC are in the table to the right. Global food supply Community Community relations ALIGNMENT FOR UNDERSTANDING THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL CHANGE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Adopted in 2015, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) include 17 goals and 169 targets which seek to promote sustainable development in the areas of People, Planet, Prosperity, Peace and Partnership. The SDGs incorporate aspects of the UN Global Compact, to which FMC is a signatory. The goals are a roadmap intended to establish a common purpose for governments, private enterprises, non-governmental organizations and academia. In order to ensure FMC’s sustainability efforts are aligned with this international consensus on sustainable development, we conducted an assessment in 2016 to map our material issues to the SDGs. The results of this assessment showed that all of the material issues we have identified are also part of the UN SDGs. We are proud of this alignment and it demonstrates that FMC’s areas of focus are not only in the best interest of the company but are also supported by a global framework for positive change. 8 2016 SUSTAINABILITY FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT STAKEHOLDER WHO DO WE STAKEHOLDER GROUP CHANNELS OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY ENGAGEMENT WORK WITH? Town Hall meetings Quarterly Reports, email blasts, videos Monthly Employees Surveys Annually Stakeholder engagement is a key element in determining issues that Training Annually are most material to FMC. Engagement helps us identify important Social media Weekly trends we need to address in sustainability reporting. We engage a Sustainability report Annually myriad of stakeholders through open and transparent dialogue on a Prospective Annual report Annually regular basis. Taking their feedback into account is vital as we grow Employees Social media Weekly into a leading and innovative provider of technologies that help feed a growing population and power a cleaner, mobile world. The major Meetings Ongoing issues facing our industry are complex and collaboration is therefore Customers Innovation collaboration Quarterly essential. The table to the right indicates the main stakeholder Industry partnerships Quarterly groups we engage and how we engage with them. Supplier audits Biannually Suppliers Supplier surveys Quarterly Code of Conduct Monthly Ratings/rankings and indices Annually Conference calls Quarterly UNITED NATIONS Investors Surveys Annually COMMUNICATION Investor Day Biannually GLOBAL COMPACT ON PROGRESS Local Donations to local organizations Employee volunteers Quarterly Monthly Communities FMC became a signatory of the UN Global Compact in 2015 and Community Advisory Panels Quarterly this report is our second Communication on Progress. Support of the UNGC demonstrates FMC’s commitment to Regulators and Meetings Monthly public policy makers Risk assessments and studies Regularly make globalization more socially and ecologically compatible and to raise standards in human rights, labor rights, environmental protection In-person meetings/conference calls Quarterly and anti-corruption. A complete table of FMC’s Non-government Project collaborations Bi-annually organizations Survey responses Annually activities and management systems that support the 10 principles of the Global Compact can be Developing policies and best practices As needed found at FMCsustainability.com. WE SUPPORT Leading/participating on committees Bi-monthly Industry and working groups associations Advocacy As needed FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 OUR Our people are FMC’s most valuable resource and are essential to the company’s long-term success. PEOPLE We empower them to put safety first and to build an inclusive workplace. The combination of their innovative mindset and dedication is instrumental in achieving our sustainability goals. 10 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DEDICATION TO SAFETY BY ALL SAFETY… Safety of our employees is a core belief at FMC. IN MANUFACTURING From executive leadership to plant floor operators, Accomplishing a 0.22 TRIR required employee employees are empowered to make decisions that diligence as well as effective systems and always put safety first. Our safety culture permeates processes. For the second year in a row, FMC was “We’re honored by ACC’s recognition of our new all areas of business and all employees are responsible recognized with the American Chemistry Council for keeping themselves and others safe. In 2015 we (ACC) Responsible Care® “Initiative of the Year” PHL screening tool. This unique way of managing set a goal to achieve a Total Recordable Incident process safety risks aligns with ACC’s recent updates award. In 2015, we received the award for FMC’s Rate (TRIR) of 0.30 or lower by 2020, which we believe TH!NK.SAFE.™ awareness program, and in 2016 we to the Responsible Care Process Safety Code of would put FMC in the top quartile of chemical were honored to receive the award for our Process companies. We are proud to report our injury rate in Hazard Level (PHL) Screening Tool. Management Practices and is already having a 2016 was 0.22, less than half of the previous two years positive impact at FMC. The PHL tool is scalable, This tool is the starting and the lowest full-year injury rate since the company point for implementing making it easy to share and have an impact on the began tracking TRIR. At the end of 2016, FMC achieved the internal Process an injury-free fourth quarter, a perfect capstone to a Safety Management larger chemical manufacturing community.” year of safety milestones. Standard. It provides BARRY CRAWFORD, VICE PRESIDENT, OPERATIONS a method for sorting operational processes TRIR Results based on the hazards of materials, chemistry and operating conditions. We believe the four areas that drove .63 improvement are: 0.22 2020 .51 .51 TRIR GOAL (.30) .41 Leadership | Strong leadership at the plants Focus | Each business focused on what 1 and in management sets the example of 3 could be effectively improved to eliminate .22 safety before all else. They quickly enacted incidents, such as hand safety, manual 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 in 2016 effective changes for a safer environment when areas of improvement were identified. handling, hazard recognition and housekeeping. Accountability | Employees at all levels Learning | Employees improved their 2 were accountable and responsible for 4 safety mindset every day through training, This achievement is a testament to employees’ safety and had the ability to stop work at sharing experiences across business units unyielding commitment to look out for one any time for a safety concern. and consistently improving systems. another each and every day. However, we will not be satisfied until we reach our ultimate target of zero injuries. FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 CONSTANT AND SAFETY ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN IN THE OFFICE VISIBLE SAFETY MESSAGING As part of this commitment, Health and Nutrition Awareness is a key to maintaining Each business took specific actions to improve established a Remote and Administrative Site consistently strong safety results at FMC. safety in 2016: Safety Program in 2015 to understand and Consistent, transparent communications encourage safety among the non-manufacturing help ensure every employee goes home at AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS workforce. In 2016, focused safety topics for the the end of the day as healthy as he or she • Implemented Life Critical Standards at all program varied from driving and transportation to arrived at work. Some examples include: newly acquired sites customer visits and laboratory safety. • Daily email safety message to all • Launched a new eye safety initiative requiring Health and Nutrition employees from employees to wear goggles for eye protection ON THE ROAD the Director of Operations instead of glasses based on hazards at the sites All employees in the U.S. who drive a company • Weekly email safety message to all vehicle are required to take online training. In 2016, Agricultural Solutions employees from LITHIUM we launched a dynamic driving training course for the Manufacturing Excellence Manager • Implemented ergonomic best practices for drum those who drive a fleet vehicle more than 1,200 • Daily safety lessons communicated and cylinder handling at butyllithium sites miles per year. These employees were required to on highly visible lobby screens at FMC • Introduced “knowledge checks” to ensure participate in Driver Safety Training which included Tower in Philadelphia good housekeeping, risk awareness, personal • Weekly EHS newsletter from the protection equipment use and other daily Vice President, Operations detailing safety skills at the production site in Argentina safety results and lessons learned from global operations HEALTH AND NUTRITION • Consistent safety messages to all • Shared best practices and incident lessons Lithium employees, including daily across manufacturing sites safety messages at the Bessemer City, • Advanced engineering standards to improve North Carolina, manufacturing site process safety The goal of these communications is to Under the theme of “The Year of the Supervisor,” remind employees that every day is a Health and Nutrition and Lithium team members new day to TH!NK.SAFE., and everyone, focused intently on training leaders in new regardless of position or experience, is safety skills and providing tools for promoting able to make a difference in safety. safety culture. Our commitment to protecting employees extends beyond manufacturing to the company’s offices, FMC REMAINS COMMITTED TO PROPER, EFFECTIVE AND CONSISTENT R&D sites and all areas at home, at work and on USE OF REQUIRED PERSONAL PROTECTION EQUIPMENT AT ALL OF the road. OUR GLOBAL MANUFACTURING AND RESEARCH SITES. 12 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT classroom sessions and opportunities to practice TALENTED EMPLOYEES BUILDING NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF new skills behind the wheel. The training was not FMC’S FUTURE EVERY DAY MANUFACTURERS (NAM) HONORS ROLE OF simply a “rules of the road” review. It taught drivers WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP AT FMC techniques to enhance their safety, including When FMC employees are safe, they can excel. It the use of a “slide car” that simulates hazardous Barbara Fochtman, Director of Global is FMC’s responsibility to provide a platform for all scenarios such as loss of traction, hydroplaning Operations for FMC Lithium, was named a employees to learn, grow and contribute their best and sliding. This training helps develop new 2017 Science, Technology, Engineering and to the company’s success. competencies for drivers to manage real world Production (STEP) Ahead Honoree by NAM. conditions as safely as possible. The STEP Ahead Awards honor women DIVERSITY: THE KEY TO FMC’S FUTURE who have demonstrated excellence and Creating and celebrating a diverse workforce is leadership in their careers and represent IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN key to FMC’s future growth and success. This is all levels of the manufacturing industry. FMC Agricultural Solutions partners with the mission of Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) at “I was honored to be chosen as a STEP contract manufacturers to produce key active FMC. FMC will continue to grow and succeed if our Ahead Honoree, and want to thank FMC for ingredients. To extend the safety culture beyond employees provide insights and knowledge from nominating me and my colleagues,” said our own doors, we work closely with the contract diverse points of view. Our D&I vision is to deliver Barbara. “It’s important that we continue to manufacturers to implement FMC standards of exceptional results through a vibrant, diverse inspire and develop the next generation of environmental health and safety. workforce and an inclusive workplace. female leaders in the industry, To encourage progress on diversity, members and the STEP Our safety journey is never complete, and FMC of FMC’s Leadership Committee have annual Ahead Awards employees are accountable in all areas of our goals related to D&I. With strong support from provide a great work. We are committed to constantly learning, leadership, D&I efforts in 2016 focused on building forum for peer challenging and promoting safe work practices employees’ understanding and awareness of dialogue and while we strive for the ultimate goal of zero injuries. diversity and inclusion through special events, mentorship.” activities and communications. The STEP Ahead Awards WHO WE ARE WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT 2016 Highlights are part of 2016 results on women in • Implemented a governance structure, led the larger management: 4.6 percent by an executive sub-committee and D&I STEP Ahead initiative launched to promote increase in Women in Advisory Team the role of women in manufacturing through Management (grades 25+) • Increased global awareness of the D&I program recognition and research. FMC employees over 2015. through employee communications and Luanne McGovern, Director of Corporate special events Engineering and EHS, and Jennifer Hirsch, Production Services Manager for Agricultural • Enhanced diverse talent recruiting efforts and Solutions, Wyoming site, also received STEP provided additional development opportunities Ahead nominations. % of Women in Management FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 Diversity in Leadership new Women’s Initiative Networks (WIN) began in MARGARETH ØVRUM Campinas, Brazil, and Manila, Philippines, building A focus on D&I on the momentum of WIN North America. WIN is present in the North America, founded in 2014, hosted a series of highest levels of events designed to educate, advance and inspire the organization. employees, including a personal finance seminar, a In February 2016, BETHWYN TODD AMY O’SHEA DIANE ALLEMANG panel discussion on multigenerational differences, President, FMC Asia, Vice President and Global Director, Global Margareth Øvrum, Vice President and Business Director, FMC Portfolio Strategy a career visioning group and several networking Business Director, FMC Agricultural Solutions Vice President of events to facilitate new relationships across the Agricultural Solutions, U.S. and Canada Crop Technology, Projects Asia company. In 2017, WIN North America will focus on and Drilling for four new themes: Statoil Group, an international energy • Education and development – teaching company based in employees about gender paradigms in Stavanger, Norway, was elected to FMC’s Board the workplace of Directors. Margareth’s significant experience • Outreach and wellbeing – encouraging in safety, sustainability and environmental self-improvement, personal balance and MARIA DELOURDES TRACY WU JILL HOLIHAN FUSTAINO management in the petrochemical industry community engagement President, FMC Director, Product Regulatory and China, Business Development and provides valuable insight to the Board and to Product Development Director Agricultural Regulatory Affairs, • Networking – providing opportunities and tools Director, Latin FMC Global Specialty FMC. With Margareth’s election, there are now two America Solutions Solutions to build new connections North Asia women on the Board, bringing the percentage of • Global WIN connectivity – connecting, learning female Board members to 18 percent. This is an and sharing ideas with WIN chapters around important the world URSULA step toward LUETTMER-OUAZANE a balanced Commercial Director, Northwest approach to INVESTING IN TOOLS Europe, FMC Agricultural governance, FOR EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Solutions but we Throughout 2016, we invested a significant amount acknowledge of time and resources into building a world-class WOMEN IN AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS LEADERSHIP there is still Human Resources organization that accelerates Women comprise about 40 percent of the agriculture progress to labor force. In developing countries, most smallholder business success and further develops employees. farms are run by women who help feed a growing be made. A key component of this transformation was the population. Women must be represented in agriculture implementation of GPS, a global performance leadership to provide their perspectives. FMC Agricultural Solutions has made remarkable strides toward an inclusive management system that creates consistency AFFINITY GROUPS AROUND THE WORLD leadership model with 15 percent women in leadership in in talent reviews, including goal setting and 2016, an increase of 4 percent from 2015. Mark Douglas, D&I efforts expanded significantly across the globe achievement, competency assessments and FMC Agricultural Solutions president, is proud to say, “The in 2016. In Cork, Ireland, employees launched a development planning. women on my extended leadership team bring amazing talent and diversity of thought and are instrumental in “New Generation” young professionals network the continued growth of our business.” to connect with FMC employees worldwide. Two 14 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BUILDING SKILLS FOR SUCCESS: foundational skills and competencies for current EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING and future front line leaders in manufacturing. For BUILDING A WORK/LIFE FMC recognizes that our highly talented employees these employees, technical skills are required, but BALANCE: NEW UNITED benefit from training and development programs excellence in leadership is what will differentiate STATES PARENTAL LEAVE AND tailored to their needs. These programs range FMC now and in the future. Training topics DEPENDENT CARE POLICY from early career introductions to the company, included employee development, performance FMC is dedicated to supporting such as university cooperatives and internship, management, employee engagement, team employee work/life balance to advanced leadership development programs. building and communication. FLL training also and providing resources to help employees Initiatives across the regions highlight the aimed to create a learning culture that encourages more easily align their careers with the commitment to developing our employees. employees to practice and share leadership skills. needs of their families. In October 2016, Pierre Brondeau announced a significantly In the U.S., we began a Front Line Leadership (FLL) In 2016 we launched a similar leadership skills expanded Parental Leave and Dependent training initiative for employees in manufacturing. training program in Brazil through the Leadership Care Policy for U.S. employees. Under A “front line leader” is a supervisor for the Development Program (LDP). This program the new policy, a mother may take up to operators of a particular manufacturing unit concentrated on four main areas: six months off from work, and a father, or area. The initiative was designed to provide 1. Developing a vision for success, including spouse or adoptive parent up to 20 weeks, organizational strategy, performance to welcome a new child to the family. The management tools and market trends majority of this time off is paid. This type of Parental Leave Policy is still quite rare in 2. Managing high performing teams, including 2016 TOTAL the U.S., and FMC shows leadership with 2016 TOTAL WORKFORCE organizing and mobilizing strategic groups WORKFORCE BY REGION BY REGION + GENDER & GENDER this announcement. 3. Implementing and executing projects, Females including organizing actions, processes “It’s important that FMC’s benefits and HR Males and metrics policies reflect what matters most to our 2,500 4. Improving decision making and analytical employees and their families,” said Kyle skills, including identifying and prioritizing Matthews, FMC Vice President, Human 2,000 issues while balancing team needs Resources. “The ability to balance work while 1,500 caring for loved ones or welcoming a new In addition to the LDP, FMC in Brazil launched child to the family has become increasingly 1,000 a new Commercial Development Program. FMC important. FMC is proud to be at the customers, including farmers and crop protection forefront of employers that are introducing 500 distributors, require the highest standard of progressive parental and dependent care technical knowledge from our sales, marketing benefits that help employees lead successful Asia EMEA Latin North Pacific America America and R&D teams. To ensure we support customers careers and raise great families.” FMC with best in class services, this program offered employees dedicate remarkable time and commercial teams 16 hours of classroom training energy to the company, and this policy is an and four weeks of online training activities focused important and necessary step for inclusion. on communication, relationship building, deep product knowledge and applicability. FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 KEY OUR INITIATIVES IN ASIA – Over TRAINING 53,000 hours of training in 2016 • HIGH VALUE CHINA • SITUATIONAL PHILIPPINES MANAGER ACCELERATOR LEADERSHIP SEMINAR This two-day training Leaders and managers program focused on participated in a 12-hour training managerial skills, coaching, program that introduced four PAKISTAN motivation, delegation and building efficient teams. different styles of leadership based on Situational Leadership Twenty-four managers and Theory. Different styles can be • PRODUCT TRAINING team leaders attended. employed based on the conditions FMC employees educate and advise growers in Pakistan. The company provides • CROSS POSITION TRAINING of the project or the style of the training to ensure growers are equipped Production teams trained person being led. Managers were with the knowledge and information they operators across production introduced to basic psychological need to be effective product stewards. units to improve skill sets concepts to determine what In 2016, FMC Pakistan hosted four training and increase flexibility in leadership style to use and when. programs for sales teams that included plant management. • SKILLS ADVANCEMENT information on fungicide and herbicide use, Employees attended several application techniques, new crop usage and external courses in communication many other topics. skills and software to further their development. INDIA • TAKING OWNERSHIP TRAINING Employees were trained on taking initiative to advance SINGAPORE FMC initiated intensive training on Ethics and Compliance in China and India in 2016. Over 30 leaders per country participated in two-day new ideas and manage • SKILLS ADVANCEMENT workshops on compliance and received training projects, as well as how to on FMC's Code of Ethics, legal compliance Employees attended several encourage teamwork and give and financial standards. These compliance external courses in communication constructive feedback. champions took the message to their regions and skills and software to further regular follow-up sessions are planned. We will their development. expand this training in 2017. 16 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STRATEGIC LEADERSHIP PROGRAM can significantly affect health and well-being. In LEED projects located in over 162 countries and May 2016, FMC officially relocated the Philadelphia territories, but there are only 24 LEED Commercial This year, we continued the Strategic Leader Program, headquarters to FMC Tower at Cira Centre Interior spaces in Philadelphia that have achieved a year-long development program for FMC’s South. We were proud to announce that the new Gold certification or higher. FMC is proud to join senior leaders from around the world. Participants building received the Leadership in Energy and such an elite group of peers. Increased natural came together in Philadelphia for two, multi-day Environmental Design (LEED) Gold certification light and open spaces in modern design are known sessions, which included lectures, coaching classes, for its commercial interior. LEED is a green to increase quality of life at work. The inviting and group and individual exercises. These sessions building design standard that measures building spaces were designed to encourage collaboration focused on team leadership and helped leaders performance and certifies the sustainable aspects and innovation. expand their skills to ensure that new ideas can of a building. There are currently more than 82,000 be turned into programs that will impact business success. The program concluded with a leadership presentation and networking opportunity with FMC’s Executive Committee. ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FMC formalized Engineering Development Programs (EDP) to attract, develop and retain highly talented engineers, beginning with the Health and Nutrition and Lithium businesses. EDP engineers start with FMC after they graduate and spend 12 to 18 months working with the Technical Center and Corporate Engineering Services teams in Ewing, New Jersey. They have the opportunity to apply key engineering fundamentals in real world applications. These opportunities include safety and data-based decision making, using technical skills such as creating material and energy balances, and developing capital deployment projects. Current EDP engineers work on projects at FMC manufacturing locations around the world, providing them with valuable technical experiences. For 2017, the EDP accepted five students, and will expand to include the Agricultural Solutions business. THE FMC TOWER AT CIRA CENTRE SOUTH IN IMPROVING EMPLOYEE ENVIRONMENTS PHILADELPHIA HAS RECEIVED THE LEADERSHIP IN ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN (LEED) GOLD Employees spend the majority of their waking CERTIFICATION FOR ITS COMMERCIAL INTERIOR. hours at work, therefore workplace environments FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 OUR We continually deliver sustainably advantaged products to our customers to meet the world’s nutritional needs PRODUCTS and deliver lower carbon solutions. Our research and development pipeline is the strongest it has ever been with many new products to be introduced over the next several years. 18 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 GOAL (80%) INNOVATION TO MEET GLOBAL CHALLENGES 76% 74% 67% Our attention to researching and Our goal is to dedicate 80% BY 2020 developing increasingly sustainable product lines is accelerating. We OF R&D TO SUSTAINABLY have made progress toward our ADVANTAGED PRODUCTS commitment to the 2020 target for research and development: 2014 2015 2016 As the world population grows to approximately 9 it continues in the development process. R&D billion people by 2050, our resource-constrained scientists and engineers must complete the PSSA planet faces significant challenges, including an at each stage of project development. Scientists increasing need for nutritious food and sustainable develop more complete answers to the PSSA modes of transportation. FMC is already addressing questions as their research moves forward and some of these challenges through groundbreaking therefore gain more insights into the product’s innovation and strong supply chain partnerships. attributes. Each business has a unique PSSA tool Our products are a vital part of the path to a that is appropriate and relevant for their project sustainable food and energy future, and a strong development. For example, the Agricultural R&D pipeline ensures we will deliver sustainably Solutions PSSA considers human health and advantaged products for the long term. ecological toxicity, while the Lithium PSSA reviews whether the product promotes more sustainable FMC researchers developed the Product energy or transportation. Stewardship and Sustainability Assessment (PSSA) tool to ensure each new product introduction is Every quarter, FMC aggregates PSSA scores across more sustainable than the current benchmark. business units to determine our total R&D spend The PSSA includes questions addressing each of toward sustainably advantaged products. As FMC CONTINUES ITS DEVELOPMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SOLUTIONS FOR FMC’s identified five major global challenges. A announced in the 2015 Sustainability Report, FMC’s OUR CUSTOMERS. FOR EXAMPLE, FRACTURE™, A BROAD SPECTRUM, BIOLOGICAL FUNGICIDE IS LABELED FOR PREVENTION AND product should show progress in at least one of goal is to achieve 80 percent of R&D spend toward CONTROL OF FUNGAL INFECTION WITH KEY CROPS LIKE ALMONDS, the areas without regressing in another before sustainably advantaged products by 2020. GRAPES, TOMATOES AND STRAWBERRIES. FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 Bixafen is highly effective against a wide range of THE EASE OF MOUNTING 3RIVE 3D™ TO ALL MAJOR PLANTER BRANDS COMBINED WITH fungal diseases in row crops, and is an important ITS BEST-IN-CLASS DELIVERY SYSTEM FOR CROP PROTECTION PRODUCTS POSITIONS THIS INNOVATION WELL WITH OUR GLOBAL CUSTOMER BASE. part of a revitalized pipeline to give growers the tools to manage resistance and fight diseases that compromise yield. Another key example from our diversified portfolio that helps meet the challenge of feeding a growing population is the new 3RIVE 3D™ applicator, an efficient and sustainable method of applying crop protection products during planting. In 2016, FMC finalized the commercial on-planter application technology that minimizes labor, water use and fuel use. The patent-pending formulation and delivery system uses a small amount of water and expands the product three dimensionally to cover 50 times more area than DELIVERING PRODUCTS FOR use while maximizing the potential yield of traditional formulations. This technology allows THE FUTURE: SUSTAINABLE crops. Pest management in agriculture across growers to plant and protect up to 500 acres on INNOVATION AND the world is changing rapidly. Farmers face a single fill-up of the system, and use 90 percent PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP challenges with growing pest resistance and less water than traditional liquid delivery systems. changing climate conditions. To ensure growers FMC is formulating and testing several active have the options they need now and in the AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS ingredients using this new technology, including future, FMC is developing an innovative pipeline biological and traditional fungicides, insecticides FMC is committed to introducing products that of approximately nine new synthetic active and soil amendments. This sustainably advantaged control only the target organism, thereby avoiding ingredients and five new biological strains that and efficient technology is an innovative way for negative impacts on ecosystems and human will be commercialized over the next seven years. FMC to promote sustainable agriculture. health. Our products help growers fight damaging FMC’s R&D portfolio extends from improving pests, weeds and disease with increased efficacy formulations of existing active ingredients to FMC is a technology leader with patented and precise application methods. We focus on innovating entirely new chemistries. Liquid Fertilizer Ready (LFR®) formulations. This classes of chemistries that have a decreased formulation technology allows growers to mix environmental footprint, allow for reduced FMC has significantly expanded our fungicide insect control products into liquid fertilizer systems application rates and can complement biological offerings in recent years, and in 2016 we already installed on the planter, eliminating products in mixtures and integrated pest announced the beginning of the registration the need for additional water and redundant management programs. process in the U.S. and Canada for Bixafen™, a new applicators. By using systems already installed on fungicide active ingredient. This product is the the planter, LFR® brands simplify and accelerate Solutions for Growers’ Changing Needs first novel active ingredient submitted by FMC in the planting operation for growers. FMC is approximately 15 years, and marks a new chapter To feed the growing global population, it is consistently expanding the use of this technology in the history of FMC Agricultural Solutions and its crucial to maintain or reduce natural resource through partnerships, and in 2016 we announced commitment to active ingredient development. 20 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT an agreement to bring an efficient and effective FMC is increasingly innovating in these three areas, fungicide from BASF to the LFR® platform. In 2017, and in 2016 we focused on expanding the reach of through this partnership, FMC will launch Temitry™ the micronutrient business. Because nutrients are LFR® insecticide/fungicide in the U.S. corn market. vitally important to soil and plant health, there is increasing concern about the depletion of key A diversified approach to crop protection is core to elements from soil in many areas of the world. FMC’s ability to advance sustainable agriculture. With this in mind, FMC partners with farmers In the last few years, we have started to build to provide technical support on improving soil a strong biological product portfolio through health. For example, in Pakistan, technical experts the BioSolutions alliance with Chr. Hansen. This offer a mobile soil testing service program known portfolio is one component of the comprehensive as “Doctor Soil”. Doctor Soil experts conduct a Plant Health platform, which is dedicated to complete soil fertility test on a farmer’s field advancing plant yields using: and the results provide land-specific nutrient deficiency details. The farmers can then use soil Biological active ingredients and amendments to improve the quality of soil and 1 microbes | protecting and stimulating significantly increase opportunity for healthy, high FMC’S MOBILE DOCTOR SOIL EXPERTS CONDUCT LAND-SPECIFIC crops using products derived from natural yield crops. NUTRIENT TESTS AND PROVIDE GROWERS WITH TAILORED MICRONUTRIENT SOLUTIONS. bacteria found in plants and soil Seed Treatments | using bacteria to Pest Protection for Specialty Uses 2 protect the seed and nurture an emerging of chemistry available for adult mosquito control, FMC’s expertise in pest protection extends beyond FMC provides products that ensure the ability to plant once in the ground agriculture to specialty solutions including lawn control the population long term. Plant Nutrition | adding basic nutrients and tree care, nursery and ornamental operations, 3 to soil to ensure optimal conditions for and residential and commercial structural pest As a result of carefully considering sustainability healthy crop growth control. Additionally, FMC has products for adult from the outset of a project, we are finding more mosquito control, a critical need for protecting ways where we can positively impact the global public health. In 2016, the significant uptick in challenges. This includes FMC’s strategy to replace transmission of the Zika virus required targeted older crop protection chemistries with new actions to control populations of the Aedes products and technologies. In 2016 we completed aegypti mosquito, the species that primarily an assessment of our active ingredients and carries and transmits the virus. FMC provides two products to determine which ones may potentially key products in mosquito control: be classified as Highly Hazardous Pesticides (HHPs). • Fyfanon® ULV Mosquito insecticide As a result, we are conducting specific country risk • Talstar® Professional insecticide assessments for where we sell these products and proposing mitigation, if needed, until the products These tools are vital to pest management are replaced by newer chemistries. We have professionals and municipal mosquito abatement also initiated a replacement program for inert OUR PRODUCT LINES FOCUSED ON PLANT HEALTH USE BENEFICIAL to control the mosquito population and slow the ingredients identified as HHPs. BACTERIAL STRAINS TO DELIVER CROP PROTECTION AND INCREASE OVERALL YIELDS FOR GROWERS. progression of the Zika virus. With only two classes FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 Over the past several years we have reduced the energy storage, electric vehicles, electronics and number of countries where we sell one of our many other advanced applications. oldest products, Furadan®, by 75 percent. Our goal has been to only sell this product in countries FMC’s approach to product innovation is highly where the application is done under highly focused on three key product areas: lithium controlled and mechanized conditions. As an hydroxide, butyllithium and high purity “We partner closely with leading manufacturers of extension of our strategy we will be phasing this lithium metal. lithium ion batteries and electric vehicles to product completely out of the market within the ensure our production meets their current and next two years. Lithium Hydroxide future demand. Our manufacturing network FMC LITHIUM: FMC is the market leader in reliable, safe and is highly flexible, which allows us to increase technologically advanced lithium hydroxide BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE ENERGY FUTURE products. In May 2016, we announced plans to capacity or accelerate expansion plans as As global economies develop, it is important expand production capacity of lithium hydroxide customer needs warrant.” that companies advance sustainable modes of by 20,000 metric tons per year, effectively tripling transportation and energy distribution to secure TOM SCHNEBERGER, VICE PRESIDENT AND current production capacity by 2019. Phase one of a low carbon footprint future. In 2016, FMC GLOBAL BUSINESS DIRECTOR, FMC LITHIUM the expansion is expected to be complete by midLithium rapidly accelerated growth, innovation 2017 and will serve the growing demand for highand customer focus to power a more sustainable quality lithium hydroxide that powers electric mobile world. As lithium battery technology vehicles. In addition, our new plant in Jiangsu, advances, we partner directly with our customers China will help reduce FMC’s shipping footprint to provide the highest quality lithium products for when we deliver to customers in Asia. FMC Lithium researchers develop lithium products Butyllithium that can improve battery performance. For electric vehicles, energy density is a key variable in long In the butyllithium (BuLi) market, FMC provides battery life and efficient charging. Currently, many advanced materials to optimize our customers’ lithium ion batteries use lithium carbonate-based technologies. BuLi is used in the production of cathode materials that have a low energy density. high performance rubber and elastomers, which As high quality battery needs increase, higher are often used in high performance tires. These performance battery materials are required. These tires have a lower rolling resistance with the road materials often require lithium hydroxide. In 2016, surface, thereby increasing vehicle fuel efficiency FMC Lithium R&D teams conducted and presented and wet grip traction and reducing noise. With studies that demonstrate how our lithium four production locations around the world, FMC hydroxide products can be used with certain is able to deliver the products our customers need, chemistries to improve battery manufacturing safely and efficiently. efficiency and overall battery performance. AS ELECTRIC VEHICLE ADOPTION CONTINUES TO GROW IN EMERGING MARKETS LIKE CHINA, FMC’S LITHIUM TECHNOLOGIES WILL BE AT THE FOREFRONT OF THIS GROWTH. 22 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT POWERING AN FMC’S GLOBAL LITHIUM FMC continues to advance lithium technologies and applications that are enabling our customers ENERGY REVOLUTION to revolutionize their product lines and markets. Our SUPPLY CHAIN lithium products are changing the energy landscape and addressing climate change in the process. SOURCING AND APPLICATIONS PROCESSING GLOBAL PRODUCT APPLICATIONS FOR: IN NORTH CAROLINA, FMC PROCESSES LITHIUM HYDROXIDE, SPECIALTY LITHIUM SALTS, HIGH-PURITY METALS, BUTYLLITHIUM Rechargeable batteries AND SPECIALTY ORGANICS. AT OUR SITES IN CHINA, INDIA AND THE for personal electronics, UNITED KINGDOM, WE PRODUCE HIGH QUALITY BUTYLLITHIUM. such as cell phones, Salta, laptops, also used in glass Argentina and ceramic materials Specialty greases and lubricants, high LITHIUM energy density lithium ion batteries HYDROXIDE including electric vehicle batteries North Carolina, and large format grid storage systems LITHIUM USA CARBONATE SPECIALTY LITHIUM Components for chemical manufacturing SALTS LITHIUM BRINE Alloyed metals, used with aluminum HIGH PURITY for aerospace lightweight metals; METALS lightweight, non-rechargeable lithium batteries, including household, medical and military applications BASIC LITHIUM LITHIUM SPECIALTY CHLORIDE ORGANICS Pharmaceutical applications METAL Synthetic green rubber applications, Air treatment and BUTYLincluding tires and other ﬂexible puriﬁcation applications LITHIUM rubber products FMC RESPONSIBLY SOURCES LITHIUM BRINE FROM A HIGH ALTITUDE PLATEAU NEAR SALTA, ARGENTINA. WE USE SOLAR EVAPORATION TO CONCENTRATE THE BRINE AND EFFICIENTLY PROCESS IT INTO HIGH-VALUE LITHIUM PRODUCTS WHILE THE DIVERSE PRODUCT LINES THAT USE FMC LITHIUM ARE CAREFULLY PROTECTING THE BIODIVERSITY AND NATURAL COMPONENTS IN INNOVATIVE TRANSPORTATION AND ENERGY RESOURCES OF THE LAND. FMC PARTNERS CLOSELY WITH THE Zhangjiagang, Patancheru, Bromborough, TECHNOLOGIES THAT ENABLE A LOW CARBON ENERGY FUTURE. FMC LOCAL COMMUNITY IN THIS RURAL REGION TO PROVIDE China India United Kingdom MANUFACTURES OUR PRODUCTS IN STRATEGIC GLOBAL LOCATIONS RESOURCES, EDUCATION AND NUTRITION PROGRAMS. TO MINIMIZE THE SHIPPING AND TRANSPORTATION FOOTPRINT. FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 High-Purity Lithium Metal coating used to protect fish oil capsules while in FMC NAMED SUPPLIER OF THE YEAR BY the stomach, keeping them intact until later in the FMC is the only producer of high-purity lithium NESTLÉ NORTH AMERICA digestive process. This technology allows for an metal in the Western Hemisphere. It is used FMC Health and Nutrition was named improved sensory experience for the consumer by in lithium-aluminum alloys that strengthen Supplier of the Year by Nestlé in the raw reducing unpleasant flavors and odors associated an aircraft’s fuselage while also reducing its materials category. FMC was commended for with fish oil supplements. weight. Light-weight materials enable an aircraft delivering solutions that enabled consistent to be more fuel efficient. These products are and innovative products for Nestlé while In 2016, carrageenan was reviewed by the National used in a commercial aircraft fuselage, also in minimizing costs. Organics Standards Board (NOSB) which provides aerospace, engine parts and other modes of air recommendations to the U.S. Department of transportation. In addition, advanced energy “We are delighted to be recognized by storage technologies, such as rechargeable lithium Nestlé in North America for the value of metal systems, require lithium metal that can offer our service,” said Eric Norris, President, higher energy density as compared to the best FMC Health and Nutrition. “At FMC, we available lithium ion systems. place the utmost importance on our Aquateric™ N100 customer relationships, going beyond the HEALTH AND NUTRITION Coating responsibilities of an ingredient supplier and providing a much higher level of expertise Every day, the FMC Health and Nutrition business and support.” transforms naturally derived materials into valuable Customized Alginate blend solutions that help customers stabilize foods, coating protects Omega-3 Throughout our collaboration, FMC and enhance medicine effectiveness and improve from stomach acid and Nestlé have shared similar values of safety, wellness around the world. We process sustainably reduces fishy burps quality and sustainability. sourced seaweeds and cellulose fiber into highvalue products such as alginate, carrageenan and microcrystalline cellulose. These products provide stability and other vital characteristics to food and allow effective delivery of pharmaceuticals and nutraceuticals. We work with customers to develop solutions tailored to consumer needs, including leveraging experience in natural colors to help remove artificial colors from food products. Increasingly, global consumers are seeking transparency about what is in their food, including “clean label” products made with ingredients they recognize and understand. In 2016 FMC launched Shell dissolves at higher pH to a new nutraceutical product, Aquateric™ N100 deliver the active ingredient Enteric Coating made from seaweed-based alginate. Aquateric is a clean label, non-GMO 24 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Agriculture (USDA) about food ingredients that can be included in certified organic products. Carrageenan, an ingredient naturally derived from seaweed, has decades of safe use in many foods and beverages as a stabilizer. Recently CARRAGEENAN SUSTAINABILITY FACTS a few consumers have expressed concern about its safety. Results of many peer-reviewed studies indicate that carrageenan is non-toxic and safe for use as a food ingredient. In the fall of 2016, the National Organic Standards Board concluded that carrageenan is not an “essential” food ingredient and recommended that the USDA remove it from the approved national list of ingredients that can be included in certified organic products. The USDA will review the recommendation and make its final decision in 2018. FMC will continue to work with consumers, academia and NGOs to understand the concerns and increase education about the effectiveness and safety of carrageenan. We see opportunity in sustainable, longer term strategic options for Health and Nutrition 1 WARM WATER SEAWEED IS CULTIVATED BY FAMILY FARMERS IN AFRICA AND products, including using our traditional SOUTHEAST ASIA. functional ingredients as active ingredients. For example: 2 SEAWEED CULTIVATION PROMOTES BIODIVERSITY AND SUPPORTS HUNDREDS In 2016, the US Food and Drug Administration OF LOCAL FARMERS. (FDA) formally defined the ingredients that can be claimed to add dietary fiber to foods. The FDA evaluated clinical evidence of 30 ingredients that 3 SEAWEED IS PROCESSED INTO CARRAGEENAN WHICH STABILIZES FOOD. previously claimed fiber benefits, and cellulose (including microcrystalline cellulose) is one of only seven ingredients that FDA approved for use based on evidence of efficacy. The new fiber definition 4 THE STABILIZATION PROPERTIES OF CARRAGEENAN REDUCE ENERGY ASSOCIATED WITH REFRIGERATION. will take effect in 2018. FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 We take responsibility for the environmental OUR impact of our manufacturing processes and products very seriously. We seek to be strong RESPONSIBILITY community partners where we work and live. Advancing the health of the environment and our communities is mutually beneficial to FMC and our stakeholders. 26 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DEDICATED TO UNDERSTANDING our doors. A major part of FMC’s environmental OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT and social footprint exists outside of our own manufacturing. We purchase millions of dollars BY 2025: ZERO WASTE TO of goods and services for use in our products that LANDFILL FOR FMC HEALTH FMC is on a path of continuous improvement we, in turn, transport to our customers around AND NUTRITION to reduce the environmental impacts of our the world. To minimize the impacts of these FMC Health and Nutrition is manufacturing footprint. Energy use, greenhouse activities, FMC remains committed to responsible pursuing zero waste-to-landfill gas (GHG) emissions, water use and disposal of procurement and has begun the process of for all manufacturing locations waste to landfill are key impacts of chemical measuring and monitoring our logistics footprint. by 2025. From 2013 to 2016, we reduced manufacturing. FMC plants report these impacts on a quarterly basis. To decrease the company’s waste intensity by 55 percent. In 2016, the All FMC suppliers are expected to comply with first waste diversion audit was conducted at environmental footprint, in 2015 we set goals to the Supplier Code of Conduct that clearly states the Cork, Ireland site and it was certified to reduce energy, GHG, water and waste intensities by FMC’s high standards of integrity and ethical have greater than 99 percent waste diversion 2025. We pursue a tailored approach to reaching behavior. However, our efforts to manage the from landfill. We will certify the Haugesund, those goals based on the metrics, which include: social and environmental impacts of FMC’s Norway, and Girvan, United Kingdom, sites • Reducing energy and GHG through strong diverse set of suppliers go beyond implementing in 2017. engineering practices and efficiencies, as well the Code. as evaluating fuel types and choosing lower GHG-emitting fuels when possible For all new raw material suppliers, the • Assessing the water availability and quality risk Procurement team employs an internal supplier ZERO at all manufacturing locations using the World prequalification process. This process assesses Resources Institute Aqueduct tool. We then a supplier’s sustainability efforts, safety record, focus water reduction efforts at the locations environmental and quality management systems determined to be high risk and responsible sourcing, and ensures that the raw material supply is ethical, reliable and safe. • Targeting waste-to-landfill sources and WASTE TO seeking alternative disposal methods, including beneficial reuse In addition to the prequalification screening, FMC partners with an external screening and risk LANDFILL Please see pages 32-33 for our detailed management provider to qualify contractors who may be exposed to the hazards of the by 2025 environmental profile and progress. manufacturing site or may expose personnel, community members or the environment to additional hazards in the course of their work. PROGRESS BEYOND OUR DOORS: UNDERSTANDING FMC’S SUPPLY CHAIN The third-party process carefully assesses these contractors, including evaluation of safety, As FMC has become more advanced in reducing environment and sustainability criteria, to best our own manufacturing impacts, the next protect people and the environment. step on our sustainability journey is to find opportunities to promote sustainability beyond FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 FMC promotes sustainable labor and work has successfully engaged with 67 percent of those SUSTAINABLE practices in our supply chain. In 2016 we initiated current members we targeted. Sedex regularly PACKAGING FAMILY a partnership with the Supplier Ethical Data updates FMC on changes to supplier profiles. In GOT BIGGER. Exchange (Sedex) to thoroughly evaluate 2017, we will identify our strategic suppliers that supplier social responsibility. Through Sedex, are not current Sedex members and work with suppliers answer a series of questions regarding them to join the program. their responsible and ethical business practices, including human rights, labor standards, health LOGISTICS NETWORKS FOR THE FUTURE and safety, and business ethics. FMC is then able to evaluate whether a supplier adheres to our high FMC utilizes multiple transportation modes to standards. FMC has initiated relationships with move raw materials and products, including road, suppliers that are current members of Sedex and rail, air and ocean freight. The decisions we make in logistics have a significant environmental impact. In 2016, FMC evaluated our footprint using industry standards for measuring the sustainability of logistics. Logistics vary widely by region, so we OUR GREEN FAMILY OF FMC PACKAGING SOLUTIONS ALLOWS OUR began by assessing the greenhouse gas emissions CUSTOMERS TO ADDRESS INTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY EMISSIONS, OUR PARTNERSHIP WITH VILLANOVA generated from global ocean freight and North RESOURCE USE AND WASTE TARGETS. UNIVERSITY COMING IN 2017 American road freight. In 2017, we will launch an When we significantly expanded our footprint in exciting partnership with In 2017, we will develop methods to measure and Europe in 2016, we reviewed the packaging we Villanova University to monitor a broader scope of our global logistics purchase for the region. After a careful evaluation advance the sustainability footprint. This will support our long-term objective of safety, we replaced some cardboard with a of our packaging portfolio. to create a target to decrease emissions associated thinner grade and plastic packaging with a lower As part of the Resilient with logistics through optimization. As part of weight in Agricultural Solutions. In doing so, we Innovation for Sustainable our commitment to transparency, we will join were able to reduce cardboard consumption by Engineering Forum, students studying EPA’s SmartWay Partnership and begin reporting 170 metric tonnes and plastic consumption by 20 sustainable engineering will partner the greenhouse gas emissions that are generated metric tonnes per year. Those reductions equal 18 with FMC sustainability, procurement from North American road freight. An update percent less paper consumption and a 4 percent and operations on our progress will be included in the 2017 reduction in plastic consumption annually versus personnel to assess Sustainability Report. 2015 with respect to the affected products. the categories of packaging that Packaging for Progress In Brazil, Agricultural Solutions continuously seeks FMC uses the most Throughout FMC’s sustainability journey, employees more sustainable packaging options. Since 2012, and determine responsible for product packaging have worked we have sourced “Green Bottle” packaging, which opportunities closely with suppliers to find sustainable is composed of at least 51 percent sugarcanefor improvement. packaging options while ensuring the highest based polyethylene. From 2012 to 2016, purchasing standards of safety and quality for our customers. Green Bottles allowed FMC to avoid 3,520 tonnes of GHG that would have been associated with 100 28 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT percent petroleum-based packaging. In addition to the Green Bottles, we use recycled bottles However, these more sustainable packaging that are composed of at least 85 percent recycled options comprised only 20 percent of packaging Operational Transparency polyethylene. Using these recycled bottles instead used in FMC Brazil in 2016. By 2018, we plan to shift of virgin plastic materials allowed FMC to avoid 100 percent of packaging in the region to these We strive to be over 1,600 tonnes of GHG over the three-year more sustainable options including 85 percent transparent about period. We have also used 100 percent recycled Green Bottles and 15 percent recycled bottles. our business activities polypropylene caps since 2015. so they are well Rønland, Denmark PROGRESSING COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT understood in the community. The communities in which FMC operates are integral to the company’s success. We believe we FMC Agricultural 2016 RESULTS ON COMMUNITY have a responsibility to our neighbors to not only Solutions in Rønland, ENGAGEMENT INDEX provide employment, but also to understand what Denmark, provides is most important to them to create a thriving vital support to the The Index measures community. All 26 FMC manufacturing sites small community interaction with our conduct community development programs based that surrounds it. Rønland site employees communities in four areas: operational on local needs. hosted an open house during which family transparency, safety, community and community members toured the site and leadership and community partnership. FMC’s Community Engagement Index reports learned about the operations and research on the breadth and depth of the company’s work occurring. FMC Rønland has many long2020 GOAL (100%) efforts in local communities. Each FMC-owned standing partnerships with the community, manufacturing site reports quarterly on its including support for technical and regional community activities, which are organized into schools, cultural festivals and health clinics. four categories: 96% 91% Safety 87% In all facets of our operations, we put safety first and share our safety knowledge with our neighbors. At the FMC Lithium site in Patancheru, India, site personnel held National Safety Day celebrations. They hosted employees from nearby industrial plants, including industry leaders, and shared their safety knowledge and Patancheru, India experience. Employees demonstrated safety devices and discussed FMC’s 2014 2015 2016 approach to the safety culture so they could learn from our experience. FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 If a site completes an activity in each category, it Community Leadership earns a 100 on the Community Engagement Index. In 2016, FMC achieved a 91 on the Index, which We manage our community relationships with an emphasis on taking shows that our sites are implementing meaningful active, participatory roles. programs that are accelerating our progress toward our 2020 goal of 100. In an effort to promote career development in the Philadelphia region, FMC collaborates with Cristo Rey High School, an independent, college preparatory In addition to the four categories above, education school for students who cannot otherwise afford a private education. To fund Philadelphia, PA, United States is a vitally important part of FMC’s community their education, the students participate in a work-study program that builds engagement strategy. Two long-time partnerships professional experience and skills early in life. FMC is a “job partner” and works include the World Food Prize and the Initiative with 16 students who spend five days a month interning at FMC, gaining for Global Environmental Leadership (IGEL) at the valuable knowledge in a professional environment. Wharton School. • FMC is a supporter of the World Food Prize, which is known as the “Nobel Prize Community Partnership for agriculture” and promotes agricultural advancement in the developing world, and These relationships its Global Youth Institute, which supports involve sharing student research. our personal and professional • The IGEL program at the Wharton School, skills, talents and University of Pennsylvania, seeks to promote interests to further thought leadership in sustainable business Zanzibar, Tanzania our mutual welfare. on a global scale. In late 2015, we published a Knowledge @ Wharton article on “Feeding the Pemba Foundation: World”. Linda Froelich, Global Sustainability FMC sources Director, also spoke on a panel discussion about seaweed from “Careers in Sustainability” to encourage students small farmers in to consider the path of corporate sustainability. Pemba Island, Zanzibar, Tanzania. When the island was hit by a cholera outbreak in 2015, FMC partnered with the Pemba Foundation to build FMC continues our involvement with developing sanitation infrastructure in a small community. future leaders in agriculture through the National This infrastructure was completed in 2016, FFA in the U.S. In 2016, we sponsored the Agriscience including toilets and showers. In addition, the Research Plant Systems Proficiency Program, a project partnered with the Department of research-based award program within FFA. The Health to train people on hand washing and program supports students who are conducting improved hygiene. The Pemba Foundation research in plant sciences independently or in OUR SUPPORT FOR COMMUNITIES ON PEMBA ISLAND IS ONGOING. continues to work to make an impact on this collaboration with experimental stations or TO IMPROVE SANITATION AND HYGIENE INFRASTRUCTURE, FMC SUPPORTED THE CONSTRUCTION OF A COMMUNITY LATRINE FACILITY. life-threatening disease. colleges and universities. FMC representatives had 30 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT the opportunity to join other leading scientists from around the nation to judge the student competition during the National FFA Convention. DEVELOPING THE We also continue to support the Walter Biddle Saul FUTURE GENERATION OF FARMERS High School of Agricultural In Pakistan, FMC works to develop the next One important Sciences in Philadelphia, one generation of farmers through the “Rising aspect of the of four local FFA chapter Stars” program. Rising Stars is a series of Rising Stars schools sponsored by FMC. programs that teach children from farming program was This year, FMC organized a regions about the promising opportunities participation field trip for the entire W.B in agriculture. The children learn about the in PSiFi, Saul School to the Franklin importance of agriculture to the economy as Pakistan’s Institute, another long-time well as the educational programs and career largest science FMC community partner. options available to them. They also learn competition. technical skills such as responsible and safe The competition was held at a highly regarded In 2016 we launched a new farming practices. Once they have completed business school in Pakistan, and FMC Pakistan initiative to contribute to the program, they are tasked with being sponsored farmers’ children who competed the future of agriculture in Australia, where we “ambassadors” for agriculture in their local with students from across the country. became a partner to the Future Farmers Network. villages. These programs give confidence to Students also attended information sessions FMC made an educational presentation at the 2016 rural children and encourage them to continue about the business school and learned how Young Beef Producers Forum. This partnership will their education while pursuing a career opportunities in higher education could expand in 2017 to promote technical leadership and in agriculture. transform their lives. responsible farming practices across the country. Muhammad Nasir Ali is one of the Rising Stars. He spoke about his experience at the science competition: “The event was a dream come true. I got to visit the best institution in our country and come toe-to-toe with the finest brains in business during the competition. This experience gave me immense confidence as I realized I have what it takes to reach the top. I come from an agricultural background and have learned how we can revolutionize rural life through technological advancement.” FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL RESULTS GLOBAL ENERGY USE GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS BY BUSINESS BY BUSINESS 60 700 FMC CORPORATION 2025 TARGET 2016 PERFORMANCE Energy Intensity (Gigajoules per Tonne) GHG Intensity (Tonnes CO2e per Tonne) Total GHG Emissions (K-Tonnes CO2e) 8,000 4.0 METRIC (VS. 2013 BASELINE) (VS. 2013 BASELINE) 600 Total Energy Use (Terajoules) 7,000 50 3.5 Energy intensity -15% +12% 6,000 500 3.0 40 5,000 400 2.5 GHG emissions intensity -15% -2% 30 4,000 2.0 300 Waste disposed 3,000 20 1.5 -15% -38% intensity 200 2,000 1.0 10 Water use intensity 100 -20% +25% 1,000 0.5 at high risk locations 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 FMC measures our environmental footprint on an GLOBAL WASTE DISPOSED GLOBAL WATER USE AT HIGH RISK LOCATIONS intensity basis (X metric tonnes of energy, GHG, BY BUSINESS BY BUSINESS* water or waste per tonne of product). In 2016, FMC's 250 Water Use Intensity (Cubic Meters per Tonne) environmental performance varied greatly among Waste Disposed Intensity (Kg per Tonne) Total Water Use (Million Cubic Meters) 80 400 4.0 Agricultural Solutions, Health and Nutrition and Total Waste Disposed (K-Tonnes) 70 350 3.5 200 Lithium. The reduction in GHG emissions intensity was driven by changes to cleaner burning fuels in Health 60 300 3.0 and Nutrition and Lithium. We reduced the waste 50 250 2.5 150 disposed intensity through phasing out a highly waste intensive product in Agricultural Solutions. Agricultural 40 200 2.0 100 Solutions, FMC’s largest business, produces 69 percent 30 150 1.5 of the company’s total product volume. Because of 20 100 1.0 this, improvements in energy and water use intensities 50 in other businesses are often ‘masked’ by variations 10 50 0.5 in AgS product volume. For example, a major energy reduction in Lithium may not appear in the overall FMC 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 energy intensity results due to Agricultural Solutions *The water risk analysis includes only FMC owned sites, not active production changes. Therefore, in addition to reporting ingredient manufacturers. our environmental performance metrics as overall FMC, we also report them by individual business to communicate progress more clearly and transparently. Agricultural Solutions Lithium Total Health and Nutrition Total Agricultural Solutions Total Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing Total FOR GRAPHS PRESENTING ALL ABSOLUTE DATA VALUES, Lithium Health and Nutrition Agricultural Solutions + Active Ingredient FMC TOTALS AND ADDITIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL DATA, Intensity Intensity Contract Manufacturing Intensity VISIT FMCSUSTAINABILITY.COM/GOALS-DATA NOTE: Historical information (2013-2015) has been adjusted to include environmental data from recently acquired Cheminova manufacturing locations. 32 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Each business focused on improving their metrics 2. GHG | We achieved a 22 percent reduction Agricultural Solutions Contract Manufacturing that have the highest impact on the 2025 goals. Its in absolute GHG emissions and a 24 percent 1. Energy | Energy intensity increased by 2 efforts are summarized below. reduction in GHG intensity from the 2013 percent since 2013. Over those three years, baseline. This reduction was accomplished by production increased by 10 percent while converting the facility in Rockland, Maine, LITHIUM absolute energy use increased by 13 percent. to run on natural gas and improving energy Our active ingredient product mix has evolved FMC Lithium has achieved significant reductions in efficiency. As we implement additional energy every year to include different AIs based energy and water use. As the business grew over the improvement projects, we expect GHG on grower needs and changing pest pressures. past two years, it focused on increasing production emissions to decline further. Changing needs have required FMC to produce capacity while minimizing resource use. AIs that are more resource intensive, which 1. Energy | With a strong focus on improving increases energy intensity. AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS efficiency, FMC Lithium increased production 2. GHG | GHG intensity increased 16 percent from by 13 percent while reducing absolute energy In the production of Agricultural Solutions products, 2013-2016, including an absolute GHG use by 1 percent since 2013. This remarkable FMC-owned manufacturing sites perform the steps emissions increase of 28 percent. achievement amounts to a 12 percent of product formulation, mixing and packaging. reduction in Lithium energy intensity. 3. Waste | Waste intensity increased by 2 percent and absolute waste disposal increased 2. Water | FMC Lithium requires water to extract Agricultural Solutions Owned Sites by 12 percent since 2013. Similar to GHG lithium resources from salt flats in Argentina, 1. Waste | FMC’s Agricultural Solutions sites focus emissions, this metric is heavily influenced so we carefully steward water resources. We on waste reduction due to the high volumes by the specific products that FMC made in 2016 reduced water intensity by 22 percent since 2013. they produce. Over the last three years, we to meet customer requirements, including We are also engineering solutions to further focused on efficient operations and some products that are highly waste intensive. reduce water use through additional water reuse repurposing waste streams into value-added treatment and improved process controls. materials for other industries. As a result, we reduced absolute waste-to-landfill by 60 ACTIONS TO CONTINUE PROGRESS percent and waste intensity by 48 percent. HEALTH AND NUTRITION Each business has identified new projects to It is important to note that a portion of this favorably impact the metrics and these projects FMC Health and Nutrition uses the most energy of improvement is driven by a 24 percent are included in their 2017 capital plans. all FMC business units as a result of manufacturing reduction in Agricultural Solutions' production highly refined products. totals due to business conditions. 1. Energy | We conducted several focused energy audits at Health and Nutrition sites and found For many years, FMC Agricultural Solutions ASSURANCE SCOPE energy reduction opportunities, resulting has worked with contract manufacturers that In this 2016 Report, FMC included data from legacy Cheminova synthesize active ingredients for FMC. Because this sites for the first time. Because the data that was assured in the in flat absolute energy use despite increasing 2015 Report did not include Cheminova, the historical information production by 2 percent. We expect that the chemical synthesis has a material environmental in this report is no longer consistent with last year’s assured data. multi-year energy improvement roadmap will impact when compared to the FMC-owned It should also be noted that the 2016 independent assurance does not include: Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing Total, Total yield additional reductions. formulation and packaging operations, we also Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing + FMC Intensity, and account for the impacts of contract manufacturing. Global Water Use at High Risk Locations. FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 ASSURANCE STATEMENT Independent Assurance Statement to FMC Corporation A multi-disciplinary team of EHS and assurance specialists performed the ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by FMC Corporation (FMC) to provide limited following activities: assurance in relation to specified 2016 environmental and safety data in the 2016 FMC Sustainability Report as set out below. • Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data Engagement summary management systems and processes (including IT systems and internal Whether the FMC 2016 data for the following environmental and safety indicators presented on pages 5, 6, 11, and 32, and on FMC’s sustainability website FMCSUSTAINABILITY.COM/GOALS-DATA are review processes) used for collecting and reporting the selected data fairly presented in all material respects, with the reporting criteria: • A review of the internal indicator definitions and conversion factors • Total FMC and Business level Direct and Indirect (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 2016 Absolute and Intensity Energy Use (Terajoules and Gigajoules/Tonne of Production) • Visits to three sites (Rockland, ME, USA; Bessemer City, NC, USA; and Scope of our • Total FMC and Business level (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 2016 Absolute and Intensity GHG Emissions (K-tonnes CO2e and tonnes CO2e /Tonne of Production) Ronland, Denmark) to review local reporting processes and consistency assurance engagement • Total 2016 FMC and Business level Absolute and Intensity Water Use (Million Cubic Meters and of reported annual data with selected underlying source data for each Cubic Meters/Tonne of Production) • Total 2016 FMC and Business level Absolute and Intensity Total Waste and Absolute and indicator we interviewed relevant staff, reviewed site data capture and Intensity Waste Disposed (K-tonnes and Kg/Tonne of Production) reporting methods, checked calculations and assessed the local internal • Waste Disposed per disposal type – landfill, fuel blending, and incineration with and without recovery (K-tonnes and Kg/Tonne of Production) quality and assurance processes • Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) • An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the Reporting The WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004) for the Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and FMC’s internal criteria reporting criteria and definitions for the other indicators. completeness and accuracy of the corporate data consolidation Assurance ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements • Year-end assurance activities at corporate level including the results of standard ISAE 3000 (Revised). internal review procedures and the accuracy of the consolidation of the Assurance level Limited assurance. data for the selected indicators from the site data FMC is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in reporting to third parties, Respective including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary. responsibilities ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance The limitations of our engagement activities performed and exercising our professional judgement. Our conclusions The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 2016 absolute and intensity data for the indicators, as listed above, are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria. available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying Our conclusions Our assurance activities information. We did not assure the Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing Our objective was to assess whether the selected data are reported in accordance with the principles of completeness, Total or the combined FMC and Contract Manufacturing Intensity. It is Based on our comparability (acrossactivities, the organisation)nothing and accuracyhas come (including to our use calculations, attention of appropriate indicate toconversion that factors and consolidation). We planned and and performed our work to obtain important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. the 2016 absolute intensity data forallthe the information indicators, and explanations as listed were not we believeare thatabove, necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. fairly presented, A multi-disciplinary team ofinEHSalland material respects, assurance specialists withthe performed the activities: criteria. reporting following Jennifer Iansen-Rogers • Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including IT systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the selected data; Head of Corporate Assurance Services Our assurance activities • A review of the internal indicator definitions and conversion factors; 17 May 2017 • Visits to three sites (Rockland, ME, USA; Bessemer City, NC, USA; and Ronland, Denmark) to review local reporting Our objective was to assess whether the selected data are reported in processes and consistency of reported annual data with selected underlying source data for each indicator. We accordanceinterviewedwith thestaff, relevant reviewed siteof principles datacompleteness, comparability capture and reporting methods, (across checked calculations and assessed the local internal quality and assurance processes. the •organisation) and accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate ERM Certification and Verification Services, London | www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and accuracy of the corporate data conversionconsolidation. factors and consolidation). We planned and performed our work to • Year-end assurance activities at corporate level including the results of internal review procedures and the accuracy ERM CVS IS A MEMBER OF THE ERM GROUP. THE WORK THAT ERM CVS CONDUCTS FOR CLIENTS IS SOLELY obtain ofall the information the consolidation and of the data for explanations the selected indicators fromthat we the site believe were necessary to data. RELATED TO INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES AND AUDITOR TRAINING. OUR PROCESSES ARE DESIGNED AND IMPLEMENTED TO ENSURE THAT THE WORK WE UNDERTAKE WITH CLIENTS IS FREE FROM BIAS AND provide a basis The limitations of ourfor our assurance conclusions. engagement CONFLICT OF INTEREST. ERM CVS AND THE ERM STAFF THAT HAVE UNDERTAKEN THIS ENGAGEMENT WORK The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating HAVE PROVIDED NO CONSULTANCY RELATED SERVICES TO FMC IN ANY RESPECT or estimating the underlying information. We did not assure the Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing Total or the combined FMC and Contract Manufacturing Intensity. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. 34 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Pierre R. Brondeau Robert C. Pallash Pierre R. Brondeau Eric W. Norris Kenneth A. Gedaka President, Chief Executive Officer Retired President, Global President, Chief Executive Officer President Vice President and Chairman of the Board Customer Group and Senior and Chairman of the Board FMC Health and Nutrition Communications and Public FMC Corporation Vice President Affairs Visteon Corporation Paul Graves Tom Schneberger Eduardo E. Cordeiro Executive Vice President Vice President, Kyle Matthews Executive Vice President and William H. Powell and Chief Financial Officer Global Business Director Vice President Chief Financial Officer Retired Chairman FMC Lithium Human Resources Cabot Corporation and Chief Executive Officer Andrea E. Utecht National Starch and Chemical Executive Vice President Barry J. Crawford Karen M. Totland G. Peter D’Aloia Company General Counsel and Secretary Vice President Vice President, Managing Director and Operations Global Procurement, Global Member of the Board of Directors Vincent R. Volpe, Jr. Mark A. Douglas Facilities & Corporate Ascend Performance Materials Retired Chief Executive Officer President Sustainability Holdings, Inc. and President FMC Agricultural Solutions Dresser-Rand Group, Inc. C. Scott Greer Principal Greer and Associates OFFICERS K’Lynne Johnson Brian P. Angeli Ronaldo Pereira Bethwyn Todd Former Chief Executive Officer Vice President, Corporate President, FMC Latin America President, FMC Asia and President Strategy and Investor Relations Vice President and Business Vice President and Business Elevance Renewable Sciences Director Director William Chester FMC Agricultural Solutions, FMC Agricultural Solutions, Asia Dirk A. Kempthorne Vice President, Global Tax Latin America President and Chief Executive Shawn Whitman Officer Marc L. Hullebroeck Nicholas L. Pfeiffer Vice President, Government American Council of Life President, FMC Europe Vice President, Affairs Insurers Vice President and Business Corporate Controller Director and Chief Accounting Officer Paul J. Norris FMC Agricultural Solutions, EMEA Retired Chairman Michael F. Reilly and Chief Executive Officer David A. Kotch Vice President, Associate W. R. Grace & Co. Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Chief Information Officer Compliance Officer Margareth Øvrum Executive Vice President of Amy O’Shea Andrew D. Sandifer Technology Projects & Drilling Vice President and Business Vice President and Treasurer Statoil Group Director FMC Agricultural Solutions, Charles J. Thomas North America Crop Vice President, Finance FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35
