Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015 -2016 Vodafone We appreciate your input! You are welcome to share your opinions and suggestions on our sustainability practices and performance via e-mail: surdurulebilirlik@vodafone.com Contents 5 Vodafone Turkey 6 Our Contribution to the Economy 7 Our Approach to Sustainability 14 Our Customers and Society 23 Innovation 24 Responsible Supply Chain 25 Base Stations and Health 26 Environment 30 Occupational Health and Safety 34 Our People 42 Corporate Security 44 Vodafone Turkey Foundation 54 Reporting Principles 56 GRI G4 Content Index 62 Independent Assurance Statement Vittorio Colao Message from Vittorio Colao CEO, Vodafone Group Plc Mobile and digital media are a powerful social good, comparable to many of the greatest advances in science, technology and engineering in recent generations. They positively impact the quality of life for more than a billion people globally. Communications networks underpin every aspect of a mobile, digital society, enabling citizens to increase their knowledge while providing access to services that can improve health and wellbeing, enhance skills, and increase prosperity for the population as a whole. The democratising influence of mobile and digital is matched by an equally transformative effect on the workplace. Information and communications technology (ICT) has fundamentally reshaped entire industries; indeed, the extraordinarily rapid growth of ICT has led to the creation of new industrial sectors whose scale and cumulative value was unimaginable just a decade ago. As one of the world’s largest communications companies, we are proud of the role that we play in bringing this social good to more than 462 million mobile customers across 26 countries on four continents. From the headquarters of some of the world’s largest multinationals in the wealthiest cities in Europe to remote villages in Mozambique, every hour of every day our customers rely on our networks and services to help manage their lives and achieve their ambitions. In Turkey, we provide connectivity to nearly 23 million mobile customers. We also support the digitalisation of Turkish businesses through our Digitalisation Index, which helps them to identify how the increased use of digital solutions and technologies can further improve their efficiency. As of 31 March 2016, 42,000 businesses have used our Index. In 2015-16, Vodafone set out to redefine its approach to sustainability. In doing so, the intention was to ensure an even closer alignment between the core commercial goals of our business and the maximum possible social and economic benefit achievable as a consequence of those goals. One of the main pillars of the new sustainable business strategy is women’s empowerment. Vodafone Turkey is proud of the progress we have achieved during 2015-16 on gender equality and empowering women in the workplace, marketplace and the community. The innovative mobile application, “Easy Rescue”, launched in March 2014, has been designed for women at risk of domestic violence as it enables users to contact the emergency services without fear of discovery by their abuser. By March 2016, 296,000 women in Turkey had downloaded the application, which received the Media Grand Prix award at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity for its innovative marketing, which was hidden in videos and clothing advertising. Vodafone Turkey has further extended its efforts in this area through our “Women First” programme, which has supported over 630,000 women by helping them to use mobile technology to access information, acquire new skills and increase their incomes. We have also become a signatory to the United Nation’s Women’s Empowerment Principles – a set of Principles for business which offer guidance on how to empower women at work and at home – and are actively supporting the UN’s HeforShe initiative. As always, we trust you will find the information contained within this Report of use and welcome your views on the aspirations, programmes and outcomes described within it. Vittorio Colao Group Chief Executive, Vodafone Group Plc 2 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Colman Deegan Message from Colman Deegan CEO, Vodafone Turkey At Vodafone Turkey we are committed to leading the digital transformation of our country, while believing that we have great responsibility towards sustainability. We consider sustainability an integral part of our main business strategy and embed it into all our business processes. As we carry out our operations, we are faced with many sustainability issues which we handle in line with our corporate policies and management systems. Adopting participative dialogue and partnership models, we learn about our stakeholder’s views, expectations and inputs which we feed into our corporate strategy driving our investments. 4.5G technology investments had the lion’s share of our investment spending in FY 2015/16. We invested 4.2 billion TL including the 4.5G license fee. We set the “4bucakG” strategy to ensure that each and every individual and organization in Turkey can be connected to the Internet at very high speeds. We also continue with our investments to grow our fiber network. As part of the Digital Transformation Movement, we focus on innovative solutions in all areas ranging from healthcare to finance. We seek to contribute to the global competitive power of our national economy through increased availability of IoT (Internet of Things) solutions which will add value to the lives of individuals and enhance the efficiency of organisations. Nowadays, IoT technologies drive economic growth and social development in all sectors which they cut across ranging from healthcare to agriculture, finance to education. To that end, we built Turkey’s and Vodafone Group’s first “IoT services development platform” in January 2016. We are also committed to action on the environment, one of the main pillars of sustainability. Under our “Green Technology” program, we continue to implement technology solutions with high energy efficiency. As a result of our actions, compared to FY 2015/16, we reduced our energy consumption at all base stations by 13% per base station. By sharing 878 base stations, we made significant savings with regards to costs related to installation, operation and energy consumption. Moreover, e-bill customers now constitute 79% of our base which means we avoid wasting 1.33 million tonnes of paper and consequently save 22,599 trees from being cut. The Vodafone Women First Program supported by the Vodafone Turkey Foundation incorporates a wide range of products, services and projects for women for the first time in Turkey and touched the lives of 639,000 women during FY 2015/16 by providing them with income opportunities as well as access to information and communications. At Vodafone Turkey, we believe that women have an essential role to play not only in business but also in making sure that we have healthy, learned and educated future generations. Accordingly, we have become a signatory to UN Women’s Principles (WEPs) and committed ourselves to action to empower women in every aspect of the economic life. We also support the United Nation’s HeForShe global solidarity campaign calling on all of humanity to take action for social gender equality. Entrepreneurship is another key pillar of our social investments. We continued to contribute to the entrepreneurship ecosystem through the Vodafone “Wheel of Ideas” program designed to hear, gather and promote digital ideas of young entrepreneurs in Turkey as well as the the International Entrepreneurship Center which we have been supporting through the Vodafone Turkey Foundation. The new “sustainable business” strategy announced by the Vodafone Group in the beginning of 2016 provides guidance for us to shape our future road map as a Group company. “Women, energy, and youth,” which are identified as the themes where change can be achieved through 2025, are also among our focus areas at Vodafone Turkey. In line with our sustainability approach, we have become a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary initiative which is consistent with our top-priority areas. Thus, we reaffirmed our commitment to human rights, improved working conditions, the environment and anti-corruption. We are also represented at the UN Global Compact Board which reinforces our support to this cause. At Vodafone Turkey, we believe that sustainability is not a matter of choice but a huge responsibility for future generations. We maintain our sustainability efforts through a transparent, accountable and participatory management approach and disclose our results to the public. We will continue to carry out our operations while respecting natural resources and humanity and act transparently in communicating our results to our stakeholders through a variety of channels. Colman Deegan CEO, Vodafone Turkey 3 G4-17 About the Report About the Report We are pleased to present to you our sixth sustainability report, which we developed in accordance with the GRI G4 Guideline for the last three years and AA1000 Assurance Standard for the last five years. We conduct our sustainability activities in line with “our commitment Independent Assurance Statement for AA1000 Standard to make life easier and to strengthen the development of society and This year, we continued to implement our sustainability management with our responsibility to operate responsibly and ethically”. Within systems and reporting process in parallel with the AA1000 Assurance the scope of Digital Transformation Movement, which we launched Standard devised in line with the principles of transparency with the goal of a better future, we continue with our investments and and accountability. We identified value-creating and material works on technology, service and social areas. environmental, social, economic, and ethical issues through various stakeholder dialogue mechanisms and we devised and implemented Scope of the Report strategies for the issues identified within this scope. An independent With our sustainability reports, since 2010, we aim to share our auditing company provided assurance that the information in this practices in environmental, social, economic and ethical issues and our report is identified and reported in accordance with the AA1000 performance in a transparent way with our stakeholders. Assurance Standards. The GRI G4-EN3 indicator was also audited. The statement for the mentioned audit is presented at the end of this This report, which is our sixth sustainability report, focuses on issues report, together with audit results of the selected indicators. which are important and material to our stakeholders and our company. We have considered the expectations of our customers, employees, regulatory bodies, non-governmental organizations and society as our key stakeholders along with our corporate priorities. Our Vision Leading the digital transformation in Turkey. The report contains the policy, implementation and our performance for the 2015/16 fiscal year and the targets for the next fiscal year. Our Mission Unless mentioned otherwise, all data in the report cover the fiscal year Inspiring every individual in Turkey for a better future through of 1 April 2015 31 March 2016. communication technologies. Boundaries of the Report In this report, “Vodafone Turkey”, “our company” and “we/us” are used Our Values to refer to “Vodafone Turkey Group Companies”. Vodafone Turkey We provide fast, high-quality, simple and reliable services while Group Companies refer to the following companies which are included helping our customers enjoy opportunities in life and realize in the consolidated financial statement: Vodafone Telekomünikasyon their full potentials. We are committed to being a customerA.Ş., Vodafone Dağıtım Hizmetleri A.Ş., Vodafone Teknoloji Hizmetleri obsessed, innovative and competitive international company A.Ş. (OKSIJEN), Vodafone Net İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş., Vodafone with local roots admired that is by its customers. Holding A.Ş., Türkiye Vodafone Vakfı (Vodafone Turkey Foundation), Vodafone Bilgi ve İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş., Vodafone Elektronik Para ve Ödeme Hizmetleri A.Ş. and Vodafone Mobile Operations Limited. Unless mentioned otherwise, the report covers all of these companies. Regarding Vodafone Mobile Operations Limited (in Northern Cyprus), only its financial data is included in the report. Our Solution Partners We perform operations -including installation and management of base stationswith increasing support from our solution partners. We obtain the energy consumption data of our suppliers that are accountable for managing the assets we control. In addition, we report the occupational health & safety performance of contractor companies. Our stores and third party call centers make up an important part of our solution partners. In Accordance with GRI G4 For the past two years we have developed the contents of this Guideline and Standards sustainability report in accordance with the “core” option of GRI G4 While identifying the issues to be covered in the report we used as a Guidelines. Within the scope of the Materiality Disclosures Service basis the following international guidelines and standards: provided by the GRI, we received confirmation that the indicators between G4-17 and G4-27 are indicated accurately in the report and in • GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines the GRI Content Index at the end of the report. • AA1000 Assurance Standard UN Global Compact “Progress on Communication” Principles This report is the first “Progress on Communicatiion” that we published • UN Women’s Empowerment following our voluntary signing of the United Nations Global Compact Principles (WEPs) (UNGC) in November 2015, and it contains our implementations aimed • 10 Principles of the UN Global at the 10 principles of UNGC and our support for the main goals of the Compact (UNGC) UN. 4 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Vodafone Turkey Vodafone Turkey In the new phase of the “Digital Transformation Movement”, we will focus on being the communication company that leads the digital transformation in Turkey. Corporate Performance “The Mosts” of Vodafone Turkey Being part of the Vodafone Group -one of the world’s largest international • The fastest growing operator that increased its market mobile communication providers in terms of revenueVodafone Turkey is share the most in terms of service revenues in the Turkish mobile the second largest mobile communication company in Turkey with 22.7 telecommunications market.2 million1 customers as of 31 March 2016. • The operator that has achieved the highest increase in the earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) in the Committed to contribute to the growth of Turkey driven by a strategy telecommunications market.2 to make digital connection easy and accessible for everyone, Vodafone Turkey’s service revenues reached 7 billion TL in the 2015/16 fiscal • Operator with the highest number of new customers in the mobile year (1 April 2015 – 31 March 2016). According to the data provided by market.3 Information and Communication Technologies Authority, as of March • The fastest growing operator in terms of customer numbers in a fixed 31, 2016, the number of customers reached the highest level so far: 22.7 broadband market.3 million1. While the number of post-paid customers increased to 10.6 million1 • The most recommended operator by its customers in the areas of with a net gain of approximately 1.5 million1 customers, the ratio of post-paid both mobile and fixed Internet services.4 customers in the total base increased to 47%1. In the last quarter of the • The operator with the highest increase in smart phone penetration 2015/16 fiscal year, ARPU (average revenue per user) reached 25.8 TL. and mobile data revenues.5 In the 2015/16 fiscal year, our company continued to offer customers • Best employer in Turkey's in telecommunications sector.5 mobile broadband tariff options and a large web-enabled device portfolio for every budget in order to the promote use of mobile internet services. Vodafone Turkey, which makes choosing, purchasing and using smart phones easy, straightforward and accessible, smart device penetration figures reached another record breaking level of 64% in the last quarter of the 2015/16 fiscal year, an increase of 17 points compared to the same period of last year. In the 2015/16 fiscal year, our company also achieved an 88% increase in data revenues. In addition, driven by the “İş Ortağım” (Business Partner) platform and the Ready Business strategy, in the 2015/16 fiscal year, corporate segment revenues grew 21.5% compared to the previous fiscal year. We continued our growth in fixed broadband after the launch of the “Vodafone SüperNet Telephone-free ADSL” service on 1 January 2015. In one year, we increased the number of our costomer by 265 thousand, and the number of fixed broadband customers quadrupled compared to the same period last year, reaching to 363 thousand. Service revenues from fixed services increased by 45%. During the same period we managed to be the market leader in the “The Firsts” of Vodafone Turkey net promoters score and we were the most recommended operator by its • The first and only company in the telecommunication sector in Turkey to customers in the areas of both mobile and fixed telecommunication services. receive AA1000 Assurance for its sustainability reporting efforts.6 • The first company in the Turkish technology and telecommunication sectors to have ISO 22301 Business Continuity Management System Vodafone Turkey in Figures* Standard Certification. • The first company in Turkey to obtain BS ISO 39001 Road Traffic Safety 22.7 million 1 Standard Certification. • The first telecommunications company to obtain Equal Opportunities Customers Model (FEM) certification. • The first operator providing a sign language application with courses 7 billion TL based on a curriculum. • The first operator that brought the Grand Prix to Turkey at the Cannes Service revenues Lions International Creativity Festival. • The first telecommunications company in Turkey to be awarded 28 million TL Platinum Certification by LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) with the Vodafone Digital Operations Centre. Social investments of Vodafone Turkey Foundation • The first operator that actualized the Internet of Things (IoT) Platform in Turkey. 1,200 Stores 3,365 Employees Note: The information above is as of the end of 2015/16 fiscal year. 1 The information on subscribers in this Report is calculated based on the definition of a subscriber by the Information and Communication Technologies Authority. 40,000 Number of people that 550 Vodafone Volunteers 2 Calculated on the basis of the companies active in mobile telecommunication market in our fiscal year (1 April 2015 – 31 March 2016). we provide employment opportunities 3 April 2015March 2016 fiscal year period is considered. 4 TNS, Vodafone Benchmark NPS, March 2016. *Figures are as of the end of 2014/15 fiscal year. 5 According to Great Place to Work Institute Contest 2015 results. 6 As of June 2016. For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 5 Our Contribution to the Economy Our Contribution to the Economy At Vodafone Turkey, with an ecosystem of 40,000 people, including our employees, members of our distribution and communication channels, and suppliers, we make major contributions to the Turkish economy. Our Contribution to the Economy Employment Creation In the 2015/16 fiscal year, our service revenues increased to 7 billion TL As Vodafone Turkey, we directly employ 3,365 people, and provide and we transferred this amount to the state as taxes, to our employees indirect employment for a total of approximately 40,000 people including as salaries and benefits, and to our suppliers in exchange for products the employees of our suppliers providing products and services, store and services as well as research and development and investments in employees and employees of third parties that we outsource. technology. Our business operations also have a multiplier effect that indirectly contributes to the local economies where we operate. Our call centers that operate on a 24/7 basis are at the heart of our investment and employment capacity. In order to contribute to overcoming the problem of youth unemployment and to help cities in Taxes and Investments Anatolia get their fair share of investments, we continue to open call Within the scope of the “Digital Transformation Movement” that we centers in Anatolia. Following our call centers at İstanbul, Ankara, İzmir, launched to promote end-to-end digital development of Turkey, we Samsun, Afyon and Elazığ, we have brought the Urfa Call Center into invested 4.2 billion TL including the licence fee of 4.5G in the 2015/16 service which provides employment for 482 people. In this way, the fiscal year. The total sum of our investments (mainly purchasing, number of people we employ at our call centers has reached a total of infrastructure and base station investments) from 2006 to the end of 3,752 people, with 971 of them being our own staff members. the 2015/16 fiscal year reached 18 billion TL. We also contribute to the welfare of Turkey with our tax payments on behalf of our customers (VAT, We have supported the “Gönül Dağı” project, which was launched in May special communication tax, etc.). In the last nine years, we paid more 2016 by the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, and than 24.1 billion TL in taxes to the Turkish government. we will start employing young people who were raised in orphanages at Vodafone Call Centers and our stores. Major Indicators of our Contribution to the Turkish Economy Our Contribution to Public Policy Direct revenue contribution: Taxes on income paid (Million TL) 1,272 At Vodafone Turkey, we are committed to fulfill our responsibility to participate in developing competition policies to prevent distortion of competition and to ensure a sustainable competitive environment. For Direct revenue contribution: Other non-tax fiscal payments (Million TL) 736 this purpose, we regularly exchange information on different platforms with regulatory authorities, other public institutions, non-governmental organizations, and the general public. Our goal is to ensure that: Indirect revenue contribution: Taxes such as VAT and special communication tax, paid on expenditures (Million TL) 1,743 • Competition policies are implemented efficiently and in a targetoriented manner, • Current regulations in the market are reviewed and the best policies Capital Investments (Million TL) 4,177 are adopted in light of international examples, • Development of policies that will contribute to the digital 3,365 Direct employment transformation of Turkey and to increase the competitive power of (number of people) Turkey in global areas is promoted, • Efficiency and effectiveness is improved by driving the impact of Note: Figures given in the table are audited as part of the Vodafone Group and reflect the 2015/16 fiscal year data of Vodafone Turkey Group of Companies. The investments include the licence fee of 4.5G. Information Technologies in every aspect of the economy and digitalizing the economy, • Regulatory obstacles against products and services that improve the New Investments for “Digital general welfare and development of society are overcome, Transformation” • Innovation and sustainable investments are encouraged for fixed and mobile broadband infrastructure, network and services, The most important share of our investments in the last fiscal year was on technology investments with the launching preparations for • Necessary steps are taken related to the required legislation for 4.5G. With technology investments, we aim to have each individual and bringing next generation technologies that will pave new ways in the organization in Turkey connect to the Internet with very high speed. areas of entrepreneurship and innovation to consumers, Within the scope of our strategy named “4BucakG”, we have started to • Scarce resources (mainly frequency) are used in an effective and provide 4.5G services in 81 provinces in Turkey in its broadest coverage efficient manner. with seven thousand different points as of 1 April 2016. Considering the critical role that mobile and fixed communication industry plays, we believe such investments will also leverage economic development in Turkey. We will continue our investments so as to meet the demands of our ever-growing customer base. 6 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Our Approach to Sustainability Our Approach to Sustainability We make use of the transformative effect of mobile and fixed broadband technologies to ensure a sustainable future. Within the framework of our digital transformation vision, our major priority is to offer innovative products and services that enhance Sustainability Management individuals’ lives and improve the efficiency of organizations. By leading We carry out our sustainability efforts in the leadership of our CEO. the digital transformation, we provide convenience in many sectors such Vodafone Turkey’s Executive Committee members and their teams as agriculture and industry in terms of productivity, access to healthcare are responsible for managing various sustainability aspects within the and financial services as we contribute to improving the quality of life of company and monitoring and reporting the performance. The Corporate society. Relations department is responsible for supporting the internalisation of the sustainability strategies and disclosing the practices and performance Within the scope of environmental sustainability, we focus on reducing achieved through sustainability reports. We need contributions and effort greenhouse gas emissions caused by our activities per base station. We from all of our employees in order to reach our goals and commitments in create opportunities for improving efficiency, reducing fuel and energy social, environmental, economic and ethical areas. consumption and cutting costs thanks to the digitalization solutions we offer to our enterprise customers, including our services in the field of The Vodafone Code of Conduct guides us in all of our activities and they Internet of Things (IoT). Thus, we also help our customers reduce their contain our main policies that arrange the terms and conditions everyone greenhouse gas emissions. within Vodafone and anyone who works with Vodafone should follow. It plays a key role in the integration of sustainability in our operations and In terms of social sustainability, we are aware of the fact that our culture. responsibility for occupational health and safety covers not only our employees, but also our contractors. We try hard to improve our Since the 2011/12 fiscal year, we conduct our sustainability management performance and our practices, which is already recognized as the best and reporting practices in accordance with AA1000 Accountability Principles practice within our industry. Through the Vodafone Turkey Foundation, and Assurance Standards. In addition to this, by becoming a signatory of we continue to implement social investment projects developed to meet the United Nations General Compact (UNGC) in 2015, we have underlined social needs by maing women and disabled individuals a priority. the importance and renewed our commitment to human rights, working conditions, environment and anti-corruption. We aim to broaden our efforts The themes of a “secure internet for children” and “privacy”, which are on issues that fall within our business and impact area in accordance with considered human rights issues, are among our key concerns and we the Sustainable Development Goals, an initiative of the UN. enhance the works we implement in this scope. Also, subjects such as corporate security, anti-corruption and business continuity are important While identifying our material sustainability issues, we include the local for the permanence and success of our company on which we sustain and and global initiatives, the vision of Vodafone Group, and stakeholder develop our work. opinions and expectations we obtain through stakeholder dialogue and participatory communication models in our assessment. We transparently In accordance with our commitment to the principles of the UNGC share our commitments and targets as well as our performance against (United Nations Global Compact) which we voluntarily signed in 2015, these targets with our stakeholders through a variety of means, including we will continue with our work on human rights, operating standards, our sustainability report. We conduct a number of activities and support and environment and anti-corruption without slowing down. sponsor a variety of initiatives to increase awareness on sustainability among our customers, suppliers, stores, and most importantly, our employees. Our Approach to Sustainability and Current Strategic Issues Vision Making use of the transformative effect of mobile and fixed broadband technologies to ensure a sustainable future Mission Performing in a socially, environmentally, economically, and ethically responsible manner • Ensuring that each of our internal stakeholders is a “sustainability ambassador” to help us reach our social, environmental, economic, and ethical targets and commitments and to have regular interaction with all of our stakeholders Strategy • In terms of environmental sustainability, by using transformative solutions, focusing on the improvement of energy efficiency and the reduction of carbon emissions in order to: • Reduce energy consumption resulting from our own operations • Offer smart business and IoT solutions to our external stakeholders For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 7 Our Approach to Sustainability Vodafone Group “Sustainable Company” Strategy The new “sustainable company” strategy, published by Vodafone Group in the beginning of 2016, will help us as a Group company to clarify our future roadmap. The themes of “women, energy, and youth” were identified as the themes to create global transformation through 2025 and these are also among the themes we focus on at Vodafone Turkey. We will continue to present our approach, practices and performance on the four themes that require sustainability in the graphic below to the consideration of our stakeholders through the sustainability report and different courses. Purpose Catalyse economic growth, equality and empowerment through digital networks and services 2025 Transformation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Transparency Taxes and total Supply chain integrity Mobiles, masts and Digital rights and economic contribution and safety health freedoms Principles and Practice Stakeholder’s Opinion Mustafa Seçkin Chairman, Global Compact Turkey What, in your opinion, is the role of Are there any areas that you think Vodafone Turkey leads? If so, the telecommunications industry in what are they? development? The works on the empowerment of women is the most striking one The telecommunication industry has among the activities of Vodafone Turkey. We follow with great interest strategic importance for the world the awarded works of the Women First Training and Production Center, economy as it is facilitating and providing which was established by the Turkey Vodafone Foundation with the aim accessibility. We can call this sector one of empowering people in the region after the Soma accident. Similarly, of the keystones of infrastructure and it the projects aimed at the improvement of women entrepreneurs in is also an important actor and supporter information technologies and the report entitled “Women First” that of providing services such as distance describes the obstacles in this field position Vodafone Turkey as a valuable actor in its works on empowering the women. Vodafone learning systems, which have a great Turkey is the first company to obtain Equal Opportunities Model (FEM) significance for developing countries. certification, and it has a high female employee rate when compared At the same time, the continuity and with the other companies in the sector. It also has the application named accessibility of communication are very important for the interaction Easy Rescue (Kırmızı Işık) which it developed in the fight against violence of disadvantaged individuals with the external world and helping these towards women. These are all signs that Vodafone Turkey has carried this individuals feel that they are not alone is very important. focus both within and outside the company. As an organization which has put the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) of the UN as a As the Chairman of Global Compact Turkey, what is your general strategic priority, we consider these efforts very valuable. view of Vodafone Turkey? Vodafone Turkey has been operating in our country for 10 years now In addition, Vodafone Farmers’ Club has had a positive impact on local and it brings the experience and vision of a global telecommunications producers and SMEs, which are a nominal part of our economy. An giant into Turkey. In addition to that, the works of the Turkey Vodafone example of their work in accordance with their goal of contributing to Foundation in the fields of empowering women, supporting disabled the agricultural sector is their cooperation on sustainable tea cultivation. people, and education are appreciated by the United Nations. In Vodafone Turkey provides technological opportunities in order to consideration of these works, I believe that the global vision of our enhance the control processes by on field controls in tea cultivation. With signatory Vodafone Turkey along with its accumulation in Turkey will the tablet application it has developed, it has become one of the partners benefit us at Global Compact Turkey in the future. of best practices in terms of B2B cooperation within the sector on their sustainability agenda. What are your expectations from Vodafone Turkey in terms of environmental or social issues? In the context of sustainability, what are your suggestions for Vodafone Turkey for the future and what would you advise them The main expectation of Global Compact is that Vodafone Turkey, about their improvement areas, if any? like all its signatories, continues with its practices on human rights, The Sustainable Development Goals that were introduced last year have labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption and annually provided us with tasks to be completed through 2030 for a better world, report its activities. In addition, we consider the works on extending which we all desire. The UN Global Compact Leaders Summit in June environmentally-friendly technologies very important as part of the 2016 was the first meeting of the business world since the introduction information sector. Along with the increase in the number of mobile of these goals and it indicated that the business world would be the devices, we hope Vodafone Turkey will continue with its efforts in solution partners for the realization of the goals. Therefore, I would like to recycling and will encourage consumers on this issue. In terms of social share with Vodafone Turkey our call to the business world to identify their issues, telecommunication companies can directly contribute to the priorities and to develop and implement a strategy to help achieve these increased quality of life in the societies in which they operate. Supporting global goals. I have no doubt that Vodafone Turkey will contribute to this the communication needs of each segment of society with other agenda through its services offered to customers and its practices along individuals or institutions makes a great contribution to people's quality the supply chain. Relying on its international knowledge and the strategic of life. We hope that Vodafone Turkey continues its work in these fields importance of its sector, I hope that Vodafone Turkey will continue its and makes progress in line with technological developments and societal efforts to generate social benefits and to increase accessibility in line with needs. the Global Goals. 8 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Our Approach to Sustainability Our Approach to Human Rights Our Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals At Vodafone Turkey, we fully acknowledge our responsibility to Sustainable Development Goals Our Contribution “respect human rights” as presented by the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. Our respect for human rights Goal 1: End poverty in all its Digitalization with is enshrined in our Code of Conduct. forms everywhere Broadband and 4.5G investments We conduct various activities in our company and in our supply chain on the areas with potential risks, as identified by Vodafone Group. Goal 2: End hunger, achieve food Vodafone Farmers Club These areas are: security and improved nutrition Vodafone Smart Village • Labour rights: We respect the rights and freedoms of all our and promote sustainable employees and all the individuals in our supply chain. Our agriculture employment policies are enshrined in our Code of Conduct and Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and Access to Health are also in line with the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights promote well-being for all at all Occupational Health and the Core Conventions of the International Labor Organization. ages and Safety (OHS) Within the framework of our Code of Ethical Purchasing; we obtain commitment from all of our suppliers that they will operate in Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and Women First compliance with our standards on human rights, occupational health equitable quality education and safety, ethics and environmental protection, and we monitor the and promote lifelong learning fulfillment of such commitments. opportunities for all • Civil and political rights: The most salient issues in our sector are Goal 5: Achieve gender equality Diversity and Inclusion freedom of expression and privacy. We have respect for the privacy and empower all women and Women First rights of our customers in accordance with local regulations and girls international rules on human rights. We observe the Vodafone’s Privacy Commitments in all our activities and services. Goal 8: Promote sustained, Ready Business • Rights of the child: The exposure of children and youth to harmful inclusive and sustainable Wheel of Ideas content via digital media are among the issues that generate public economic growth, full and Diversity and Inclusion concern. At Vodafone Turkey, we make various programs available productive employment and Dreams Club to support parents’ encouragement of their children to use digital decent work for all OHS technology in a secure and responsible way. Goal 9: Build resilient Digitalization and 4.5G • Economic, social and cultural rights: We adopt a “zero tolerance” infrastructure, promote inclusive approach to bribery and corruption, as outlined comprehensively in and sustainable industrialization our Code of Conduct. and foster innovation Goal 10: Reduce inequality within Women First and among countries Dream Club Goal 11: Make cities and human Smart Cities settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Goal 12: Ensure sustainable Efficient use of energy, consumption and production water and other natural patterns resources Waste management Goal 13: Take urgent action to Energy efficiency and combat climate change and its reducing the carbon impacts footprint through the use of renewable energy Practices to increase awareness on climate change Our Approach Towards the Sustainable Development Goals Goal 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable Digital rights and freedoms In September 2015, members of the United Nations accepted 17 development, provide access to Anti-corruption Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) in order to eradicate extreme justice for all and build effective, Accountability and poverty, inequality and injustice and to combat climate change by accountable and inclusive transparency 2030. Like governments, companies also have an important role to institutions at all levels reach these goals. Goal 17: Strengthen the means Our cooperation with of implementation and revitalize NGOs such as WWFAt Vodafone Turkey, we assessed the 17 goals based on the sector the global partnership for Turkey, Turkish Business in which we operate and on our corporate priorities. As a result, we sustainable development Council for Sustainable have mapped our practices and approaches for 13 of the 17 goals as Development, Habitat illustrated in the tablo on the next page. We will expand and enrich our and UNDP practices on these 13 goals in the future. For more information www.tr.undp.org/content/turkey/tr/home/post-2015/sdg-overview 9 G4-18, G4-19, G4-21, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Our Approach to Sustainability Material Issues and Key Stakeholders Our sustainability efforts are mainly focused on the issues that matter SUPPLIERS the most to our company and our stakeholders on which we have RS EM impact, and they are also instructive to shape the content of this ME PL OY TO EE report. CU S S We have executed a comprehensive materiality assessment in 2012, which received an independent assurance statement within the scope Y USTR IND NTATIVES of AA1000 Assurance Standards. We regularly review our stakeholders STOR and material issues in line with the GRI G4 Guidelines, local and global ES SE Os PRE G developments, and feedback we receive from our stakeholders through RE AND N different dialogue platforms, as well as the strategies of the Vodafone VODAFONE Group and our company. These platforms allow us to regularly update TURKEY the most material issues and even to develop our products and RE processes accordingly. GUL IA MED BOD ATORY IES Key Stakeholders Our stakeholders are groups that may impact or be impacted by our CO C M LO operations. The key stakeholders for Vodafone Turkey can be found on LOAL MU CA S IT IE GO NIT L RS the adjoining graphic. We have included in Stakeholder Dialogue table VE IES IVE RN AND UN details about the dialogue platforms we have established in order to ME NTS SOCIETY communicate with our stakeholders and the issues covered on these platforms Material Issues Material Issues For the last three years, we have been following the guidance of the “Four Principles for Defining Report Content” stated in the GRI G4 High B A Guidelines to identify our material issues. The aspects covered in GRI G4 constitute a significant part of the issues we cover in prioritization Children and a secure Customer satisfaction (NPS) analysis. The issues that have a particular concern to our sector, the internet Customer privacy issues reported by the Vodafone Group, the feedback we receive from Access to communication by all social our stakeholders and the current priorities and strategies of our company Creating employment groups are considered while further expanding the list of issues. For instance, we and young Using mobile communication entrepreneurs technologies for the benefit of people have reviewed and updated our material issues as a result of becoming Contribution to the Solutions creating transformation and signatories of the UN Women’s Principles and UN Global Compact and economy change and increasing efficiency (IoT) based on the assessment of the Sustainable Development Goals we Importance of Issue for Stakeholders Innovation Empowerment of women executed while preparing the contents of this report. In addition, the Contribution to public Occupational health and safety* survey on the assessment of material issues, which we conducted with policies the participation of Vodafone Turkey executives, was a part of our review process this year. Energy and greenhouse gases* Waste Paper In this report we covered issues that have high environmental and social Corporate security and business continuity Water impact and issues considered material by our stakeholders. The graph Business ethics and anti-corruption Environmentallyentitled “Material Issues” reflects the results of our prioritization process. friendly products The definition for different quadrants of the graph is as follows: Base stations and health, EMF practices Human rights A Quadrant: Isses that are material for both our stakeholders and our Sustainability in the supply chain* company are listed in the A quadrant of the graph (regardless of the order of importance). These are the issues that may have a high financial and operational impact on our business processes and which we monitor Employee satisfaction C closely. Diversity and Inclusion B Quadrant: These are issues with relatively low impact on our Talent management, training and career development opportunities for employees corporate success where we have relatively low impact, but which are of Low interest to our stakeholders. Low Significance of Economic, Environmental and Social Impact High C Quadrant: Issues that are directly related to our employees are not a major concern for all of our stakeholders, but we attach great importance * Issues that are related to our own operations as well as our suppliers. to such issues due their impact on our corporate success. Note: Issues highlighted in red are the issues that are either newly added or updated in the new fiscal year. Our Suppliers: In this report, we mentioned issues that may be material not only for our company, but also for our suppliers. Issues including occupational health and safety, energy consumption and sustainability in the supply chain also cover our suppliers. The report boundary for the other GRI indicators is for our company only. 10 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Our Approach to Sustainability Employees’ Opinions on Stakeholder’s Opinion Sustainability Canan Ercan Çelik Executives Chairperson, Business Council for Sustainable While creating the content of our sustainability report 2015/16, Development Turkey (SKD) we held a survey among Vodafone Turkey executives to identify the issues that they consider material. According to the results We are in an era where the of the survey: developments in information and • 67% of our executives believe our company’s sustainability communication technologies have an practices are highly sufficient or sufficient. ever increasing transformative impact on societies and the business world. • The most material issues for executives are stated below (in Mobile technologies are an important random order): Infrastructure investments to increase access component of this transformation to information and communication technologies, customer as they do not only provide privacy, customer satisfaction, digital rights and freedoms, communication, but also generate children's rights (secure internet), access to communication innovative solutions and services for by all social groups, IoT applications that increase efficiency, individuals and organizations in many paper consumption and saving, energy consumption, sectors such as education, health and business ethics and anti-corruption, corporate security and agriculture. Such services increase continuity of business, assessment of suppliers in terms of social benefits and also make great contributions to the economy. OHS, environmental and ethical performance. This is also relevant for combating against climate change, which is one of the most important aspects of sustainability. As we all know, in combating climate change, global emissions must be reduced by 80% through 2050. This can only be possible by developing new business models and including technology and innovation more. Innovative mobile technologies are the indispensable provisions for the main infrastructure of information technology and they have become an important tool for the development of many sectors, the acceleration of work processes, providing resource efficiency and the reduction of carbon emissions due to their positive impact on efficiency. For this reason, many developing countries consider the information, communication and telecommunication sector a significant part of their development strategies. Vodafone Turkey is one of the leading organizations that creates a difference in the development of Turkey with its innovative approach, international experience and knowledge which paves the way for this social and economic transformation. At SKD, we think that Vodafone Turkey provides significant support for sustainable development with its work on digital transformation, SME development, and works towards the disadvantaged groups of society such as farmers, women and youth. Vodafone Turkey is an active member of our Association, which was established in 2004 with the goal of increasing the awareness of sustainable development in the business world and is also the leader of our Innovation Working Group which aims to Employees promote innovative sustainability in Turkey. Under the leadership of Vodafone Turkey, this group organizes the biannual Innovative We conducted a similar survey with all of our employees while Sustainability Practices competition and annual trainings for SMEs. creating the contents of the 2014/15 sustainability report. In addition to these, Vodafone Turkey contributes to the Women's According to the results of the survey: Employment and Equal Opportunities and Decent Work and • 79% of our employees are aware of the company’s Economic Growth Working Groups within SKD. sustainability practices. They receive this information mainly As an Association, we continue our activities in line with UN through internal communication sources and the “Respect Sustainable Development Goals, and we draw attention to the issue the Environment” mobile application. 32% of our employees of “social inclusion” due to the reason that the number of people learn these practices through our sustainability reports. excluded from the system for social, political or economic reasons, • 77% of our employees believe our company’s sustainability including the global immigrant problem, increases on a daily basis. We practices are highly sufficient or sufficient, whereas 20% are working in order to eliminate hunger and poverty and to provide consider such practices “partially sufficient”. each individual with the ability to meet his/her fundamental needs. • The most important and material issues for our employees The contribution of the telecommunications sector to inclusiveness include (in random order): customer privacy, customer has critical importance as it ensures that each individual is included in society and the economy through the solutions provided. In this satisfaction, access to communication by all social groups, sense, at SKD, we think that Vodafone Turkey’s focus on efforts related using mobile communication technologies for the benefit to immigrants is very valuable for our sustainable future. of people, paper consumption and saving, energy and greenhouse gases, health and safety, corporate security, We believe that Vodafone’s contributions to the Turkish economy business ethics and anti-corruption, and base stations and and the business world will continue to expand and we wish for health. great success for Vodafone on its journey to make a difference. For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 11 G4-24, G4-26, G4-27 Our Approach to Sustainability Dialogue with Our Stakeholders We have continued our communication with our stakeholders on various issues through various platforms with the goal of improving our sustainability practices and performance. We have continued to advance our cooperation with non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and representatives of the sector. Our dialogue processes with our key stakeholders and the examples of issues shared are provided in the table below. Our Stakeholders Examples of Dialogue Processes Examples of Issues Raised Our Customers • Every year we hold customer perception and satisfaction surveys • We have carried the Customer Satisfaction program to a higher level of for our corporate and individual customers, where we learn our new product and advantageous offers and provided an advantage to customers’ expectations and develop our products and services Vodafone customers on many issues such as easy accessibility, quality of accordingly. reception, utilization control and loyalty programs. • We continuously establish direct communication with our • We have participated as the main sponsor at International Istanbul Smart customers through our call centers, sales channels, the Vodafone Networks Congress and Fair and we have introduced the contribution of Forum, and social media. operators in smart networks, the solutions we provide and the worldwide • We regularly hold meetings and workshops with our corporate and examples on this. individual customers to learn about their opinions and expectations. • We have emphasized the importance of digitalization in CEO Club • We reach out to our stakeholders and customers through the meetings in which we participated as the main sponsor. events that we organize and participate in, where we exchange • We have reached more than 4,000 guests and an online audience of information and interact. more than 40,000 with the second Digital Transformation Summit that we organized, where we explained the transformative power of digitalization in every area of life. Our Employees • We hold the People Survey every year. • We held an Employee Satisfaction Survey, which evaluated not only • We regularly organize activities and practices to increase awareness employee satisfaction, but also our OHS and environmental performance. among our employees. • During the orientation program we provide for our new employees, we • We learn about the opinions, expectations and suggestions of aim to increase their awareness and information on sustainability issues. our employees regarding their and our company’s performance • With the “Sustainability Week” event we have been organizing since through annual performance evaluations and via internal 2013, we continued to inform our employees and receive feedback from communication channels and regular meetings, and take necessary them. actions. • With the participation of senior management, we have executed a • We hold surveys to learn about material sustainability issues for our materiality survey which contributed to the content of this year's employees. sustainability report. Society • In line with our transparency and accountability principles, we • Through the corporate reputation survey, which involves our regularly inform society through various media and platforms, stakeholders from every walk of life, we evaluate the improvement of our including our sustainability report and mobile applications. company regarding reputation and sustainability issues. • Through http://medyamerkezi.vodafone.com.tr, we share the press releases, videos, info-graphics and commercials related with our activities. • We have published the 2014/15 fiscal year Vodafone Turkey sustainability report and shared it with our material stakeholders on a one-to-one basis. • We disclosed our “Red Respecting Green” Manifesto and invited all stakeholders to adopt the basic principles of sustainability. Regulatory Bodies • We establish dialogue with regulatory bodies on issues concerning • We exchange opinions on issues such as effective and goal-oriented our industry and company and we regularly provide information to implementation of competition policies and removing regulatory barriers these bodies through reports. against products and services that contribute to the overall welfare and development of society. Local Community • In line with our network deployment policy, we closely follow • We maintain ongoing two-way dialogue by receiving the opinions of local and Local the developments regarding base stations and health. We share communities and local governments especially about the base stations. Governments the research of leading institutions, such as the World Health Organization and the International Cancer Research Agency, through our website. Our Suppliers • Within the framework of Supplier Performance Management • At the Ecosystem Day event, we informed our suppliers on recent Program, we support our suppliers to develop their capacities in developments in occupational health and safety, best practices and our sustainability, quality and performance. approach to sustainability. Industry • We establish permanent cooperation with industry representatives • We establish continuous communication with industry representatives Representatives and NGOs in line with our sustainability approach (please see and NGOs through meetings, working groups, and visits; we cooperate for and NGOs Collaboration with Non-Governmental Organizations and Industry the development of our industry. Representatives table). Our Stores • We get feedback from our stores through periodic satisfaction • With the Green Office program initiated in cooperation with WWF-Turkey, surveys and implement remedial actions. we have ensured more efficient use of energy and natural resources at • We support our stores in improving their capabilities. selected stores. • We helped our store employees develop their capabilities by organizing training programs on various topics, including service quality and customer relations. Opinion Leaders • We participate as speaker or sponsor to the conferences on • In the 2015/16 fiscal year, we have sponsored various conferences such and Experts sustainability organized in our country and we facilitate the mutual as Green Business, Sustainable Brands, SKD Innovative Sustainability exchange of ideas on this. Practices Competition and PERYÖN, and we have shared the practices • We hold stakeholder engagement workshops in regular intervals of our company on sustainability in these conferences with our with the participation of opinion leaders, experts and other stakeholders. stakeholders. • We are planning to organize the fifth stakeholder dialogue workshop in the 2016/17 fiscal year. 12 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Our Approach to Sustainability Collaboration with Non-Governmental Organizations and Industry Representatives, and Initiatives on Which We are Signatories Non-Governmental Platform / Project Objective / Purpose Activities in the 2015/16 Fiscal Year Organization Global Compact Turkey Signatory Support the expansion of the concept of We became signatory to the Global Compact in 2015 and also took part in Board Membership sustainability while collaborating with the the executive board of the Global Compact Turkey, thereby expanding our private sector and other stakeholders ecosystem. We support the works of the Global Compact by participating in Executive Board meetings. With this report, we publish our first Communication on Progress. Business Council for Board Membership To exchange ideas with other member We participate in studies conducted with respect to the management of social Sustainable Development Innovation Committee companies about sustainability and environmental issues. We lead studies regarding the impact of innovation Turkey (SKD Turkey) Presidency on sustainability. Working Group Memberships To support development of projects aimed at encouraging private sector to participate in In 2013, we became signatory to the Declaration of Energy Efficiency in sustainability effort Buildings. We have contributed to the Energy Efficiency in Vehicles report prepared by SKD Turkey. We have participated in the report with case study named Vehicle Fleet Efficiency Work. We have organized innovation and sustainability trainings towards SMEs. We supported the Innovative Sustainability Practices competition where SKD awarded SMEs and major companies' social, economic, and environmental innovative practices. WWF-Turkey Carbon footprint management To inform our ecosystem on environmental We develop regular communication activities, nature trips, e-learning tools, and awareness-raising activities issues and environmentally friendly practices; environmental campaigns and carbon reduction roadmap for our ecosystem to to improve our carbon footprint in our business adopt our sustainability approach and strategy. processes AKÜDER, ÇEVKO (1) Membership To recycle and reuse waste materials back to We continue to recycle paper, electronic and other waste materials and to raise the economy awareness in society. TBV, TELKODER, TESİD, Membership To contribute to the development of our We support practices aiming to contribute to the development of the industry TÜBİSAD, TÜTED, TOBB Board Memberships country through communication and through industrial reports and taking part in the events held. Telecommunication Working Group Memberships information technologies Council, Access Providers Union, Information Security Association, AUSDER and YASAD (2) DEİK, DTİK, DEİK TİİK, Endeavor Board Memberships To contribute to improvement of investment We support activities to create regional and industry-specific development Turkey, PNB Turkey, TOBB, High Advisory Board environment and the national economy opportunities by promoting sustainable development and competitiveness, and TÜSİAD (3) Memberships take part in events held for this purpose. Advisory Board Memberships Working Group Memberships International Investors Board Membership To contribute to the improvement of We proactively lead the efforts of international foreign direct investors operating Association (YASED) Working Group Memberships investment environment and the national in Turkey for a better investment environment; we support activities performed economy for regional and sectorial development opportunities by promoting sustainable development and competitiveness. Aegean Forest Foundation Project Partnership To contribute to protecting nature and raising With the trees donated to the Aegean Forest Foundation, we created a Vodafone (EOV) environmental awareness Forest in Çeşme-Ildırı. With the help of our Respect the Environment application, we have made it possible for customers to donate trees with a single click. British Chamber of Commerce Board Membership To promote trade relations between Turkey We support projects to promote trade relations between Turkey and the UK and in Turkey (BCCT) and the United Kingdom; to contribute to to directly contribute to the partnerships; we take part in related activities. partnerships Private Sector Volunteers Board Memberships To contribute to the development of the third We actively take part in efforts to improve the legal, financial and functional Association (ÖSGD), Third sector and to the expansion of volunteerism in infrastructure of NGOs, which are important actors in sustainable development. Sector the private sector in Turkey Foundation of Turkey (TÜSEV) ÇMD, BMD, IAB Turkey, KMD, Board Presidency To closely follow operational developments We support the efforts to contribute to development of innovative practices Mobile Marketing Association, Vice Presidency and to contribute to the development of in the industry and take part in activities carried out for this purpose, as we are ÖDED, Brand Consultants Board Memberships and innovative practices committed to continuous improvement of our operational processes. Association, RVD, TEGEP, Founding Memberships KALDER, PERYÖN, KİYED (4) Working Group Memberships TİKAD, WCD, Platform on Membership To increase the number of women We participate in activities to strengthen the role of women in working life and Equality at Work, WEPs (5) Advisory Board Membership entrepreneurs in working life and to encourage we develop common projects. Signatory the support of women entrepreneurs (1) Accumulator and Recycling Industrialists Association (AKÜDER), Environmental Protection and Packaging Wastes Recovery and Recycling Trust (ÇEVKO) (2) Turkish Informatics Foundation (TBV), Independent Telecommunication Operators Association (TELKODER), Turkish Electronic Industrialists Association (TESİD), Association of Informatics Industrialists (TÜBİSAD), Association of All Communication Businessmen (TÜTED), Smart Transportation Systems Association (AUSDER), Software Industrialists Association (YASAD) (3) Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK), World Turkish Business Council (DTİK), DEİK Turkish-British Business Council (DEİK TİİK), Partners for a New Beginning (PNB) Turkey, Turkish Union of Chambers and Exchange Commodities (TOBB), Turkish Industrialists' and Businessmen's Association (TÜSİAD) (4) Call Centers Association (ÇMD), United Brands Association (BMD), Interactive Advertising Bureau of Turkey (IAB Türkiye), Category Merchandising Association (KMD), Payment and Electronic Money Association (ÖDED), Association of Advertisers (RVD), Learning and Development Association (TEGEP), Turkish Quality Association (KALDER), Human Resources Management Association of Turkey (PERYÖN), Public Communication and Corporate Relations Management Association (KİYED) (5) Turkish Businessmen Association (TİKAD), Women Corporate Directors (WCD), WEPs (United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles) For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 13 Our Customers and Society Our Customers and Society As part of the Digital Transformation Movement we launched to “use communication technologies to inspire everyone in Turkey for a better future”, we continue to offer innovative solutions creating added value for our customers in healthcare, finance, agriculture, and development. Material Our Commitments Objectives for the Our Performance in the Objectives for the Issues 2015/16 Fiscal Year 2015/16 Fiscal Year 2016/17 Fiscal Year Solutions We will continue to launch To enable a greater number of 42,000 businesses have calculated the To develop various efficiency that create innovative products and services companies to use solutions digitalization index through “Ready Business” increasing solutions such as transformation under the Digital Transformation that improve efficiency through the platform and two million companies have reviewed smart cities and smart villages. and change Movement. “Ready Business” Platform. the platform. Social business We will enrich and expand the To improve productivity of 950,000 The number of farmers who have increased their To increase the number of models that Vodafone Farmers’ Club. farmers through productivity with the help of Vodafone Farmers’ farmers utilizing Vodafone support the Vodafone Farmers’ Club. Club has exceeded 1.3 million. Farmers’ Club to more than 1.5 development Vodafone Farmers’ Club is being implemented in six million in Turkey and 4 million more countries. worldwide. We have launched the “Smart Village” project to be an example for the digital transformation of our villages. Secure Internet We will support families To offer solutions that enable We have launched “Hello Package” in September To keep the content of promoting secure internet and secure internet and phone 2015 with our vision of supporting children and dijitalemerhaba.com portal phone solutions for children. usage for children and families. their parents with the most accurate content. updated and enrich it with videos. Internet of Things (IoT) At Vodafone Turkey, we aim to expand the IoT solutions within the scope of the Digital Transformation Movement, adding value to the lives of individuals and improve the efficiency of institutions and thereby contributing to the global strength of the Turkish economy. In January 2016, we were first to establish the “IoT services development platform” in Turkey and within the Vodafone Group. Our purpose with this platform is to develop applications and services for industrial verticals and to reflect our technological competence from end-to-end with our business partners and technology units. Today, the IoT technologies are the locomotive of sustainable economic growth and social development in the sectors such as health, agriculture, finance and education which it horizontally interacts with. With our strategy of making the digital life easy and accessible, we continue with our investments in a way to provide solutions in different areas such as smart cities, smart stadiums and smart villages. Vodafone Group is the world leader in the internet of things Internet of Things (IoT) which is the sole platform combining smart systems with mobile Internet of Things (IoT) is a network where any thing with the ability communication and one of the leading IoT service providers with its to establish electronic communication communicates with the global experience for more than 20 years and more than 40 million other thing and generates a higher value and service than standard connections. mobile connection. It is a platform where data is directly transmitted between things without the need of any human-to-human or human-to-machine intervention. Another term used for IoT is “machine-to-machine communication (M2M)”. IoT technology has the potential to transform the whole industry, most of the public services and the different aspects of individuals’ lives. 14 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Our Customers and Society 30,000 individual users each month. The users can make use of various IoT Solutions information content on the Vodafone Mobile Healthcare Platform, including paid-for or free SMS services for healthy life, healthy nutrition, IoT solutions are implemented in various areas. We foresee that the areas that might benefit most from this technology are: agriculture and chronic diseases, women’s health, men’s health, children’s health. husbandry (smart villages), production (smart monitoring systems), Vodafone Mobile Healthcare, Turkey’s most extensive as well as the first connected vehicles (smart transportation), smart cities, smart stadiums, and only mobile healthcare platform touched the lives of 1 million and health (patient monitoring) and other solutions which will facilitate the 131,000 customers as of the end of March 2016. lives of individuals. Chronic Disease Monitoring Application It is a solution that provides distant monitoring for diabetes patients in collaboration with the Memorial Group of Hospitals. Through the “Vodafone Corporate Mobile Healthcare Program” developed within this scope, applications to increase the convenience of diabetes patients, 24/7 physician and health professional support, emergency interventions when necessary, personal online data recording access and private consultation line services are provided. Vodafone Eye Health The “Vodafone Eye Health” application was developed within Vodafone Mobile Healthcare and it makes remote eye examinations possible through mobile devices. This application provides services for patients who live in distant regions without an ophthalmologist or for bed Benefits for the End User bound patients who cannot visit an ophthalmologist due to their illness. This application was first used in the Goynuk district of the • The user can access the service at any time, independent from Bolu province with the collaboration of the home care company Artı location and time. Sağlık and Dünya Eye Hospital. It is planned to expand the application, • It contains solutions which enhances the user’s life and provides time a first in Turkey, with new collaborations in the future. Under normal and cost savings. conditions, expensive and immovable devices are used for eyeground Benefits for Institutions images to be obtained. As these devices can only be used in hospitals, • Institutions will be able to control all the business processes in real-time. patients need to visit the hospital. With the “Vodafone Eye Health” application, patients who cannot visit the hospital or those patients • With the digitalization of the processes and their complete control, whose transfer to the hospital would be too expensive can be examined they can use human resources in more efficient areas. in their homes. • It helps all business units such as production, sales, marketing and logistics to be more efficient. Alzheimer Patient Monitoring • As productivity and efficiency increases, costs will decrease. In order to facilitate the lives of the relatives of Alzheimer patients’ • If solutions that provide savings on fuel and energy are applied, it will and to maintain their inner peace, this mobile application was provide significant benefits such as a reduction of greenhouse gas prepared for those who take care of Alzheimer patients, providing emissions. them the opportunity to monitor patients through the application. • An interactive management process is generated where all company The Alzheimer's patient's relative can monitor where the person being employees are included with end-to-end control. monitored is and monitor the places visited on the map through the • It provides the chance to instantly intervene in business processes in application 24/7. Also, a safe zone can be set on the map and an alert emergencies by making access to information possible. will be sent whenever the patient leaves that specific area. • It ensures that internal, external, financial and technical audit processes are successfully completed in a very short period. Digital Transformation in Healthcare Mobile technologies facilitate better quality of life for individuals and increase access to healthcare services. We continue to increase the number and to expand the scope of our digital healthcare solutions that provide the possibility to access healthcare services from anywhere and anytime for our customers. Also, we have sponsored the Digital Health Summit Turkey in December 2015 in order to support innovation in the healthcare sector. Vodafone Mobile Healthcare Launched in March 2013 through a partnership between Vodafone Telemedicine Patient Monitoring Program Turkey and Artı Sağlık A.Ş., Vodafone Mobile Healthcare Platform is an With the collaboration of Kadıköy Şifa Hospital, telemedicine-distant innovative service that offers instant mobile healthcare solutions to treatment devices are provided to hypertension and diabetes patients, our customers. Vodafone customers can reach the Mobile Healthcare and their measurement results are instantly monitored and viewed by services through the Vodafone Mobile Healthcare mobile application the health coach and the physician. Thus, patients have the chance to which has been downloaded by 150,000 users so far or from show their measurement results to the physician with no need to visit www.vodafonecepsaglik.com.tr website which has been visited by the hospital and their ratio for regular measurement increases. For more information www.vodafonecepsaglik.com.tr 15 Our Customers and Society Digital Transformation in Finance Secure Internet At Vodafone Turkey, we believe that the digitalization of payment At Vodafone, we analyze the needs of individuals and develop systems that are frequently used in our daily lives is one of the most innovative products and services to meet these needs. While critical stages of digital transformation. Mobile technologies have developing our service and practice areas, we place emphasis on become an important instrument for integrating people deprived of “digital born” and “digitalized” segments, which are the closest to access to financial services into the financial system and for creating digitalization. We make various programs available to support parents’ equal opportunities in this area. encouragement of their children to use digital technology in a secure and responsible way. Vodafone Electronic Money and Payment Services We have gathered all of our mobile financial services under a single roof in order to facilitate the lives of our customers. Under this, we present our customers the products of Vodafone Mobile Payment, Vodafone Mobile Wallet and Mobile Cash Card including the provision of payment services, making money transfer and mediating invoice payments. Thus, we provide secure physical and electronic environment for all mobile financial services such as payment of invoices, online shopping and money transfers. Also, we can act as mediator for the collection of payment amount of services purchased by mobile payment products. For instance, Vodafone prepaid line customers can make their shopping instantly We launched “Hello Package” in September 2015 with our vision of from their TL balances. The supporting children between the ages of 7-13 and their guardians shopping made by our postpaid with the most accurate content. The program has three pillars; namely line customers can be reflected on information portal, mobile application and tariff package. Through the their telephone invoices. We assume “Hello to Digital Portal” designed within the scope of program, parents that mobile payment will be the can be informed about the secure internet and digital parenting. With “I leading factor in growth due to the am Here Application”, they can instantly monitor the locations of their increase of interest by end users to children, and with “Hello Tariff”, they can control the mobile phone alternative payment systems and the utilization of their children. strong and wide customer base of Vodafone. We will continue communication related with this in the 2016/17 fiscal year with the same vision. Within the scope of this vision, we aim to Mobile Wallet present a proper GSM offer for the target audience, and continuous, accurate and updated information to children and their parents The Vodafone Mobile Wallet application, launched in 2013, aims to through dijitalemerhaba.com. The content of site will be created by ease in financial transactions. This application enables a great number of transactions, including creating a virtual Mobile Cash Card instantly, technology experts and expert pedagogues and enriched by videos. sending money to all GSM numbers, depositing Cell Lira to prepaid “Our Secure Internet Service”, which we offer free of charge and upon Vodafone lines, saving money with a Save and Send account, and request, is an alternative internet access that considerably protects contactless payment with QR codes. In addition, Mobile Wallet users our customers from harmful content. This service contains two benefit from contactless payment in all NFC (near field communication) profiles (children and family) and provides considerable protection compatible POS devices. While 139,000 customers downloaded the from harmful content on internet. Desired profile can be selected Vodafone Mobile Wallet application as of the last fiscal year, this number or cancelled via Vodafone Online Self Service, Call Centre, SMS or reached 391,000 customers in the 2015/16 fiscal year. Vodafone stores. To help children use the digital world securely, we prepared a basic suggestions list for the parents. By grouping these suggestions for different age groups, we created a “Digital World Introduction Guide”. We continue offering our customers the free “Vodafone Guardian” mobile application that helps parents manage their children’s smart phones by enabling protection against inappropriate calls, SMS and online contents. For more information www.vodafone.com.tr/Internet/Guvenli-Internet.php www.vodafone.com.tr/VodafoneHakkinda/dijital-dunyaya-giris.php Investment on Digital Transformation www.dijitalemerhaba.com We have set out the “4BucakG” strategy in order to ensure that each individual, each institution and each device in Turkey can connect to the internet with very high speed. We have started to provide 4.5G services in 81 provinces in its broadest coverage with seven thousand different points as of April 2016. We also continue with our investments to expand our fiber lines. 16 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Our Customers and Society Vodafone Arena Employee Opinion Turkey’s first smart stadium, Vodafone Arena, was opened for fans Bora Yücel, Vodafone Turkey, on April 11, 2016 after 2.5 years of construction. The smart stadium Network Rollout and Operations infrastructure was a part of the architectural project and the whole Director architecture was designed accordingly, different from many other stadiums. The devices and equipment used in the stadium have Vodafone is a global communication high efficiency and their energy consumption is relatively low. One company that provides uninterrupted of the most important features that makes Vodafone Arena a smart communication and facilitating products stadium is the interactive operation of broadcasting system and mobile and services at any time and any place applications with fans. and it leads the digital transformation of Turkey. I am very glad to be a part of Vodafone family which utilizes communication technologies in every part of life through social responsibility projects and works with great effort to help people reach for a better future. In my opinion, one of the most significant characteristics that distinguishes Vodafone from other companies in Turkey is its ability to adapt the technologies, products and services which have been realized and experienced in different countries before into the form to meet the local requirements of our customers and to present them for their use. I also think that being a company which is focused on transforming digitalization into social and environmental benefit, leading in order to increase the position of women in technology as in every track of life are the factors that make Vodafone Turkey very special and different as a company. The project I was most excited about last year was “4BucakG”. We have realized a successful launch following a long and intense work in the field, in our offices, and with all the companies within our ecosystem as a team in order to provide high speed mobile internet access to all our customers in Turkey without The smart stadium contains high band width Wi-Fi, 2G, 3G and 4,5 interruption and with high quality. Thus, our company has G network connections to meet the needs of 50,000 visitors with become the leading 4.5G operator with the broadest 4.5G the help of data and telecommunication chambers feeding its coverage and the highest number of 4.5G users in Turkey. infrastructure. Also, fans are able to monitor the important positions of the game and statistics via more than 700 interactive screens and Sustainability reports have very critical importance for us as they more than 2,200 built-in seat screens positioned at different points and disclose the sustainability strategies, commitments of Vodafone managed by a single center. Turkey and its performance, which can also be considered as a “grade card”. Thanks to these reports, we are proud of our High efficient energy and cooling systems used in the infrastructure performance in the past year and we are motivated to raise the of Vodafone Arena system rooms helped us save approximately 2 bar for next year. million kWh energy annually when compared to equivalent equipment. Through this we prevent annually approximately 1,100 tons of I will be delighted to lead Vodafone Turkey’s mobile projects in greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). This amount is equal to total annual the future in order to advance the digital literacy of children and electricity consumption of approximately 1,000 households and annual to improve all types of software development such as mobile GHG emissions resulting from the electricity use of approximately 740 applications and to make those possible in every part of Turkey. households. Vodafone Istanbul Marathon Vodafone Istanbul Marathon -the world’s first and only intercontinental marathontook place on November 15th, 2015 for the 37th time and the 3rd time under the name of the Vodafone Istanbul Marathon. The Vodafone Istanbul Marathon was run this year with theme “Stop the Violence Towards Women” under the name sponsorship of Vodafone by Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality and Sport A.S. A record number of nearly 30,000 sportsman from 120 countries participated. 120,000 Istanbul residents walked from the Asian side to European side of the bridge. The renewed VMaraton application and our digital innovations made it possible to track the event from anywhere at any time. The aplication was downloaded by nearly 15,000 people. For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 17 Between July 2014 and April 2016, 42,000 companies calculated their digitalization indices via Ready Business platform. Since July 2014, digitalization index score of Turkish companies increased from 48% to 53% after implementing the opportunities. Our Customers and Society Ready Business Smart Cities In Turkey as well as globally, we are living in an era that the digital With the Ready Business Platform, we help population increases on a daily basis, and the need for rapid companies of every size have access to new digitalization of public services emerges. With our smart city solutions technologies and increase efficiency. we have developed in accordance with this need, we provide solutions for buses, automatic vending machines, elevators, building illumination and ventilation systems, municipality practices and security systems. We help the foundation of smart cities in the world with the help of remote controlled device and systems. These solutions make it possible to increase citizen satisfaction and provide urban sustainability. We have realized the “Smart City Index”, which we have prepared with the purpose of guiding the municipalities and turn them into cities ready for tomorrow, all around Turkey with metropolitan municipalities. We measure the scores of 26 metropolitan municipalities in the fields of education, health, energy, security, transportation, waste management and culture management by “Smart City Index” and we prepare the municipalities for the future. Digitalization offers solutions that put companies a step further in competition and that improve global competitive edge. We see that At Vodafone Turkey, we are inspired by successful examples applied digitalized companies around the world grow their revenues 9% within the Group and carry the experience of our Group in smart above the industry average, achieve 26% higher profitability than their urbanization to Turkey. It is possible to show examples of our smart city market, and gain market value above average without increasing their solutions from all around the world. For instance, traffic is monitored in resources. With the aim of helping Turkish companies in identifying Venice with the help of Vodafone's mobile applications and the life of their digitalization needs and supporting them in the digitalization citizens is facilitated. By considering the conditions of nature, a short process, we launched the “Ready Business” platform at www. messaging system is launched to be used in emergency cases. Citizens yarinahazirim.com. Regardless of whether it a Vodafone customer or are provided with the ability to access all public institutions through a not, every company can use this platform free of charge. single online portal. Another example is the Smart Parking company which operates in three different continents. This company established smart parking systems all around the world with the help of Vodafone Global M2M and it utilizes the same SIM card everywhere. Thus, citizens are able to see the parking spot any place and anywhere with the help of the smart parking system. After identifying their Digitalization Index and needs by using the tool on the Ready Business platform, companies can have access to Vodafone solutions that improve their efficiency if they choose to do so. At this stage, the most appropriate Vodafone solutions are divided into three major groups; namely Team Management Solutions, Operational Management Solutions and Customer Loyalty Solutions are suggested to meet the customer’s needs. Between July 2014, its launch date, and April 2016, 42,000 companies calculated their digitalization indices via Ready Business platform and 2 million companies examined the platform. Since July 2014, the digitalization index score of Turkish companies increased from 48% to 53% after the works done. Our long-term goal is to help Turkish companies increase their digitalization index to 75%. Example of an IoT Solution in Production İlknak Fishery Products Production Monitoring System İlknak is one of the leading farm fish production facilities in Turkey. The company calculated the digitalization index with our Ready Business consultants and identified its needs. Then, it utilized Vodafone Super Net devices and Vodafone IoT technologies and increased its digitalization index to 75% from 35%. The company has managed to increase its production efficiency by 50% through the quickening of control processes in fish production tanks and instant monitoring of oxygen levels. For more information www.yarinahazirim.com 19 We have reached to more than 1.3 million farmers We have sent 871 million short messages We have trained more than 225,000 farmers More than 38,000 farmers have utilized our advertisement service Vodafone Farmers’ Club was launched in India, Ghana, Kenya, Tanzania, Egypt and New Zealand Our Customers and Society Vodafone Farmers’ Club Main Focus Areas of the Vodafone Farmers’ Club With mobile technologies, we improve the life Farmer News Package With our 2434 Farmer News Package Service, we provide quality of millions of farmers. agricultural information to more than 1.3 million customers via The agricultural sector in Turkey has a 19.9% contribution to SMS. Through this service, we deliver detailed weather forecasts employment and its weight in the economy is 7.6 %; it is of crucial in 957 towns, the market prices of 88 agricultural products, importance for the economy and rural development. The competition of disease warnings, and tips on pest control. Industry-specific this sector at the global level and increasing the welfare level of farmers information such as state grants, free fair invitations and the latest is possible through digitalization. developments in agriculture are also offered. So far we have sent 871 million SMSs on 1.1 million different subjects to farmers. With Vodafone Farmers’ Club, we digitalize the farmers in Turkey for the last seven years and aim to increase their productivity and profitability. Launched in 2009 under the cover of Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, Vodafone Farmers’ Club program aims to achieve digital transformation in agriculture by contributing to agricultural and rural development and to support farmers with equal access to social and economic life. Launched by Vodafone as a first of its kind initiative in Turkey, with the services we offer, we touch to the lives of our farmers on a much wider scale. We have three main goals of Vodafone Farmers’ Club: • To instantly bring mobile technologies to our farmers and increase their efficiency, • To help the farmers reach for more buyers and increase their profit, and • Increase farmers' access to financial resources, thus supporting their economies. Farmers’ Training Truck With Vodafone Farmers’ Training Truck project that we launched to deliver trainings in villages to meet farmers’ needs, we aim to explain the benefits of mobile services in increasing productivity. As of the end of the 2015/16 fiscal year, our truck visited 495 towns and villages, travelled a distance of 300,000 km, and reached more than 225,000 farmers. Farmers’ Guide Application The Vodafone Farmers’ Guide Application that we developed for Vodafone Farmers’ Club in the World smartphones was downloaded by 16,000 farmers. Town-specific The Vodafone Farmers Club consists of services which were initially 5-day weather forecasts, agricultural news per category, detailed provided by Vodafone Turkey in accordance with the needs and requests product prices, free and easy advertising are offered to farmers. of farmers and it was used as an example in the world under the name A Turkish Recipe in Agriculture . It is being applied in six more Vodafone Farmer Advertisement Service countries: India, Ghana, Kenya, Tanzania, New Zealand and Egypt. Thanks to this service, the Farmers’ Club members give free Through this, the Vodafone Farmers’ Club has become the first social advertisements and get the chance to sell their products business model brought into the global market by Vodafone Turkey and without intermediaries and at their worth. The ads sent through it has provided benefits for more than two million farmers in these six this service are published free of charge in Turkey's largest countries. Our program was also considered a case study by GSMA, one agricultural e-commerce website www.tarimsalpazarlama.com, of the most important organizations in our industry that represents the Posta newspaper and industry publications. Also, thanks to our rights of mobile operators worldwide, and it was cited as an example for collaboration with alibaba.com, one of the greatest e-trade websites other telecommunication operators. in the world, we provide the Turkish farmers with the chance to sell their products abroad. So far more than 38,000 farmers benefited from this ad service. Vodafone Smart Village We have initiated the work for Vodafone Smart Collaboration with Şekerbank Village project in the 2015/16 fiscal year by Vodafone Farmers’ Club members utilize the financing products collaborating with TABIT and we aim to be the within the scope of Family Farming Banking with 15% interest pioneer in the digital transformation of rural discount by the collaboration with Şekerbank. Farmers can also pay areas and to create a new generation rural living model which combines the traditional agricultural their Vodafone invoices during the harvest season at once with no methods with the possibilities of advanced interest. technology. This project will become the first smart village in the world with end-to-end technologies and we aim to create a model for 38,000 villages and rural settlements, to make farming a preferred occupation again, to reduce the migration from rural to urban areas and to export this model to other Vodafone countries. With the help of smart systems we will establish in Vodafone Smart Village; we will be able to provide the sustainability of agricultural resources and we also wish to increase the welfare level in rural areas via the socialization and education programs we will conduct for children, youth and women. For more information vodafone.com.tr/ciftcikulubu 21 Our Customers and Society Stakeholder’s Opinion Jaklin Güner, United Brands Association (BMD), Board Member What, in your opinion, is the role of sector which grows up 2.5 times higher than the Turkish economy, we the telecommunications industry on have to adjust with fast changing circumstances and catch the recent development? interactions. The report on digital transformation in retail, which was Telecommunication is one of the leading prepared with the support of a consultancy company, indicates that we sectors that plays an important role in the have a very long way to go. The sustainable future of the retail sector economies of countries as it contributes will be shaped by digitalization. The road map we have generated with to employment, determines the dynamics Vodafone Turkey in accordance with the results of report is therefore and supports the development of other very valuable. At BMD, we continue our work to prepare our members sectors. Rapidly developing and changing for the future in accordance with this road map. technology, urbanization, the young What are your expectations from Vodafone Turkey in terms of population of our country, the growth of environmental or social issues? the middle class and the rapid change in customer needs and expectations contain Vodafone Turkey realizes various leading projects in its sector. I think new opportunities for this sector as well. In order to benefit from this, that the investment made on the training of women and children will telecommunication companies focus on providing different services to especially have very positive results. I sincerely wish that the projects of stand out with the experiences they present to customers and not only as Vodafone Turkey on these areas will last for many years. infrastructure providers. Content and easy and rapid access to it has great Are there any areas that you think Vodafone Turkey leads? If so, importance for the end user today. Within this process, the collaborations what are they? to be realized in the areas of Over The Top (OTT) and Internet of Things (IoT) will make the telecommunications sector more important and By considering the needs related with social, economic and powerful as leverage for other business areas. environmental issues, Vodafone Turkey develops numerous different projects that contribute to the development of Turkey. As a female As the Vice Executive Board Chair of BMD, what is your general executive, the Women First project in which women are the focal point view of Vodafone Turkey? is very remarkable for me. I think that Vodafone Turkey leads the sector Vodafone has a strong position in the telecommunications sector with with these projects focused on educating women and then encouraging its vision to lead the digital transformation of Turkey. It has rapidly grown them to take place in the business area. Such programs are encouraging in Turkey due to its strength resulting from the global experience. It has and necessary in countries such as Turkey where the participation of successfully implemented the developments of the world into Turkey by women in business is not at the same level with men. considering the local dynamics, acted sensible on social issues, followed In the context of sustainability, what are your suggestions for a quality and customer focused service policy and was adapted by Vodafone Turkey for the future and what would you advise them public in a short period. I think that this success arises from mutual about their improvement areas, if any? interaction and it has put Vodafone Turkey in a special position on the global scale. Vodafone Turkey leads for the development of the sector with its innovative investments and also generates significant projects for a Can you please tell us about the collaboration of BMD with sustainable future. I follow and appreciate the corporate responsibility Vodafone Turkey? projects of Vodafone Turkey that contribute a lot to society and the Since its establishment, Vodafone Turkey has followed a close works it conducts in order to make mobile technologies accessible for relationship with the business world and other sectors and developed everyone. I hope that these projects will continue by considering the solutions to meet the requirements of the business world. At BMD, needs of society and that other companies will be inspired from these we are collaborating with Vodafone to digitalize the retail sector. As a and execute new projects for the benefit of society. Awards and “Best Communication Center” categories and the bronze award in “Best Social Media Utilization in Communication Centers” at “Contact As of March 2016, Vodafone Turkey won 108 national and international Center World Awards” given by Contact Center World. awards in many categories, including technology, services, marketing, human resources and public relations. Some of our sustainability practices • The Women First program won awards under the categories of “Best have been deemed worthy of awards in the period covered by this report. Corporate Social Responsibility Project”, “Best Social Good” and Examples of the awards we have received are as follows: “Most Successful PR Application within the Geographical Region” at internationally prestigious “European Excellence Awards”, “Communitas • In June, the Easy Rescue smart phone application brought the first Awards” and “SABRE EMEA” awards. “Cannes Lions Grand Prix” award to Turkey. This application has also won • The Advantage in Pocket (Avantaj Cepte) application received awards 1 gold, 2 silvers and 3 bronze lions along with Grand Prix. under the categories of “Loyalty Magazine Special Award” and “Best • The communication campaign for Easy Rescue application, “Between Technology Utilization” by the “Loyalty Magazine Awards”. Us” received 2 Clio awards in September 2015. • Our fifth sustainability report that covers the 2014/15 fiscal year • The Easy Rescue application and the Between Us campaign have won received an award under the “Sustainability Report” category at 2016 prizes at Crystal Apple and Felis awards under the categories “Best Media Astrid Corporate Design Awards organized by one of the most esteemed Utilization”, “Best Integrated Campaign”, “Best Digital Application”, “Best organizations of the business world, MerComm. Outdoor Utilization” and “Best Mobile Application”. • Our application named Compass (Pusula) won the gold award under the category “Distinguishing Sales Application in Telecommunication”, the silver award in “Inbound Marketing Program” and the bronze award in “Marketing Solution” category at “Stevie Sales and Customer Services” awards in March 2016. • Vodafone Turkey received the gold award in “Best Customer Services” 22 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Innovation OKSIJEN OKSIJEN, appointed as Vodafone Group’s “Global Innovation Centre” to create technological innovations for over 462 million customers in 26 countries, exports technology to the world. Our Commitments Objectives for the Our Performance in the 2015/16 Fiscal Year Objectives for the 2015/16 Fiscal Year 2016/17 Fiscal Year We will support development To increase the number and diversity 46 of the projects we have realized within the period are made with There are no new goals. of local R&D in our country of projects implemented in our the contribution of our business partners in our ecosystem. This through OKSIJEN. ecosystem. amount was 33 in the previous period, meaning we have achieved 40% increase. We will increase the number To increase the number of innovative We have realized 64 new projects within the term and increased the There are no new goals. of innovative solutions and products and solutions to make number of realized projects by 45% when compared with the same services. customers’ lives easier in line with period of last year. our vision of digital transformation. We will improve R&D To increase the number and quality By 78 patent applications we have made in 2015 (74 within the To continue increasing the number competency of OKSIJEN. of patents for R&D activities. fiscal year), we have achieved a 110% increase and became the fifth and quality of patents for R&D company in Turkey that made the most applications. We have been activities. awarded with two rewards from the Turkish Patent Institute. We will increase the number New target New target To develop innovative products and of innovative solutions and solutions with new technologies services. used in the telecommunications sector (big data, IoT etc.). About OKSIJEN determines the location of the customer and informs the Emergency Call Center. The system also provides an advantage as it can be used OKSIJEN is a global innovation company incorporated in Vodafone without the need to install any mobile applications. In addition to the Turkey, which aims to lead digital transformation in Turkey for a better social benefits of the system such as positioning lost climbers and future. Established in 2000 and employing a labour force of local location-based emergency interventions for first aid calls, it is also engineers, OKSIJEN creates a large number of innovations. In 2015, we expected to pave the way for the development of location-based value continued to offer significant employment opportunities and resources added services. The infrastructure that was developed by OKSIJEN to our country in R&D with a team of more than 260 engineers. Besides and used in Turkey was previously used at Vodafone UK, Vodafone that we support our business partners to open up to the world through Germany, Vodafone Netherlands and Austria TAG Group. products and services that we provide for Vodafone Group operators. We also provide global competitive advantages for our corporate customers by developing value-added products and services. Awards OKSIJEN has received awards in the last period and it was give two Innovation at OKSIJEN awards at the fifth Turkish Patent Awards in 2016 organized by Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology and Turkish Patent Institute (TPE). As OKSIJEN, we have continued with our works on universityindustry OKSIJEN was selected as the second company with best breakthrough collaboration and realized new collaborations with two leading under the Patent category and it has been the fifth company with universities in Turkey. Thanks to the projects we have realized through most patent applications in Turkey with 78 patent applications in Istanbul Technical University (ITU) and Kadir Has University, common 2015 in Turkey. The categories for which OKSIJEN has made patent university areas have been transformed into smart campuses with applications include location-based services, messaging, machine-toBeacon infrastructures. Within the scope of project, Beacon machine communication, cloud information, mobile financial services, infrastructures that facilitate in determining location and direction mobile networks, individual and corporate mobile applications. were installed at Kadir Has University Cibali Campus and ITU ElectricElectronic and Computer-Information faculties. The contactless Beacon OKSIJEN has also received four winning awards at BEETECH 2015 bluetooth devices installed provide a micro-location positioning Awards organized by ITU ARI Teknokent, one of the leading technoinfrastructure in closed areas where GPS signals cannot be received parks of Turkey. OKSIJEN has won the grand prize under the categories and the positioning sensitivity with GSM signals is insufficient. This of R&D Revenues and Intellectual and Industrial Property Rights and infrastructure also provides a laboratory environment which the it has been the company with the most awards under main prize academics and students can use for their academic research and categories among the ITU ARI Teknokent companies. development projects on positioning. New Beacon infrastructure will also facilitate daily life at the faculties. The university announcements 78 patent and daily activities will be conveyed to students through this infrastructure and Beacon infrastructure can also be used for welcoming messages, checks at classes, various promotions and new product information at canteens and cafeterias. In the new fiscal year, we have added a new location based service “With a total of 78 patent applications in 2015 we that we are exporting to Europe. The mobile network positioning have been listed the 5th company with the greatest product (GMLC) that was developed by OKSIJEN engineers was put number of applications in Turkey.” into use in Italy. After an emergency call made to 112, the system For more information www.oksijen.com 23 Responsible Supply Chain Responsible Supply Chain We will continue to support our suppliers in performing their activities in accordance with Vodafone standards in ethics, environment, social issues, and health and safety. Our Commitments Objectives for the Our Performance in the Objectives for the 2015/16 Fiscal Year 2015/16 Fiscal Year 2016/17 Fiscal Year With our Supply Chain Efficiency To transform the Supplier Information More than 350 business partners have To organize a session that will program, we will continue to inform Day to My Business Partner Day attended the Ecosytem Day we organized. emphasize the importance of our suppliers on our OHS and ethical in the 2015/16 fiscal year, thus to women in business at the Ecosystem rules and the importance of women's reach a wider audience and ensure Day we will organize. participation in business life and raise participation of at least 200 business awareness. partners. Our Supply Chain Supplier Chain Efficiency Program: My We, at Vodafone Turkey, procure a significant amount of our services Vodafone, My Business and products from suppliers. We purchase products and services from approximately 800 actively operating companies, most of them The “My Vodafone, My Business” efficiency program has been commercial services and technology companies. Most of our active continuing for four years and focuses mainly on economic gains, time suppliers are local companies, whereas some are global corporations. efficiency and environmental efficiency. Some of the examples for In the last fiscal year we spent around 2 billion TL on network and efficient use of resources are: IT equipment and services that allow us to run our network and on • In the procurement process of every type of technological products such as mobile phones, SIM cards and other devices we offer equipment, we prefer products with high energy efficiency and to our customers. electrical heavy equipment over diesel ones. By using LED lighting in It is our priority for our suppliers to comply with all principles and our warehouses, we prevent unnecessary use of electricity. approaches of our company. Thus, we realize different applications • In the leasing offers we present to municipalities and other which will support them and increase their awareness and capacity. institutions, we include in our lease offer alternative energy use and generation options to contribute to sustainability with “SCM Power” Supplier Performance Management package. We apply Vodafone Supplier Performance Management program in • We have started to share documents of contracts with suppliers order to regularly assess the overall performance of our main suppliers electronically, instead of printing the documents out. In this way, we in terms of commercial criteria such as OHS, sustainability, quality, not only reduce paper consumption, but also allow our suppliers information security, and technology. 70% of 20 global suppliers we to have immediate online access to supplementary contract assessed in the 2015/16 fiscal year have passed the performance documents. With this process, we save an average of 800 kg. of threshold. We share the results of our Performance Assessment with paper annually. our suppliers and plan actions for improvement by working together with those that we expect better results. When we need to work with a Ecosystem Day new supplier, we implement a Competency Assessment Process that helps us identify and evaluate potential risks. We have been organizing an annual Supplier Information day since 2013 and we organized it under the name of Ecosystem Day in 2015 after reaching more attendants. Through this event, we share OHS and Field Assessments business ethics principles with our suppliers and receive feedback from Based on the fact that working in a more secure has impact on them. 350 suppliers from 298 companies attended the Ecosystem Day efficiency and economic benefit, we support our suppliers to we organized in November 2015. We also emphasized the importance improve their business processes and capacities in order to increase of participation of women in economic life and we provided their performance in the field of OHS. Also, we realize regular field information on the HeForShe initiative and collected signatures of assessments in order to ensure that they comply with “Vodafone Code those who were committed to this initiative. of Conduct” and its inseparable part Ethical Purchase Rules. Improving the Position of Women in Issues Covered in Vodafone Ethical Purchase Regulation Business Life • Child labor • Disciplinary actions We position the participation of women in business and equal opportunities as an important keystone of our corporate culture in • Forced labor • Working Hours the field of diversity and inclusion and we consider the employment and empowerment of women our priority in the whole ecosystem, • Health and safety • Payment not only within the company. For this reason, we support companies with more than 50% women entrepreneurs and women employees • Freedom of organization • Individual behavior in our tendering processes and with the purchase support we provide to FikirÇarkı; we prioritize women entrepreneurs in the tendering • Discrimination • Environment processes. 24 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Base Stations and Health Our EMF Practices We will continue to work on our vision to lead the sector in informing the public regarding mobile phones, base stations and human health and to set the example by initiating various efforts for this purpose. Our Commitments Objectives for the Our Performance in the 2015/16 Objectives for the 2016/17 2015/16 Fiscal Year Fiscal Year Fiscal Year We will increase the level of To adapt the contents of the The information on “regulation change related to To adapt the e-learning content when the awareness and knowledge of our training program to online the security certificate”, which is the content of BTK regulation related to the “Security employees and suppliers on Electro environment and ensure that online education, is being updated by BTK since Certificate” and to ensure that 50% of our Magnetic Fields (EMF) and enable 50% of employees complete the fourth quarter of 2015. The regulation is not employees obtain this training. them to share information when the training. published yet. needed. We will complete the training when the regulation is published. We will continue sharing information To share EMF brochures in We have continued to share brochures related To prepare EMF brochures with new through various channels to increase the buildings where our base with EMF when information was requested on content when the legal regulation on the understanding and awareness stations are located. base stations. Security Certificate is completed. of our stakeholders and customers on EMF. To reply EMF questions asked We have continued to reply EMF questions asked To reply to EMF-related questions from via our Call Centre. via our Call Centre. the public and stakeholders. We will continue to perform the To continue placing warning We have placed warning signs and placards To update Vodafone Turkey RF Areas requirements of our EMF policy. signs and placards around new around all new base stations to inform the public Health and Safety Risks Management base stations to inform the about EMF. Policy and ensure that the policy is public about EMF. followed. Mobile phones meet communication needs through the nearest base station by using radio frequency (RF) zones. When using mobile phones, the human body absorbs some Site Audits and Warning Signs of the RF zone. Although there is no definitive proof to convince experts that exposure to We perform periodic EMF controls and audits to make sure that operation procedures RF zones caused by base stations may have a negative impact on human health, some of implemented by our employees and suppliers in the base station sites are in conformity our stakeholders are concerned about this issue. The World Health Organization examined with our standards. Our site teams hold periodic audits and evaluates the conformity of thousands of scientific research studies and declared that a negative impact on health sites to EMF criteria. We placed warning signs and placards to inform about EMF around resulting from mobile phone usage has not been detected so far. all base stations, in locations that can be easily noticed by employees, suppliers and local communities. We will continue this practice in new stations to be built. We at Vodafone Turkey are the first mobile phone operator in Turkey with a corporate strategy, policy and plan on Electro Magnetic Fields (EMF). We manage the issue in Vodafone Group Site Audits coordination with a team of experts within our organization and we inform the public via In addition to the audits implemented by our internal teams, EMF issues are also our website. Our vision is to lead the sector in order to overcome public concerns related included to the audits conducted by Vodafone Group within the scope of Assessment of to mobile phones and base stations and encourage everyone by showing the pioneering Compliance with Policies. In this scope, EMF policies and site implementations, trainings applications on EMF. and communication are reviewed and policy compliance is audited. We have obtained full compliance from the latest audits and were included among the countries with full Among our pioneering EMF practices are providing training for employees and other compliance among the Group Companies. stakeholders, placing warning signs and placards to inform about EMF around our base stations, making site audits on EMF and conducting practices in order to increase public awareness. Limit Values The applications for the establishment of base stations, the processes, principles, EMF Trainings determination of local limit values under the international standards for EMF, establishment of stations in compliance with legislation, and the determination of At Vodafone, we aim to improve the capacity and awareness of our employees so that ways of EMF measurements after installation along with notifying BTK about the they are capable of providing general information on EMF when needed. Thus, our measurement results are all set by Information and Communication Technologies objective is to make each employee an EMF ambassador. With this aim, we continue to Authority (BTK) regulations. There are audit and enforcement mechanisms for the improve our one-to-one and e-trainings for employees. In 2016/17, we are planning to operation of base stations at determined limit values. improve EMF e-training with enhanced content and to provide this training to 50% of our employees. Limit values set in Turkey are considerably lower and prudent than those of the international standards that are set by ICNIRP*, which are recognized and supported by the World Health Organization. At Vodafone Turkey, we operate our base stations in In addition, in the 2015/16 fiscal year we have provided EMF training to more than 500 the standards set by BTK with the related legislation, with values which are more secure individuals, 87 of them being employees of suppliers and 396 new recruited employees than those determined internationally. of our company. At the same time, we provide applied training for our new recruits at group companies which also contain EMF information. Whether the individuals assigned on the field are our own employees or employees of Limit values applied and determined by ICNIRP (V/m) contractors; they can operate on the site only after taking VFTR RF Areas Health and Safety Risks Management Policy and the Working Procedure in RF Areas trainings. Germany 41.25 Spain 41.25 We Monitor the Developments with Our Global Holland 41.25 Experience Turkey 9.17 Vodafone Group Headquarters monitors the reports of all international agencies and *ICNIRP: International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection organizations related with EMF (GSMA, ICNIRP, ETSI, ITU, WHO) and shares the new developments with all EMF organizations, including those in Turkey. At Vodafone Turkey, World Health Organization, EMF factsheet we direct the necessary arrangement and information studies with this information we www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs193/en/index.html obtain from the Vodafone Group. ICNIRP: http://www.icnirp.org/en/applications/base-stations/index.html For more information www.vodafone.com.tr/VodafoneHakkinda/kurumsal_sorumluluk.php 25 Environment Environment With the aim of reducing environmental impact of our operations, we focus on consuming less energy, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, creating less waste and using natural resources more efficiently. Material Our Commitments Objectives for the Our Performance in the Objectives for the Issues 2015/16 Fiscal Year 2015/16 Fiscal Year 2016/17 Fiscal Year Greenhouse We will identify investment To implement top priority Through our energy efficiency practices To implement top priority gases and strategies and draw a projects to reduce emissions we reduced our energy consumption projects to reduce energy roadmap for reducing in line with our investment and greenhouse gas emissions per base emissions in line with our greenhouse gas emissions. strategy. station compared to last year. investment strategy. We will continue and expand To ensure the use of M2M We have implemented M2M solutions To ensure the use of base station applications solutions for remote control developed for emote control of energy M2M solutions for remote that enable higher energy of DC energy units in at least units in 367 sites. control of DC energy units efficiency and use renewable 200 sites. in at least 500 sites. energy. The number of sites that use 100% renewable energy (not attached to To increase the use of power grid) was nine. renewable energy on site. To increase the use of There are 66 wind turbines established renewable energy on site. to support the energy backup systems at base stations. We will continue to realize New target New target. 40% reduction of hourly the implementations consumption of the floor towards reducing the carbon with restaurant and other footprint of switching sites, social areas at General data centers and buildings. Directorate through mechanical devices and lighting fixtures. Natural We will continue to To continue WWF Turkey’s We have continued to implement the To continue with saving resources and implement projects for Green Office Program improvements we have determined at activities within the scope wastes efficient use of natural practices. our General Directorate building within of Green Office Program at resources and reducing the scope of Green Office Program. Kucukyali Digital Operation waste. We have continued with our Respect Center. the Environment program at our dealers with saving measures realized in selected dealers. We will continue organizing To reach more users through We have introduced the “Respect Green” To reach different users programs to raise awareness the “Respect Green” application at different platforms and with the “Respect Green” on nature among our application. reached to more than 10,000 people. application and continue employees and other increasing the awareness individuals within our To continue our We have contacted many of our of our stakeholders. ecosystem. ommunication practices stakeholders with our sustainability and increase awareness week communication efforts. in greater number of stakeholders at the annual Vodafone Sustainability Week. 26 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Environment Our Approach “Green Technology” Program in Base Stations Through the telecommunication technologies we offer, we help Base stations are the operations that cause the 80% of our energy our customers improve their energy efficiency and reduce their consumption and are therefore the highest level of greenhouse gas greenhouse gas emissions. We also implement various projects to emissions. Among the practices we adopt to improve energy efficiency reduce our own environmental footprint resulting from our operations. and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the “Green Technology” program We organize training programs and activities for our employees to raise that we launched in 2009 at our base stations is a prominent one. During awareness on nature and the protection of natural resources. In order the 2015/16 fiscal year we have intensified our investments on 4.5G to encourage our suppliers to reduce their environmental impacts, technology and we also continue with the utilization of energy efficient we prefer working with companies that have an environmental equipment and technology investments. management system certification. With the “Respect the Environment” smartphone mobile application launched in May 2014 and updated in During the 2015/16 fiscal year we continued to implement at our base 2015, we aim to raise awareness in our ecosystem. stations high-tech applications with considerable energy efficiency. We replaced 300 legacy air conditioners with new generation models. In Our Climate Change Strategy existing sites, we launched 100 natural ventilation systems and thus saved energy in air-conditioning. By sharing 878 base stations, we made It is a strongly accepted fact by scientists and politicians that significant savings with regards to costs related to installation, operation greenhouse gases resulting from fossil fuels such as coal, natural gas and energy consumption. and oil cause global climate change which we have witnessed in recent years. In order to take measures against this global problem, reduction In the 2015/16 fiscal year we provided uninterrupted communication of greenhouse gas emissions originating from our operations is among for our customers via nine base station sites that use 100% renewable our material issues. energy (that are not connected to the grid). Moreover, in addition with The focus of our climate strategy is the base stations that consist the electrical energy we procured from the grid, we have continued to almost 80% of our energy consumption and this is where we can make use the 66 wind turbines to meet partial energy needs at appropriate the most improvements. The energy consumption rate of switching base stations. sites and data centers is about 14%. Some of the strategies we have Within the scope of our energy control and management practices, we put into practice in order to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions are have continued to benefit from M2M solutions at sites. In the 2015/16 the investments we make on more efficient technologies, conducting fiscal year we integrated M2M technologies into 367 sites for remote research on innovative solutions that utilize renewable energy to control of generator and energy backup systems. This technology reduce energy consumption and the determination of measures to makes it possible to make remote field assessments, to monitor the reduce the greenhouse gas emissions originating from our vehicle fleet temperature on site and to provide the optimum cooling in accordance and air-conditioning systems. with the ambient temperature, monitoring and control of energy Energy Consumption and Greenhouse Gas Emissions backup units to use the energy efficiently. Besides, it also increases the operational efficiency as it eliminates the need to physically be on site. In accordance with our vision to lead the digital transformation of We will continue to increase the integration of M2M solutions and utilize Turkey, we continue to build new base stations, data centers and the contribution of technology on sustainability. switching sites. Total energy consumption and subsequent greenhouse gas emissions have been increasing throughout the years, in parallel with our increasing market share as a result of this development. At the same time, we continue to implement practices that will reduce the amount of greenhouse gases per base station which we emit due to energy consumption. The quantity of energy we consume based on location and the greenhouse gas emissions per “Scope” are provided in detail on page 55 of this report. When compared with the 2014/15 fiscal year, the energy consumption per base station has decreased by 13% in the 2015/16 fiscal year. As the greenhouse gas emission factor originating from electricity consumption has increased for the same period, the greenhouse gas emissions in the same period decreased only by 3%. (Note: Detailed information on the emissions factors published by TEIAS is provided on page 54 of this report.) The rate (%) of reduction in the energy use per base station in the “By utilizing M2M technologies, it helped us to have 2015/16 fiscal year compared to the 2014/15 fiscal year. significant gains in terms of energy efficiency and 0% operational efficiency via remote access”. 5% Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy in Switching Sites and Data Centres 10% Among our practices for improving energy efficiency in switching sites 13% and data centres are replacing DC power supplies with high-efficiency ones, replacing the old generation air conditioners with new generation 15% high efficiency ones and ensuring cooling optimization through technical analyses. For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 27 Environment In the 2015/16 fiscal year, we have made it possible for energy glass and metal packaging in our buildings. To reduce the amount of consumptions and infrastructure wiring at Esenyurt data centre waste materials and to ensure separate collection and recycling, we to be tracked easily. Thus, we have achieved efficiency in energy carry out awareness and incentive efforts and campaigns targeting our utilization and in manpower. Also, we have equipped the system employees. room at constructed and operated Vodafone Arena Smart Stadium with high efficiency sources of power and air conditioners. We have achieved a 5% increase in energy efficiency at Antalya switching site Recycling of office waste by renewing one direct current power source. In addition to this, with Between January 2008 and March 2016 we prevented a total of the the air conditioners we have renewed at Antalya and Ankara, we have estimated equivalent of 11,560 trees from being cut down by recycling achieved 20% energy saving when compared with former ones. 680 tons of waste paper used in our buildings. Energy Efficiency in Buildings In the 2015/16 fiscal year we continued to reduce the energy consumption in our buildings. Economic fixtures, LED lighting, highDaily energy need of 43,500 households performing devices and lighting automation systems that ensure maximum sunlight are among the reduction methods. In the 2014/15 fiscal year, Küçükyalı Digital Operations Centre building was designed and built in accordance with the platinum level requirements of LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental In addition, between July 2008 and March 2016 Design) certification. The Küçükyalı Centre is used 24/7, and its natural gas consumption is relatively small thanks to its high efficiency heating we saved energy equal to daily energy need of system. We continue with our never-ending quest for saving measures. 43,500 households by recycling plastics in waste For the 2016/17 fiscal year, we are planning to apply light intensity collection boxes. adjuster to all lighting units in order to increase the comfort and energy efficiency of the Küçükyali center. Also at the year of 2016/17, an approximately 50% reduction of hourly consumption of the floor with restaurant and other social areas at General Directorate through mechanical devices and lighting fixtures will be achieved. This floor also contains a restaurant, a gym, and meeting rooms which make the energy consumption on this floor higher than others. In the 2015/16 fiscal year we expanded our building portfolio and included the Taksim Academy building and the Gaziantep building in our portfolio, and we have moved into a building with more surface area in Adapazarı. In spite of the increase in spaces, we continue to reduce the electricity consumption at our offices. The reason for this is the importance we give for energy efficiency in buildings operated. For example, we utilize LED lighting applications in all new buildings. 19 tons of waste paper When choosing the location of the Taksim Akademi building, we included our total environmental impact that contains criteria such as access to public transport into our assessment. By doing this, we have achieved energy saving equal to the monthly consumption of 14 fourperson household. In the 2015/16 fiscal year we prevented the Environmentally-friendly Fleet Management estimated equivalent of 319 trees from being cut Within the scope of our environmental fleet management approach, down by recycling 19 tons of waste paper. our fleet consists of diesel vehicles. This allows us to maintain the level of reduction in energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions per vehicle. For example, although the number of vehicles increased 8% Waste from Our Network Operations compared to the previous year, our fuel consumption increased only In line with the innovations and technological needs in 2%. Vehicle monitoring systems and training on economical driving telecommunication technologies, we replaced the devices in our also contributed to fuel saving. base stations with more energy efficient ones and with superior technological features. Our priority in the aforementioned replacement Natural Resource and Waste Management is to sell old devices on the second hand market if possible, and make them available for use in different technical infrastructure systems. One of the issues we focus on in terms of mitigating our impact on When this is not possible, we recycle these devices in accordance with the environment is generating less waste and using fewer natural laws and international directives. resources. Our priority for the management of waste generated during our activities is to reduce the amount of waste and to separate the Within the scope of our waste management system, 1,536 tons of waste in its source and recycle. waste materials from network operations have been collected in the 2015/16 fiscal year. A total of 9,118 tons of network waste materials Office Waste have been collected between July 2007 and March 2016 and 99% was The main waste produced by our offices and call centres are cartridges, recycled by recycling companies. paper, packaging materials and electronic devices. In order to collect “99% of our waste materials from network operations are recycled by waste separately, we have waste collection boxes for paper, plastic, certified recycling companies.” 28 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Environment Invoice Based Paper Consumption and Recycling WWF-Turkey Green Office Program A great portion of our paper consumption originates from monthly In the 2015/16 fiscal year, we continued with the implementation of invoices sent to our customers. the WWF-Turkey Green Office Program, initiated four years ago with Vodafone Maslak Plaza, the first green office of Turkey. In addition with Waste Invoice the first Green Office of Turkey, Maslak Office, we have launched the In the 2015/16 fiscal year, we donated to the TEMA Foundation work to turn Küçükyalı Digital Operations centre into a Green Office approximately 43.77 tons of waste paper. In other words, 1.7 million and we continue to take saving measures with the participation of our invoices were returned to us due various reasons including wrong voluntary employees and under the direction of WWF-Turkey. addresses, unclear addresses or address changes. Thus, we have saved 744 trees from being cut down. In cooperation with WWF-Turkey, we have continued with our work according to the roadmap for the “Green Stores” Program for the 10 E-invoice selected pilot Vodafone-branded stores in the 2015/16 fiscal year. We Since April 2010, we have been encouraging our customers through implemented the applications listed below in our project where we campaigns to use e-invoices, which have legal validity, instead of focused on energy, natural resources and recycling: printed invoices. The ratio of the post-paid customers that prefer e-bills • In addition to replacing spotlights with LEDs we also started using has increased by 15% compared to last year and reached 79%. As a LED screens instead of store window tags on the implementations result of our e-invoice program, we prevented the use of 1.33 million we did in pilot stores. Contents of LED screens behind the counters tons of paper in the 2015/16 fiscal year and saved approximately are now updated online, instead of using CDs. 22,599 trees from being cut down. • Used plastic bags that are made from recycled material and installed wastebaskets to collect sorted waste. • Instead of using print materials for Vodafone campaigns, we created the “Try Me” mobile application. Information on tariffs and packages are also being given through this mobile application, not on printed brochures. In addition, our stores have started to actively encourage customers to prefer e-invoice instead of paper ones. • We have ensured that the personnel employed at pilot stores receive e-learning on sustainability. Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Week In order to contribute to increasing awareness on environmental issues and within the scope of our sustainability approach, we have been celebrating a week in May as “Vodafone Sustainability Week” since 2013. Sustainability Week aims to increase awareness of all “Thanks to the waste invoice recycling and stakeholders, mainly employees, and is the first of its kind in the e-invoice programs, we donated to TEMA Vodafone Group. Within the scope of sustainability week, we aim to raise the awareness among our employees on sustainability with Foundation 43.77 tons of paper and we prevented various activities and we share our understanding of sustainability at the use of 1.33 million tons of paper, saving the conferences and meetings we attend. approximately 23,343 trees from being cut down.” Red Respecting Green We have developed the Red Respecting Water Consumption Green Manifesto in order to preserve the Even though the amount of water used in our buildings is not substantial, natural resources within the scope of our we regularly monitor water consumption data and implement several Red Respecting Green understanding and conservation efforts. For instance, we will get an additional water tan to in order to encourage our stakeholders be constructed at Küçükyalı Operations Centre and save approximately about this. With the manifest we share on 20 tons of water. the Vodafone website within the scope of our “Red Respecting Green” approach, we provide information on The reason of the increase in water consumption compared to the measures on waste reduction, recycling, energy efficiency, water and previous fiscal year is the increase in the number of personnel and the paper use, and environmental-friendly ways of living. dry summer. Believing that the most fundamental step in sustainability is creating Water 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 awareness among our stakeholders, we transferred our approach to Consumption Fiscal Year Fiscal Year Fiscal Year Fiscal Year sustainability to the mobile world. We launched the first version of “Respect Green” mobile application in 2014 for the utilization of our (m3) 36,837 35,627 42,607 48,190 stakeholders and through this carried sustainability into the pockets of users. In 2015/16 fiscal year we further developed the contents Practices Towards Stakeholders of Respect Green with the aim to increase the awareness of users on environmental issues. Önceliğimiz olan “doğal kaynakların verimli kullanılması” hedefimiz doğrultusunda bir yandan faaliyetlerimizden kaynaklanan çevresel ayak izini azaltmak için çaba gösterirken, diğer yandan bayiler, çalışanlarımız ve müşterilerimizin de doğal kaynakların verimli kullanılması ve korunması konusunda farkındalıklarını artırmaya yönelik çeşitli uygulamaları hayata geçiriyoruz. For more information www.vodafone.com.tr/VodafoneHakkinda/yesilesaygi/index.php 29 Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety The fact that we are acknowledged both in Turkey and within the Vodafone Group as an example with our health and safety practices further encourages our commitment and continuous effort. Our Commitments Objectives for the Our Performance in the Objectives for the 2015/16 Fiscal Year 2015/16 Fiscal Year 2016/17 Fiscal Year We will continue our operations in To successfully complete ISO 39001 We have successfully completed the To successfully complete the system accordance with ISO 39001 Road Traffic Road Traffic Safety Management System certification interim audit. audits conducted by Vodafone Group Safety Management System standards. Certification interim audits. auditors on driving safety for contractor. We will ensure that the practices in To carry out excavations with a zero No severe injuries were experienced in any To contribute for social awareness with ever-accelerating fiber optic projects are accident rate. accidents by Vodafone employees. occupational safety program for SMEs. performed in line with Vodafone Health and Safety (OHS) procedures. We will improve our OHS reporting To monitor the Annual Health and safety Annual occupational health and safety plan To obtain the “Mature” score, the highest system. Plan through the Safeguard Program. was monitored by the Vodafone Group. degree in the assessment against the Vodafone Group’s Occupational Health and Safety Management System (Maturity Matrix). We will continue to work on reducing To reduce our accident frequency rate. We have reduced our accident frequency To reduce our accident frequency rate. occupational accidents. rate.* By sharing our health and safety knowTo increase public awareness, to inform We have reached to approximately 3,220 To increase public awareness, to inform how and experience with different thousands of people who are not within people through the congresses, seminars thousands of people who are not within sections of the society, we will contribute our operation areas on occupational and similar events we attended. our operation areas on occupational to reducing the number of preventable safety. safety. accidents. * Data on accident frequency rate is provided on page 32. We Work for the Development of Occupational Our investments in health and safety since 2009 help prevent interruption of business processes due to potential accidents, reduce Health and Safety Culture in Turkey the number of lost days at work, and help us work with a more At Vodafone Turkey, we believe that occupational health and safety qualified labour force. The strategies we use help the reduction of lost is a social value and we shape our works according to this vision. We workdays and provides a chance for us to work with more qualified implement different practices and projects in order to raise awareness workforce. in all segments of society, not only our own ecosystem. We continue to lead the telecommunications sector in Turkey with the Vodafone Occupational Health and Safety Culture we have established. We are proud to be acknowledged both in Turkey and within the Vodafone Group as a company that sets an example with its health and safety practices. We Protect 40,000 People from the Risks of Occupational Health and Safety in Turkey The nature of telecommunication industry presents some risks such as working at height, electricity works, excavation works, traffic risks, etc. In order to avoid such risks, we ensure that necessary measures are taken within the framework of Vodafone Health and Safety Absolute Rules, including our ecosystem covering 40,000 people. 7 Absolute Rules applied by Vodafone under any condition in the world vary between putting on a seat belt in vehicles and to the utilization of fall prevention system while working at height. 30 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Occupational Health and Safety people about all our ecosystems, the 7 Absolute Rules, through these I am Safe with 7 Absolute Rules! platforms. • Always wear your seatbelts when driving a vehicle or on any We Provide E-Learning for our Employees seat during the trip! Through the e-learning we prepared in a way to execute the changes • Never use alcohol and drugs that restrict movement and in the occupational health and safety law, we presented occupational perception in the workplace and while driving a vehicle! If safety to all of our employees in an entertaining way. We launched the your routine medication has side effects such as sleepiness or e-learning in June 2015 and it contains the daily occupational safety numbness, do not drive any vehicles! risks our character in the story faces. By doing this, we ensure that • Never exceed speed limits on business trips and while driving! employees are informed about the possible risks that may be faced at Travel with appropriate speed in compliance with the rules and home and the workplace during daily life. 2,939 employees completed according to road conditions and the vehicle! the training in a year. • Never use a mobile phone while driving! If you absolutely must use it, do so after pulling the vehicle over or with hands free Senior Executives Lead devices! The influence of health, safety and wellbeing is in direct proportion • Always wear a safety to the value attached to the issue by senior executive levels. Thanks belt when working to the support of our senior executives, all of our employees adopted at heights, use fall occupational safety issues as their own responsibility. Between January protection system 2010 and March 2016 our CEO and Deputy CEOs visited sites and (life-line) and take all made 70 occupational safety evaluations. necessary measures! Our CEO and senior executives reporting directly to the CEO perform • Unless you are site visits every three months to check on health, safety and wellbeing. competent or Within the scope of our global health, safety and wellbeing system, this an expert, never target is set for each senior executive. The realization of these targets are conduct electrical entered into the system every three months and monitored regularly. work or interfere with In addition, visits of our CEO and senior executives, as well as their electrical systems! messages on health, safety and wellbeing are shared with internal and • Never undertake any external stakeholders via social media channels. street or underground work activities unless We Inform the Families of our Employees authorized! We believe in the importance of creating awareness on occupational health and safety not only in employees, but also in employee families. Families can warn employees about occupational health and safety in their Social Occupational Safety Awareness social lives and as awareness rises in families, accidents can be prevented more effectively. Thus, we sent letters to the families of our contractors’ We Share Information with Professionals employees to emphasize the importance of health and safety and we As in last year, this year we have sponsored the People Management received positive feedback from families Congress organized by the Human Resources Management Association of Turkey (PERYÖN) in November 2015 in İstanbul, and we We Implement Awareness Practices for Children had the opportunity to share our experiences with human resources The habits obtained at younger ages are more permanent and children professionals under the session named The Occupational Safety usually transmit the information they gain to their families. Thus, we Code in our DNA . Throughout the Congress, we conducted interviews think that a perception on occupational safety should be established on occupational health and safety with many human resources at a young age. For this reason, we implement occupational safety professionals. Thus, we had the opportunity to inform approximately awareness studies at schools and include our contractors. In the 820 people on the occupational safety practices of Vodafone. 2015/16 fiscal year, we have implemented occupational safety events at four schools in İstanbul, Ankara, Kayseri and Trabzon. Also, we have We are Aware of the Importance of SMEs reached to nine different cities in different regions of Turkey through We are aware of the importance of SMEs on occupational health and activities such as occupational safety trainings, plays and meeting the safety, as they constitute 99% of total businesses, 78% of employment civil defense and first aid equipment needs at schools. and 54% of production in Turkey. With this perception, we have launched a cooperative action with PERYÖN for the needs of SMEs in We Promote Safe Driving occupational health and safety. Within this scope, we are planning to We have various company vehicles due to the nature of our business shed light on various issues for SMEs with the seminars we will conduct and road traffic safety is therefore very important for us. We operate at three different cities in the second half of 2016. different applications on this issue annually and aim to prevent all the accidents that may occur in the road conditions of Turkey. Thanks We aim to increase awareness and provide accurate information with to safe driving assessments we launched in April 2015, the users of the help of occupational health and safety guide we have developed for company vehicle can only obtain the vehicle after they get a passing SMEs together with Sustainable Development Association's Occupational score. In the last fiscal year, 138 people have participated in safe Health and Safety Workgroup. driving assessments and those with vehicle driving competency have We Celebrate April 28 – World Day for Safety and Health received the compliance approval for delivery of company vehicles. In the 2015/16 fiscal year, as in the years before, we created In addition to this, we attended a three-day long Commercial awareness through a variety of activities on the World Day for Safety Operations Summit in December 2015 with the participation of all and Health. We have prepared messages on occupational health and commercial operation department employees and presented our safety by occupational health videos in which Vice Executive Board safe driving simulators and presentations for the dissemination of Chairs and Directors were also involved and we shared those with occupational health and safety culture. Approximately 700 people have our employees through the Intranet. We have thereby reminded received training on traffic risks with safe drive simulators. For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 31 Occupational Health and Safety The system includes steps such as work safety assessment of contractor before tender, compulsory Vodafone occupational safety trainings, training intuitions accredited by Vodafone, effective occupational safety teams, occupational safety audits on sites, and making occupational safety an integral part of our contracts. Achievements 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2009 in Contractor Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal March 2016 Occupational Safety Year Year Year (Total) Management System Number of contractors 59 102 47 714 assessed in terms of occupational safety Total hour of occupational 56,000 73,340 123,847 817,187 safety trainings in topics such as working at heights, safe driving, basic occupational safety, safe working in We Have Various Awards on Occupational Health electrical works (Vodafone and contractor employees) and Safety Number of occupational safety 807 1,066 1,350 8,422 With the healthy living programs and other human resources audits on base station sites applications we implement towards our employees, Vodafone Turkey was selected as the best employer brand of Turkey and we were awarded in the 2011 DuPont Occupational Health and Safety, 2013 Safest Fleet and 2014 British Safety Council Occupational Health Vehicle Tracking and Safety categories. With these applications, we were given the Another practice within the contractor management system was the awards of Occupational Health and Safety Innovation (2014) and vehicle monitoring cameras mounted to 867 vehicles starting from July the Best Sustainable Occupational Health and Safety (2015) among 2014. With the cameras mounted on approximately 100% of contractor the Vodafone Group companies. Also, we were given the congress vehicles, we aim to encourage drivers to drive more safely. As an addition to award of the Ministry of Employment for our contribution to the 8th the vehicle tracking system, this practice is also a pioneering one in Turkey. International Occupational Health and Safety Conference in May 2016. Another work we have done is safe driving supervision application where employees drive together with their managers and the importance of the Contractor Management System issue is emphasized by managers. We have created a significant level of awareness among the employees of contractors by conducting 3,558 With our “Contractor Occupational Safety Management System”, safe driving supervisions between April 2015March 2016. we have been ensuring that every individual within our ecosystem performs his/her job safely, establishing high health and safety In addition to this, we have provided 1,014 hours of safe driving training standards since 2008. Through this system, we have increased the via our occupational safety experts to 676 persons in three months in level of awareness in the sector by improving the knowledge and skills order to raise the awareness of sales channels employees about the of our contractors in the field of occupational health and safety. traffic risks. Our Occupational Health and Safety Performance Major and High Potential Accidents Within the Vodafone ecosystem that covers our employees as well as the employees of our contractors, frequency rates of major accidents in the last three years have been falling as can be seen on the graph below. Accident Frequency Rate 9 8 7 6 2010-2011 2011-2012 5 2012-2013 2013-2014 4 2014-2015 2015-2016 3 2 1 0 November March July November March July November March July November March July November March July November March July November March 2009 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 2012 2012 2012 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2016 Note: Accident Frequency Rate = (Total Number of Accidents / Total Working Hours) x 1,000 32 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Occupational Health and Safety The target for frequency of high-potential accidents for Vodafone employees was 1.8 for the 2015/16 fiscal year, yet we managed to reduce this rate to 0.28 as of the end of year. In the one serious accident that took place in 2015/16 fiscal year, no personnel was injured. (Accident Frequency Rate related to Vodafone employees is calculated based on the following formula that is used throughout Vodafone Group = (Total Number of Accidents / Total Working Hours) x 100. The formula we used in order to generate the graphic on the previous page is calculated by using an independent and different formula within the system we included the contractors.) Contractor Performance We implement serious financial and/or administrative sanctions on contractors that are proven to fail to reflect the promised occupational safety management system upon the site. Companies that do not correct their non-compliance are excluded from the Vodafone Turkey ecosystem. Next to this, within the framework of the rewarding system we launched in the 2014/15 fiscal year, our contractors with the best occupational safety practices were rewarded. The grapghic below shows the total number of OHS violations by contractors. Number of violations has been mostly falling year on year. Factors such as seasonal conditions, changes in companies and adaptation of new companies to the system may cause fluctuations in the number of violations. Number of OHS Violations by Contractors 250 200 150 100 50 0 September 2010 November 2010 January 2011 March 2011 May 2011 July 2011 September 2011 November 2011 January 2012 March 2012 May 2012 July 2012 September 2012 November 2012 January 2013 March 2013 May 2013 July 2013 September 2013 November 2013 January 2014 March 2014 May 2014 July 2014 September 2014 November 2014 January 2015 March 2015 May 2015 July 2015 September 2015 November 2015 January 2016 March 2016 Vodafone Employee Survey Safe Work, Healthy Employees The replies of our employees to the annual People Survey organized In addition to improving wellbeing level in our offices and sites, we also by Vodafone Group are the greatest indication of their satisfaction. continued to make our employees and their families healthier through For instance, in the 2014 survey, 95% of our employees stated that healthy life projects we devise in the new fiscal year. In May 2016, we occupational health and safety is a very important area at Vodafone. In will launch “the Corporate Athlete” program which will contribute our 2015, our People Survey score was 96%. This trend is also an indicator employees to manage their energy in a better way. that our employees have adopted the issue of occupational health and Some of the projects we implemented in the 2015/16 fiscal year are: safety. • 13 on-site physicians in our health units throughout Turkey were visited for a total of 27,777 times for polyclinic services. 7 Absolute Rules are very important at Vodafone. • With the “Cigarette-Free Life for Health” Program, we offer support to cigarette addicts among our employees to help them quit under the supervision of our on-site physicians. As an incentive, we reward VFTR 2012 91 employees who quit smoking with points that can be used for shopping. With the program launched in January 2013, a total of 469 employees volunteered to quit smoking. VFTR 2013 93 • Thanks to Healthy Life Program, we support employees who want to lose weight. Since January 2013, 745 employees volunteered to lose weight with this Program under the supervision of our on-site VFTR 2014 95 physicians. • Vodafone Wellbeing Challenge Sports Contest encourages employees VFTR 2015 96 to exercise. During the 1-month event organized by Vodafone Group in all Vodafone countries, the country with the highest level of exercise wins the challenge and the winners are rewarded. For instance, a 0 20 40 60 80 100 donation is made to the Vodafone Foundation for each employee who ran 100 km in a month. In addition to the Wellbeing Challenge, we also sponsored various sports events such as Vodafone Arena, Vodafone Istanbul Marathon and Semi-Marathon and we will continue to do so. • We inform our employees via seminars on different issues such as Ergonomics and the Kravmaga Art of Defense. For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 33 Our People Our People With the aim of creating a high performance corporate culture, we provide opportunities to our employees to become customer oriented, assertive, competitive, innovative and act in line the principles of “speed”, “simplicity” and “trust” while preserving their local roots. Material Our Commitments Objectives for the Our Performance in the Objectives for the Issues 2015/16 Fiscal Year 2015/16 Fiscal Year 2016/17 Fiscal Year Diversity and We will become a workplace that To take initiatives to increase the ratio of The ratio of female employees in our To take initiatives to increase the ratio of Inclusion sets an example with its “sensitivity female employees to over 40%. company was 41.8%. female employees to over 40%. towards gender equality”. To make the female/male ratio of new The female/male ratio of new employees To make the female/male ratio of new employees from Discover Young Talent from Discover Young Talent was 51%. employees from 50%. Discover Young Talent 50%. To encourage online participation of senior E-learning content was prepared. In To encourage online participation of senior executives in the accordance with material issues, we aim executives in the Diversity and Inclusion trainings. to bring the training to the Executive Team Diversity and Inclusion trainings. in 2016/17. Talent We will continue to support To employ 40 newly-graduates through 39 young talents have joined us in July To employ 40 newly-graduates through Management employing people with high Discover Young Talent program in 2015. 2015 through the Discover Young Talents the Discover Young Talent program in July potential, identifying high-potential program. 2016. employees and preparing them for leadership roles. Through the Global Columbus program, Through this program, 2 young talents Through the Global Columbus program, to help 2 Vodafone Turkey Discover were assigned at Vodafone companies to help 2 Vodafone Turkey Discover participants gain global experience in in different countries for two years. One participants gain global experience at Vodafone companies in other countries young talent has started to work at Vodafone companies in other countries and and also host 2 Discover participants from Vodafone Turkey for two years. also host 2 Discover participants from other other Vodafone countries in Vodafone Vodafone countries at Vodafone Turkey. Turkey. Employee We will continue to maintain To maintain Employee Loyalty Index Our Employee Loyalty Index score was 81. To maintain Employee Loyalty Index score Satisfaction employee loyalty and to encourage score at 80. at 80. them to be brand ambassadors that recommend Vodafone products and To reach 72 points at Employee Net Our Employee Net Promoter Score was 77. To reach 77 points at Employee Net services. Promoter Score. Promoter Score. Training Through the Vodafone Red Academy To support 20 executives through team We have provided coaching support for To support 30 executives through team and career and in line with our strategy, targets, coaching within the scope of Vodafone 28 executives within the scope of the coaching within the scope of the Vodafone development and material issues, we will create a Turkey Corporate Management Management Coaching program. Turkey Corporate Management Coaching high-performing organization that is Coaching program. program. open to learning by designing and developing improvement programs. Within the scope of Vodafone Turkey Our mentor-mentee pool covered 155 To open up a new mentor workshop Corporate Mentoring program, to employees. every three months and to ensure that expand our mentor-mentee pool and the number of mentees in the Corporate include 140 employees into the program. Mentoring Program pool is not below 150. To include 300 store managers at the 324 store managers have participated in To include 995 store managers in the Assessment Centre. To include 3,500 our Assessment Centre that we manage Vodafone Perfect Customer Experience sales representatives into the newlythrough our internal sources and 3,800 Accreditation program. To provide Vodafone established Online Development Centre. sales representatives have attended the Retail Sales Channels training for 665 sales To provide the “Vodafone Way of Retail” online Development Centre program representatives. To assess 3,750 store training to a total of 2,000 people. offered by Vodafone Group. In accordance employees online. with the goal, 845 sales representatives have participated to the Vodafone Retail Sales Channels training throughout the year. To reach 65% of our employees through We reached 62% of our employees who To reach 90% of our employees through the the Red Code Training Catalogue, which made an application via Red Code. “Red Code” Training Catalogue, which helps helps employees personally employees personally choose the trainings choose the training they will receive. they will take. To reach 150 people more through We reached 265 people more through To continue with “Transformation Vodafone United team coaching the Vodafone United team coaching Leadership sessions on a monthly basis. programs. To enrich the program through programs. To organize Transformation Leadership new applications and ensure that it Power Session for our functions requesting is implemented in different Vodafone support through our Transformation countries. Leadership Ambassadors. To design internal trainings in order to extend the culture of Innovation and Curiosity among our employees and to organize trainings in every two months. To launch the Corporate Athlete program and to provide this training to 1,000 Vodafone employees. We will continue to materialize Through our approach to using inter65% of the positions within the fiscal year Through our approach to using interthe career developments of our corporate means for new recruitment, were filled by our employees. corporate means for new recruitment, employees and offer them various keeping our promotion and intra-transfer keeping our promotion and intra-transfer career opportunities. above 60%. above 65%. 34 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Our People “Vodafone Way” Principles As we work towards our vision of becoming the most trusted and preferred communication brand by delivering absolute customer satisfaction, we are guided by a set of principles of corporate culture called the “Vodafone Way”. Representing a relevant and concrete reference point for all our people, these principles guide the way we work together and deal with the customers to achieve successful results. Customer Obsessed Inovation Hungry We are passionate about wxceeding customer expectations We create and deliver new products, services and ways of working that delight our customers Ambitious & Competitive One Company, Local Roots İşimizi enerji ve tutkuyla yapar, her zaman rakiplerimizi We work across Vodafone to achieve the best outcome for customers, geçmeyi hedefleriz employees and shareholders Speed Simplicity Trust Be an Admired Leader Our Human Resources Policy be an excellent company that is customer oriented, that employs only the best talent and that believes in the strategic importance of executive Priorities in Our Human Resources Policy are as follows: and leadership development and team spirit. • To create a customer-focused organizational culture whereby we can In line with our Diversity and Inclusion Policy, we value and celebrate “anticipate the requirements of our customers; have made innovation diversity during selection, recruitment, performance assessment and an integral part of the way we do business by putting ourselves into the promotion processes. shoes of our customers; and make a difference through ownership and commitment”, Demographic Information on Employees • To meet our employee requirements in the most efficient manner, to Our employees at Vodafone Turkey have the adequate information and enable employees manage their own future careers through internal experience level appropriate with the expectations of our sector. As of the performance and talent management, to give priority to employees end of 2015/16 fiscal year, we have 3,365 permanent staff. 42% of our through internal career opportunities, and to train professionals who will permanent staff is female and 55% is between the ages 30-40. In addition lead the mobile data revolution in Turkey, to our permanent employees, we receive support from various suppliers, • To create an organizational culture of constant learning and teaching. To especially for call centres and technology services. Number of Employees by Staff Category 2013/14 Fiscal Year 2014/15 Fiscal Year 2015/16 Fiscal Year Senior Management 44 44 49 Middle Management 496 554 623 Other (Senior Expert, Expert, etc.) 2,663 2,699 2,693 Total 3,203 3,297 3,365 Note: The number of employees is given as of 31 March, which is the last day of our fiscal year. Number of Employees by Region 2013/14 Fiscal Year 2014/15 Fiscal Year 2015/16 Fiscal Year Headquarters (İstanbul) 983 1,081 1,136 Call Centre (İstanbul, Ankara) 923 992 971 Other* 1,297 1,224 1,258 Total 3,203 3,297 3,365 Note: The number of employees is given as of 31 March, which is the last day of our fiscal year. * Other: Covers employees who mainly work in technology and sales in regional centres in 12 cities, including Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, Adana, Antalya, Bursa, Diyarbakır, Erzurum, Kayseri, Sakarya, Samsun, and Gaziantep. Age Distribution by 2013/14 Fiscal Year 2014/15 Fiscal Year 2015/16 Fiscal Year Staff Category (%) Under 30 Between 30-40 Between 40-50 Over the Under 30 Between 30-40 Between 40-50 Over the Under 30 Between 30-40 Between 40-50 Over the years of age years of age years of age age of 50 years of age years of age years of age age of 50 years of age years of age years of age age of 50 Senior Management 0 44 51 5 0 32 61 7 0 22 71 6 Middle Management 2 73 24 1 1 71 27 1 2 67 30 1 Other 35 58 7 0 34 55 11 0 34 53 12 0 Total Average (%) 29 59 11 1 28 57 14 1 28 55 17 1 Note: The number of employees is given as of 31 March, which is the last day of our fiscal year. For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 35 Ratio of female employees in our Company is 42%, above 23.2%, which is the average in telecommunications sector. We have increased the ratio of women at the middle level by 2% when compared with the previous year and reached 30%. Within the scope of occupational and personal development, we have reached our employees with 554 various class training sessions and 560 various e-learning contents in a year. Our People Diversity and Inclusion While the ratio of women working in the telecommunications sector is 23.2%, this ratio is 42% at Vodafone Turkey. Although this figure is a The Diversity and Inclusion Department was established in 2012 and positive performance indicator, we are committed to increase it further it works to offer equal opportunities for all employees and create a and to employ more women in our executive staff. In the 2015/16 rich and productive work environment built on diversity. Our human fiscal year, we have increased the ratio of women at the middle level by resources policy is based upon the principles of diversity and inclusion 2% compared to the previous year and reached to 30%. and the human resources processes we implement in accordance with this policy helps us to perform above the average of our industry. With our vision of providing equal opportunities to women and men within our corporate culture, in 2012 we became the first In this regard: telecommunications company to receive the “Equal Opportunities • Believing that differences create value, we are committed to turn Certificate (FEM)” and our works in this area are increasingly continued. our diversity into benefits for our customers, employees, business In addition, the Great Place to Work Institute awarded us the “Diversity partners and the society. Special Award” in 2014 and the “Inter-Generational Collaboration • In recruitment and promotion processes we are committed to Special Award” in 2015. We have renewed our commitment by selecting competent people with qualifications required for the becoming a signatory of the Women’s Empowerment Principles position, regardless of their gender, age, race, ethnic background, (WEPs) initiative of United Nations in September 2015. We have shared physical strength, opinions, religion, or social status. the women-centered practices and their results at the panel named • We contribute to the inclusion of women in the labour force and “WEPs World Tour: Actions and Achievements” at Vodafone Turkey at equal opportunity not only with our human resources policy, but the event named Women Empowerment Principles held in New York also our social investments. between March 15-16. In order to promote “diversity and inclusion” across the company, we are providing “Diversity and Inclusion” training to all executive staff, mainly to our team leaders. We implemented a mentoring program within our Technology function, which has the least number of female executives. Female employees within the mentor and mentee pool that was created in line with the criteria identified before the program are matched. We train mentors and mentees on how to better manage the mentoring process and how to focus on the development targets of the mentee. The program has been recognized as an exemplary initiative across the Vodafone Group and promoted as “the best in class program” among 22 Vodafone countries. We are planning to implement a new development plan in the following period. The program aims to generate a transformative learning experience for the individual and career developments of our female employees at different levels of their careers. The program will include various development activities such as seminars, workshops, trainings, coaching and mentoring and we will give priority to our female employees in the fields of sales and technology. Women involvement in business and equal opportunities With reference to the focus of Vodafone Group on diversity and Priorities in our diversity and inclusion agenda are shaped largely inclusion, we also focus on the gender equality of team members that by the social and economic conditions of our country as well as the implement the large scale transformation projects within our company. expectations of our industry. Women involvement in business and Within this scope, we aim to increase the ratio of women in project equal opportunities are the two top priorities. Therefore, we have teams to higher than 30%. embedded the employment of women into our corporate culture. We at Vodafone believe that achieving equality in social life and In line with our diversity and inclusion targets, we offer equal consequently increasing female employment should be considered opportunities to women in new recruitments. The tables below part of a “smart economy model”. summarize the results we achieved in this respect. Gender Distribution of New Recruits (%) 2013/14 Fiscal Year 2014/15 Fiscal Year 2015/16 Fiscal Year Male 58 50 51 Female 42 50 49 Gender Distribution by Staff Category (%) 2013/14 Fiscal Year 2014/15 Fiscal Year 2015/16 Fiscal Year Male Female Male Female Male Female Senior Management 68 32 66 34 67 33 Middle Management 73 27 72 28 70 30 Other 57 43 55 45 55 45 Total Average (%) 59 41 58 42 58 42 For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 37 Our People Selection and Placement Performance Management Without compromising the goal of employing the best talents at The main objective of Vodafone Performance Management is to Vodafone, we use a careful and meticulous selection and placement contribute to build a “high-performing culture”. In our company process with the help of expert talent acquisition consultants. there is a four-stage performance dialogue cycle. At the beginning Considering that “every candidate is a potential customer”, we request of each fiscal year, we set our employees’ annual individual targets all candidates fill out a survey after the interviews (whether positively and development plans. Then we record their progress against the concluded or not) and we take actions based upon the feedback. goals and plans. We evaluate individual achievements at the end of each year according to the goals and key performance indicators. In We give priority to employees when filling vacant roles at Vodafone the final stage of the cycle, as required for a fair awarding system, we and continue to develop our future leaders from within. Thanks to this conduct performance assessments and determine our employees’ road map, 66% of job openings in the 2015/16 fiscal year were filled remuneration based on their results. Outcomes of the performance by internal candidates. We have achieved a four point increase in this management process provide input for other critical human resources field when compared with the previous fiscal year and we continued processes such as training and development, talent management, to support the career development of our employees by offering them remuneration management and awarding, and career management. various solutions. 91% The percentage of our employees proud to be employed at Vodafone is 91%. Employee Engagement Index and Employee Net Promoter’s Score Through a regular “People Survey” conducted every year in Vodafone Group, we do a pulse check of our current working climate. The results of the survey questions which are answered anonymously are used to measure the engagement of Vodafone employees, to find ways to improve this engagement, and to evaluate the performance of managers. According to the 2015 survey, our employee loyalty index score was 81%. At the same time, the “Employee Net Promoter’s Score”, which measures the extent to which our employees recommend Vodafone products and services, increased 6 points compared to In parallel with our goal of becoming a “Leader of Digital the previous year. The percentage of our employees proud to be Transformation”, we have continued to implement video interviews employed at Vodafone is 91%. for the Discover Young Talent selection and placement processes in 2015/16 fiscal year in order to help our candidates to have a perfect Also, questions about being customer oriented that were included candidate experience, to speed up our processes and to implement in 2015 survey were evaluated under a separate index called digital transformation in our selection and placement processes. “Customer Index”. Our score for “having the right strategy to gain According to his, we have conducted video interviews with 2,500 in the market,” which indicates the faith of our employees to candidates and had them experience a digital recruiting process. company strategies, was raised 3 points compared with last year, reaching 88. We continue to regularly provide information about our processes as part of our goal to provide the candidates with a perfect recruitment experience. We personally return to more than 90% of the applications made through the career portal named “Kariyer.net” from which we Talent Management receive more than 200,000 applications annually. In this direction, Our talent management strategy starts with employing professionals we have been awarded with 2015 “Respect to Humanity” by Kariyer. with high potential at Vodafone and continues with identifying talented net and became the single operator awarded with this in the employees, facilitating their development and preparing them for telecommunications sector. leadership positions. We attach great importance to talent management to make sure that we continue to achieve our business objectives and develop our 200,000 future leaders internally. As a global process within Vodafone Group, Development Boards are critical for creating a corporate culture in which high-performance and talent is recognized and developed for leadership roles. At Development Boards, we review the professional We personally return to more than 90% of the development of employees at executive levels and identify highapplications made through the career portal named performing and high-potential employees. We consider the personal development needs of these individuals and assess their participation “Kariyer.net” from which we receive more than in global talent programs. 200,000 applications annually. 38 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Our People Vodafone Global Talent Programs who join the Vodafone family as a Discoverer can participate in the program. We provide some of our high performing employees the Vodafone Group has two long-term development programs designed for opportunity to get 2 years' experience in one of Vodafone’s companies executives who make a difference with their performances and potential abroad. This year, two employees who had previously attended Vodafone and is realized in parallel with the talent management processes. In order through the Discover program had the opportunity to work abroad. In to be qualified for the program, candidates should be nominated by the same way, we transferred two young talents to our company from the Vodafone Turkey leadership team, they should have no restrictions Vodafone Germany. By the end of the 2015/16 fiscal year, 20 young for international work and should be successful at the measurements talents participated in the Global Columbus Talent Exchange program. realized by an external consultancy company during the global selection process. Participants who are qualified to join the Inspire and Excellence Women in Technology Internship Program programs attend different training modules for a year and they will have the opportunities to receive coaching, develop their leadership skills, and to At Vodafone Turkey, we give great importance to the participation of be assigned to different global projects for development. women in economic life for the sustainable future of Turkey within the framework of our activities that we conduct with the vision of leading digital transformation. We provide opportunities for female students Career and Development with high potential who wish to continue with their career in the field of In order to keep development continuously alive and to have a technology / telecommunication and to train them. For this purpose, feedback culture, we aim to provide various feedback opportunities we have launched the Women in Technology InternshipWIT program for employees and ensure that this feedback contributes to their in 2016 at Vodafone Turkey. development. With this goal, we have implemented a new application WIT is a technology focused internship program designed by Vodafone in the feedback processes in order to increase the contribution of Turkey for the female university students enrolled at the third year of assessment center processes on development to its highest level to engineering faculties. Within the scope of this program, we assess the which they participate in the assessment stage for executive positions. applications of female students enrolled in relevant departments of In the 2015/16 fiscal year, we have reminded our 141 employees engineering faculties who wish to advance their professional careers in who have attended to assessment center implementations to the field of telecommunications and technology. After the successful create a leadership development plan after the implementation and assessment process, the program continues for one year and the organized Leadership Development Plan Workshop studies to guide participant female students will have a right for internship within the the employees in this process. After the feedback sessions, employees departments at Vodafone Turkey technology function by rotation. participate in these workshop studies and are practically informed The work plan within the scope of program is designed in a way not about how they can use their assessment notes for development and to hinder the students’ studies throughout the academic year and the aspects to consider when preparing a healthy development plan. within the organizational needs of Vodafone Turkey. With this program, The score for the question In general, I think that development center students have the opportunity to work full time during the summer is useful for my career and personal development on the Assessment period and part time throughout the academic year. Center Survey we conducted in the end of the 2015/16 fiscal year in The students who successfully complete WIT internship program also order to measure the efficiency of Assessment Center application and gain the right to participate in the selection process of Vodafone's global employee experience was 92%, an 18 point increase. scale Discover Young Talent program from the Assessment Center phase. Discover Young Talent Program At Vodafone Turkey, we give great importance to new graduates to make Employee Opinion their career choices in a way to support their professional development. Hande Yalgın Dolcel, Talent We believe that right choices support the sustainable development of both the organization and the employee. From this, we have been Acquisition, Training and recruiting new graduates since 2008 through the Discover Young Talent Development Director program which is implemented by all countries on a global scale. Vodafone Turkey is a company that places the customer in the center of all its activities and The Discover Young Talent program is a platform that helps young focuses on offering end-to-end solutions for its individuals with high potential seize the opportunity to gain experience customers. Moreover, it is a company that values in a global company as they step into the telecommunications industry the welfare of its employees, that provides offering a fast, competitive, entertaining and stretching working training and development opportunities for its environment that also aims to extend the talent pool of Vodafone Turkey. employees with the aim to be Turkey’s most admired company attracting the best employees in their fields, and that takes care to manage the cultural The program is open to all university students in Turkey and starts with change in the best possible way. I think that Vodafone Turkey has two main a five stage assessment and selection process, providing young people characteristics distinguishing it from other companies in Turkey; that it is a joining the Vodafone family with a three week long orientation. By this, company implementing everything as a “single body” and reaches to people Discoverers gain end-to-end experience as a sales representative at in various fields with the philosophy of “technology serves for life”. Vodafone stores or as customer representatives at our call center. New Considering the 2015/16 fiscal year, “Vodafone Women First” program graduates make two rotations in the first year of the program and they which we developed with the aim of ensuring the equal participation of have the opportunity to recognize different functions and lines of work at women in social and economic life by utilizing mobile communication Vodafone for six months and to learn the expertise of these issues in detail. possibilities is very exciting for me. The contribution to the economy is considerably high and it reveals women's place in working life along with In the 2015/16 fiscal year, 39 new young talents joined the Vodafone their potential. I think these make this project a good example. family as staffed personnel. We aim to employ 40 young talents in I can say that the sustainability report was the first link in the chain for the following fiscal year. Since the launch of the program in 2008, my decision to start working at Vodafone. The transparent share of this approximately 250 young talents joined our company. information and the ability to express the purpose of its existence is one of the most important indicators that this company is a reliable one with Global Columbus Talent Exchange Program definite goals. Young talents attending Vodafone Group’s Global Columbus Talent I wish that designing how we can help today's children say Ready Business will become one of our material issues. This is a long journey, and now is a Exchange program since 2011 have had the opportunity to gain good time to begin. international and project-based business experience. The young talents For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 39 Our People Learning Platform also operates in integration with seven professional development portals for various functions created by Vodafone Group. With this integration, our employees can access all training courses they applied for through professional development portals. When a training needs to be made available rapidly to all channels, we make use of mobile training and videos which we develop with our in house resources by using various content development tools. In addition, we use interactive e-learning methods to provide all field staff and call centre employees with the training courses on systems and the products-services that is compulsory to learn. Vodafone Red Academy Learning Center Vodafone Red Academy, which acts with the aim of providing the best digital learning experience to its employees, opened its new learning building Learning Center in operation on June 10, 2015 at Taksim Vodafone RED Academy Istanbul. This center is designed as the best digital academy in Turkey and provides a customized learning experience to the participants by In full awareness of the fact that investing in people is what creates the using mobile applications. The beacon devices within the building are highest value, we are committed to being a global brand that leads the used to automatically monitor the participation of employees in the business world with the development opportunities we offer to our trainings. employees, stakeholders and society. With our training and development centre Vodafone Red Academy, we Red Academy Mobile Application create projects to empower our target audience of 3,365 Vodafone Turkey The Red Academy mobile application aims for end-to-end digitalization of employees, 8,600 store and 22,500 sub-dealer employees, business the learning process within our company. By using this application we have partners, university students, and customers in using the new technologies removed the utilization of paperwork such as training participation signature efficiently. form and training assessment forms. We have integrated global and local mobile learning resources on this application and ensured our employees have access education and development resources from anywhere from a Vision of Vodafone Red Academy: To become a unified single point. By means of Red Academy mobile application: communication academy committed to support the digital • Our employees can always access their training schedules, transformation leaders of Turkey through innovative and out-ofthe-box development solutions for the satisfaction of Vodafone • Training planning and announcements can instantly be done by customers. means of application notifications, • Management of borrowing and returning of the books and DVDs at Mission of Vodafone Red Academy: To become a development learning center library center is possible. centre that leverages on Vodafone’s global knowledge and experiences to benefit our entire eco-system. Selections from Vodafone Red Academy Programs Within the scope of a team work for working teams “Vodafone United” Internal Training Process competency development program, we have reached to 265 people. We are committed to learn and teach continuously and thus to improve We execute this program with the purpose of improving team spirit and our operational performance. Red Academy guides our employees on increasing inter-departmental cooperation and we have been awarded their professional and personal development journey with an internal with the “Best Program that Supports Transformation in Business trainer staff of 218 people. Our trainers design learning solutions in line Strategies” by Brandon Hall and with the “Education and Development with our business objectives and transform these into efficient training Program With the Best Impact on Results” award by the TEGEP programs in various areas. Association in 2015. With our Transformational Leadership Program, we aim to support Our trainers also support a variety of platforms, especially universities, the adherence to transformation culture within the company. All the with training and development programs. They also provide guidance members of the executive team were involved in “TLP Mastery” trainings to a large ecosystem of Vodafone employees, suppliers and stores. within the scope of this program. We have reached other employees who Employees that attend assessment centres opened periodically by Red did not obtain TLP by our monthly “TLP Fridays” sessions. We have also Academy become internal trainers if they succeed in the assessment. provided coaching support to the project teams for the establishment of We organize “Internal Trainers Day” every year for our internal trainers, Transformational Leadership Pioneering Strategic Project teams and to who deliver 76% of our training courses annually. On this special day support their project processes. we bring our Human Resources Team together with all internal trainers and their managers. Thus, we help all stakeholders that support trainings 554 training and ensure continuous development at Vodafone to meet on a joint communication platform. Training Management System With Red Academy, we offer our employees all personal and professional development trainings via Vodafone Learning – our training management Within the scope of occupational and personal system. Used throughout Vodafone Group, the platform helps participants development, we have reached our employees easily plan, follow and report in-class and online trainings as well as with 554 various class training sessions and 560 examine training contents and access the courses required. Vodafone various e-learning contents in a year. 40 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Our People Training Indicators For the 2015-2016 academic year, we have planned courses in Agile Management and Communication Systems and Networks. At In the 2015/16 fiscal year, we provided an average of 41.3 hours of these courses, students had the opportunity to hear about the new employee training per person, which amounts to a total of 137,459 man technologies and methodologies through live examples in the sector hours. In terms of stores and third party employees, we reached a training and also a chance to implement them. Students who comply with volume of 10.6 hours per person, with a total of 129,964 man hours. the determined success criteria at the end of the program get the Based upon the number of trainings completed, we offered more opportunity to exclusively participate in the preliminary selection process training designs and 50% of our trainings were online. When we for the Vodafone Discover Young Talent Program. We aim to improve the compare the share of online trainings in terms of hours of training, we same programs in 2016-2017 years and continue with our university see that 11% of the time spent on employee training and development programs. has been through online channels. Seeking to re-define the concepts of “student” and “classroom” during Indicators related to in-class and online training programs during the university education, Kadir Has University partnered with Vodafone Red last two fiscal years are provided on the tables below. Academy to implement a “Tablet-based Mobile Education” system. The system enables students to reach all information on courses anytime and anywhere via tablets. The Mobile Education System made it possible to 137,459 man hours share all presentations, images, and videos of courses with the students anytime anywhere. In addition, assignments, projects and exams were also delivered via smart tablets. This program was awarded with Jury’s Special Award by TEGEP (Turkish Education and Development Platform) Association under “Education Technologies Implementation Category”. We provided an average of 41.3 hours of employee Also, we have created pricing courses for Boğaziçi University Faculty of training per person, which amounts to a total of Business students. The courses were realized by our in-house trainers 137,459 man hours. and they continued for a year. Corporate Athlete Program Corporate Athlete is a program which we launched to contribute to Vodafone Red Academy and University our employees, allowing them to optimize their performance in their Partnerships business and private lives. The program focuses on managing our Since 2012, Vodafone Red Academy has been partnering the universities energy in four different dimensions and it provides critical tips related for the “Data, Everywhere!” The program gave 378 students the opportunity with physical, emotional, mental and spiritual energy dimensions to to get to know the telecommunications industry. The program, designed generate awareness among people on what they can do in this field and delivered entirely by the internal trainers of the Red Academy, give and help them to implement it in their lives. The program was launched students theoretical and practical information on the nature and applications at the One Vodafone meeting in May 2016. In the 2016/17 fiscal of mobile data. From 2015 through the present, we continued our Data year, we aim to reach 1,000 employees within our Company through Everywhere! program which we organized in four universities. trainings and various applications. 2014/15 Fiscal Year 2015/16 Fiscal Year Trainings Provided to Our Number of Participants Training Period Number of Participants Training Period Employees Man-training Man Hour* Man-training Man Hour Behavioral Trainings 21,304 59,744 13,675 57,029 Senior Management 232 1,184 137 1,011 Middle Management 856 4,160 702 3,850 Other** 20,216 54,400 12,836 52,168 Functional Trainings 20,051 88,344 12,094 80,431 Senior Management 42 112 37 171 Middle Management 130 848 173 726 Other** 19,879 87,384 11,884 79,534 Total 41,355 148,088 25,769 137,459 * 2014/15 data is assured by EY. ** Includes all the staff not below Senior (E, D and C bands) and middle management (F band). Note: The figures for training hours are as of March 31, 2016, which is the last day of fiscal year. Average Hours of Training Per Person Per Year Based on Staff Category Average Hours of Training 2014/15 2015/16 Per Person Per Year Fiscal Year Fiscal Year Staff Category 2014/15 Fiscal Year* 2015/16 Fiscal Year Our People 44.9 * 41.3 Senior Management 30 25 3rd Party Employees 18.9 10.6 Middle Management 40 34 * 2014/15 data is assured by EY. Other** 45 42 Note: All Vodafone employees benefit from training under equal conditions and training indicators are not tracked on the basis of female/male employees. Therefore, there is no gender distribution of the data * 2014/15 data is assured by EY. above. ** Includes all staff other than Senior and Middle Management. For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 41 Corporate Security Corporate Security We evaluate technical, commercial, ethical and reputational risks in an objective manner and manage them in line with Vodafone Business Principles. Material Our Commitments Objectives for the Our Performance in the Objectives for the Issues 2015/16 Fiscal Year 2015/16 Fiscal Year 2016/17 Fiscal Year Corporate We will audit the compliance of To implement the due diligence We have implemented the due To implement the due diligence process security corporate security awareness and process with 50 suppliers. diligence process with 43 suppliers. with 50 suppliers. practices of our suppliers with Vodafone standards and related laws. We will develop and apply the New target New target To realize the five actions we have set Sense of Security Program with in order to monitor the success of the the aim of increasing awareness on Sense of Security project. security and its applications among individuals in Vodafone eco-system. Business ethics We will continue our anti-corruption To give anti-corruption e-training to 80% of our employees have received To give anti-corruption e-training to all and antipractices with our “zero all employees. this training. employees corruption tolerance” approach. Information We will continue to put emphasis To conclude ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Vodafone Northern Cyprus has To continue with regular certification of security and on compliance with international certification of Vodafone Northern obtained the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 our processes in accordance with ISO/ privacy of standards regarding the Cyprus. certificate. IEC 27001:2013. customer management of information security information and privacy of customer information. We will establish a new corporate New target New target To establish the Vodafone Turkey access management structure in Corporate Access Management order to manage the authorizations structure and to realize the necessary on our critical system more implementations. efficiently and to make all business units except technical teams a fundamental part of process. We will realize work to comply with New target New target To establish a structure for fast and the Law on Protection of Personal complete responses to information Data dated April 7, 2016. requests on data processing by our customers. To review our data processing and to launch the work for compliance with the law. Business We will continue to put emphasis on To conclude ISO 22301 certification The certification process of Vodafone To conclude ISO 22301 certification of continuity emergency and business of Vodafone Northern Cyprus. Northern Cyprus is delayed to the Vodafone Northern Cyprus. continuity management at all stages next fiscal year due to regulations. of our services. Our Approach to Corporate Security communication and corporate security teams, we have determined target groups, we have created the authorization and responsibility The main purpose of our activities within the scope of Corporate matrix and conducted workshop, focus group studies and field survey. Security Management is to identify the possible threats and As a result of these processes, we have made a status analysis and vulnerabilities that may damage Vodafone Turkey's income, image created five outcomes for strategic approach. These are: and reputation, and to take preventive and mitigation measures. Our 1. To connect the SoS program with our corporate value “trust” Corporate Security Management approach includes antifraud and anti2. To match all human resources processes experienced by our corruption, prevention of laundering of crime revenues, due diligence, employees throughout their employment at Vodafone with the SoS information security, privacy, business continuity, personnel and asset program, security, and awareness on security. With this end-to-end approach, in 3. To develop 360 degrees communication campaigns in order to order to protect Vodafone’s ecosystem and customers from damage, sustain awareness, we objectively assess technical, commercial, ethical and reputational 4. To generate new projects with the support of employees, risks and manage these in line with Vodafone Business Principles. 5. To develop and execute the SoS Executive Program. Sense of Security In order to support the internal communication on this issue, we have determined the character owl as the speaker of corporate security. In order to ensure that the awareness and practices of security We have organized a competition among the Vodafone employees to transforms into a culture and attitude in all Vodafone Turkey name the character and the name was determined as “SoSA” (Sense of employees, third party users, stakeholders, and everyone in the Security Ambassador). Vodafone ecosystem, we launched the “Sense of Security” program in the 2014/15 fiscal year and continued this year. We have reviewed This program is a first among Vodafone Group companies and it will be the flow of business in cooperation with human resources, internal developed according to results on an annual basis. 42 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Corporate Security Anti-Fraud and Anti-Corruption implemented within the company. Through these, we will review the existing products and services in terms of compliance with law. We will We expect all employees within Vodafone Turkey's ecosystem to comply establish the processes and technical infrastructure to respond the with our Business Ethics Principles and Business Principles. The “Zero requests of information from our customers in relation with utilization of tolerance” policy is applied in anti-fraud and anti-corruption practices. personal data. We perform risk assessments against all types of internal and external misconduct that may happen at Vodafone within the frame of Anti-Fraud Management Policy and we take measures to prevent risks from taking Business Continuity place or reoccurring. Business continuity, emergency and crisis management are issues with high importance in telecommunication and Internet services. We have We provide training on fights against corruption for all our employees continued to implement the indicator that we provide uninterrupted and raise awareness. With ethics reporting hot line services such as communication for our customers with good and quality service, ISO Speak Up and Red Line, we enable all employees within our ecosystem 22301 Business Continuity Management System for Vodafone Turkey, to share their questions and opinions and report misconduct incidents Vodafone Net and Vodafone Information and Communication Services they have witnessed and/or suspected anonymously, without the need in the 2015/16 fiscal year. We have renewed our certificates as a result to disclose their ID. We receive Ethics Reporting Hot Line services via an of an external audit. We will conclude (VMOL) ISO 22301 certification of impartial, third-party global company. Vodafone Northern Cyprus in November 2016. We will provide training, audit and consultancy services for Vodafone Egypt throughout the ISO Privacy and Information Security 22301 Business Continuity Management System certification process it We consider our customers’ trust in us regarding the security of their plans to obtain within the 2016/17 fiscal year. personal information as our most essential asset. Maintaining this trust is amongst our most fundamental responsibilities. We protect our customers’ personal information and mobile contact details with Emergency Management the security controls defined by ISO/IEC 27001:2013, which is the In order to become a strong society and institution that has the capacity International Information Security Management System Standard. Also, to survive through natural disasters and other emergencies, individuals the credit card information of our customers is protected in compliance must be aware of such emergencies. With this insight and in accordance with ISO 22301 and ISO 27001 Standards, we have disaster and with PCI DSS, which is an internationally recognized global standard for emergency management procedures and teams. We have continued our data security. Our compliance with this standard is audited and certified strategic collaboration with Search and Rescue Foundation (AKUT) for every year by an independent institution. emergency management and added new practices to our emergency In the 2015/16 fiscal year, Vodafone Northern Cyprus was aligned to ISO/ management efforts. We performed risk analyses in Vodafone buildings IEC 27001:2013 Standard in addition to Vodafone Turkey (offering mobile and call centres of suppliers. In addition to general evacuation drills, we services) and Vodafone Net (our subsidiary operating in fixed line services). created scenarios for different risks for buildings (epidemics, fire, etc.) and made drills. In addition to compliance to international standards, as a member of the Vodafone Group, we apply the best practices identified by the Vodafone For the new fiscal year, we are planning to start conducting risk analyses Group on information security and privacy in all our workflows and in the office and warehouses of our solution partners and in the information systems. warehouses managed by a third party on our behalf and to upgrade their conditions with Vodafone standards. Information Security Risk Management With our Information Security Risk Management activities regularly Supplier Due Diligence held since 2008, we ensure that the measures we take for information We implement a due diligence procedure in supplier companies in order security are aligned with our ever-improving business processes and to objectively (and in line with Vodafone Business Principles) evaluate infrastructure and are in continuous improvement. In the2015/16 fiscal all technical, commercial, ethical and reputation risks that may result year, we have analyzed the risks for Vodafone Turkey Group Companies from our suppliers and harm our reputation. As a result of this evaluation, and realized the necessary enhancements. companies that are found to be at “high-risk” are audited on site in line with Vodafone Policies, 5188 Private Security law, ISO 27001 Information Corporate Access Governance Structure Security Management System, ISO 22301 Business Continuity System One of the most sensitive processes we apply is that the access to our Standards, and related local laws and regulations. After the audit, actions customers' data and sensitive company data is within the limits that match are taken to minimize the identified risks of our suppliers during the with company requirements and that only those employees are authorized audit. In the 2015/16 fiscal year, we implemented the due diligence with the requirement to access. With the work we launched in the last procedure with 43 suppliers. quarter of the 2015/16 fiscal year which we aim to conclude by the end of the 2016/17 fiscal year, we will develop a corporate access governance Personnel and Physical Security structure and reduce human-based risks. We ensure that all security measures are taken for the safe and comfortable business of all our employees, visitors, and other employees Information Security Scorecard within the eco-system in compliance with Private Security Law in Turkey We have continued to evaluate the effectiveness of our information and Vodafone Group Policies. In addition to this, we inform our business security processes and controls through quarterly detailed controls and partners and suppliers on the necessary security measures to be taken measurements and report to senior management with Information at business travels and various events. Security Scorecard . We identified and documented the parameters to be included in the measurements/controls by considering the objectives and strategies of our company. Areas to be improved and root causes Award were analysed after the measurements. Then we planned and monitored With the PADLOCK Project, which prevents any negative suitable remedial actions. Monitoring process is continuing. applications on Vodafone profitability and customer satisfaction through doing the interim connections for international calls on Confidentiality of Customer Information SIMBOX; one of our employees has obtained the 2015/16 fiscal We will set the necessary work for compliance with Law on Protection year 4th quarter Customer Heroes Hero award. of Personal Data dated April 7, 2016 and we will ensure that these are For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 43 Vodafone Turkey Foundation Vodafone Turkey Foundation Being one of the 27 Vodafone Foundations in the world, the Vodafone Turkey Foundation has been committed to the mission of leading social change and development since 2007. In order to support sustainable development in Turkey, we at the Vodafone Turkey Foundation cooperate with non-governmental organizations and Vodafone Turkey Foundation in Figures our other stakeholders to develop long-term projects and implement them. Our aim is to contribute to the steps Turkey musrt take for creating a well-trained, well-equipped, and productive society. Thanks to our social investments, we act on the basis of the social needs map we created as 9th Year of our establishment a result of a long and diligent study into the social requirements of our country. 28 million TL social investment Reaching to more than 3.5 million citizens Vodafone Volunteers 551 participants Dreams Academy 47 Workshops and 4,000 students Accessible World 2,300 downloads Türkiye Vodafone Vakfı’nın Hedefi: • To cooperate with non-governmental organizations and other Women First Movement in Entrepreneurship stakeholders for sustainable development. The amount of shopping done at • To introduce the opportunities offered by communication Oncekadin.gov.tr digital store: 105,106 TL technologies to women, thus improving their socio-economic conditions and creating an environment where their The number of advertisements added to entrepreneurship skills can flourish. Oncekadin.gov.tr digital store: 16,534 • To support the participation of the socially and physically disadvantaged individuals into social life. Easy Rescue • To provide solutions for social problems using mobile 296,000 downloads telecommunication technologies. • To support people, primarily Vodafone employees, in carrying out volunteer efforts for the community in which we live. First6Years 150,000 downloads Vodafone Turkey Foundation Advisory Board International Entrepreneurship Centre The Vodafone Turkey Foundation Advisory Board was created with the aim to develop projects, to put together strategies and Provided training to 22,520 people to determine a road map for the future. Members of the Advisory Board are esteemed leaders of the business world and nongovernmental organizations: Leyla Alaton, Cem Bakioğlu, Yavuz Vodafone Wheel of Ideas Entrepreneurship Program Canevi, Bülent Eczacıbaşı, Üstün Ergüder, Hüsnü Özyeğin, Ali 453 project applications Sabancı, Meral İnci Zaim, and Ebru Özdemir in October 2016. Vodafone Wheel of Ideas Internal Entrepreneurship and Innovation Program 78 patent applications For more information www.turkiyevodafonevakfi.org.tr 45 The Vodafone Women First Program touched the lives of 639,000 women during FY 2015/16 by providing them with income opportunities as well as access to information and communications. Our Social Investments Women First Program We strongly believe that women should enjoy equal opportunities with Women First in Entrepreneurship men in the business world to achieve sustainable growth, a powerful Women First in Entrepreneurship program was realized in April 2015, society and strong generations in Turkey. In line with our “Technology aiming to introduce the opportunities offered by communication for Women” approach, we are committed to using technology to technologies to women and to increase their employment levels and support women to improve their presence in social and economic life. build their entrepreneurship skills. The program’s goal is to facilitate With this purpose, we launched the “Vodafone Women First Program” the sale of hand-made products through information technologies in 2013 in partnership with the Ministry of Family and Social Policies and transform a hobby into a source of income. Thus, housewives will in order to solve their communication problems and help them to also be encouraged to contribute to the economy and to create extra contribute to the economy. income to improve their families’ welfare. The target audience of the project are the female students/trainees at the public training centres, vocational training centres and advanced technical schools in the cities of İstanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Antalya, Eskişehir, Samsun, Bursa, Diyarbakır, Elazığ, and Giresun. Program attendees are able to sell their products via a digital store named oncekadin.gov.tr . 3,000 attendees are members of the site, where 16,534 product advertisements were entered and a total of 1,500 products were sold for the amount of 105,000 TL. The total economic value of all the entered products is above 15 million TL and the digital store was viewed 1,142,000 times during the implementation period. We aim to provide entrepreneurship and technology training to 10,000 women at 10 new provinces in the new fiscal year. Within the scope of this project, we have encouraged the attendees to become members of the site and to enter advertisements and awarded a total of 26,500 TL to those who were placed in Women First in Entrepreneurship Contest organized to create success stories. At Vodafone Turkey, we have become a signatory of Women’s The project has provided an opportunity of income for thousands of Empowerment Principles (WEPs) which is an initiative of United women in Turkey and it was awarded with the Golden Compass Award Nations, and committed that we will continue with our work to at 15th Golden Compass Public Relations Awards in 2016 organized empower women in every field of life. by TÜHİD (Turkish Public Relations Association) under the category Vodafone Women First, a “first of its kind” umbrella program combining Corporate Responsibility . a large variety of products, services and projects for women, reached 639,000 women as of the end of the 2015/16 fiscal year. With this program, we offer women key benefits including income opportunities Success Story: as well as access to information and communications. Sebahat Oral (Eskişehir Odunpazarı Public Training Centre Attendee and 1st Rank in Women First in Theme Entrepreneurship Contest) Women First in Entrepreneurship: Training Technology Training “Within the scope of Women First in Entrepreneurship Project, I Starting Date April 2015 have entered 280 advertisements for my jewelry and needle knit products and made 3,000 lira in sales. Partners Ministry of National I am the mother of three boys and I have worked for years to support Education (MEB) my husband, who works a lot to meet the needs of house, in material and non-material ways. I wanted to have an occupation, to stand on my feet as a free individual and live as an independent woman. I am the one who knows the real value of Turkey Informatics my hand made products I sold to my relatives, Foundation (TBV) friends, and acquaintances. I was introduced to the Women First in Entrepreneurship Project. With this Project, I have learned about how to become Objective To introduce the opportunities offered by communication an entrepreneurial woman. I have learned to technologies to women, support them in entering the become a member of society, to publish a business world and improve their entrepreneurship skills. product, to take orders and make sales and to have confidence in myself in the digital Target Women without profession environment. I have improved my Audience and communication skills with people. I With 100 consultants, 10,000 women in 10 cities were Achievements have had the chance and joy to spend trained in entrepreneurship, communication skills, the money I have earned through my financial legislation, digital and mobile technologies, great efforts.” and marketing. For more information www.turkiyevodafonevakfi.org.tr 47 Our Social Investments Women First Program Women First Training and Production Mother-Child Service Cooperative in Soma With the Mother-Child Service which was developed together with The aim of this initiative is to introduce women in the town of Soma to AÇEV, we submit useful information on baby development via free the opportunities of communication technologies and promote their text messages to mothers with babies 0-72 months old. Mothers involvement in social and economic life. The business model is based on register the information about the age of their babies and can women making and selling handicrafts for income. reach the content appropriate for the age of their child. 10,400 At the “Soma Women First Training and Production Cooperative” opened women use this service on a daily basis. in a special building allocated by Soma Municipality, there are two workshops for a total of 50 people and a seminar room. In addition to the computer room for 25 people, there is a recreational area for women and a playground for their children. Opened in December 2014, “Soma Women First Training and Production Cooperative” started to give training on technology, entrepreneurship, psychological counseling and handicrafts. The Soma Women First Training and Production Cooperative has provided a sustainable source of income for 370 women in a short period of 10 months. The centre provided the women of Soma an opportunity to stand on their own two feet and it became a cooperative, thereby transforming itself into a sustainable business model. The cooperative continues with its activities along with the aim of becoming the center of handcraft production and manufacturing is done in accordance with the demands generated by brand cooperation. #1GünDeğilHerGün Women First VUnder the hash tag “#1GünDeğilHerGün Önce Kadın” (#WomenFirstEveryDayNot1Day”), we have launched a communication campaign on March 9, 2016 for a year. Within this scope, the stories of women reached by Vodafone and all the works conducted to ease the life of women are shared as videos, info graphics and news from Vodafone Turkey social media accounts. Women First: Social Business Model Designed as a social business model, the Program aims to empower women through entrepreneurship opportunities and amp up their socioeconomic power. Through the “Vodafone Women First Ad Service”, we provide them with the opportunity to advertise their hand-made products on sahibinden.com, Turkey’s largest online ad and shopping platform, for a whole month. Women can send their ads to the platform with a single SMS free of charge. Thus, those who want to support women entrepreneurs may purchase their hand-made products via mobile technology. Vodafone Women First Ad Service Business results of the ad service as of the end of the 2015/16 fiscal year are as follows: Women First Shops • More than 20,380 ads on sahibinden.com Vodafone Women First At Vodafone Turkey, we continuously expand the scope of Women First Shop, increasing three times when compared with previous year. Program. As of the end of the 2015/16 fiscal year, with Women First • The most popular categories: home decoration, food and Shops in 8 cities, namely Ankara, Adana, Gaziantep, Batman, Nevşehir, beverages, clothing and accessories. Sinop, Şanlıurfa and Tekirdağ, of which investors and all employees will • Cities that advertised the most: İstanbul, İzmir and Bursa. be women, we will encourage women’s contribution to the economy and labour force offering them new employment opportunities. 48 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 For more information www.vodafone.com.tr/VodafoneHakkinda/Once-Kadin.php Our Social Investments Dreams Club Theme Dreams Academy: Disability Dreams Academy In 2008, the Vodafone Turkey Foundation partnered with Alternative Life Starting Date October, 2008 Association (AYDER), the Ministry of Development, and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) to launch the Dreams Academy social Partners AYDER responsibility program aiming to enable inclusion of disabled and socially disadvantaged individuals into social life through arts. At Dreams Academy, 3-month alternative skill development workshops UNDP are being organized free of charge for young people suffering social disadvantages for varying reasons. In painting, drama, dance, photography, rhythm, pantomime, yoga, sign language, and kitchen workshops, young people find the opportunity to develop their skills and artistic identities. Ministry of E CUMHUR Dreams Academy in Ataşehir ‹Y Development TÜ R K ‹Y ET‹ With Dreams Academy, disadvantaged young people suffering from ⁄I “social exclusion” due to physical and/or psychological disabilities or KA L KI NM LI N financial problems have a significant opportunity to express themselves A BAKA through art and become active members of the society At the Dreams Academy building located in Ataşehir-İstanbul; there are not only special Objective To support people with disabilities in breaking art workshops for the people with disabilities, but also self-development through social exclusion and in becoming active workshops on business and communication skills as well as personal and productive through arts and culture. coaching. Young individuals completing these workshops are set for professional Target People with physical, mental, hearing disability and careers in the arts. Social Inclusion Band is made up of members trained Audience and visually impaired people in music workshops as well as volunteer professional musicians, while Achievements Chronic disease groups Dreams Company was created by young drama workshop attendees Young people suffering from poverty and deprivation and Dreams Kitchen is where cooking workshop attendees practice their Volunteers (youth from Turkey and abroad) culinary skills provide employment opportunities for the young attendees of the Dreams academy. Driven by the motto “No Boundaries for Art and As of April 2015, 4,000 attendees completed our Artists”, the project has so far touched the lives of 4,000 people. workshops. In line with our “Mobile for Good” vision, Vodafone Turkey combined a wide range of products, services and projects to support equal inclusion of socially disadvantaged individuals in the social life under the “Dreams Club”. When we consider the fact that the people with disabilities make up about 13% of the total population in our country, integration of disabled citizens into social life and the education and production system becomes even more important. Dreams Club Vodafone Turkey offers a number of products and services under the Dreams Club. For instance, Tariffs and Services Beyond Disabilities offers tariffs and services tailored to the needs of the people with disabilities. Members of the Dreams Club have equal and easier access to mobile technologies thanks to “ Billing Info Service, Audio Subscription Dreams Academy in Kaş Contract, Hearing-based Announcement Service, Where Am I Service, In 2014, we opened Kaş Dreams Academy (Antalya), which is the largest Where is My Relative Service and Audio Info Service”. Within the Dreams living and leisure space for people with disabilities in Turkey. In addition to Club Campaign, Vodafone RED and Smart tariffs offer a 43% (the social life and arts trainings, participants have the opportunity to develop amount of value added tax and special communication tax) discount on their skills in a variety of areas from water sports to ecological farming. fixed monthly fees for the people with disabilities. In addition, the Mobile Employment Pool for the People with Disabilities service created in Girls on Attack Project partnership with the Ministry of Family and Social Policies and Yenibiris. The Girls on Attack Project is realized as a sub project of Dreams Academy. com is the first mobile service to offer special employment opportunities It was launched to train young girls between the ages 12 and 18 in sports, for people with disabilities in Turkey where four out of every five disabled environment and team work, thereby strengthening their mental and individuals are unemployed. physical capabilities. The project aims to bring highly-motivated, selfconfident, courageous and entrepreneurial young women into society with an increased impact. In the 2015/16 fiscal year, the number of disabled Within the scope of this project, we have hosted the young daughters individuals benefiting from Vodafone Turkey of women from Soma at Dreams Academy Kaş with the sponsorship of Dreams Club products and services exceeded Vodafone Volunteers. Attendees have come together under this structure and to discover what makes them special and the necessity to respect 130,000, up from 80,000 in the previous year. differences and working together with those different than them. For more information www.duslerakademisi.org 49 Our Social Investments Mobile for Good We open the gates of a better future to everyone through “First6Years” Mobile Application communication technologies. Developed by Vodafone Turkey Foundation and AÇEV, the application Within the framework of Vodafone Turkey’s “Mobile for Good” vision, we offers up-to-date information on the first six years representing the use our global know-how in mobile technologies and our innovation most critical period in a child’s life, thus making life easier for parents. power to create value and to make life easier for people. We support This free application guides parents with an information database of the development of mobile applications for women and people with 1,200 different questions. Information sent to the user’s smartphone disabilities. every other day is supported with photographs, educational videos and animations. Reaching 150,000 “Easy Rescue” Mobile Application users, the application also We believe that the surging violence against women is a severe violation includes a calendar to record of human rights and a serious social problem. Mobile technologies play important days for parents and a critical role in combating violence against women. Therefore, Vodafone children, a section to monitor Turkey, working with the Vodafone Turkey Foundation, developed the children’s height and weight, as “Easy Rescue” application allowing women facing violence to contact the well as an album to store and police or relatives immediately and easily with an SMS or access them via share photos and videos. phone. Alo 183 (hotline for violence against women), 155 Police Hotline, Ambulance and Military Police emergency numbers can be called with a single button. Having been downloaded approximately 296,000 times, the Easy Rescue application also contains information on the nearest Centre for Preventing Violence and Monitoring (operating under the Ministry of Family Affairs and Social Policies), and other organizations advocating personal rights. Vodafone Volunteers Our voluntary activities constitute an important part of our social The Vodafone Easy Rescue campaign received the Grand Prix award, responsibility projects and we believe that they contribute a lot which is considered the most prestigious award of the Cannes Lions for the development of our employees, to Vodafone Turkey and International Creativity Festival, the summit of creativity worldwide in the to society. We aim to include our employees for the projects we field of advertisement and marketing. Following its success at Cannes implement under the Turkey Vodafone Foundation within the scope Lions, Vodafone Easy Rescue has also brought of the Vodafone Volunteers Program and we also aim to improve the Grand Prize to Turkey for the first time at the our projects with their ideas and opinions. A total of 551 Vodafone CLIO Awards, which is considered as another Turkey employees have participated in our voluntary program to summit for the advertisement and marketing support our projects through the end of March 2016. Each year, we world. After its success at Cannes and CLIO, it bring our Dreams Academy students together and we celebrate was nominated at the Global Mobile Awards World Volunteers' Day. We paint pictures with our disabled students provided by World GSM Association (GSMA), also and we accompany them in a rhythm show. known as the Oscars of GSM sector. Our main activities: • With the Girls on Attack Project we launched at Dreams Academy “Accessible World” Mobile Application Kaş in summer 2015, we provided a week long camp for the The “Accessible World” mobile application is supported in accordance young daughters of women attending our Soma Women First with our vision of equal participation of individuals with a disability to project. Our volunteers accompanied the girls from Soma at the camp for a week and shared their experiences with them. social and economic life and it is the first and most comprehensive social share and information platform in terms of accessibility. This application • We organized an aid campaign for children at Soma within the provides the individuals with a disability a facilitation to participate in scope of Soma Women First project. We visited the Soma Women social life and also provides users with information on the accessibility First Training and Production Cooperative with our volunteers and status of their locations. The “Accessible World” mobile application delivered the gifts collected. provides accessibility status evaluations about certain locations along • We delivered the products we collected via intra-company aid with map integration and can be downloaded for free to smartphones. campaign we have organized for our animal friends to the animal shelter we visited together with volunteer Vodafone employees. “Sign Language” Mobile • With the Audio Book Reading Application project we launched this year, Turkey Vodafone Foundation has executed the most Vodafone volunteers read books and recorded them for comprehensive sign language education application the visually impaired students to facilitate the three million hearing impaired at Dreams Academy. After our individuals and their relatives through Dreams volunteers complete the Red Academy. This application is prepared as courses Academy online training, they under a certain curriculum and it is a first in Turkey. can visit Dreams Academy With almost 1,100 videos and 1,400 words dictionary, this application Ataşehir and make the book is Android and iOS compliant and can be downloaded to smart phones recordings. for free via Google Play and Apple Store. 50 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 For more information ilk6yil.com Our Social Investments International Entrepreneurship Centre Theme Entrepreneurship International Entrepreneurship Centre (IEC) was established by the Turkish Ministry of Development, UNDP, Habitat Development Starting Date November 2012 and Governance Association, and Vodafone Turkey Foundation, in collaboration with the Turkish Union of Chambers and Commodity Partners Habitat Development Exchanges (TOBB) Youth and Women Entrepreneur Boards. EC operates and Governance in collaboration with more than 120 active stakeholders within the Association entrepreneurship ecosystem, including technology companies, public Ministry of ‹Y E CUMHUR institutions, international organizations, non-governmental organizations, Development TÜ R K ‹Y ET‹ and initiatives. IEC is co-coordinator of the Global Entrepreneurship Week with KA ⁄I L KI LI N NM A BAKA Endeavor which is simultaneously celebrated in 157 countries for the UNDP aim of structuring the perception of entrepreneurship and creating an entrepreneurship culture so that innovative, creative, responsible and extensive initiatives and environmentally friendly businesses can be developed throughout Turkey. IEC also sponsors G3 Forum, which is the biggest event in the Global Entrepreneurship Week. Within this Objective To contribute to positive perception of scope, Boston-based MassChallenge, the third biggest entrepreneurship entrepreneurship. eco-system has met together with Turkey entrepreneurship ecoTo support women and young individuals in becoming system in November 2015 as IEC being the host. The team also had successful entrepreneurs. the right to organize the Global Entrepreneurship Congress in Istanbul in 2018, which is organized at a different place every year and where To ensure development of national entrepreneurship approximately 3,000 entrepreneurs are hosted. policies to drive entrepreneurs’ competitive edge. To support entrepreneurs in global competition. With the collaboration of IEC and Çukurova Development Agency, To facilitate Turkey’s capacity for building collaboration the third Entrepreneurship Eco-System Meeting was held in Adana and partnerships with neighboring regions. which brought the public agencies, universities, non-governmental organizations, investors and related individuals active in the field of entrepreneurship together. 118 people from 80 institutions attended Target Young entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs-to-be. Audience and the meeting and subjects such as the ways to improve entrepreneurship 22,520 people were reached. eco-systems in Turkey how to increase cooperation among domestic Achievements and international cities were discussed. To support development of not only positive perception, but also innovative and creative human resources, IEC organizes such events as Idea Creation Camps, Startup Weekend and hands-on trainings like hexatones. Thus, it improves problem solving skills, teamwork, innovative business ideas, business model development, prototype production, and presentation skills. ULUSLARARASI GİRİŞİMCİLİK MERKEZİ For more information www.worldstartupwiki.org/page/Turkey 51 Our Social Investments Vodafone FikirÇarkı Entrepreneurship Program Vodafone FikirÇarkı supports digital FikirÇarkı in Figures projects at every stage (November 2014 – June 2016) In line with our vision to lead the digital transformation in Turkey, we created the Vodafone Wheel of Ideas to hear, gather and support digital ideas of entrepreneurs in Turkey. The 453 projects applied. Vodafone Turkey Foundation, IEC (International Entrepreneurship Centre and Boğaziçi University Alumni Association Business Angels (BUBA) 32 projects were provided direct support. partnered to launch this program in November 2014. There were 71 business angel members of BUBA, which is the investor partner of FikirÇarkı Program. 2 of 3 projects had companies established in London, and 1 in Malta. A total of 660.000 TL support was provided to entrepreneurs via BUBA and IEC. Entrepreneurship training was provided to 22,100 individuals in 45 provinces via IEC. Wheel of Ideas is an entrepreneurship program focusing on innovative solutions from an entrepreneur’s perspective and providing the entrepreneurs with funding, information and networking opportunities. The program offers benefits that address the needs of entrepreneurs in all stages from idea generation to growth. At the first stage, ideas are received via fikircarki.com. Secondly, potential entrepreneurs are trained through training and mentorship activities organized by IEC. At the third stage, prospective entrepreneurs are trained through mentorship, business incubator, technical support and seed capital, which is provided through BUBA and IEC. The fourth stage involves transforming the initiative into a start-up company through mentorship, business incubator, technical support and seed capital. At the final stage, the initiatives are introduced to the wider investor eco-system of Vodafone. An eco-system meeting was organized with 410 attendants from 19 provinces via IEC. This eco-system meeting brought 148 institutions together and five cooperations were established as a result of meeting. 52 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Our Social Investments Vodafone FikirÇarkı Entrepreneurship Program In the 2015/16 fiscal year, 11 of our portfolio initiatives have opened up Vodafone FikirÇarkı Internal their stands under the sponsorship of Vodafone at Ankara ISAF, Crystal Apple and G3 Forum and explained their own business models. Starting Entrepreneurship and Innovation from the second half of 2016, we are developing different models for FikirÇarkı Program portfolio initiatives integrate with Vodafone and to Program provide various products and services for Vodafone customers. We have implemented the Vodafone FikirÇarkı Internal Entrepreneurship and Innovation Program with the goal of improving One of our Portfolio initiatives, Segmentify, has attended World Mobile the innovation culture within Vodafone and to realize the innovative Congress in Barcelona under Vodafone sponsorship. The speech made business ideas of our innovative employees. Within the scope of by founding partner and general manager of Segmentify was in the news program, Vodafone employees share their innovative business ideas at more than 30 national publications. Segmentify also obtained 300,000 with their teams and the ideas developed with the contribution of Euros of investment from one of the risk capital funds BUBA works related business units become real under the leadership of opinion closely with and thereby accelerates its growth. leaders. Experienced innovation mentors accompany the idea Sinemia is another FikirÇarkı portfolio initiatives and it has expanded owners during the realization and thereby Vodafone raises its internal the contracted movie theater network throughout the whole of Turkey. entrepreneurs. Sinemia obtained 250,000 USD in investments from a risk capital fund in This program, in which Vodafone has positioned innovation as an December 2015 and it started its activities in England by February 2016. inseparable part of company identity, was launched in February 2016. Within four months, more than 180 innovative business ideas arrived and more than 100 employees from 67 different departments applied. Other purposes of the program are to add new ones among the patents owned by Vodafone and to train Vodafone employees in the fields of innovation, creative thinking and curiosity. We had 78 patent applications in the 2015/16 fiscal year and 570 Vodafone employees were trained in the fields of innovation and patents. Our goal for the new fiscal year is to realize a minimum of 100 patent applications and train our 1,300 employees in the fields of innovation, patents and creative thinking. Vodafone Fikir Çarkı Supports Women Entrepreneurs At Vodafone Turkey, we support the participation of women in business life and consider the employment of women and empowering the women our material issues in the whole eco-system. We assess the women entrepreneurs who are our suppliers and who have applied to FikirÇarkı with their new digital Segmentify: Segmentify is a cloud-based platform that ensures initiatives, and ensure that the selected women entrepreneurs are the identification of micro-groups determined according to supported by our Supply Chain Department. behaviors (segment), and distributing the visitors between these segments by monitoring their web page clicks and which can take customized actions (SMS, e-mail, pop-up, banner etc.) for the visitor/registered user after this. Sinemia: Sinemia is a private cinema club that provides unlimited cinema tickets for its members. Sinemia integrates location-based technologies and pre-paid bank card systems, and it was created in Turkey for the love of cinema. Sinemia members pay a certain price each month and watch a certain number of movies at movie theaters. For more information www.turkiyevodafonevakfi.org.tr 53 G4-22 Reporting Principles Reporting Principles Principles of Reporting relate to the collection and calculation of energy consumption data given in the report. Waste heat values and greenhouse gas emission (GRI G4-EN 16, 17, and EN18) and energy ton of oil equivalent (ToE) conversion coefficients are taken tables consumption data (GRI G4-EN 3) disclosed in this report. published in the “Directive for Improving Efficiency of Energy Sources and Energy Use”, issued in the Official Gazette on October 27th, 2011, The methodology for calculating greenhouse gas emissions is numbered 28097. In the conversion of energy units the following “greenhouse has operational data x greenhouse gas emission or formulas are used: 1 kcal = 4.184 kJ, 1 GJ = 0.2777 MWh (1 MWh = 3.6 removal factors”. GJ). Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated in accordance with the The annually updated Turkish Electricity Transmission Company is used Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology of the WRI/WBCSD. The for the calculation of greenhouse gases originating from electrical boundaries of the company were identified based on the control energy. The emission factor due to electricity was used as 0.5250 kg approach and all Vodafone buildings, call centres, base stations, CO2e/kWh in the 2013/14 fiscal year, and this amount was updated as switching sites, and data centres as well as greenhouse gas emissions 0.4946 kg CO2e/kWh in 2014/15 and as 0.5521 kg CO2e/kWh in the resulting from generators and cooling gases are included in the 2015/16 fiscal year. inventory. Operation boundaries are defined as scope 1 (direct), scope 2 (indirect) and scope 3 (other indirect). In calculations, CO2 equivalent The rate of uncertainty is the greenhouse gas emission data was factors of CO2, CH4, N2O and HFCs (cooling gas) emissions are used. calculated as +/4.8%. The major reason for the uncertainty compared Global warming potential (GWP) coefficients are taken from the 4th to the previous year is the increase in the consumption of cooling Assessment Report of IPCC. Network emission factor is calculated gases which have a higher uncertainty rate. by using the data provided by the Turkish Electricity Transmission The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) prepared by World Company (TEIAS). Resources Institute (WRI) and World Sustainable Development Business Distribution from sources causing greenhouse gas emissions are as Council (WBSD) sets the standards for measuring emissions, their follows: Scope 1: Leased vehicles, F-gases used in air conditioners, fuel management and reporting. On January 20th, 2015, the guide for used in buildings, diesel and gasoline generators used in base stations Scope 2 emissions was renewed. Starting from this date, companies in emergencies. Scope 2: Electricity consumption. Scope 3: Service need to report their Scope 2 emissions both with the market-based method and the local-based method. However, as there is no buses for employee transfers and business trips by airplane. descriptive and confirmed information about Vodafone's electric Energy consumption of all buildings, switching sites and data centres, supply source, no market-based calculation could be done. According base stations, vehicle fleets, and generators under the control of to the Standard, the market-based emissions were considered to be Vodafone is monitored regularly. These data are also included in the the same as local-based emissions. Emission Factors Unit CO2 CH4 N2O Total CO2-e Natural gas kg CO2e/m3 1.9365 0.0043 0.0010 1.9418 Diesel (mobile) kg CO2e/liter 2.6248 0.0035 0.0412 2.6694 Gasoline (mobile) kg CO2e/liter 2.2164 0.0030 0.0543 2.2738 Diesel (stationary) kg CO2e/liter 2.6248 0.0089 0.0063 2.6399 Gasoline (stationary) kg CO2e/liter 2.2164 0.0080 0.0057 2.2301 Cooling gases R410A kg CO2/kg 2,087.5 2,087.5 Cooling gases R407C kg CO2/kg 1,773.9 1,773.9 Cooling gases R134A kg CO2/kg 1,430.0 1,430.0 Fire extinguishers HFC 227ea kg CO2/kg 3,220.0 3,220.0 Electricity (network) kg CO2e/kWh 0.5503 0.0002 0.0016 0.5521 Employee transportation kg CO2e /vehicle km 0.5641 0.0001 0.0055 0.5698 Flights – domestic kg CO2e /vehicle km 0.1560 0.0001 0.0015 0.1576 Flights Europe kg CO2e /vehicle km 0.0889 0.0000 0.0009 0.0897 Flights – intercontinental kg CO2e /vehicle km 0.1037 0.0000 0.0010 0.1048 54 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Energy Consumption and GHG Emissions Energy Consumption and GHG Emissions Energy Consumption (GJ)* 2013/14 Fiscal Year 2014/15 Fiscal Year 2015/16 Fiscal Year Base Stations 1,280,439 1,312,789 1,430,689 Purchased electricity 1,226,778 1,257,844 1,378,365 Diesel and gasoline (generator) 52,815 54,059 51,440 Renewable energy (solar and wind power) 846 886 884 Switching Sites and Data Centres 205,167 215,809 253,497 Purchased electricity 202,986 212,464 249,455 Diesel (generator) 2,143 3,271 3,968 Natural gas 0 0 0 Renewable energy (solar power) 38 74 74 Office Buildings (including call centres) 54,041 65,853 51,512 Purchased electricity 49,256 57,588 44,896 Diesel (generator) 406 887 865 Natural gas 4,379 7,378 5,751 Vehicle Fuels 47,158 47,891 50,698 Diesel 46,814 47,669 50,580 Gasoline 344 222 118 TOTAL 1,586,805 1,642,342 1,786,396 Note: Detailed information on conversion factors and methodology is provided in the “Reporting Principles” section of this report. * Energy data for the 2013/14, 2014/15 and 2015/16 fiscal years was assured by the independent audit firm EY. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2 – equivalent) 2013/14 Fiscal Year 2014/15 Fiscal Year 2015/16 Fiscal Year Scope 1 10,697.7* 27,103.0* 19,217.2 Vehicles 3,552.3 3,608.1 3,820.1 F-gases 2,879.1 18,857.8 11,027.8 Fuel used in buildings 246.4 415.1 323.5 Generators 4,019.9 4,222.0 4,045.8 Scope 2 215,705.9* 209,914.1* 256,530.6 Electricity consumption in base stations 178,918.1 172,812.3 211,388.4 Electricity consumption in switching sites and data centres 29,604.1 29,189.9 38,256.9 Electricity consumption in office buildings 7,183.7 7,911.9 6,885.3 Scope 3 5,781.8 5,049.5 5,137.3 Service buses 4,505.4 3,990.7 3,981.3 Business travels by airplane 1,276.4 1,058.8 1,156.0 TOTAL 232,185.4 242,066.6 280,885.1 Note: Detailed information on the methodology and approach used in calculations is provided in the “Reporting Principles” section of this report. * Scope 1 and scope 2 emissions data for the 2013/14 and 2014/15 fiscal years was assured by the independent audit firm EY. For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 55 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index for “In Accordance option Core” This report has been prepared and issued in order to disclose Vodafone Turkey Group Companies’ sustainability performance and practices as well as future targets and strategies between April 1st 2015 and March 31st 2016. This report is also published as a UNGC Progress Report. The contents of the report are developed in accordance with the G4 “core” option of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The report has received “Materiality Disclosures Services” from the GRI Secretariat, stating that indicators between G4-17 and G4-27 are given correctly in the report and in the GRI Content Index. The GRI Content Index below shows the information and data provided in the report for each relevant GRI G4 indicator and the page numbers where related information can be found. Unless mentioned otherwise, GRI indicators cover issues material to our company. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principles STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the CEO CEO Messages Full 2, 3 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization Full Vodafone Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. G4-4 Primary brands, products and Vodafone Turkey Full 5 services G4-5 Location of the organization’s Full Vodafone Plaza, headquarters Büyükdere Cad. No: 251, Maslak 34398, İstanbul, Turkey G4-6 Countries where the organization Full Turkey operates G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form About the Report Full 4 All shares of Vodafone Turkey Group of Companies are owned by Vodafone Group Plc. G4-8 Markets served Full Turkey G4-9 Scale of the organization Vodafone Turkey Full 5 G4-10 Breakdown of workforce Our Contribution to the Full 6 Principle 6 Economy 35 G4-11 Percentage of total employees Full We respect our Principle 1, covered by collective bargaining employee’s right for 2, 3 agreements collective bargaining. Our employees are not unionized. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply Responsible Supply Chain Full 24 chain 56 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 GRI G4 Content Index Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principles G4-13 Significant changes during the Full During the 2015/16 reporting period regarding the fiscal year, there organization’s size, structure, were no significant ownership, or its supply chain changes regarding size, structure, ownership, or supply chain. G4-14 Addressing the precautionary Environment Full 26 approach or principle Base Stations and Health Vodafone supports the application of the European Commission’s framework for a precautionary approach as contained in the 2000 EC Communication on Precaution. G4-15 External charters, principles or Our Approach to Sustainability Full 13 initiatives endorsed G4-16 Membership of associations and Our Approach to Sustainability Full 13 advocacy organizations IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Report coverage of entities included About the Report Full 4 Not in the consolidated financial assured statements G4-18 Process for defining the report Our Approach to Sustainability Full 10 Not content and the aspect boundaries assured G4-19 Material aspects identified Our Approach to Sustainability Full 10 Not Material Aspects are assured provided in the top right quadrant of the graphic found on page 10. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Full Material Issues are Not the Aspect Boundary within the relevant for all entities assured organization within the company. G4-21 For each material Aspect, report Our Approach to Sustainability Full 10 Not the Aspect Boundary outside the Aspects that are material assured organization outside the company are indicated as a footnote of the graphic found on page 10. G4-22 The effect of any restatements of Full There were no Not information provided in previous restatements. assured reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous Full There are no significant Not reporting periods in the Scope and changes in the Scope or assured Aspect Boundaries Aspect Boundaries. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged Our Approach to Sustainability Full 12 Not by the organization assured G4-25 Basis for identification and selection Our Approach to Sustainability Full 10 Not of stakeholders assured G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder Our Approach to Sustainability Full 10, 12 Not engagement assured For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 57 GRI G4 Content Index Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principles G4-27 Response to key topics and Our Approach to Sustainability Full 10, 12 Not concerns raised assured REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 1 April 2015 31 March 2016 fiscal year G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Full Vodafone Turkey 2014/15 Sustainability Report G4-30 Reporting cycle Full Sustainability report is published annually. G4-31 Contact point for questions Full Corporate Relations Department: surdurulebilirlik@ vodafone.com G4-32 “In accordance” option, GRI content GRI G4 Content Index Full In accordance with index and external assurance the “Core” option of G4. External assurance statement is provided on pages 62-63 of this report. G4-33 Policy and current practice Independent Assurance Full This is the fourth year regarding external assurance Statement that received assurance from an independent assurance firm. The assurance statement is provided on pages 62-63 of this report. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance and Ethics structure of Our Approach to Sustainability Full 7 the organization ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Values, principles, standards and Corporate Security Full 42-43 Principle 10 norms of behavior, such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 58 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 GRI G4 Content Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principles Economic DMA Aspect: Economic Performance Our Contribution to the 6 Economy G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated Our Contribution to the Partial 6 and distributed Economy DMA Aspect: Indirect Economic Impact Our Contribution to the 6 Economy G4-EC7 Development and impact of Our Contribution to the Partial 6 infrastructure investments and Economy services supported G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic Our Contribution to the Partial 6 impacts including the extent of Economy impacts Environmental DMA Aspect: Energy Environment 26 Principle 7, 8, 9 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the Energy and GHG data Full 55 Assured Principle 7, 8 organization G4-EN5 Energy intensity Environment Full 27 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN6 Reduction in energy use Environment Full 27, 28 Principle 7, 8 DMA Aspect: Water Environment 29 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environment Full 29 Principle 7, 8 The water we consume at our buildings is from the municipal supply. DMA Aspect: Emissions Environment 26 Principle 7, 8, 9 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Environment Full 55 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions Environment Full 55 Principle 7, 8 (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions Environment Full 55 Principle 7, 8 (Scope 3) DMA Aspect: Effluents and Waste Environment 28-29 Principle 8 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Environment Partial 28 Principle 8 disposal method DMA Aspect: Product and Services Environment 29 Principle 8, 9 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts Environment Partial 29 Principle 8, 9 of products and services DMA Aspect: Supplier Environmental Responsible Supply Chain 24 Principle 8 Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that Responsible Supply Chain Full All our new suppliers Principle 8 were screened using environmental are screened using criteria environmental criteria. For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 59 GRI G4 Content Index Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principles Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work DMA Aspect: Employment Our People 35 Principle 6 G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee Our People Partial 37 Principle 6 turnover by age group, gender and region. DMA Aspect: Health and Safety OHS 30 Principle 1 This issue is also material for outside of our company. G4-LA6 Injuries, lost days, absenteeism and OHS Partial 32 Principle 1 fatalities DMA Aspect: Training and Education Our People 40 Principle 6 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year Our People Full 41 Principle 6 per employee by gender, and by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management Our People Full 40, 41 Principle 6 and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving Our People Full 38 regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category DMA Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Our People 37 Principle 1, 6 G4-LA12 Composition of Governance and Our People Full 35, 37 Principle 6 Ethics bodies and breakdown of employees DMA Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labour Responsible Supply Chain 24 Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers Responsible Supply Chain Full All our new suppliers Principle 1, 6 that were screened using labour are screened using practices criteria labour practices criteria. G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential Responsible Supply Chain Full 24 Principle 1, 6 negative impacts for labor practices Base Stations and Health 25 in the supply chain and actions OHS 32 taken Social: Human Rights DMA Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Our Approach to Sustainability 9 Principle 1, Assessment Responsible Supply Chain 24 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that Responsible Supply Chain Full All our new suppliers Principle 1, were screened using human rights are screened using 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 criteria human rights criteria. G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential Our Approach to Sustainability Full 9 Principle 1, negative human rights impacts in 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 the supply chain and actions taken 60 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 GRI G4 Content Index Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principles Social: Society DMA Aspect: Local Communities Base Stations and Health 25 G4-SO2 Operations with significant negative Base Stations and Health Full 25 impacts on local communities DMA Aspect: Anti-Corruption Corporate Security 43 Principle 10 G4-SO4 Anti-corruption training Corporate Security Full 43 Principle 10 DMA Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Responsible Supply Chain 24 Principle 10 Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that Full All our new suppliers Principle 10 were screened using criteria for are screened using impacts on society criteria for impacts on society. Social: Product Responsibility DMA Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Base Stations and Health 25 G4-PR1 Assessment of health and safety Base Stations and Health Full The affect of mobile impacts of products devices and masts on human health is continuously being evaluated and assessed. DMA Aspect: Product and Service Labelling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring Full 5 customer satisfaction DMA Aspect: Customer Privacy Corporate Security 42, 43 G4-PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of Not reported This data is not Principle 1 customer privacy and data. reported. It is proprietary information. For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 61 G4-32, G4-33 62 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 G4-32, G4-33 For more information www.vodafone.com.tr 63 Vodafone Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. Vodafone Plaza Büyükdere Caddesi No: 251 Maslak 34398 Istanbul Tel: +90 850 542 00 00 (Vodafone Headquarters) Tel: 0542 542 00 00 (Vodafone Customer Services) or 542 (Vodafone customers) www.vodafone.com.tr For more information on the Sustainability Report: Corporate Relations Department E-posta: surdurulebilirlik@vodafone.com Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report was prepared solely for informative purposes and all content and information in this Report are prepared using the information and sources deemed to be accurate and reliable in the time the Report was written. None of the information and content in this Report can be interpreted as a statement, warranty and/or commitment; nor is it guaranteed that the information and content in this Report is complete and unchangeable. All rights reserved. Reporting Consultancy 3P Sustainability Consulting www.3psustainability.com.tr Report Design Mehmet Edeoğlu Vodafone Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. Vodafone Plaza Büyükdere Caddesi No: 251 Maslak 34398 Istanbul, Turkey Tel: +90 850 542 00 00 (Vodafone Headquarters) Tel: 0542 542 00 00 (Vodafone Customer Services) or 542 (Vodafone customers) www.vodafone.com.tr
