About }} Tata Technologies Ltd., Pune; mentioned in the materiality mapping table and GRI index section. The Report }} TAL Manufacturing Ltd., Nagpur Report Assurance }} Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd., Dharwad The content and data disclosed in this report has been }} TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd., Pune; independently verified and externally assured. The }} TML Drivelines Ltd., Jamshedpur conformance of our Sustainability Report 2016-17 with Our Approach to Sustainability Reporting “in accordance comprehensive” requirements of the GRI }} Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd., Lucknow. Standard has been verified by DNV-GL, an independent Tata Motors Limited publishes the sustainability report on yearly basis1, disclosing the performance and initiatives in the economic, environmental and social space. Resulting third party assurance provider. They have conducted the Key Exclusions assurance engagement as per Type 2 moderate level as from the introduction of GRI standards, we have made the transition from GRI-G4 and this year we have published our thirteenth sustainability report for FY 2016-2017 as In sustainability report of 2016-17, the main exclusions set out in the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 and have per GRI Standard “in accordance – comprehensive” criteria. The report is aligned to are mentioned as below: provided assurance, at a ‘limited level’, the statement of ‘Ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact’ (UNGC), ‘Sustainable Development which forms a part of this Report. The assurance statement }} The economic performance of subsidiaries. Goals’ (SDG’s) and the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and by DNV-GL covers the summary of the work performed, Economic (NVG-SEE) Responsibilities of Businesses in India issued by the Ministry of }} Product innovations and customer service of the the manner in which the assurance engagement has Corporate Affairs, Government of India and is prepared in compliance with the ‘Business subsidiaries. been conducted, the extent to which TML has applied GRI Responsibility Report’ Clause 55 of the equity listing agreement with stock exchanges in India. Standard and the conclusions on the Report. The overall }} Information on the local community engagement and CSR activities of the subsidiaries. responsibility of sustainability report assurance is with SHE This report provides insights into our approach to sustainability, along with strategy, committee supported by Safety, Health and Environment objectives and performance. Other exclusion related to the specific disclosure has been council and plant level apex committees. Our Principle for Defining Report Content and Context At Tata Motors Limited, we believe that broader and inclusive stakeholder engagement provides valuable inputs for identification of our material topics. Our materiality assessment provided sustainability context and helped us prioritize strategies, policies and action plans in the area of the economy, environment and society. In this sustainability report, we have disclosed on all the material issues, including issues that are identified as low, high and critical in the materiality matrix, in line with the GRI topic specific standard. In addition to the identified material topics, we have included effluent, waste and water as material topics in this year’s sustainability report. While developing the content of the report, we have aligned our sustainability report as per the disclosure requirements of GRI standards by applying the reporting principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness. Scope and Boundary Our 2016-17 report highlights the performance of Tata Motors Limited, India operations located at Pune, Jamshedpur, Lucknow, Sanand, Dharwad and Pantnagar. We have also included the sustainability performance of three of our subsidiaries and one joint venture (JV)2 namely, Cautionary Statement: This report contains “forward-looking statements” describing the Company’s objective, projections, estimates and expectations. Actual results could differ 1 The reports for years 2004-05 and 2005-06 were limited to internal circulation. Reports from 2006-07 onwards are publicly accessible and can be accessed from http://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/sustainability-approach-reports/ materially from those expressed or implied. Important factors that could make a difference to the Company’s operations include, among others, economic conditions affecting demand / 2 For a complete list of our subsidiaries and joint ventures, please refer to annual report 2016-17 supply and price conditions in the domestic and overseas markets in which the Company operates, changes in the Government regulations, laws and other statutes and incidental factors 1 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | About the Report Sustainability Report 2016-17 | About the Report 2 Message From effort to reduce our green-house gas (GHG) emissions, through on-site sustainability assessment and reported we are continuously striving to increase the share of on their ESG performance in our Sustainability Report renewable energy, improve our operational energy 2016-17. The overwhelmingly positive response from our CEO & MD efficiency through ENCON, producing energy efficient suppliers has been encouraging; within 3 to 5 years we products and diligently monitoring GHG emissions due to aspire to cover 100% of our critical Tier 1 suppliers in the our business. In our effort to meet the growing needs of process of sustainable supply chain engagement. mobility solution and reiterating our commitment towards smart and sustainable technology, we have launched, in Derived from the values of corporate citizenship in the Dear Colleagues, FY 2016-17, the STARBUS ELECTRIC 9m, the STARBUS Tata Group, the focus of our community development ELECTRIC 12m and the STARBUS HYBRID 12m buses, programs is to meet the needs of our stakeholders I am pleased to present to you our thirteenth annual designed, developed and powered by alternate fuels. We and is strategically tied to competencies and business sustainability report titled ‘FUTUREADY’, which have also showcased the country’s first Fuel cell bus needs of our organization. Health (Arogya), Education summarizes our performance and commitment towards (12m), LNG Powered bus (12m), and 18m Articulated bus. (Vidhyadhanam), Employability (Kaushalya), and Environment the ‘Triple Bottom Line’. This year we have made the Developed indigenously, these buses are viable ‘MADE IN (Vasundhara) continue to be the four pillars of our transition from GRI G4 to GRI standard “in accordance INDIA’ solutions ensuring safe, comfortable, economical community development agenda. We have also – comprehensive” criteria. The report is also aligned and sustainable mass transport solutions. introduced mechanism for capturing the value creation to ‘Ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact’, from our community development programs by assessing ‘Sustainable Development Goals’ and ‘National Voluntary We are the second Indian company to join RE100 initiative, the social return on investment (SROI) for all our long Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic a drive led by the Climate Group, and we have increased duration (5 years or more) programs. Our intention has Responsibilities of Business’ of the Ministry of Corporate the share of Renewable Energy from 8.44% in 2015-16 always been to help the disadvantaged section of society Affairs, Government of India. to 16.34% in 2016-17 of the total electricity consumption. and we continue to strive to bring in positive impact on the society through our Affirmative Action initiatives. The world is going through the early stages of the Fourth Safety & Health is of paramount importance to us and Industrial Revolution and with growing implications we are committed to provide our employees with safe To conclude, I would like to reiterate our commitment from rapid technological advancements like artificial and healthy working environment. During the year, we towards sustainable development while being responsible intelligence, a holistic approach to sustainable growth have achieved a reduction of 11.8% in ‘Lost Time Injury to our business. I would like to take this opportunity Sustainability is core to the ‘Triple is critical. At Tata Motors Limited, we innovate mobility Frequency’ rate and 5.36% reduction in Total Recordable to express my gratitude to all our stakeholders for solutions with passion to enhance the quality of life, and Cases frequency rate as compared to last year, but are contributing and partnering with us in our journey of Bottom Line (TBL)’ approach strive to institutionalize sustainable practices in every saddened by the three unfortunate fatalities that occurred sustainability. Your views and suggestions in this journey for organizations in current aspect of business, in order to not just face emerging at Pune and at Jamshedpur. The incidents leading to are important to us and we welcome your feedback. challenges but stay ahead of the curve in the era of the fatalities were thoroughly investigated and we have times. While we continue to continuous change. introduced new policies in relation to lone working, focus on improving our economic CCTV installations, use and replacement of vehicles performance, it is equally Financial year 2016-17 has been a dynamic year for for business purpose (for travel safety) and industrial Indian automotive industry, from the ban on diesel cars hygiene, in addition to the existing 18 safety standards important to address social and to demonetization, followed by recent shift of sale and to address the root cause of the fatalities. We have environmental concerns, going registration of BS III to BS IV vehicles by Indian Supreme set the safety targets to decrease the total recordable Guenter Butschek Court. To address the challenges in the regulatory cases by 65% by 2020 from the identified base year of CEO & Managing Director beyond statutory compliances, environment, we are ready with SCR (Selective Catalytic 2016-17. All our commercial and passenger vehicles Tata Motors Limited physical boundaries, & addressing Reduction) and EGR (Exhaust Gas Recirculation) manufacturing plants are OSHAS 180001 certified and technologies for BS IV compliant engines. we have implemented robust second party safety audit. ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) of entire value chain We consider Climate Change as one of our material issues. In view of the complexity of our operation and dependency is the need of the hour. To address this risk, we have our Climate Change policy on our supply chain, Tata Motors has taken up the and developed strategies in line with this policy for our sustainable supply chain initiative for mitigating the passenger and commercial vehicle business units. Our environment, social and governance (ESG) risks in the approach towards climate change mitigation and pursuing supply chain. We continuously engage with our suppliers to low carbon growth is three-fold. We are working towards provide inputs and assess their performance on economic, developing cleaner and more efficient vehicles, reducing environmental and social dimensions. This year we have environmental impact from manufacturing operations, with engaged with 105 top suppliers who have reported and building awareness among all stakeholders. In our on their ESG performance. We have assessed 52 of them 3 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Message From CEO & MD Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Message From CEO & MD 4 Message From COO & ED Despite the challenges due to the changing dynamics in the global and national business environment, owing to change in the regulatory environment and stakeholder expectations, we have produced a total number of 521943 vehicles in 2016-17, an increase of 6% from 2015-16 production numbers. Delighting our customers with our service and innovative products is vital to our business. During 2016-17, we have spent INR 21 billion in Research and Development (R&D) and achieved 22 patents granted. To fulfil our commitment towards sustainable mobility solutions, we have introduced alternate fuel and hybrid buses and shall continue to innovate environment friendly and safe technologies. We, at Tata Motors, acknowledge climate change as a critical risk and to demonstrate our commitment towards reducing Green-house Gas (GHG) emission reduction, we have become a signatory of RE100 initiative. In this context, renewable energy is a thrust area for us at Tata Since the inception, under the Motors and we aspire to source 100% of our energy from guidance of Tata Group philosophy, renewable energy source by 2030. We are also working towards achieving “Zero Waste to Landfill” and “Water sustainability and responsible Positivity” in near future. Safety continues to be a critical business has always been of area and we continue to push the safety envelope further with our stringent processes, safety standards, trainings utmost importance to us. and involved leadership. Our diverse and multi-tiered supply chain is an integral part This is our thirteenth sustainability report and we sincerely of our business and has been identified as crucial feature hope that this report provides insight into our business for our business continuity. To integrate Environmental, operations and sustainability performance. Social and Governance (ESG) aspects in supply chain We are publishing this report as per GRI standard and for mitigating plausible risks, we have initiated focused disclosing on all the identified material topics and relevant engagement with our selected critical suppliers to monitor goals. Additionally, waste and water have been included and enhance their ESG performance. We shall continue our as the material topic in our Sustainability Report 2016-17. engagement with suppliers for ensuring sustainable supply chain. With the help of our established sustainability governance As we continue our voyage towards “FutuReady”, imbibed structure and close integration among all departments, with our strong ethos and values, I would like to express we intend to work towards achieving our set targets my gratitude to our stakeholders for being a part of Tata and aspirational goals assigned to energy, environment, Motors Limited’s sustainability journey. health, safety, value chain and social areas. Tata Group sustainability policy had been formulated in June 2015. In harmony with Tata Group sustainability policy and Tata Code of Conduct, our business strategy and decisions are taken considering the environmental Satish Borwankar and social impact on communities and contribute to COO & Executive Director sustainable development of the nation as a whole. Tata Motors Limited 5 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Message From COO & ED Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Message From COO & ED 6 About Tata Motors Limited Sustainability Report 2016-17 | About Tata Motors Limited Sustainability Report 2016-17 | About Tata Motors Limited Our History, Business Mission, Vision & Values We are a company that constantly innovates across Key Statistics passenger and commercial vehicles to provide & sustainable mobility solutions for people and goods. With a deep urge to address customer needs, we offer the widest portfolio of products. In our efforts to make a substantial contribution to the uptake of innovative Tata Motors is a part of Tata Group founded by Jamshetji Product Categories and green urban mobility solutions, we bring in the most Tata in 1868 and is the largest manufacturer in Indian advanced technologies to offer relevant solutions. As a automotive industry, with a wide range of portfolio part of the Tata group, we believe in making a difference covering cars, sports vehicles, buses, trucks and defence for our employees, for the communities we are part of and vehicles. Established in 1945, today Tata Motors operates for the country. Our Mission statement clearly defines our from 163 countries, globally, employing 60,000 workpurpose of existence and our passionate commitment forces and having more than 6600 service points. to bring sustainable innovation into everything we do to enhance the quality of life. Tata Motors became an international brand in 1961 and currently our international market presence spans across We aspire to be among Top 3 in global commercial several countries in Europe, Africa, the Middle-east, vehicle markets and domestic passenger vehicle markets Southeast Asia, South America, Australia, CIS and Russia. Source: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers report & Company Analysis in next 3 years while achieving sustainable performance Subsidiaries and associate companies have helped the and delivering exciting innovations and same has been company to expand its operations to UK, South Korea, Thailand, South Africa and Indonesia. mentioned in our vision statement. Faster time-to-market new technologies will be our key goal to find new and agile In India, we have manufacturing facilities located at ways of innovating and experimenting. To compete in the market, our approach will be targeted to reduce complexity, Jamshedpur, Pune, Lucknow, Pantnagar, Sanand provide for future technologies and ensure global relevance. We aim not only to comply with the emerging regulations and Dharwad. We have 18 subsidiaries of which the but to be ahead of the curve to manage ESG risks. We are constantly looking at proactively converting these risks into performance of 4 of the subsidiaries namely, TAL opportunities by developing and delivering sustainable mobility solutions. Manufacturing Solutions Ltd. (TAL), TML Drivelines Limited, Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd. (TMML) and Tata Technologies Ltd. (TTL), have been included in this report. During fiscal year 2017, sales in the domestic CV industry registered a growth of 3.2% in volumes and the domestic PV industry registered a growth of 9.6%, supported by growth in both passenger cars and utility vehicles. Followed by demonetization in November 2016, auto industry has witnessed significant decline in sales for a short period of time3. During fiscal year 2017, our CV segment has shown declined performance as compared to last fiscal year 2016. Domestic CV market has been facing significant challenges resulting from tighter financing, over capacity in the market and increasingly competitive freight rate. In view of the tough domestic CV market, it is evident that key purchase criteria continue to be on payload and fuel efficiency with specific focus on total cost of ownership. 3 http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/articleshow/56791316.cms?utm_source=contentofinterest&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=cppst 9 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | About Tata Motors Limited Sustainability Report 2016-17 | About Tata Motors Limited 10 11 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | About Tata Motors Limited Sustainability Report 2016-17 | About Tata Motors Limited 12 Governance No success or achievement in material terms is worthwhile unless it serves the needs or interests of the country and its people and is achieved by fair and honest means. J.R.D. Tata Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance Corporate systems. Our philosophy on corporate governance is The Board of Directors at Tata Motors Ltd. comprises of The Business risk is managed through cross-functional in line with the Tata group philosophy which is further ten Directors of which seven are non-executive, including involvement and communication across businesses. strengthened with the adherence to the Tata Business one Woman Independent Director. The Board, under the The results of the risk assessment and residual risks Governance Excellence Model as a means to drive excellence. We able guidance of Mr. Guenter Butschek (CEO and Managing are presented to the senior management. The Audit have been practicing the principles of good corporate Director), periodically reviews the organizational policies, Committee reviews business risk areas covering governance since our inception and have laid strong procedures and performance conducted by the Board. For operational, financial, strategic and regulatory risks. emphasis on independence, responsibility, transparency, details regarding the composition of governance body, professionalism, accountability and code of ethics to please refer to our 72nd Annual Report 2016-174 . The Board has constituted a set of Committees with We at TML, strongly believe that good corporate ensure adherence to the Tata ethics and value system. specific terms of reference/scope to focus effectively on governance is fundamental to the success of any Managing Business Risk the issues and expedite appropriate resolution of diverse organization and ensures inclusive and sustainable Our current Organization Chart depicting the relationship matters. The Committees operate as empowered agents The Board is responsible for the overall process of risk growth. Good corporate governance leads to effective between the Board of Directors, the Committees and the of the Board as per their Charter/terms of reference. management throughout the organization. Through our decision making and it supports formation of robust Senior Management functions as on March 31, 2017, is Targets set by them as agreed with the management are Enterprise Risk Management program, the Company’s operations, financial, risk and information management illustrated below: reviewed periodically and midcourse corrections are also business units and corporate functions address carried out. The Board of Directors and the Committees opportunities and the attendant risks through an also take decisions by circular resolutions which are institutionalized approach aligned to the Company’s noted during the following meeting. objectives. This is also facilitated by internal audit. Board Committees and Their Functions Board Committees Functions The objective of the Audit Committee is to review the quarterly/annual financial statements before submission to the Board. The committee also reviews the Audit Committee adequacy of internal control systems with the management, external auditor and internal auditor and recommends improvements to the management. For further details, please refer page no. 173-174 of Annual Report 2016-17. The Committee oversees and reviews statutory compliance relating to all security holders. It further considers and resolves the grievances of security holders of the Stakeholder’s company including complaints related to transfer of securities, non-receipt of annual Relationship report / declared dividends / notices / balance sheets. The Company has a designated email id: inv_rel@tatamotors.com for contacting the Compliance Officer. For further details, refer to page no.178-179 of Annual Report 2016-17. The Committee recommends to the Board the setup and composition of the Board and its Committees including the “formulation of the criteria for determining Nomination and qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a director”. For details of the Remuneration remuneration of Directors, Key Personnel and Employees, please refer to page no. 106 of Tata Motors Ltd. Annual Report 2015-16. For further details, refer page no. 174-178 of Annual Report 2016-17. The Committee was constituted with the objective of reviewing Safety, Health, The Safety, Health Environment and Sustainability practices and performance. The Committee & Environment comprises of two Independent Directors and two Executive Directors. For further details, refer page no. 179 of Annual Report 2016-17. 4 http://www.tatamotors.com/investor/annual-reports/ 15 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance 16 Chief Ethical Counsellor is responsible for management remains unaltered at its core. It was last refreshed in Board Committees Functions of overall business ethics. FY 2015-16 to enhance its alignment with the global business environment. The Committee formulates and recommends to the Board, a CSR Policy which shall The Company has an ethics helpline where employees can Corporate Social indicate the activities to be undertaken by the Company as specified in Schedule VII. place anonymous complaints against ethics violations Responsibility The Committee also recommends the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the and can be reached through Ethics Hotline Number Committee activities referred to in clause (a) of the CSR rules. It also monitors the CSR Policy (1800 224440 / 022-2287 1839) or oral reports. All of the Company from time to time. For further details, refer page no. 180 of Annual concerns can be reported to Chief Ethics Counsellor/ Report 2016-17. Chairman of the Audit Committee in Hindi, English or any regional language. The committee assists the Board in overseeing the Company’s risk management process and controls, risk tolerance, capital liquidity and funding etc. and its periodic TATA Code of Conduct Risk Management update thereof to the Board. It is also responsible for reviewing the Company’s Committee The Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) represents the values risk governance structure, assessment, practice, guidelines etc. The Committee and core principles that guide the conduct of every Tata comprises of 4 Independent Directors. For further details, refer page no. 180 of business and is followed throughout the organization Annual Report 2016-17. to monitor aspects including anti-bribery, corruption, equal opportunities and human rights. TCoC, developed The Executive Committee of the Board reviews capital and revenue budgets, longat Tata Group level, accounts for all our stakeholders i.e. term business strategies and plans, the organizational structure of the Company, employees, customers, communities in which we operate, Executive Committee real estate and investment transactions, allotment of shares and/or debentures, value chain partners, joint venture partners, financial of the Board borrowing and other routine matters. The Executive Committee of Board presently stakeholders, the government of countries in which we comprises of 1 Independent Director, 1 NonExecutive Director and 3 Whole-time operate and other group companies, and guides towards Directors. For further details, refer page no. 179 of Annual Report 2016-17. highest moral and ethical standards. It lays emphasis on striving to balance the interests of our stakeholders, and Visit our website: http://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/leadership/ provide avenues for them to raise concerns or queries in good faith, or report instances of actual or perceived Ethics And Integrity violations of our Code. The primary objective of the TCoC is to ensure effective implementation and adherence to Tata Motors has an Ethics Framework in place in line transfer, demotion, refusal of promotion etc. The Policy A defined Code of Conduct is available and applicable the group’s mission on environmental, labour practices, with Tata Group values to ensure ethical standards by its is directly monitored by the Chairman of the Audit for independent directors of the company under the societal and code of conduct aspects. The procedures vendors and contractors through appropriate clauses in its Committee and the Chief Ethics Oﬃcer. responsibility of Company Secretary. Training and for addressing and resolving issues related to conflicts of work contracts. This framework includes Board oversight awareness on TCoC are provided to all employees and interest are stated in the TCoC for the relevant personnel, of ethics programs and activities. The Company also has At Tata Motors Limited, we have conducted an ethical relevant stakeholders are also made aware of the same which includes employees, Executive, Directors and a whistle-blower mechanism, for ensuring conﬁdentiality assurance survey in 2016 to gather views from our from time to time. Chief Executive Officer/Managing Director. For all the and protecting the whistle-blower from any harassment/ employees, dealers and vendors. This survey helps us employees other than Executive Directors, the Chief victimization. The policy covers instances pertaining to understand the changing business environment and Executive Officer / Managing Director is the competent any unfair practice like retaliation, threat or intimidation aligns our ethical code of conduct, if necessary. authority for decision making, who in turn reports such of termination/suspension of service, disciplinary action, cases to the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. In the case of the Chief Executive Officer / Managing Director and executive directors, the Board of Directors of our company has been designated as the competent authority for decision making and resolving the issue through appropriate means. The Code is also dynamic and has been periodically refreshed in order to remain contemporary and contextual to the changes in law and regulations. However, it 17 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance 18 Ethical Concerns Investigation of 8 TCoC concerns at TML and 2 of TMML Subsidiaries: are in progress as per TML’s Management of Business Ethics. Ethical Concerns for Subsidiaries: We have a robust mechanism to receive and resolve all ethical concerns. Our TCoC provides overall guidance for Our established grievance redressal mechanism Trend in Concerns Received/Resolved by TML Subsidiaries operating our business. The status of the TCoC concerns provides access to all the stakeholders for conveying Ethical Concerns for Subsidiaries5 is reviewed by the Audit Committee every quarter. During their concerns and getting the necessary attention the year 2016 – 17, following are the concerns received from TML’s management. Our grievance handling TCoC TTL TAL TMLDL TMML and resolved by TML: mechanism captures concern covering all the key areas Concerns Received Resolved Received Resolved Received Resolved Received Resolved of environment, health and safety, compliance, human 2015-16 5 5 2 2 4 4 1 1 resource, product responsibility and social responsibility. 2016-17 0 0 0 0 6 6 10 8 }} Environment: Our environmental grievance handling mechanism covers all aspects of the environment, Ethical Concerns Received/Resolved by Subsidiaries in 2016-17 namely biodiversity, energy, emission, water, waste and environmental compliances as covered under TCoC. Concerns in Numbers (FY2016-17) Head (SHE) is responsible for addressing the grievance TCoC Concerns Types TMML TMLDL related to the environment, supported by SHE team at the plant level. Furthermore, every plant is equipped Received Resolved Received Resolved with a requisite mechanism to receive and deal with Employee Relations 8 6 0 NA grievances from the stakeholders. Environment, Health & Safety 0 0 0 NA }} Procurement and Supply Chain: We have a dedicated Diversity, Equal Opportunity & Respect supplier code of conduct which provides the overall 2 2 1 1 in the Workplace guidance on the procurement, supply chain and for reporting violations in our supply chain. Corporate Sexual Harassment 0 0 3 3 SHE team and Procurement and Supply Chain team Financial Impropriety 0 0 1 1 are equipped with mechanisms to receive and deal Legal Compliance 0 0 0 NA with grievances from interested parties at a plant level. Unfair Business Practices Followed 0 0 1 1 }} Human Resource: Human Resource department is the first level of contact for receiving and dealing TOTAL 10 8 6 6 with grievance related to employees. In the case No ethical concerns are received for TAL and TTL during the year 2016 -17. of escalation, Ethics Counsellor is responsible for addressing and resolving the concerns. We have Sexual Harassment Avoidance and Redressal (SHAR) Policy in-line with Tata Code of Conduct and within the legal framework to prevent and address Sexual Harassment at the workplace. The Sexual Harassment Avoidance and Redressal System includes various locational SHAR committees and in addition, an APEX Corporate SHAR committee based in Mumbai. This acts as an Appellate Body and is responsible for disseminating SHAR policy and taking effective steps for its propagation amongst employees and for fostering a free and fair reporting of all the issues. Any complaints of sexual harassment can be reported at SHAR@tatamotors.com. }} Occupational Health and Safety: TCoC provides overall guidance on receiving and dealing with grievances related to health and safety. There is a dedicated online safety portal for reporting and it is a part of a regular review. In addition to the SHE Committee and Apex and sub committees, there 5 We have initiated reporting on ethical concerns for our subsidiaries from 2015-16. 19 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance 20 are divisional committees which represent all the operational levels and meets at regular intervals to address the grievances. offensive alignment or anti-social content in our marketing communications. The National Fair Trade Regulator – Competition Commission of India (CCI) had initiated legal Sustainability }} Product: We have dedicated TCoC for dealers, which provides guidance for handling grievances related actions for alleged anti-competitive behaviour against 17 car manufacturers including Tata Motors6. The matter is Management & Initiatives currently subjudice before the Delhi High Court which has to customers and marketing of products. All the At TML, we believe that sustainability is an integral part of The Board has also constituted a set of committees stayed the penalty imposed by the CCI. complaints are registered through customer helpline strategic management and corporate planning, therefore with specifically assigned areas to focus effectively on and can be tracked on daily basis. The complaints can incorporate environmental and social factors into the strategies leading to the integration of sustainability There have not been any incidents of corruption and be escalated to the President, Managing Director and identification of material topics and prioritization of KPIs. issues into the core business. anti-competitive behaviour in FY 2016-17. We have a Chairman’s offices till the closure of the complaint. process in place to take appropriate disciplinary action Board of Director Committee Alignment with Sustainability }} Corporate Social Responsibility: TCoC provides proportionate to the gravity of misconduct in line with guidance on handling local community grievance. the principles of natural justice which is taken against the CSR Committee at the BoD level is responsible for erring employees. We provide regular training to all our CSR activities, supported by corporate CSR team. At employees on anti-corruption and anti-competitive as plant level, CSR/AA Committee is equipped to deal per the TCoC for TML. with grievances received from stakeholders. Regulatory Compliance Anti-Corruption Appropriate systems are devised to ensure compliance Prevention of corruption and commitment to fair with the provisions of applicable laws and that such competition is one component of compliance efforts. TML systems are operating effectively. “Legatrix” has been has an Ethics Framework in place in line with Tata Group implemented which is an online compliance tool that helps values, as outlined in Tata Code of Conduct, supports the us to track and manage compliance of various regulatory development and operation of competitive open markets and legal requirements. We comply with new and existing and the liberalization of trade and investment in each laws, regulations and policies regarding increased fuel country and market in which we operate. economy, reduced greenhouse gas and other emissions, vehicle safety, taxes and pricing policies. We adhere to all As a member of the Advertising Standards Council of regulatory requirements pertaining to emissions, safety, India (ASCI) we follow its Code for Self-Regulation in product labelling and other clauses of the Central Motor Advertising and Marketing Communications. None of Vehicle Rules of India and Bureau of Indian Standards. Sustainability Policies our advertisements and promotions mislead in terms of The product and service information are in compliance In line with Tata Group Sustainability policy, we, Tata Motors goals and targets and identifying the relevant material claims and representations. We abstain from any kind of with all the standards that govern us. Limited, are committed to integrating environmental, issues. In addition to Sustainability policy, we consider social and ethical principles in our business. The policy Tata Code of Conduct as an overall guiding principle. We guides us in establishing sustainability governance that have in all 11 policies aligned to sustainability: is responsible for developing our sustainability strategy, 6 http://www.livemint.com/Industry/Ud6svtc3PU707BWV3fQdEJ/Delhi-HC-reserves-judgment-in-auto-makers-plea-against-pena.html 21 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance 22 Our Sustainability Governance Our sustainability governance comprises of SHE Committee at the board level which in turn is supported by the SHE locations, dealers and vendors for reliable, consistent and List of Membership Association accurate data exchange. Council at the business unit level. The SHE Apex Committee at our plants is supported by various focused departments We actively participate in National Committees, listed such as safety, energy and environment. below, which are working on formulating policies and CRM-DMS (Customer Relationship Management – regulations for improvement of environment throughout Sustainability Management Structure Dealer Management System): Our CRM-DMS is a unique the country. initiative, implemented through a centralized online system and deployed at all our dealerships and offices across the country. This helps us integrating our systems Engagements across the value chain to deliver better service quality. We continually work with the steering committee of National Hydrogen Energy Board to find ways to harness Enterprise Risk Management Program: Through the hydrogen potential energy of future. enterprise risk management program, business units and corporate functions address opportunities and risks Our experts are actively participating in World Forum of through an institutionalized approach aligned to the United Nations of Economic Commission (UNECE) for Company’s objectives. This is facilitated by internal audit. Europe for Harmonization of Vehicle Global Technical The business risk is managed through cross functional Regulations related to pollution control and safety. involvement and communication across businesses. We, at TML actively take part in all WP29 UNECE group Standards Certifications: All our manufacturing divisions activities and prepare in advance for any emerging are certified for ISO 14001:2004 – Environmental opportunities. Management System Standard and OHSAS 18001:2007 Sustainability is an integral part of our Safety, Health and Tata Motors Limited, under the guidance Tata Group, Safety and Occupational Health Management System Representations Environment governance and management structure. The has always strived to grow while being socially and Standard. All our CV manufacturing plants are also TML, has representations in significant number of overall sustainability performance of Tata Motors Limited environmentally responsible. In this context, we have the certified for ISO 50001:2011 Energy Management System National Committees as members which are working on is reviewed by the SHE Committee and SHE council on Tata Group level policy to explore and assess the natural namely, Pune CVBU, Jamshedpur, Lucknow, Pantnagar formulating policies and regulations for improvement of quarterly and monthly basis respectively. capital value for our business and aligning our overall and Dharwad. In order to ensure reliable and responsible environment including GHG reduction throughout the country; business strategy with SDG and NVGs. Over the years, suppliers for automotive production and service parts, we The Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Committee we have established robust sustainability governance have mandated that all our suppliers adopt the ISO 9001/ }} Standing Committee on Emissions (SCOE) has been constituted with the objective of reviewing mechanism, developed policies for all the relevant TS 16949 quality management system frameworks. We also encourage our dealers to adopt quality, environmental }} Sub-committee on CO2 emission norms of Union Safety, Health, Environment and Sustainability practices and material topics and from FY 2016-17 onwards, we have and safety management systems. Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport and Highways performance. The terms of reference of the Committee include: started engaging with our supply chain to establish a of India, along with Automotive Research Association sustainable supply chain. We have also developed and }} to take a holistic approach to safety, health, environmental of India (ARAI). published policies related to most of our material issues Policy Advocacy and sustainability matters in decision making; and have set goals and targets for the future. The details With a view to integrate and align existing sustainability }} Expert committee to define “Heavy Duty Vehicle Fuel }} to provide direction to Tata Motors Group in carrying out on the same are provided in the relevant sections. Economy Norms for India under Ministry of Shipping, issues with the public policy, we are actively involved in its safety, health, environment and sustainability function; Road Transport and Highways of Government of advocating for a better policy framework. We partner }} to frame broad guidelines/policies with regard to Furthermore, we constantly engage with our employees with policy makers/ industry associations and regulators India (GoI) & Petroleum Conservation Research safety, health, environment and sustainability; and Board members to develop and enhance knowledge on these issues through our representations in several Association (PCRA). in economic, environmental and social sustainability. industry and trade associations. }} Expert committee on Fuel Economy Labelling of }} to oversee the implementation of these guidelines/ policies; and Passenger Cars under Bureau of Energy Efficiency Management Systems Adhering to Tata Code of Conduct, we do not offer or under Ministry of Power (GoI). }} to review the policies, processes and systems give any company funds or property or other resources Our corporate governance philosophy is further }} Inter-ministerial committee for upcoming emission periodically and recommend measures for as donations to any specific political party, candidate strengthened with adhesion to the Tata Business norms (BSV, BSVI) for Motor Vehicles of Ministry of improvement from time to time or campaign and preclude any activity that could be Excellence Model (TBEM) to improve our overall Shipping, Road Transport and Highways, Ministry performance with higher levels of efficiency in our interpreted as mutual dependence/favour with any The Committee comprises of two Independent Directors of Heavy Industries, Ministry of Petroleum & Natural businesses and contribution towards sustainability political body or person. Any financial contributions including the Chairman of the Committee and three Gas (GoI). initiatives. considered by our Board of Directors in order to strengthen whole-time Directors. During the 2016-17, two meetings democratic forces through a clean electoral process shall }} Working group on Quadricycle Emission Norms for India. of the Committee were held on 27 May 2016 and 4 Our state-of-the-art Enterprise Resource Planning be extended only through the Progressive Electoral Trust }} Working Group on Energy for Subgroup on DST’s XIIth October 2016 wherein all the members were present at system, Supplier Relations Management and Customer in India, or by a similar transparent, duly-authorised, nonplan on Technology Development Program (TDP). the said meeting. Relations Management connect the company’s different discriminatory and non-discretionary vehicle outside India. 23 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance 24 }} Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, GoI, is promoting }} National Electric Mobility Mission Plan We and assisting technology development for GHG have been actively taking part in forming hybrid reduction by way of increased usage of biodiesel. performance criteria along with SIAM-FTG group and We are engaged in this initiative of GoI and currently assisted government to launch Faster Adoption and running number of engine and vehicle programs to Manufacturing of Hybrid & Electric vehicles in India commercialize usage of biodiesel as soon as the (FAME) scheme. same is made available to the general public by oil marketing companies. 25 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance 26 Message from Our Way Forward Head (SHE & Tata Motors Limited is committed to continue the up specific safety targets to reduce Total Recordable Sustainability) journey of sustainability by improving efficiency and Cases (TRC) to 0.62 and reduction of unsafe behaviour of effective utilization of the resources and capitals. We operators by 50%. We have identified the relevant focus One of our noteworthy efforts, initiative for sustainable have aligned our sustainability strategy keeping in areas for achieving our safety and health related goals. supply chain, has been prompted by Environment Social mind our business vision of 2019 and shall continue to and Governance, including climate change, issues and approach sustainability in an all-inclusive approach. We To ensure employee development and continuous risks that subsist in our diverse supply chain. This not have established targets for all our key issues and have learning, we have established Learning Advisory Council only mitigates risk of business continuity in relation with developed the action plans for achieving the same. The and have appointed a Chief Learning Officer who shall supply chain but also ensures overall positive impact on details on the same have been provided in the relevant ensure continuous learning and development of our environment and society. sections addressing the issues. employees. Though we aspire to establish a holistic Embedded with Tata’s core principle of enhancing quality charter on diversity, we shall continue to channel our of life, we endeavour to manage our operations and run Throughout the sustainability report, 2016-17, we We are committed to contribute positively towards focused effort towards developing and improving gender our business responsibly, minimize environmental impact have presented our initiatives, performance and our climate change mitigation and reducing our carbon diversity. and have positive effect on society. engagement with suppliers for sustainable supply footprint as well as overall environmental footprint. In this chain, which exemplify our commitment towards context, we shall continue our efforts towards sustainable Acknowledging the criticality of our diverse supply chain, We have set an aspiration to move our operations to holistic sustainability. While we are pleased with our transportation system and increased energy contribution we have initiated the journey of building a sustainable 100% renewable, achieve zero waste to landfill and accomplishments in renewable energy, sustainable from renewable energy sources. We seek to continue supply chain and we are going to continue our become water positive in a time bound manner. We supply chain initiative and our continuous community our practice and status of Zero Water Discharge and we engagement with suppliers, covering 100% of our critical continue our emphasis on biodiversity and in 2016-17, engagement, we acknowledge there is more we can do to aspire to achieve Zero Waste to Landfill Status. We are Tier 1 suppliers in next 3 to 5 years. we have completed biodiversity assessment of three of achieve our targets and aspirational goals. As we continue a signatory of RE100 initiative and aspire to operate on our plants and implementation of selected biodiversity our effort towards building sustainable business, we, at 100% renewable energy in coming future. Under the core guiding principle of Tata Group, we shall management plan is in process. Our integrated circular Tata Motors Limited, consider sustainability as everyday continue to engage with local community through our economy strategy addresses today’s crucial need – business and every individual’s responsibility and so, Safety and employee development is of immense CSR programs. We have developed a 5 year plan for resource optimization. Through our partners, Tata Prolife, practice sustainability in our day to day operations. importance to us and we shall continue to enhance our community engagement programs addressing our focus Tata Assured and Tata OK, we continuously endeavour to employees’ safety and overall health index. We have taken areas and Affirmative Action plan. increase the usable life of our vehicles. Mr. Arvind Bodhankar Head (SHE & Sustainability) 27 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Message from Head (SHE & Sustainability) 28 Awards Sustainability Highlights and Awards Highlights Pantnagar Plant accomplished CII North Zone, National award for excellence in energy Golden Peacock, EHS. along with Frost & Sullivan’s “Safety Excellence Award. Lucknow plant achieved Silver rating under Lucknow Plant Won CII GreenCo in 2016. Good Green Governance Award. Jamshedpur Plant won “Excellent Energy Efficient Unit” Dharwad plant achieved Gold rating under by CII in 17th National Award for Excellence in Energy CII GreenCo in 2016. Management 2016. 7 http://www.tata.com/aboutus/articlesinside/leading-sustainably 29 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Governance 30 Sustainable Mobility Solutions Sustainability Report Report Sustainability | Sustainable 2016-17 2016-17 | About Tata Mobility MotorsSolutions Limited Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable About Tata Motors Limited Mobility Solutions Sustainable Mobility Solution Improving quality of life through providing sustainable mass transportation and mobility solution has always been the focus of Tata Motors Limited. In this section, we introduce our stakeholders to our management approach, innovations and initiatives towards mass transportation and personnel transportation as well as share our customers’ feedback. 33 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions 34 Role of Transportation and Tata Motors in Helping The Customers India’s Economic Development Transportation in Context of India’s commercial goods vehicles, freight trucks, buses and Economic Development urban transport pertaining to light goods vehicles and cars and public transportation buses. The remarkable Transportation sector of India is vital for the economic growth of this sector poses both challenges as well as development of the country. It is the vehicle of sustained tremendous opportunity for the automotive sector. Rapid economic growth of the country. It’s greening therefore is urbanization and increasing higher middle class poses a imperative to India’s transition to global leader. Transport great market, but challenges like increasing congestion routes are like economic arteries and transport systems and pollution due to dramatic increase in personal are controllers of economy and provide the vital links vehicles makes urban cities a virtual gridlock. between production and consumption. Private sector has been increasingly providing leadership India is poised in edge of massive growth by 2025 to be into the problem of green logistics and urban mobility. the second most powerful economy with our nominal Key trends that will impact the roadmap of automotive GDP rising to estimate $7 trillion in 2025 as opposed to sector are: $2 trillion in 20158. India of 2025 will be very different from what it is now. It will have 18 megacities as compared to }} Electric vehicles – Poised for tremendous growth in 4 currently. Urbanization will increase and manufacturing India backed with pro-electric government policies. sector shall be contributing to 6% of total world trade as opposed to 2.2% currently. The market growth is rooted in }} Light weighting ultra-light, ultra-efficient vehicle Our vision, 2019, is to be considered among top 3 face-to-face interview done from May to August every rising number of middle class population with increasing is an efficiency measure which has major positive recognized brands in the global commercial vehicle and year over a spread of 30 cities. The survey samples are income levels. impact on bottom line as well as reduction in on-road domestic passenger vehicle development. In this context, owners with 12-24 months of ownership and who have carbon emissions customer centricity is intrinsic to our culture – develop, serviced their vehicle at least once in the last 6 months. For better understanding, the transport sector can be deliver, delight. We continuously strive to provide best We have improved our J. D. Power Survey score for }} Self-driving cars: Still nascent in India but on top of divided into five major sub-sectors namely railways, services to enhance our customer engagement. passenger vehicles to 888 in 2016 from 849 in 2015. minds of automotive companies globally, roads, ports & shipping, civil aviation and urban transport. The transport sector in India today faces an onerous task }} Vehicle sharing: With arrival of technology to enable Approach and Performance in of meeting the mobility demands of a population of more this, car ownership is a thing bygone. This creates Customer Engagement than 1.2 billion people spread over an area of 3.3 million an opportunity in the market for vehicles that can be Customer service quality is met through assimilation square kilometres (Census 2011)9. This is projected to used as shared resources. of our Customer Relationship Management and Dealer increase to 1.39 billion in 2025. Management System (CRM – DMS). Our TCoC for dealers }} Big data driven freight optimisation: Open source platforms will make data analytics flexible, reliable and and overall quality policy, formulated in October 2016, The data security of our customers is ensured through TML in India’s Economic Development provides the guiding approach towards customer service. a robust consumer privacy policy which tracks and relatively affordable for companies. This will lead to For TML, two areas of transport subsectors are of route and capacity optimisations, and collaborations measures key aspects of customer dissatisfaction. All relevance – roads translating to logistics related between various third party providers. Regular customer surveys and understanding customers’ the complaints are assessed for root cause analysis expectations help us advance in the quality of products through the Complaint Management Process. We have we develop. In view of providing consistent service, we a daily dashboard shared with the regional teams where have integrated feedback systems across the life cycle Turnaround Time (TAT) adherence is measured along stages of customer satisfaction. We have benchmarked with closure percentage and aging of open complaints. our performance with the industry peers by using J. D. There is a mechanism in place to internally escalate 8 Supply Chain 2025 – Trends and Implications for India 9 http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011-common/census_2011.html Power Survey. The survey is a street recruitment and complaints to various members of the process chain if 35 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions 36 a complaint remains open beyond TAT. We drive closure of complaints from dealers end on the same day or the very next day with the customer and this number is also monitored daily. Daily tracking of complaints is escalated to the Chairman, President and Managing Director offices till the closure of the complaint. If there are any complaints open for a long duration the same is investigated by the CE team and resolution intervention offered wherever required/possible. Monitoring of key performance metrics (CPTV, TAT adherence and Same Day Closure) is done by customer experience. Details of resolution, root cause analysis and service load based analysis and performance are tracked by the customer support team. We provide feedback to the customers on the resolution of the complaint. Product Recall TML has a well-defined Recall Process which was reviewed & approved in principle by CSC members on Feb 15. Head of Engineering Research Centre of TML is overall responsible for managing product recall. The Recall Process has been framed based on global benchmark practices and recall related regulatory aspects of various countries. The Recall Process is aimed at providing the framework to address the vehicle recall due to Safety Defect in the vehicle due to design, manufacturing or assembly problem undue risk to the safety of vehicle or user and incorrect product labelling. There have been no cases of non-compliance or violation in regards to customer privacy during the reporting year. 37 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions 38 Product Stewardship TML has played an active role in India’s vision of With the growing need for fuel efficiency and reducing onsustainable mass transportation by developing viable, road emission for vehicles, innovative technologies are cost-effective and sustainable solutions including needed to support the changing scenario and achieving alternate fuel powertrains and supplying and maintaining targets. We are evaluating several xEV options through Biggest CNG fleet of the world for Delhi since 2009. This is different technologies as part of its long-term strategy. a clear example of our commitment towards development The technologies vary from mild hybrids in one segment of sustainable mass transportation. Furthermore, during to a fuel cell in others, which we have demonstrated in 2016-17, we have developed prototype of most powerful Auto Expo from time to time. Prima truck of 1000 Brake horsepower (bhp)10. Our vision to mark our place in the domestic passenger vehicle We continue our R&D efforts in developing vehicles which and global commercial vehicle reiterates our intention are powered by alternate fuels like CNG, LPG, Biodiesel, towards technical stewardship. electric and Hydrogen. We are also working on LNG and Dual fuel technologies which provide an alternative to pure diesel technologies. Our R&D expenditure for the We have been recognised as top bus brand in India by SIAM, 2016-17. Approach and Performance year 2016-17 was 21 Billion INR, with reduction of 1.3% Globalization and competition in the automotive sector from the year 2015-16. have increased the need to innovate products that are Key initiatives and Outcomes in pipe emissions. The vehicle would be ideally used as more efficient, provide comfort to customers and are We also engage with various prestigious scientific and Alternate Fuel feeder services to Metro rail and BRTS routes. economical. To strategically stay ahead of the curve educational institutions, like Indian Institute of Technology At TML there are several initiatives to develop alternate during the time of ever-changing global dynamics, we }} TML is also developing an electric trolley bus based and Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore to support our fuel vehicles which reduce the impact of vehicles on the give prime importance to innovation and are continuously on the series hybrid platform targeted for BRTS cause of developing technologies suitable for Indian air pollution as well as climate change. A list of the major innovating new products keeping in mind the customer routes for zero emission mass mobility application. context and thereby, creating value to our customers. initiatives is given below: preference and regulations. At an organization level, TML’s Engineering Research Mass Transportation and Last Mile Connectivity }} Tata Motors is developing a fleet of fuel cell buses, Centre is overall responsible for product development again based on the series hybrid platform which can and innovations. Furthermore, we have introduced a new With approximately 67.4% of the sales volume from provide clean public transportation in cities where sub-brand named TAMO which acts as an incubating commercial vehicles, we have always prioritized our hydrogen infrastructure will be available. Several center of innovation towards new technologies, business efforts towards enhancing the effectiveness and prototypes of the fuel cell buses are under testing models and partnerships in order to define future mobility efficiency of mass transportation vehicles. within TML premises. solutions by providing a digital eco-system granting access to new trends, innovations and ideas for designing }} In FY 2016-17, we have launched the STARBUS }} TML is developing electric vehicles based on small new products and solutions. In March 2017, Tata Motors ELECTRIC 9m, the STARBUS ELECTRIC 12m and the commercial vehicles like Tata Iris and Tata Magic, has showcased a concept sports car under our subSTARBUS HYBRID 12m buses, designed, developed which are intended for last-mile public transportation brand TAMO – RaceMo at the Geneva International Motor and powered by alternate fuels. We have also applications. Show, where 3D printing technology has been used to showcased the country’s first Fuel cell bus (12m), create replicas of the concept car and distributed to the LNG Powered bus (12m), and 18m Articulated bus. Personal Mobility visitors at the show11. }} TML has received an order to deliver 25 Diesel Series TML recognizes the importance of alternate fuel vehicle Hybrid buses to the city of Mumbai, India to be in personal transportation and significance of the same operated in the city center of Bandra-Kurla Complex in combating climate change and air pollution. At the as well as for connecting BKC to the Airport. These company level, approximately 32.6% of our sales volume hybrid buses, whose delivery will commence from is from passenger vehicle (PV) which significantly mid-2017, give up to 40% higher fuel economy contributes to the overall on-road emissions. In this compared to conventional automatic transmission bus. context, we have initiated to channel our effort towards improved tail-pipe emission, energy efficiency and }} TML is developing an electric bus based on the 9m technological intervention to introduce alternate fuel http://www.tatamotors.com/media-press-coverage/tata-motors-develops-its-most-powerful-truck-ever/ and 12m bus platforms which will result in zero tail10 11 http://www.tatamotors.com/media-press-coverage/3d-string-in-carmakers-bow/ vehicles. TML is developing hybrid versions of its 39 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions 40 passenger car products like Hexa, Tiago and Nano for Developing Safe Mobility Solutions application in personal mobility. Ensuring product safety is of prime importance to TML. We are committed to developing safe products incorporating Reducing Climate Change Impact of Refrigerants latest technologies to ensure vehicle occupant and }} UNEP Program: The European Union has phased out pedestrian safety. High Global Warming Potential (GWP) refrigerant HFC-134a from mobile air conditioning systems from TML’s safety development team ensures that product January 2017. This is applicable to all new M1 vehicle design meets latest regulatory norms, consumer group category models norms and due care norms in the area of safety. Our Integrated Safety Centre is fully equipped to carry out In 2016, India as a signatory of the Montreal Protocol different types of tests like, full vehicle crash tests, sled Amendment had agreed to phase down production tests, Pedestrian protection tests, BIW (body in white) and consumption of HFC’s with 2028 as freeze year strength and anchorage tests, interiors evaluation tests, and 85% reduction by 2047. In this regard, TML is material characterization tests, commercial vehicle tests, proactively exploring the use of alternate low GWP security systems evaluation tests, Advanced Driver Assist refrigerants like HFO 1234yf, HFC-152a in mobile air System (ADAS) evaluation tests. Head of Engineering conditioning systems. Research Centre (ERC) is responsible for reviewing and TML has been granted funds from United Nations implementing safety initiatives in the products. Environment Program to work with a vendor and demonstrate the commercial and technical viability of We also have dedicated CAE group who is responsible alternate low GWP, mildly flammable HFC-152a and for developing vehicles structures and occupant restraint HFO-1234yf refrigerants in secondary-loop mobile systems (airbags, seatbelts) meeting target crash air conditioning systems. The total duration of this safety performance requirements. All projects under demonstrator project is 2 years. The project started development are routed through a physical and digital in May 2016 and will be completed by April 2018. validation process. Our facility is accredited by VCA (Vehicle Certification Agency), UK as well as ARAI wherein }} Reduced Quantity of Refrigerants in Buses: In LPO1618 both agencies witnesses the tests at the facility and buses for Middle East market, implementation of a provide compliance certificate. compact and new type of heat exchangers in roof AC system has resulted in the reduction in the quantity of high GWP refrigerant by 5500 grams/ bus. Our Achievements Towards Improving the Safety of Vehicles: Passenger Vehicle Projects 12 http://auto.ndtv.com/news/tata-zest-scores-4-star-rating-in-global-ncap-crash-test-1627013 41 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions 42 Commercial Vehicle projects: 43 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions 44 Case Study: Improving Health and Safety of Driver Meeting Homologation Requirements Vehicles and introduced two BS IV engines. We have a few In order to cancel a boom inside a passenger car or a pick up at a particular speed of driving on road, a simple thousands of vehicles as per BS III of which a portion has Adherence with the applicable regulation is recognized cost effective speaker is explored. This speaker will receive a signal of out of phase with the sound measured by been converted to BS IV engine. The remaining volume as one of most critical requirements to ensure business a microphone at Driver’s ear level. has been sold in export where there are no regulatory continuity. Our Passenger and Commercial Vehicles fulfil constraints or is disposed of through another medium. all the applicable regulatory requirements in the domestic market as per CMVR Certification. Our Passenger and CAFE: Government of India has promulgated CAFÉ Commercial vehicles fulfil the regulatory requirements of the Norms for M1 category vehicles applicable from 1st April export markets as per the applicable national requirements. 2017 and 1st reporting from April 2018 onward. This calls for establishing a robust mechanism at a strategic level Starting with the ban on diesel cars followed by the recent to review, track & modify the domestic product plans shift of sale and registration of BS III to BS IV vehicles by towards ensuring the sustainable compliance at the Indian Supreme Court and CAFÉ norm, emission norms overall organizational level. In response to the mandate for continue to get stringent. In view of this, it has become the declaration of fuel economy values to the certification important to assess and forecast the upcoming regulatory agency and conformity of production for declared fuel changes applicable to the automotive industry. economy, we have formulated Cross Functional Teams to finalize the declared fuel economy values by considering Staying Prepared with Forecasting the type approved fuel economy values, Confirmation of We have developed Domestic Regulation Forecast Production values and audit data. Matrix (DRFM) and Export Regulation Forecast Matrix (ERFM) which provide updates on various forthcoming Efficient Transport An attempt is made to develop a cost effective solution. Work is in progress to align this with a simple feed-forward regulations and their applicability, implementation etc., Fuel Efficiency Improvement Initiatives: DSP [digital signal process] controller. pertaining to Emissions and Safety for the PV and CV products manufactured by TML. }} In-house developed, Gear Shift Advisor (GSA) has been implemented on specific category of CVs. DRFM is prepared and uploaded at designated portal by Development of GSA includes proprietary algorithm Regulations Team every month and the regulatory updates and control module development, validation on are also sent through departmental communication Hardware-in-Loop and on actual vehicle. TML internal across the organization on monthly basis. The Export on-road trials have demonstrated the benefit of 8% in Regulation Forecast Matrix is prepared and uploaded fuel economy on a specific range of CVs. by homologation team for the applicable PV and CV markets indicated by International Business on a periodic }} Advanced formulation of engine oil14, in collaboration basis. In addition, periodic communications are also with Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited, being sent by Regulations team to provide updates on has enabled fuel efficiency gain of more than 3% various developments on the domestic regulatory front maintaining TML USP of best-in-class fuel economy. to TML stakeholders. This system acts as forecasting Similar initiative for axle and transmission oil has trigger for Marketing, International Business, CoCs, PATs, been taken up targeting overall fuel economy gain by developmental agencies to initiate various design and more than 6% including engine oil developmental actions upfront for the PV & CV existing and new models targeted for launch, sales and registration }} Software features in engine management system and in India and abroad. vehicle level parameter optimization have resulted If this becomes successful to kill a known boom or body resonance felt by the vehicle passengers at a particular in fuel efficiency improvement. One such feature is Addressing Regulatory Changes speed, then cost saving can be attempted to eliminate other costly counter-measures. the Multi-Drive Economy mode feature in Tiago and Shift to BS IV: To address the challenge of shifting from Tigor leading to 1-2% gain in fuel economy compared Environmental/Social Benefits Cost Benefit Analysis / Investment vs. Returns. BS III to BS IV13, we have, in April 2017, announced our to normal mode readiness of SCR (Selective Catalytic Reduction) and Improves comfort for Passengers of a vehicle Cost saving through elimination of other components EGR (Exhaust Gas Recirculation) technologies for BS IV }} Automated Manual Transmission (AMT) driveline for running at various speeds; elimination of the boom like a Torsional Vibration Damper on a Pick-up need compliant engines, powering its range of Commercial Ultra range of vehicles powered by new generation at Driver’s ear will assure his / her safety and health . be explored by a simple ANC kita. 13 http://www.tatamotors.com/media-press-coverage/sc-ban-auto-industry-stuck-with-inventory-worth-rs-12k-crores/ 14 http://profit.ndtv.com/news/auto/article-tata-motors-hindustan-petroleum-corp-join-hands-to-launch-lubricants-1467555 45 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions 46 engines is being rolled out. This will enhance driver Innovista and presented new methods for engine comfort and fuel economy. development. This method will be unique for TML reducing overall engine development time by 5-8% Case Study: Closed Loop Plastic Recycling }} Gasoline engines with advanced technologies such with similar complexities. as intelligent valve and cam train, all aluminium, TML has initiated project on treating and recycling variable oil pump have been introduced on Tiago and Advanced Automotive Materials plastic generated at the end of useful life of the vehicle. Tigor platforms. With a view to embedding sustainability, we have taken The recycled plastic is used in the Tata vehicles, initiatives for use of green and sustainable materials. Our making the initiative a closed-loop plastic recycling. Light-weight diesel engines with contemporary engine noteworthy technology projects in this area are: hardware have been introduced on Tiago and Tigor Typically, 69% of the weight of a utility vehicle is platforms. }} Green Plasticizer: TML is working on using plasticizer contributed by ferrous followed by 7% contribution manufactured by the green catalyst for PVC plastisol. by thermoplastic material. Approximately, 80% of the Enhancement in Oil Drain Interval: Initial results are encouraging and fine tuning in the thermoplastic is polypropylene which is recyclable. }} New oil formulation viz; API CI4+ SAE 15W40 engine composition is being carried out. TML is planning to oil has been released to the market, enhancing oil introduce this material (PVC with the green plasticizer) In coordination with Banyan Nation, we have identified drain interval by 50%, leading to enhanced customer on PV and CV platforms. service dealership, dismantlers, compounder, moulder delight. Improvement in engine oil leads to increase oil and customer for the collection of vehicle parts such }} Primer-less Windshield Glass Sealant: TML has also drain interval helps the customer to reduce the cost of as bumper, dashboard and trim parts. We have initiated the use of windshield glass sealant with ownership. It also helps in reducing downtime and less collaborated with DuPont for dismantling, shredding primer deletion. This would result in reducing VOC oil is discarded reducing environmental impact. This and further processing. A pilot level project has been (Volatile organic compound) on vehicles and on the oil has been introduced on all commercial vehicles successfully completed by carrying out component manufacturing line. offered by TML. Considering BS-6 emission norms on level moulding trials using recycled and virgin material the anvil with a lot of exhaust after-treatment systems }} Composite Brake Drum and Leaf Spring: Use of with different proportions. on board for a given vehicle, further enhancements in advanced composites for brake drum application API CI4+ oil are being carried out. replacing cast iron and leaf screen replacing steel is under exploration, offering approx. 30% of weight }} For TATA CNG engines, doubling engine oil drain reduction. interval is being explored through new chemistry in association with vendors. Once proved, this will be In 2015-16, our ERC Paint shop team has implemented the game changer in CV industry with CNG for city a new chromium-free Eco-friendly Chrome finish paint. transport applications. Parts like bumper grills, mascots, fog lamps bezels, inner door handles that were chrome plated by suppliers for Advanced Optimization Methods for Engine Development: final production, can be painted in-house, with cost, time }} The team participated and won accolades in TATA benefits and with a comparatively very safe process for prototype and show car applications. 47 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions 48 Life Cycle Assessment One of our key initiatives toward holistic improvement importance to the energy and perform fuel life cycle in sustainability performance of our products is the analysis. Through Fuel Life Cycle analysis, we evaluate introduction of Life Cycle Assessment approach for our the energy efficiency of various pa thways and routes for product development. In this approach, we give specific energy and fuel delivery. Fuel Life Cycle Assessment Our product and fuel Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) products. This helps us in addressing and mitigating approach allows us to evaluate the energy efficiency, the negative impacts and improve overall environment carbon footprint and other ecological impacts from our performance of the product on life cycle basis Product Life Cycle Assessment During the FY 2016-17, we conducted three cradle to product footprint of alternative materials to steel for BIW grave LCA products studies, which includes Tigor-Diesel, (body in white) structure. Results show that alternative Tigor-Petrol and C-Cube and few part/process studies material has lower GHG footprint than steel, hence overall namely petrol engine and paint process. vehicle production footprint can be brought down. We conducted LCA study for future vehicles to understand We have achieved best in Class rating by GreenCo material impact and provide input for environmental assessment for demonstrating best practices in life-cycle performance improvement. For C-Cube we evaluated assessment at our Dharwad manufacturing location. 49 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions 50 Sustainability Priorities The most significant contribution organised industry can make is by identifying itself with the life and problems of the people of the community. J.R.D. Tata Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities Risks Key consumers, interest rates, environmental and tax policies, Risk Area Identified Risks Potential Impact safety regulations, freight rates and fuel and commodity prices. At TML, risks and opportunities are prioritized Economic • Rising inflation and interest rates coupled with muted • Increase in capital cost; Challenges based on frequency of occurrence, potential of recurrence industrial growth; • Decline in business and its history of occurrence. Also, risks and opportunities • Intensifying competition in the premium automotive growth; are analysed on their potential impact to the company and categories; • Business continuity • Underperformance of the Company’s distribution channels risk. their external influence. Potential impacts are measured and supply chains Faced and Emerging by a number of variables including reputation, operation, revenue etc. • Increase in input prices of raw materials and shortage • Deterioration in the performance of any of the subsidiaries, joint ventures may have a substantial adverse effect on the We have identified risks and opportunities in three spaces Company’s sales and financial condition The automotive industry and the demand for automobiles – economic, social and environmental. Understanding are determined by general economic conditions, rates of our risks help us in tackling and mitigating them though Environmental • Increasing awareness among customers and social • Increase in the cost of economic growth, credit availability, disposable income of the identified opportunities. vigilance for environmental friendly vehicle and increase in operation; demand for more fuel-efficient and environmentally-friendly • Unable to continue vehicles. business due to • Increased government regulation (Corporate average fuel violation of regulations/ economy norms, shift to BS IV), rising fuel prices, and norms; evolving environmental preferences of consumers. • Decline in business due • Compliance with new and current laws, rules, regulations to inability in meeting and government policies regarding increased fuel economy, environmentally reduced GHG and other emissions and vehicle safety. conscious customer expectations • Risks associated with climate change in terms of regulatory risks, change in physical climate and socio-economic risks resulting from climate change. The regulatory risk includes air pollution limits, product efficiency, changing taxation on fuel, product labelling and emission reporting obligations. In terms of risk associated with the change in physical climate, we have identified risks related to change in precipitation and resulting drought, or floods which have the potential to impact TML operations • To ensure compliance with ESG regulations, the Company incurs additional costs to (i) operate and maintain its facilities as per regulations and standards, (ii) install new emissions controls technologies, (iii) obtain allowances to emit greenhouse gases, (iv) manage the Company’s emissions programme, and (v) invest in research and development to upgrade products and manufacturing facilities. Social • People increasingly use public modes of transportation other • Decline in sale of than the automobiles passenger vehicles; • Heightening traffic density in major cities and environmental • Increase in competition awareness. in the business; • Shift in India’s consumer preferences away from private • Discontinue in the automobiles especially the younger generation do not business operation due aspire to own a car due to rise of shared cab services like to labour unrest. OLA, UBER • Obligations under the World Trade Organization agreement could reduce the present level of tariffs on imports of components and vehicles which could result in increased competition. • Labour unrest and other factors like terrorist attacks, civil disturbances, regional conflicts and other acts of violence may disrupt or otherwise adversely affect the markets in which the Company operates its business and profitability. 53 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities 54 Engaging with Opportunities informally to discuss the Company’s sustainability performance and ensure business sustainability. Our stakeholders’ views, concerns and key expectations have Stakeholders Opportunity Areas Identified Opportunities Potential Impact always been essential in shaping our strategy and future Economic • Initiatives to make Tata Motors Limited a more agile and lean • Increase in product aspirations. enterprise to address the changing global business scenario; portfolio • Various initiatives in the area of energy and resource • Alignment to changing We identify our stakeholders based on the following criteria: optimization such as recycling and reuse and implementation customer preferences Engaging with Stakeholders of ENCON projects to ensure effective cost management • Increased business }} Who may be affected by our decisions and/or and cost competitiveness; growth; Stakeholders play an important role in the success of our • Engagement with Company’s distribution channels and supply • Reduced cost of organization and we continuously strive towards effective }} Who can regularly influence the implementation of our chains for sustainable performance and business continuity; operation and capital engagement for inclusion of inputs and concerns. We decision. • Increased emphasis in research and development (R&D) cost. engage with a diverse set of stakeholders formally and for new safer, environment and customer friendly products resulting to launch of new products in 2016-17 to meet the increase and changing demand of customers; • Initiation of end of life treatment of various parts of Tata vehicle to avoid increasing cost of virgin material. • The Company is focusing on increasing its offerings in the defence sector from providing only pure logistics solutions to tactical and combat solutions. Environmental • Launch of hybrid buses for mass transportation and development • Increase demand and of fuel efficient vehicles to reduce on-road fuel consumption and wider acceptance of overall fleet emission. Introduction of cleaner fuel CNG variants vehicle; of the vehicles also help reduce environmental load on ambient • Greener operations air quality and meet the product emission related regulations. Reduced cost • The Company further strengthened its clean vehicles portfolio of operation and by launching the Tata CNG eMax range of vehicles – Indigo optimized material eMax, Indica eMax and Nano eMax. Our products represent the usage; Horizonext philosophy with best-in-class offerings. • Increased social • Our futuristic electric vehicle, Magic Iris Electric, a clean, ecoacceptance of the friendly passenger commercial vehicle comes with a segmentcompany due to first solar charger. greener vehicle portfolio • Our various ENCON projects reduce energy consumption and for mass transportation thereby, reduce GHG emissions. Increase in the share of RE, also, and commercial significantly contributes towards reduction of GHG emission vehicles; in our operations. Establishment of rain water harvesting and reverse osmosis system for sustainable water supply. • Implementation of integrated circular economy strategy has resulted to reduced consumption of virgin material and increased the useful life of the products. Social • TML received order for hybrid buses for mass transportation. • Wider acceptance and To understand our stakeholders’ needs and concerns we provide us with valuable feedback.They are incorporated The launch of Small Commercial Vehicles (SCV) and Pickup increased business; engage with our stakeholders on regular basis through our in our business decisions and results of these are shared range – The SCV range of Ace, Ace Zip and Pickup range • Avoidance of loss of formal stakeholder engagement process. This process openly. We evaluate a variety of sources in order to Super Ace have been game changers in enabling the business due to social customers to deliver last mile goods and services. The involves direct and detailed consultation with different obtain a precise picture of our stakeholder’s concerns. issues; unique quality and price proposition of these vehicles have stakeholder groups such as our employees, communities, This involves evaluating reader feedback, customer • Enhanced ESG inspired and enabled many to become entrepreneurs. performance in supply suppliers, opinion leaders (road safety experts), media, and employee surveys, specialist unit workshops and • Engagement with suppliers for sustainable supply chain chain and avoidance of customers, investors and shareholders, government discussions with individual stakeholder groups. enhances the ESG performance of suppliers, thereby disruption in business. authorities, dealers and service stations. This helped us reducing the risk of labour unrest in supply chain, and in identifying the critical issues and has enabled us to Apart from the continuous stakeholder engagement via ensures continued goods and service supplies from our focus on the topics that are of utmost importance to our various channels, we have conducted detailed stakeholder local suppliers. stakeholders. engagement for understanding our key material topics • Continuous engagement with our employees and stakeholders provides upcoming issues and concerns of our in 2013. Our approach towards identification and business and help us maintain our social license to operate. We have multiple communication/engagement channels prioritisation of stakeholders is based on the time-tested (refer Stakeholder engagement framework), which values of Tata Group along with our business approach. 55 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities 56 Stakeholder Engagement at TML Materiality identified stakeholders helped us in prioritization of Stakeholder Engagement Frequency of Feedback Key Concerns strategy, policies and action plans in the area of economy, Groups Mechanisms Engagement Assessment environment and society. We conducted an extensive Employees Sunrise and Sunset meetings; Annual; Communicating policy Employee Assessment materiality assessment process in FY 2014-15 to identify Horizontal Quarterly; decisions and seeking satisfaction feedback; communicating survey; and prioritize topics based on the Reporting Principle and Communications; Horizontal Monthly; deployment; Weekly/Monthly performance; Media Appraisals; Guidance for Defining Content in the GRI Standard. This Weekly reviews improvements Reports, Labour Issues Internal report reflects the material issues which have significant Displays; HR Forum; Q12 Tool; Surveys We use materiality assessment for identification of key Economic, Environmental and Social impacts that can Skip Level Meets; Town Halls; issues relevant to our business. The perceptions of our influence the decisions of our stakeholders. Focused Group Discussions Communities Meetings with local community; Quarterly; Community development Minutes of public hearing Daily initiatives communication; meeting; capturing societal action plans; concerns feedback letters Suppliers/ Technology Days, Supplier Annual; Delivering quality products; Vendor Service meets, Joint programmes, Quarterly time management; rating; Board Providers Kaizen events, Participation compliance to Tata reviews; in NPI, Competitor data and Motor’s code of conduct Vendor analysis; Vendor Council; and other policies; Satisfaction Vendor mentoring Surveys Opinion Leaders One-to-one meetings Need based Following the regulations, Minutes of complying with the meeting, industry standards action plans Media Regular interactions Ongoing Communicating Minutes of company’s performance meeting, and seeking feedback action plans Dealers and Dealer meets, Joint Annual; Building capacity and Dealer Service Station programmes, Kaizen events, Quarterly; technical know-how; Satisfaction Participation in QFD and NPI, Daily improving and delivering Survey Competitor data and analysis, better response to Special training Programmes; customers; Dealers Council; Dealer visits; Audits Customers Customer meets; Need based Understand product Customer Key account process; Surveys; feedback; redress Satisfaction Feedback calls; Training complaints; suggestions Index; JD Forums; Direct Visits on product development; Power Survey Investors and Investor meets; Annual; Financial performance; Minutes of Shareholders Investor calls; Road Shows, Quarterly; broad future strategies; meeting; Shareholder / Investors Need based feedback and addressal of action plans Grievance Forum, Ethics concerns Committee Government One-to-one meetings; Meetings Need based Relationship building; Minutes of Authorities in Industry Forums appraising the government meeting; on industry constraints; action plans discussions on way forward 57 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities 58 Materiality Matrix Materiality Topics Mapping Table Material Topic Organisation’s The matrix below is a representation of the outcome of our materiality assessment. Topics have been rated on a scale of GRI Dimension Material Issues (As per GRI GRI Indicators Boundary of Involvement in Relevant Coverage of the Impact for TML Stakeholder Topic low, high and critical for the impact on business and importance as perceived by the stakeholders. Standard) Impact Economic Business Economic 201-1 Within TML. Direct impact Investors, Tata Motors Growth and performance Shareholders, Limited, India 201-2 Profitability employees 201-3 201-4 Foreign 201-1 to 201-4 Exchange Fluctuations AntiAnti206 Within TML. Direct impact Investors, Tata Motors Competitive competitive Shareholders, Limited, India Behaviour Behaviour Supply chain, Dealers, Employees Environmental Biodiversity Biodiversity 304-1 Within TML Direct Impact TML, Tata Motors Communities, Limited, India 304-2 Media 304-3 304-4 Waste Effluent and 306-1 Within and Direct Impact TML and TML, India Waste Outside TML Employees, Partial 306-2 Community, Coverage 306-3 Government for TAL, TTL, 306-4 Authorities, TMLDL, TMML Media (Details 306-5 Provided in GRI Index) Water Water 303-1 Within and Direct Impact TML and TML, India Outside TML employees, Partial coverage 303-2 community, for TAL, TTL, 303-3 Government TMLDL, TMML Authorities, (Details Media provided in GRI Index) Regulatory Environmental 307 Within TML Direct Impact TML, TML, India, TTL, Compliance Compliance Government TMLDL, TMML, Authorities, TAL Media Fuel Efficiency Energy 302-1 Within and Direct Impact TML, TML, India of Product Outside TML employees, Partial 302-2 Customers, Coverage 302-3 Investors, for TAL, TTL, 302-4 Opinion Leaders TMLDL, TMML and Media (Details 302-5 Provided in GRI Index) GHG Emission Emission 305-1 Within and Direct Impact TML, TML, India Outside TML Employees, Partial 305-2 Customers, Coverage 305-3 Investors, for TAL, TTL, 305-4 Government TMLDL, TMML Authorities, (Details Material Topics 305-5 Opinion Leaders Provided in GRI Air Emission 305-6 and Media Index) For each material topic identified in the materiality matrix, GRI standard, along with its GRI indicators have been 305-7 the mapping to GRI topic along with reporting boundary identified. The reporting boundary for each material topic Reclaiming Material 301-1 Within TML Direct Impact TML, Suppliers TML, India. The for TML as well as the subsidiaries has been presented. has been defined from the materiality assessment as well Systems for disclosure is 301-2 For each material issue, key material topics, as per as the decision by the management. reuse and not applicable recycling and 301-3 for TTL. Partial recovery of Coverage for Materials TAL, TMLDL, TMML (Details provided in GRI Index) 59 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities 60 Dimension Material Issues Material Topic GRI Indicators Boundary of Organisation’s Relevant Coverage of the (As per GRI Impact for TML Involvement in Stakeholder Topic Standard) Impact Environmental Environment, Supplier 308-1, 308-2 Outside TML Indirect Impact. TML, Suppliers TML, India. (Continued) Labour, Human Environmental Rights in Supply Assessment Chain Social Child Labour 408 Forced or 409 Compulsory Labour Freedom of 407 Association and Collective Bargaining Occupational Occupational 403-1 Within TML Direct Impact TML and TML, India Health and Health and Employees Partial 403-2 Safety Safety Coverage 403-3 for TAL, TTL, 403-4 TMLDL, TMML (Details provided in GRI Index) Attrition Employment 401-1 Within TML Direct Impact TML and TML, India Employees Partial coverage 401-2 for TAL, TTL, 401-3 TMLDL, TMML (Details Provided in GRI Index) Gender Diversity and 405-1 Within TML Direct Impact TML and TML, India Diversity Equal Employees 405-2 Opportunity Local Local 413 Outside TML Indirect Impact TML, TML, India. Communities Communities Communities, Government Authorities, Opinion Leaders, Media Product Safety Customer 416-1, 416-2 Outside TML Direct Impact TML, TML, India & Quality Health & Safety Customers Product Innovation Product Competitiveness Customer Marketing & 102-43, 102-44 Within & Direct Impact TML, TML, India. Satisfaction Labelling Outside TML Customers, Dealers & Product 417-1 Service Labelling Stations, Usage of Toxic 417-2 Investors, Substances Government in Automobile Authorities Components Product Sales & 417-3 Service Quality In our sustainability report for FY 2016-17, we have identified, are Labour Management and Product Safety disclosed on all the material issues, which includes critical, and Quality. Both of the topics have been categorised as high and low as per the materiality matrix, in line with the critical and high importance topic in our materiality matrix GRI topic specific standard. In addition to the identified and are addressed in the sustainability report 2016-17. material topic in sustainability report of FY 2015-16, we include effluent and waste and water as material topics. Details on the management approach, monitoring mechanisms and performance indicators for the topics As per the ESG rating report, 2016, by MSCI ESG Research have been provided in the relevant sections. The relevant Inc. the two major risks for Tata Motors Limited, as section name is mentioned in the GRI Index. 61 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities 62 Sustainability strategize our actions on identified material issues for Goals and Targets integrated sustainable development and adhere to our ethical principles. In line with our material issues and Strategy Topic Goals Time frame Status continuous self-assessment of our performance, we have established short-term and long-term goals for Occupational Health and Reduction of Total recordable cases by 20% Target year: 2017-18 On track environmental and social material topics. Safety from baseline of 1.41 Our extensive materiality assessment helped us identify The monitoring the progress of our performance Reduction of Total Recordable Cases by 65% Target year: 2019-20 On track key issues, while continuous internal performance compared to established goals facilitates us to calibrate over next 3 years. management and monitoring mechanism helps us to our course of action and achieve our target. Employment and Diversity Increase of women at shop-floor to 20% Target year: 2018-19 On track from existing 3% over next 2 years. Goals and Targets Increase number of women to 1000 number By 2020. On track at the leadership role. Topic Goals Time frame Status Local Community We have developed 5 years plan for 2017-18 On track Biodiversity 1. To complete Biodiversity study of Sanand, Target year 2017-18 Initiated Engagement social responsibility in 2013-14 to touch Dharwad and Pantnagar in 2017-18. more than 1 million lives by means of our identified focused areas: a) Employability, b) 2. Implementation of selected Biodiversity Education, c) Health, d) Environment. management plan at Pune, Lucknow and Jamshedpur in 2017-18 Customer Health and To adhere to all the customer safety and Continuous On track Safety sustainability compliance. Effluent and Waste 1. 50% reduction in Hazardous waste to Target year – 2017-18 On track landfill Marketing and Labelling To be among top 3 in customer satisfaction. Continuous Achieved in 2016-17. 2. 100% disposal of biodegradable waste through composting/biogas. 3. 5% increase in treated effluent recycling Tata Motors aspires to become Zero Waste Aspirational target for to Landfill or incineration. near future Environmental Zero non-compliance Continuous On track Compliance Water Year on year 5% reduction in water 2017-18 On track consumption. Tata Motors Limited aspires to become Aspirational target for On track water positive. near future Energy 5% reduction over previous year. Target year 2017-18 Initiated Tata Motors Limited aspires to meet 100% Aspirational target of energy demand from renewable energy. year – 2030. Emission 15% reduction in GHG emission over the Target year2017-18 Initiated previous year. Material Continue to manufacture 85% recyclable Continuous On track passenger cars as per R-R-R European regulation Supply Chain 1. Conduct site assessment for 60 numbers Target year: 2017-18 On track Environment, Labour, of suppliers. Human Rights 2. Engage with 100% critical Tier 1 suppliers. Within 3 to 4 years. On track 63 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities 64 Education is one of focus areas identified in our Corporate Social Responsibility policy. At Tata Integration of Motors we encourage ‘holistic engagement’ with the entire spectrum of formal education for needy, deserving and marginalized students. Under our Education program “Vidyadhanam”, key Sustainable CSR projects taken up are: }} Scholarships }} Financial aid to engineering students of IITs and government engineering colleges Development Goals [SDGs] }} Coaching classes }} Special coaching for IIT-JEE and other competitive examinations }} School infrastructure improvement }} Co-curricular activities To combat the massive economic, environmental Tata group’s philosophy centres on improving the and social challenge, UN Conference on Sustainable quality of life of the communities and enhance long-term For more details, please refer to our website: Development, in June 2012, laid down the foundation value for our stakeholders. We continue to relentlessly http://www.tatamotors.com/programs/education/ for Sustainable Development Goals for 2030 where the strive in our endeavour of nation-building, sustainable At organization level, we have dedicated structure to continuously enhance our employees’ skill UN Member States worked to create follow on from the development, accelerated inclusive growth and social sets. Further details in “CSR” section. Millennium Development Goals. To achieve the ambitious equity. Tata Motors Limited is working on 15 out of 17 target by 2030, a meaningful partnership between sustainable development goals which are strategically different stakeholders is essential and business plays an aligned with the Tata Group philosophy as well as our Gender equality is one of our key issues and we are continuously working towards the same. integral part in this journey. business priorities. Our commitment towards gender diversity is reflected in Tata Code of Conduct and Tata values of understanding and unity. We have target to increase the number of women at the shop-floor level to 20% from the current 3% by next 2 years. We have initiated program like “GearUP”, a skill Our Alignment and Programs Supporting SDGs development program, to facilitate women in leadership position. We have developed a holistic charter for inclusive programs which is centered on gender diversity and equality. We also engage We engage with the deprived sections of the society through our CSR programs. Our skill with our suppliers and encourage them to improve gender diversity and promote gender equality. development program, “Kaushalya” aims to build the capacity of unemployed youth by providing For further details, please refer to “Gender diversity” in “Workforce” section and “Value chain vocational training in automotive and other industrial trades. This helps the youth in earning their sustainability” section of this report. livelihood, increase employability and increase earning capability. Improving the quality of life is one of our commitments and we continuously attempt to eradicate poverty in the society by ensuring fair wages for all our employees and contractors. We have also initiated engagement with Water scarcity and water inequality is one of the major concerns in Indian society. To address our supply chain to assess their compliance with labor rights which include adhering to norms of the water issue, we have initiated program “Amrutdhara”, a programme conceived and deployed minimum wages for all their employees. For further details, please visit: with the support of Sumant Moolgaokar Development Foundation (SMDF) focused on addressing the ‘drinking-water’ needs of needy and deserving communities. The program aims to touch 0.1 http://www.tatamotors.com/programs/employability-skill-development/ million peoples’ lives through providing 25 litres of water per day per person. For details, please Further details in “CSR”, “value chain” and “Workforce” sections. refer to our website: http://www.tatamotors.com/programs/amrutdhara/ At TML level, we have an aspirational target to become water positive in near future. In this context, we have taken initiatives such as rain water harvesting and storage, water pooling and water We have identified health as one of focus areas in our corporate social responsibility initiatives. recycling. Further details are provided in “Water and effluent management” section of this report. “Aarogya”, our CSR program for health, focuses on maternal and child health by adopting a We contribute to sanitation through our product usage for the cause of “Swachh Bharat Abhiyan”. holistic approach and striking a balance between ‘preventive healthcare’ and ‘curative healthcare’ We aspire to achieve “Zero waste to Landfill” and strive to dispose our operational waste in the interventions. For details on the program, please visit: http://www.tatamotors.com/programs/health/ most environment friendly option. At the organization level, health and safety of our employees are of utmost importance to us and it Please refer to “Waste Management”, “Water and effluent management” and “CSR” section for is an integral part of our business. We enhance work-related safety of employees through various more details. safety initiatives and safety standards. We are regularly conducting training on road safety and defensive driving to improve road safety. We also engage with associates, local communities and workers during National road safety week and national safety week. We ensure to adhere to Tata Motors is committed to RE100 and aspire to achieve 100% renewable energy for our air quality norms. For more information, please refer to “Workplace water safety” and “Energy and operation by 2030. We have invested in wind power and solar roof top for developing renewable emission” section. energy generation capacity. We have signed power purchase agreement with renewable energy producers; this in turn helps in enhancing competitiveness of renewable energy and affordability of renewable energy. Please refer to “Energy and emission” section for further details. 65 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities 66 In addition to our environmental programme “Vasundhara”, Tata Motors have identified biodiversity We contribute towards Indian economic growth through our operations and engagement with our as one the key issues and continuously attempt to avoid and mitigate negative impacts and stakeholders. We are committed to provide decent work environment to all our employees and enhance positive impacts on biodiversity. Tata Motors Manufacturing Plants in India include this commitment is reflected in our Tata Code of Conduct. We provide equal opportunity for all Township / Residential Areas at Jamshedpur and Pune and significant area under Green Belt and adhere to our strict policy of non-discrimination and no child labour. We have a dedicated within Plant at all locations. All Plants have also created lakes / wetlands as a part of their stormTata Code of Conduct for our dealers and suppliers. Please refer to “Economic Performance”, water management system. This has led to a focused approach to biodiversity conservation and “Workforce”, “Workplace Safety”, “Value Chain Sustainability” and overall environment section for management. For more details, please refer to “Biodiversity”, “Energy and Emissions” and “CSR” further details. section of this report. Delivering exciting innovations is one of our visions for 2019 and we have established procedure Tata Code of Conduct, representing our values and principles, guides our every business. Our core and governance mechanism for research and development. Our new sub-brand TAMO acts as principles address our commitment towards conforming to highest moral and ethical standards, a center of innovation towards new technologies, business models and partnerships in order inclusive growth as an integral part of our business plan, respect to human rights and dignity of to define future Sustainable Mobility Solutions. Please refer to “Sustainable Mobility Solutions” stakeholders and conducting our business with honesty and integrity. We have a strict policy to section for further details. adhere to our antibribery and anti-corruption norms as mentioned in Tata Code of Conduct. Please refer to Tata Code of Conduct” and “Value Chain Sustainability” section for details. For more details on TCoC, please refer to: Our dedicated programs under Affirmative Action strive to reduce inequalities in the http://corp-content.tatamotors.com.s3-ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.com/wp-content/ community. Our program, Aadhaar, is aimed at serving the socio-economically backward and uploads/2015/10/tata-code-of-conduct.pdf disadvantaged Scheduled Caste (SC) and Schedule Tribe (ST) communities. For further details, please visit: http://www.tatamotors.com/programs/aadhaar/ and “CSR” section of this report. At organizational level maintain non-discrimination as detailed in “Workforce” section. Meeting the ambitious sustainable development goals by 2030 requires a partnership between Government, the private sector and civic society. At Tata Motors Limited, we engage with Our core philosophy of enhancing the quality of life acts as our guiding principle in the ways we do communities through NGOs and civic societies and bring in the required change in the life of business. We, through our different community programs, are working closely with Government, deprived sections of our society. Through our international initiative, with help of our distributor industries and NGOs to address and mitigate the social challenges. Through our innovative electric partners in various countries, Tata Motors continues to take significant steps to mitigate the and hybrid buses we provide a safe, economic and sustainable solution to mass transportation. distress of marginalized communities. Please refer to “Sustainability Mobility Solutions” section for further details. Please refer to “CSR” and “Environmental Stewardship” section for details on our investment in environment. We adhere to the European regulation of R-R-R and all our passenger cars are 85% recyclable. Our refurbishment initiatives through Tata Prolife, Tata Assured and Tata OK aims to extend the life of vehicles and ensure vehicles compliance with the applicable norms. To assess the environmental impacts of our products we undertake life cycle assessment of our vehicles which also helps us in strategizing overall sustainability of our products. Furthermore, we are gradual shifting toward co-processing for hazardous waste disposal. Disposing hazardous waste through co-processing is not only environment friendly but also results to material and energy recovering. Please refer to “Raw Material” and “Waste Management” section of this report for further details. Environment and climate change are among our key identified issues and we have developed policies for addressing the same. Our approach to climate change is three-fold comprising of building awareness among stakeholders, reducing the environmental impact of manufacturing and developing cleaner vehicles. Under our environment program “Vasundhara” we have taken up tree plantation for developing carbon sinks; promoting renewable energy and building awareness in the communities. For further details, please refer to “CSR” and “Economic Performance, Energy and Emissions”, “Value Change Sustainability” sections of this report and visit: http://www.tatamotors.com/programs/vasundhara/ 67 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Sustainability Priorities 68 Business with Responsibility [3Ps] The Tata philosophy of management has always been and is today more than ever, that corporate enterprises must be managed not merely in the interest of their owners, but equally in those of their employees, of the consumers of their products, of the local community and finally of the country as a whole. J.R.D. Tata Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Economic Performance At Tata Motors Limited, we aim to create inclusive and sustainable economic growth through contributing in nation building beyond the profits generated for our shareholders. In this section, we address our management approach and key economic performance data for the year 2016-17. 71 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 72 Economic The financial accounting for fiscal year 2016-17 has been INR 50,000 per vehicle for shifting from BS III to BS IV and Performance done under new IND AS standards. implementing mandatory safety features. In line with our risk identification and prioritization process, b) Physical parameter change: Potential change in climate change has been identified as one of risks. We precipitation and drought due to extreme weather have identified climate change risks and opportunities change can result to water scarcity and increase in cost We contribute to the nation building beyond the profits driven by regulatory, physical parameter change and of electricity. At TML, we have invested INR 100 million generated for our shareholders. While we generate other climate related development. in rain water harvesting and INR 41.3 million in various direct economic value through our operations, products energy efficiency projects. and services, we also contribute to significant indirect a) Regulations : Product efficiency standards, increasingly economic impacts which culminate to increased stringent air pollution norms and energy regulations In light of other climate related development such as economic activity and enhance the quality of life. We help can result to increase in expense and risk of business increasing environmental consciousness and changing transport people and goods, thereby enabling people, continuity. We have proactively invested in R&D for socio-economic conditions, we have done significant enterprises and institutions to realize new possibilities. Our finance department, comprising of managers and innovation and development of our product portfolio to investment in development of clean and sustainable The vast value chain of automobile companies supports executives, working under the leadership of Group Chief address these risks and generate opportunities, thereby, mass transportation such as hybrid buses and Small numerous jobs. Our community development agenda Financial Officer drive efforts towards fulfilling TML’s stay ahead of the curve. We have spent INR 21 billion in Commercial Vehicle (SCV) for last mile connectivity. empowers communities to carve a path for economic financial commitments by enhancing shareholder value. R&D for development of clean technology vehicles and and societal prosperity. The management approach and We are committed to comply with all the applicable grievance mechanism for economic performance have financial laws and regulations that govern shareholder been addressed in our Annual Report 2016-17. rights, by keeping them informed about relevant aspects and by maintaining accurate records of our activities and Our Management for Economic Performance disclosing in accordance with applicable law and industry standards. Finance department is responsible for the financial management of the organization in compliance with the Finance department serves staff, managers, the Board of financial rules and the financial guidelines acting in this Directors and stakeholders towards securing the financial company. While the Board of Directors is accountable health of the company. The Department manages the for oversight of the overall governance process, Group flow of finance to ensure that the company operates Chief Financial Officer is responsible for TML’s financial within financial regulations and satisfies various external management and implementation of the financial policies financial requirements. It also ensures that the corporate and procedures within the organization. financial records comply with internal and external audits. Key Initiatives and Performance in 2016-17 Economic Performance Table Economic Performance (in INR cr) 2014-2015 2015-16 2016-2017 Economic Value Generated 41,406.00 48,122.48 49,302.02 Gross Revenue 41,406.00 48,122.48 49,302.02 Economic Value Distributed 44,961.00 47,963.69 51,592.38 Operating Costs 36,760.00 38,975.39 42,045.58 Employee Benefits and Wages 3,091.00 3,048.71 3,401.34 Payments to providers of capital 1,612.00 1,541.54 1,629.90 Payments to government 3,498.00 4,398.05 4,515.56 Economic Value Retained -3,555.00 158.79 -2,290.36 73 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 74 Protecting The Environment Uncommon thinkers reuse what common thinkers refuse. J.R.D. Tata Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Protecting The Environment 77 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 78 Protecting The Environment Tata Code of Conduct provides us with the guiding council at the Board of Director level is responsible for Tata principles of our overall approach towards the environment Motors Limited’s environmental performance (Please refer and environmental stewardship. We pursue to conserve to Sustainability Governance structure). SHE committee is natural resources through reduce-recycle-recover and responsible for monitoring and reviewing environmental refurbishment. We are committed to improving the performance across Tata Motors Limited on a quarterly basis environment, particularly with regard to the emission of and is also responsible for approving and overseeing the greenhouse gases, consumption of water and energy, and deployment of an action plan for environmental focus areas. the management of waste and hazardous materials. We continuously strive to offset the effect of climate change At business level, SHE Council is responsible for reviewing in our activities. of environmental performance on monthly basis and the council is supported by SHE Apex Committee, chaired Our Management for Environmental Topics by respective Plant Heads, at the plant level. All plants have a dedicated environment department who is All the key environmental issues, namely, emission, overall responsible for energy and environmental issues, waste, water, energy, environmental compliance and including biodiversity management. biodiversity are managed by our SHE department. SHE 79 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 80 Energy and and collaborating with power utilities for renewable energy for meeting its energy demand. We adhere to all the applicable legal and other requirements and Emissions committed to purchase and use of energy efficient equipment, services and eco-friendly technologies. All CV Manufacturing Plants in India are certified For two consecutive years, The World Economic Forum to ISO 50001 Energy Management System (EMS) has identified climate change as one of the top global and through our ENCON programs; we continuously risks in their 2015 and 2016 risk assessment reports. attempt to enhance our operational energy efficiency. Climate change is directly related to energy consumption }} Energy Efficiency Of Our Product: We continuously and the means by which required energy is produced. strive to comply with all the environmental laws Acknowledging the risk of climate change, Indian and manufacture environmentally sustainable Government has voluntarily set a goal of reducing the products. Our commitment towards product energy emissions intensity of its GDP by 20–25%, over 2005 levels, efficiency is centrally managed through TML’s R&D by 2020, despite having no binding mitigation obligations Establishment – Engineering Research Centre at as per the Convention. In this context, promoting renewable Pune. Our Engineering Research Centre has the sole energy and enhancing energy efficiency are the two major responsibility for performing the environmental impact mitigation mechanisms outlined in the NDC. assessment of our products and ensuring energy efficient design during the product development. The Tata Motors is one of the signatories of RE100, a detail on our product initiatives is provided in “Product global collaborative initiative of influencing business Stewardship” section. committed to 100% renewable electricity, and we aspire to source 100% of our energy from renewable GHG Emission energy source by 2030. Climate change has been identified as one of our key strategic areas and we have formulated our climate change policy in 2010. As per the policy, we are committed to reducing our carbon footprint at the operational level as well as at the product level. In view of the fact, that GHG footprint is closely linked with the energy consumption and source of energy, we have adopted three-fold approach: We have increased our RE contribution to 16.34% in 2016-17 from 8.44% in 2015-16. The cumulative renewable energy installed capacity of Tata Motors Limited, as of 2016-17, is 3.85 MW of solar power and 21.95 MW of wind power plant at Pune. Energy Our drivers to Climate Change strategy are spread in three trained climate change champions across operations Our approach to energy and resulting emission is at two broad areas – Operations, Products and Supply Chain. to steer forward the climate change agenda. levels – a) at operation level; b) at the product level. }} Operations: Through enhancing energy efficiency, }} Products: In general, more than 70% of the total GHG }} Energy usage at operation level : In line with our We strongly believe that awareness, reduction and meeting our energy demand from renewable energy emissions of an automotive industry are contributed Energy Policy, Tata Motors is committed to reduce development of cleaner and efficient vehicles can, and possible offsetting mechanism we aim to reduce by emission from the use of sold products. Our dependency on fossil fuel and our energy strategy collaboratively, make a significant positive impact in and mitigate our direct emissions, namely, Scope 1 and products adhere to all the current emission norms focuses on adopting renewable source of energy mitigating climate change. Scope 2 emissions. Cross-functional teams at plants and we strategize our action plans in line with any through a grid, in-house renewable energy generation implement climate change action plans. There are upcoming regulations or changes. We have focused 81 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 82 effort in reducing on-road emissions from our vehicles Key Energy and Emission Initiatives at through the introduction of fuel cell buses and hybrid Operation Level in 2016-17 buses used for mass transportation. Further details Increase in the share of renewable energy consumption have been provided in “Product Stewardship” section. and energy conservation is vital in reducing our energy demand and reduction in emission. During the financial }} Supply Chain : Emissions due to purchased goods year 2016-17, ENCON initiatives have resulted to 58686 and services are also a major contributor to our GJ of energy saving and 8292.75 tCO2e emission overall GHG emission and hence, we have initiated reduction through various means of fuel use optimization engagement with our supply chain to encourage and electrical energy-saving measures. energy efficiency, usage of renewable energy and monitoring their individual operations’ GHG emission. At Tata Motors Limited, we acknowledge that monitoring Through our supply chain engagement, we provide and performance is closely linked. We have implemented a platform for sharing best practices in terms of SCADA control system in Lucknow plant. Improvement energy conservation, energy efficiency and in-house of lighting efficiency has been one of our major ENCON generation of renewable energy. Details on our supply initiatives for this fiscal year, 2016-17, at our Pune, chain performance is provided in “Sustainable Supply Jamshedpur and Pantnagar plant. The table below lists Chain” sub-section of this report. the initiatives at various locations undertaken in the year 2016-17 and the impact of the same. Initiatives in Energy Conservation and Their Impact Location Initiative Impact Replaced approximately, 6000 fluorescent tube-lights with energy efficient LED tube-lights and nine high masts fitted This initiative has led to energy saving of Pune with conventional sodium-vapor lamps 2635.2 GJ and emissions avoidance of 600 were replaced with LED fittings. We have tCO2. gradually replaced all light fittings in offices and shops with LED fixtures. Installed around 2500 and 1325 energy Jamshedpur & efficient LED lights respectively in areas This has led to energy saving of 3292.2 GJ Pantnagar such as streetlights, vehicle storage pads, and 749.89 tCO2 of emission avoidance. office and shop floor areas. Installed 20 light pipes to harness natural day light in manufacturing areas which Achieved energy saving of 290.15 GJ and Jamshedpur has result to energy saving of 290.15 GJ 66.09 tCO2 of emission avoidance. and 66.09 tCO2 of emission avoidance. The effective control mechanism has reduced operating hours of the high-bay Implemented SCADA Control for high bay Lucknow lights and coolers, thereby, resulting to lights and man coolers in Paint Shop energy saving of 1532.54 GJ and 349.08 tCO2 of emission avoidance. 83 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 84 Energy and GHG Performance of TML 2016-17 Indirect energy consumption has increased by 6.11% In addition to the energy usage and emission from fuel and whereas scope 2 emission has decreased by 1.6% from electricity consumption, our manufacturing operations 2015-16. This is due to the increase in share of renewable also generate process emissions from welding and metal energy from 8.44% in 2015-16 to 16.34% of total electricity cutting operations. These have been quantified separately consumption in 2016-17. as their quantum is directly proportional to manufacturing activity and does not offer scope for mitigation. Other Gas Consumption by TML 2015-16 2016-17 Material Description Energy (GJ) GHG Emission (tCO2e) Energy (GJ) GHG Emission (tCO2e) Dissolved Acetylene 2954 206.9 4241.35 292.72 Carbon-dioxide 761.5 451.75 The consumption of total energy from fuel and electricity energy consumption in 2016-17. However, we have been Energy and GHG emission intensity have been calculated fiscal year as compared to last reporting period due has increased in 2016-17 by 6%, mainly, due to increase able to reduce our overall scope 1 & scope 2 GHG emission based on the number of vehicles produced in 2016to increase in renewable energy. During the reporting in the number of M&HCV by 3% of the total commercial by 0.43% due to increase in the contribution of renewable 17 and energy and emission from fuel and electricity period, the energy and GHG emission intensity, including vehicles as compared to the previous year. The energy energy in the total energy. We have a target of yearonconsumption. Energy consumption per vehicle has dissolved acetylene and CO2, has been 5.22 GJ/vehicle consumption of per M&HCV manufacturing is higher than year reduction of GHG emission from scope 1 & scope 2 increased by 5.3% from last fiscal year whereas specific and 0.741 tCO2e/vehicle respectively. Small Commercial Vehicle and thus, the increase in the by 15%. Renewable energy sourcing and energy saving GHG emission per vehicle has reduced by 0.09% in this number of M&HCV has resulted in to an overall increase in initiatives shall be vital in achieving the target reduction. 15 We have initiated to disclose each fuel type energy consumption and emission from this reporting period. 16 Including LDO and HSD. 85 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 86 Energy Consumption Outside TML and Scope 3 Emissions This year we have extended the scope 3 emission distribution” have been calculated based on the collected reporting and have reported a total of seven Scope 3 data from 52 suppliers assessed under our initiative in categories, including use of sold products. Until 2015-16, sustainable supply chain. These 52 suppliers contribute we were calculating GHG emission from only employee to energy consumption of 540322.54 GJ outside TML’s commute. GHG emission in the category “Purchase operational boundary. goods and services” and “Upstream transportation and The calculation of emission from use of sold PV products Approximately 93% of the total Scope 3 emissions are has been done as per the data submitted to SIAM on the contributed by the use of sold products. This shows number of passenger vehicle sold, engine specification, the need for efforts required towards improving vehicle useful life and efficiency or mileage of the vehicle. GHG efficiency through innovations. As aforementioned, Tata emissions from Business travel has been calculated for Motors Limited has introduced alternate and hybrid buses international travel and is based on DEFRA emission for mass transportation and has initiated developing factor data base. alternative fuel passenger vehicles. 17 Includes only Passenger Vehicles sold. 87 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 88 Energy and GHG Performance of Subsidiaries 2016-17 Energy and GHG Performance of Subsidiaries 2016-17 TAL TMML Direct Fuel Consumption and Scope 1 GHG Emission Direct Fuel Consumption and Scope 1 GHG Emission 2016-17 2015-16 2016-17 2015-16 Energy sources Energy sources (Fuel types) GHG Emission GHG Emission (Fuel types) GHG Emission GHG Emission Energy (GJ) Energy (GJ) Energy (GJ) Energy (GJ) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) HSD 5212.12 386.22 Propane 5505.247 347.38 9,418 648.73 Diesel 61.12 4.53 2,895 214.5 Total 5505.247 347.38 9,418 648.73 Total 5273.24 390.75 Electricity Consumption and Scope 2 GHG Emission Electricity Consumption and Scope 2 GHG Emission Electricity Purchased 2457.36 559.73 (Grid) Electricity Purchased 29,743 6,774.80 37065.2 8442.63 26,968 6,143 Electricity from the (Grid) Renewable Source/RE 24480 0 Power TMLDL TTL Direct Fuel Consumption and Scope 1 GHG Emission Direct Fuel Consumption and Scope 1 GHG Emission 2016-17 2015-16 Energy sources 2016-17 2015-16 (Fuel types) GHG Emission GHG Emission Energy sources Energy (GJ) Energy (GJ) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (Fuel types) GHG Emission GHG Emission Energy (GJ) Energy (GJ) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) LDO 2547.9 188.8 HSD: For Gensets 220.58 16.35 Propane 183825.3 11599.5 2,28,906 15,226 Diesel for Company owned 771.776 57.189 101 7.52 vehicles Total 186373.23 11788.3 Total 992.36 73.53 Electricity Consumption and Scope 2 GHG Emission Electricity Consumption and Scope 2 GHG Emission Electricity Purchased 276904.8 63072.76 3,43,713 78,290 (Grid) Electricity Purchased 11333.27 2581.47 12,364 2,816 (Grid) 89 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 90 TAL, TMLDL and TTL have no renewable energy power and metal cutting purposes. Carbon-dioxide does not consumption during the reporting year. Dissolved react with oxygen and thus, energy generated from CO2 acetylene and CO2 is used by our subsidiaries for welding has not been considered. Through various ENCON initiatives, as mentioned we have past 2 years. This is attributed to the fact that most of Other Gases Consumption by Subsidiaries saved fuel and electricity. This has resulted to avoidance the feasible energy saving measures have already been of GHG emissions. The reduction in energy consumption implemented and thus, the quantum of energy saved has Gas used Unit TAL TMLDL TMML is calculated based on the baseline energy consumption shown a decreasing trend. However, we are constantly of the respective initiative and is a function of numbers seeking to identify the scope of energy conservation and Energy (GJ) 62.63 89.41 34657.46 of initiatives undertaken during the reporting year. The energy efficiency. Dissolved Acetylene overall energy saving shows a decreasing trend from GHG Emission (tCO2) 4.32 6.17 2393.72 CO2 GHG Emission (tCO2) 0.18 NA NA Trends in Energy Saved and Emission Avoided Energy and GHG Emission Intensity per Workforce for TML Subsidiaries GHG Emission Intensity (tCO2e per Employee) 2016-17 TAL TMLDL TMML TTL Total Energy Consumption 42401.07 463367.4 67100.06 12325.62 within organisation (GJ) Direct and Indirect Emission 8837.88 74860.94 3300.84 2655 (Scope 1 + Scope 2) in tCO2e tCO2e per Workforce 7.53 21.99 1.23 0.54 GJ per Workforce 36.12 136.08 25.03 2.5 During the year 2016-17, we have not generated RECs due to lack of REC demand in the market. The banked RECs, from 2015-16, have been sold and used by our Pantnagar Energy Conservation and GHG Avoidance at TML plant to meet its Renewable Purchase Obligation in this fiscal year. In line with our commitment to RE 100, we are continuously seeking to increase the contribution of renewable energy in our energy demand. During the reporting year, we have significantly increased the use of renewable energy. 91 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 92 Air Emission by Subsidiaries for 2016-17 Parameters Units TAL TMLDL TMML TTL Total Particulate tons 0.14 38.06 26.126 0.00865 Matter (TPM) Oxides of tons 0.000000864 0.81 0.00070 0.05685 Nitrogen (NOx) Sulphur tons 0.0054 4.69 0.00014 0.02275 Dioxide (SO2) Till fiscal year 2016-17 we had a total renewable energy and alarm system for incinerator emissions. Ozone Depleting Substance installed capacity of 3.85 MW of solar power at five of our manufacturing sites and 21.95 MW of wind power plant At our Indian manufacturing locations, paint shops are designed for usage of solvent based automotive paints. R22 is used by TML, TTL and TMLDL for refrigeration. at Pune. This has reduced our grid electricity demand and Paint shops are equipped with appropriate emission During the year, TML, TMLDL and TTL has used brought down carbon footprint of our operations. control equipment to control emissions from painting 154.11kgs, 16.5kgs and 1.017kgs of CFC-11 equivalent and paint baking operations. Going forward, we intend of ODS respectively. No other subsidiaries of TML have Other Air Emissions to determine and quantify the extent and significance used ODS in 2016-17. Particulate Matter (PM), Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) and of Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions using Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) constitute major other air emissions methodologies as appropriate to each plant. There arising due to our manufacturing activities. We continually has been increase of 6.2% in total particulate matter in work towards reducing these emissions through efficient 2016-17 as compared to 2015-16. This increase has manufacturing processes and use of cleaner fuels. Various been mainly due to increase in fuel and direct energy steps are taken to effectively monitor air emissions from consumption by 5% the production facilities including an on-line monitoring 93 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 94 Waste Our requirement of critical-to-quality castings (both iron and aluminium) are met in-house through captive foundries at Pune and Jamshedpur. Management With a strong strategic drive to divert hazardous wastes away from landfill and incineration, which adds to environmental burden, a number of recycling options Case Study: Migration from Disposal to Recovery as a Sustainable Way for Hazardous Waste Disposal at TML Pantnagar have been explored and implemented. Going forward Tata Motors Ltd. adopted 3R (Reduce, Reuse & Recycle) practices in its day-to-day operations. In reference to we are committed to increase this quantum and aim for waste hierarchy, TML moved towards the higher level of desirability from disposal to recovery. We are committed to continuously improve our “Zero waste to Common Waste Disposal Facilities”. management of waste and hazardous materials. As per Earlier, at TATA Motors Pantnagar, disposal of hazardous waste was happening through landfilling of ETP and our policy, we attempt to manage waste through our 3 Key Initiatives in Waste Management: Phosphate sludge; incineration of Paint sludge and Waste and residues. TML Pantnagar has stopped landfilling, prong approach: Initiatives in 2016-17 for our journey towards “Zero incineration and has moved towards the energy and material recovery from waste by co-processing. Now, TML Waste to Landfill” have primarily been our drive for waste Pantnagar has 2.67% as landfil. This has resulted to 630.57 tons of hazardous waste being diverted from landfill in minimization at shop floor level and co-processing of 2016-17. hazardous waste. Drive at Shop floor: We have imparted exclusive training and workforce engagement on effective waste management. Targets have been set at the shop floor level at each plant and adequate waste segregation method has been implemented. Resulting from adequate segregation method at waste generation level and central collection facility, we have been able to initiate effective cleaning process for small paint tins and sealant bags and drums. These cleaned drums are reused for hazardous We dispose of waste as per the norms of waste disposal waste transportation and also reduce our overall waste methods prescribed by Government of India. disposal quantity under hazardous category. Tata Motors Limited is a vertically integrated Co-processing, as an effective and environment friendly manufacturing plant, comprising of disposal method, has been accepted and adopted by all TML’s plants. We are gradually increasing the quantity of hazardous waste disposed through co-processing. During the year 2015-16, 700 tons of hazardous waste at Pantnagar were disposed to landfill which has reduced to 24.53 tons in 2016-17 resulting from increase in coprocessing at cement plant. In 2016-17, Pantnagar has only 2.67% of total hazardous waste disposed through landfill. At Dharwad, we have identified vendors and diverted paint chips and paint dust for co-processing and have collaboration with Ultratech Cements, Gulbarga. Our Jamshedpur and Sanand plants have also reduced hazardous waste to landfill by diverting to co-processing by collaborating with ACC Chaibasa and Ultratech Kutch respectively. 95 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 96 TML’s Performance in 2016-17 TML Hazardous Waste Generation Data 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Waste Category18 Waste Description Quantity (Ton) Quantity (Ton) Quantity (Ton) 5.1 Used/Spent oil 179 202.17 181.85 5.2 Oily wastes and Residues 438 380.77 668.866 12.5 Phosphate sludge 220 200.99 237.61 15.1, 15.2 Asbestos containing scrap 2.15 2.21 0.55 Contaminated/Spent thinners and 20.1, 20.2 204 162.96 190.09 solvents Paint sludge and Residues, Sealant Through our waste minimization initiatives, we have has increased by 6% in 2016-17. This shows an overall 21.1, 23.1 residues, Pattern waste from R&D 1844 2825.54 2410.095 reduced the total quantity of hazardous waste generation reduction in hazardous waste generation intensity by activity by 0.2% from last year though our production number 5.75% in 2016-17 as compared to the previous year. Discarded containers of Hazardous 33.1 98.91 162.9 Chemicals19 35.1 Chimney soot 0.89 0.76 0.3 TML Non-Hazardous Waste Generation Data for 2016-17 35.2 Spent DM plant resins 1.50 18.82 1.63 Waste Description Quantity in 2016-17 (Ton) Specific Non-Hazardous Waste Generation (Ton/Vehicle) 35.3 ETP sludge 905 955.43 827.115 Biodegradable Waste (Canteen Waste + 3597.81 Oil and grease skimming residues 35.4 21.3 44.43 Gardening Waste) from waste water treatment20 Spent catalyst from heat treatment 0.18 38.1 0.68 0.1 0 Waste Foundry Sand 60973.05 shop 37.2 Incineration ash 362 38.59 57.44 Scrap (all types) 29004.77 As per schedule II Shot-blasting dust 16 20.45 15.41 For last two years, 2014-15 and 2015-16, we have which is 14.09% less than the quantity of non-hazardous As per schedule Non-ferrous metal scrap 174 144.73 220.9 been disclosing combined quantity of non-hazardous waste disposed by TML in 2015-16. The reduction in IV waste generation along with our subsidiaries. This year the non-hazardous waste generation has been mainly As per schedule we have disclosed the quantity separately for TML and contributed by our initiatives at a shop-floor level, Used oil for recycling 181 8.32 88.66 IV(Cat. 5.1) subsidiaries. replacement of one-time use corrugated boxes and wood with reusable plastic box and metals for packaging and Scrap lead acid batteries21 164 141.47 183.07 During the reporting year, 2016-17, we have total nonemployee engagement in reducing waste generation. hazardous waste generation of quantity 93575.63 MT E-waste22 102 148.89 69.77 18 As per The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling & Trans-boundary Movement) Rules, 2008 as amended 19 Included the category from 2015-16 20 Included the category from 2015-16 21 As per The Batteries (Management and Handling) Amendment Rules, 2010 as amended 22 As per The E-waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2011 as amended. 97 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 98 Total Waste Disposed by End Disposal Method at TML Non-Hazardous Waste Percentage of Types of Percentage of Total Performance with Performance with Waste Waste Disposed Respect to Disposal Total Disposal Types of Waste Respect to Disposal (Combination Quantity in Tons Through End Method in Waste Disposed Method (Combination of Waste Disposal Method Quantity in Tons Method in of Waste Disposal Method 2016-17 as Compared Through End Categories) 2016-17 as Compared Categories) (%) to 2015-16 Disposal Method to 2015-16 (%) Direction of 2015-16 2016-17 2015-16 2016-17 Status Change Direction of 2015-16 2016-17 2015-16 2016-17 Status Canteen Waste Composting 285.95 344.56 0.26% 0.37% Change No change in Hazardous Waste Canteen Waste Biomethanation 1257.80 1136.468 1.15% 1.21% percentage of waste for each disposal method. Grinding Sludge, Municipal Canteen Waste 2900.08 2116.782 2.66% 2.26% Phosphate Sludge, CHWTSDF Decrease in Landfill/ piggery 1291.06 919.75 23.79% 17.02% Good ETP Sludge, Shot Landfill Landfill All Scrap LOTS Decrease due Blasting Dust Sold to Scrap Sold to Scrap 37874.9423 29004.77 34.73% 31.00% to less scrap Good Dealers Dealers generation Paint Sludge, Hazardous Garbage, Waste Burnt Landfill to Stone Increase in CHWTSDF Decrease in 66725.824 60973.05 61.19% 65.16% Bad Scrap Sealants, DM 2566.18 1712.118 47.29% 31.68% Good Foundry Sand Quarry landfill Incineration Incineration Resins, Prototyping Waste During reporting year 2016-17, we have aggressively taken above. We have significantly increased hazardous waste coPaint Sludge, In-house No Significant No initiatives towards our journey to achieve “Zero waste to processing for energy and material recovery as well as increased 271.28 290.6 5.00% 5.38% Hazardous Garbage Incineration Change Change common waste disposal site” and have reduced hazardous the quantity of material recovery through recycling activity at waste disposal to landfill and incineration as indicated in the table various manufacturing sites. Conversion of Paint Sludge to Primer, Increase in Reclamation of Dirty Recycle for Metal flushing thinner, ReMaterial 129.33 217.57 2.38% 4.03% Recovery Good use of ETP Sludge / Recovery Through Incineration ash in Recycling pavers/building products Paint Sludge, Co-processing Increase in 261.07 1298.88 4.81% 24.06% Good Hazardous Garbage (Energy Recovery) Co-Processing Co-processing Increase in Phosphating Sludge 38.59 81.87 0.71% 1.52% Good (Material Recovery) Co-Processing Scrap Lead Acid Batteries, Scrap Lead Tire Balancing weights, All types of Sale to No Significant No non-ferrous scrap Authorized 869.14 883.04 16.02% 16.34% Change change LOTS, All types of Re-cyclers Used / Waste Oil LOTS, e-waste, empty containers 23 We are reporting on quantity of scrap lots sold to scrap dealer for the first time in 2016-17. 24 We are reporting on quantity of waste burnt foundry sand disposed through landfill to stone quarry for the first time in 2016-17. 99 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 100 Non-Hazardous Waste Subsidiaries’ Performance in 2016-17 Non-Hazardous Waste Generation and Disposal at Subsidiaries (2016-17) Hazardous Waste Non-Hazardous Waste Types Unit Quantity Disposal Method Hazardous Waste Generation and Disposal at Subsidiaries (2016-17) TAL Canteen Waste tons 3 Municipal Landfill/piggery Hazardous Waste Types Unit Quantity Disposal Method Garbage tons 84 TAL Aluminium Scrap tons 162 Paint Sludge (Oily Cotton Waste) tons 3.2 Incineration by MEPL Titanium Scrap tons 62.2 Grinding Sludge tons 1.68 Wood Waste tons 69.5 Sludge tons 68.34 Landfill by MEPL Sold to Scrap Dealers for recycling Plastic Waste tons 0.4 Process Residue tons 79 Metallic Scrap tons 910.4 E-Waste No. 58 Sale to Authorised Recyclers Electrical Scrap tons 4.8 Empty Paint Thinner Tins Lot 1 Paper, Corrugated Box etc. tons 6.2 TMLDL TMLDL Used/Spent Oil KL 62.6 Authorised recycling Plastic Waste tons 9.73 Grinding Sludge tons 243.23 Metallic Scrap tons 8308.6 Paint Sludge and Residues tons 224.19 Co-processing Other Waste (Paper, Corrugated Box etc.) tons 1398.42 Oil Soaked Cotton Waste tons 163.46 Wood Waste tons 1827.6 Recycling Lead Acid Batteries tons 0.35 Authorised recycling Scrap Rubber, PVC Items tons 12.27 E-Waste tons 0.52 Misc. Electrical Scrap tons 12.48 TMML Scrap Electrical Cables tons 9.54 Waste Thinner tons 7.98 Sale to Authorised Recyclers TMML Paint Sludge (Semi Solid) tons 197.51 Incineration Plastic Waste tons 53.92 Recycle Paint Filter, Painted Paper and Painting Cloth (Solid) tons 1.8 Metallic Scrap tons 1414.02 Sale to Authorised Recyclers Empty Paint Containers Nos 24088 Wood Waste tons 391.15 Reuse E.T.P. Sludge (Semi Solid) tons 44.98 Landfill Scrap Rubber tons 52.05 Used/Spent Oil tons 0.18 Incineration Scrap Fibre tons 2.05 Recycle TTL Other Waste (Paper, Corrugated Box etc.) tons 2 Used/Spent Oil tons 0.2 TTL Sale to Authorised Recyclers E-waste No. 117 Canteen Waste (Food) tons 23.464 Composting 101 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 102 Key Initiatives in Water Management: Water and Our water policy, formulated in December 2012, is our guiding principle for water management and in line Initiatives in Water Conservation and Their Impact with our policy, we attempt to continuously improve on our water performance. At Tata Motors Limited, water Effluent conservation features among the key selected parameters Location Initiative Impact while evaluating any new technology and we aim to make maximum positive impact from the inception stage in order Management to derive greater benefits. We have conducted a detailed water footprint study in 2014 where we have established our water consumption baseline and identified key areas Lucknow and Jamshedpur We have created Rain Water Harvesting structures to recharge ground water table. of water consumption. We are continuously working on reducing our water demand and striving to increase We are committed to reducing our water footprint through awareness among our workforce and suppliers towards continuous improvement in water efficiency, through our the need of water conservation. 3-pronged approach: We have celebrated World Water Day on 22 March 2017 throughout all the plants of Tata Motors and reiterated our commitment towards water efficiency and An artificial lake for rainwater storage has These initiatives ultimately increase in the conservation. Through attractive posters and banners been constructed. Harvesting of rain water water table in and around the plant premises Dharwad displayed at key locations such as washrooms, we have has reduced overall water withdrawal from and also diminishing flooding during peak tried to communicate the message regarding the need other sources. monsoon. to conserve water and steps to achieve the same. We even encourage people at our manufacturing facilities to report any observed leakage through a formal complaint management system which is then attended on a priority We have implemented water retention basis by a dedicated team. ponds for accumulating rain water and runoff water from the plant. We are currently increasing the storage capacity of rain water Sanand harvest at Pune plant, which shall result to World Water Day 2017 additional 70,000 m3/year of harvested rain water consumption. This will reduce our dependency on other water sources. In collaboration with OEM, we have set up a containerized Reverse Osmosis Plant which uses patented plate and tube type of In FY 2016-17, a total of 825891 m3 of water Pune membrane instead of conventional spiral had been recycled back into the process wound membrane. Permeate from RO plant leading to significant cost savings. is blended with raw water from utility and reused in manufacturing process. We have implemented localized water pressure boosting system which enables This has helped TML to minimize water loss us to supply water at lower pressure and At Various TML due to any leakage in the pipeline as well increase the water pressure where needed. Plants as tracking of water consumption at our We have also initiated to closely monitor the canteens and for horticulture. water consumption at our canteens and for horticulture. 103 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 104 TML’s Performance in 2016-17 and Lucknow, we are dependent on groundwater for our water requirements. In order to reduce our dependence Water Sourcing on precious groundwater resource, we have established The manufacturing locations of TML receive water from Total Water Discharge -TMLDL rainwater harvesting facilities at Pantnagar, Lucknow and various sources. Water at Pune is supplied completely by Jamshedpur. At Dharwad, water is sourced from mixed Units Total water discharge FY 2016-17 Treatment method prior to discharge municipality while for Sanand and Jamshedpur, we draw sources which include municipal supply, ground water m3 472270.285 ETP and STP water from rivers/surface water sources. At Pantnagar withdrawal and harvested rainwater through an artificial lake. Subsidiaries’ Performance in 2016-17 Water Consumption at TML (m3) % of Total Overall % Variation Water Consumption at TML Subsidiaries Water Withdrawal 2014-15 (m3) 2015-2016 (m3) 2016-2017 (m3) Water Demand in in 2016-17 from (m3) 2016-2017 2015-16 Subsidiary Name Source Unit Quantity in 2015-16 Quantity in 2016-17 TAL Municipal Water m3 120719 137789 Municipal 3,215,446.12 54.44 TMLDL Surface Water m3 515254 555612.1 Total water Total water Surface Water consumption 868,043.7 14.70 Ground Water 125376 105046 consumption 13.3% 5,869,15525 TMML m3 Ground Water 5,211,33726 1,780,465 30.14 KIADB water 16890 Not applicable Rain Water 42,473 0.72 TLL Municipal Water m3 149767 1,09,011.00 Total 5,906,427.82 In 2016-17, our total water withdrawal and specific Percentage and Volume of Water Recycled and Reuse water consumption per vehicle produced has increased Total Volume of Recycled and Total Volume of Recycled and Reused Water as a % of by 13.3% and 6.97% respectively from previous year Reused Water in m3 Total Withdrawal resulting largely due to higher volume in production and TAL major maintenance and overhauling of paint shops. We have achieved a significant reduction in surface water 35784.8 25.97% withdrawal due to rain water harvesting and storage. TMLDL Jamshedpur 921.1 0.17% Water Recycling and Effluent Management TMML We are committed to minimizing the negative impact of 21125 20.11% our operations on the environment and conserve natural TTL resource. Water is a precious resource and discharging 17793.75 16.32% wastewater is detrimental to the quality of surface water bodies. Another approach for reducing the withdrawal of fresh water is by recycling and reusing the effluent generated from processes and domestic use. With the onset of regulatory compliance of “Zero Liquid Discharge” for industries, Tata Motors Limited has proactively attempted to achieve “Zero Liquid Discharge” status for all our manufacturing locations. Currently, all our TML manufacturing sites and subsidiaries, have achieved “Zero Liquid Discharge” status except TML Jamshedpur where treated wastewater is partly used for cooling tower makeup/gardening and rest is discharged outside the plant premises to natural water stream. The wastewater discharge from TMLDL Jamshedpur is sent to the common effluent treatment plant (CETP) of TML for further treatment. 25 Including water abstraction for recovery well at Jamshedpur in 2014-15 26 Including water abstraction for recovery well at Jamshedpur in 2015-16 105 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 106 or protected water bodies. We have created water bodies/ Biodiversity wetlands within our manufacturing locations using storm water runoff as a water conservation measure. A variety of avian fauna are seen throughout the year and migratory birds are seen in the winter. Tata sustainability policy at the group level guides all the At Pune Plant, a colony of Painted Stork (Mycteria Tata companies to undertake natural capital valuation leucocephala) nest throughout the year at the wetland for all the business. In this context, Tata Motors Limited created adjacent to plant. At Lucknow Plant, Bluebuck assesses the natural capital, including biodiversity, for (neelgai), wild boar, common jackal and Indian porcupine all its locations. We are committed to avoid and mitigate are seen as they are commonly found in that region. The the negative impacts and enhance positive impacts on presence of this fauna within and adjacent to our plant biodiversity through TML’s Biodiversity management plan premises is an indicator of the protected and undisturbed and social responsibility initiatives. conditions within the Plant area. While the animal species observed at Lucknow are classified as ‘Least Concern’ Key Initiatives and Performance in 2016-17: <LC> in the IUCN Red List, the Painted Stork is classified Our manufacturing locations in India are not located within as ‘Near Threatened’ <NT>. the vicinity of any identified/notified biodiversity hotspots In our attempt to understand the impact of our operations Going forward, some selected Biodiversity Management on biodiversity, we have conducted Biodiversity Plans, will be taken up for implementation as we believe Assessment Study for three of our oldest and largest in enhancing the biodiversity in areas of operation. plants, namely Pune, Lucknow and Jamshedpur in 2016-17. These projects would be aimed at enriching the diversity of species and conservation of habitat of the endemic species. There is no significant negative impact on biodiversity due to our operation. It has been concluded through Biodiversity Assessment Study that no species are under the LC/ Near Threatened as per IUCN classification. 107 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 108 Environmental Stewardship Environment conservation has always been a key priority requirements. All Manufacturing Plants in India are Our expenditure towards environmental protection for TML and we have consciously strived to minimize the certified to ISO 14001 Environment Management amounts to INR 558.63 million in FY 2016-17 which is impact of our operations on the environment. In line with Systems and we are aiming for a transition to the new 36% higher than previous years. Though there has been our Environmental Policy, we are committed to complying 2015 version of ISO-14001 progressively at all plants over decrease in expenditure related to external service, the with all the legal, regulatory and other environmental the coming 2 years. cost of treatment and disposal of waste has increased significantly. In addition, due to increasing pollution norms TML and the subsidiaries had no non-compliance and there were no significant environmental fines or sanctions and monitoring equipment installation and depreciation, during the reporting period. the cost of maintenance of pollution monitoring equipment has considerably increased Key Initiatives in Environmental Stewardship in 2016-17: At all plants level, we have undertaken several initiatives from hazardous wastes and rainwater harvesting. Our for resource conservation such as recycling of treated manufacturing plants also generate in-house renewable effluents back to process, energy and material recovery power and source off-site green power where available. Environmental Protection Activity Breakup27 27 We have initiated disclosing environmental expenditure as per activity from 2015-16. 109 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 110 Raw Material generating employment opportunities at our dedicated refurbishment workshops and vehicle reconditioning. Packaging Recycling: The reconditioned engines In addition, we help our customers to upgrade their are packed and transported in the wooden boxes. The Tata Assured mode of conveyance at affordable option; wood used in these boxes is also recycled by Prolife. As per our Environment policy, we are committed An equivalent engine needs 7 ft3 of wood for packaging, }} We create positive environmental impact through to conserve natural resources by minimising their but in Prolife we have used only 1.8ft3 of wood per ensuring adherence with the applicable emission consumption and reducing wastage. Tata Code of equivalent engine in last year while remaining old wood norms by the vehicles in use and reducing Conduct also guides us to continuously seek to prevent was recycled. In the past five years, we have been able environmental impact by extending the life of vehicle wasteful use of natural resource. to bring down this fresh wood consumption by nearly thereby, avoiding additional disposal and adverse 33% through recycling practices. impact in the manufacturing process; The raw materials we consume include metals in the }} We increase the quality and value of product by During 2016-17, a total of 24281 equivalent vehicles has form of sheets and plates, castings and forgings. Other improving useful life of the product while ensuring been reused or recycled under our take-back program components include tyres, fuel injection equipment, optimum operational performance and minimizing resulting in revenue generation of INR 171.26 cr. In terms Tata Motors Assured is the Pre-Owned vehicle brand batteries, electrical items, rubber and plastic parts, paints usage of virgin materials. of energy consumption, prolife business has utilized 47 from TML providing a one-stop solution to customers by and thinners for manufacturing the vehicles. Our internal production processes entail the use of consumables such kWh electrical energy per equivalent engine in 2016-17 for facilitating in: Tata Prolife as lubricants, welding consumables etc. Apart from inreconditioning. This is a reduction of 33% over past five years. house manufacturing, we also source auto components }} Buying and selling of preowned cars at right value and from our subsidiaries and suppliers which consist of axles, with requisite documents. engines, gear boxes and cabs. }} Exchanging the existing car of any brand with new Management Approach for or used Tata vehicle at affordable price based on the Raw Materials Management and Conservation: chosen option by the customers We adhere to the European regulation of Reduce-Reuse}} All service is provided under one roof, including Recover and thus, we manufacture our products with valuation of existing car, assessment of road readiness 85% recyclability. Our Research & Development team, at through our robust 100 check point’s certificates and organization level, is overall responsible for adhering to providing necessary documentations. this Reduce-Reuse-Recover regulation. The corporate Tata Prolife business division works in the area of R&D team is also responsible for continuously monitoring reconditioning and remanufacturing auto components Through Tata Assured, we have established stringent the recyclable percentage of our products and the same which have reached the end of their useful life. Dedicated certification norms on make, age, mileage, previous is verified by European VDA agency on a quarterly basis. for commercial vehicle (CV) owner, Tata Prolife aims at owners and retrofitting for vehicles in order to ensure that The R&D team is supported by purchase and supply extending the life of vehicles and aggregates through prospective customers have the best vehicles to select chain team for sourcing of environment-friendly material systematic overhauling leading to improved efficiency and from. We ensure optimum efficiency of the refurbished and monitoring and verification for the Reduce-Reuseoptimum performance while also ensuring several added vehicles and adherence to the applicable emission norms. Recover requirement. years to the life. On average, the useful life of the vehicle is extended by 3 On 25 February 2017, Tata Prolife has expended to 4 years through routine refurbishment. Tata Motors is continuously striving towards the principle further by commissioning their 4th reconditioning of circular economy by means of reduce – reuse – recover plant at Hyderabad, exclusively for reconditioning In the year 2016-17, we have taken numbers of initiatives initiatives. In addition, we seek to reduce the weight of vehicles TM SCV engines. to increase our customer base, thereby enhancing the which leads to significant improvement in fuel efficiency overall quality of old and on-road vehicles. Our key which in return results in reduction in GHG emissions. In reconditioning activity, our main focus is to avoid initiatives are: scrapping of old parts. In order to achieve this, a separate Alignment with Circular Economy function called ‘Salvaging’ has been created and is }} We have conducted specific campaigns for upgrading headed by a Divisional Manager. Reconditioning is done Dedicated branches of Tata Motors Limited, namely, Tata existing customers by exchanging old vehicle with on vehicular aggregates which have run one life, and by Prolife, Tata OK and Tata Assured have made noteworthy new model of the cars. reconditioning they are infused with new lease of life, initiatives towards reconditioning and refurbishment of otherwise they would have gone scrap. Reconditioning products. Our integrated approach to circularity addresses }} Best price challenge is done in a factory-like atmosphere, with original all four key strategic areas of circular economy: specifications, so that these aggregates run again with }} We reduce risk associated with limited source of virgin designed efficiency levels. Apart from engines, gearboxes, }} Mobile campaigns to reach out to larger mass for material by reducing the dependency on virgin material; clutch pressure plates, Brake components, truck cabins exchanging cars. }} We create positive socio-economic impact through etc. are also reconditioned. 111 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 112 TML’s Performance in 2016-17 Material Consumption at TML Type of materialMaterial name Renewable/ Quantity in 2014Quantity in 2015Quantity in 2016Units consumed non-renewable 15 16 17 material Steel Non-renewable Tons 96,882 1,04,432 75,707 Steel Tubes Non-renewable Tons 12 6 5 Tata OK Non-Ferrous Non-renewable Tons 3,548 3,237 3,679 Alloys TATA OK is a platform providing single window solution for all those customers who want to exchange, sell or buy pre-owned commercial vehicles at the affordable Ferrous Alloys Non-renewable Tons 3,408 3,449 2,802 price. Through a scientific way, proper processes and refurbishment, TATA OK has proven beneficial to Steel Melting customers by ensuring increased safety, better fuel Scrap Non-renewable Tons 59,185 63,436 62,256 efficiency and compliance with the norms. TATA OK is (recycled) a dedicated refurbishment and exchange service for commercial vehicles. The refurbishment is done through Tons 2,078 2,353 2,409 Tata OK’s 412 channel partners spread across India and Paints, Oils quality of the refurbishment is ensured by Tata OK. Non-renewable and Lubricants Kilo Liters 9,131 8,475 12,729 Total Number of Refurbished Vehicle Sold Tires, Tubes Non-renewable Numbers 32,49,683 36,27,759 38,98,472 and Flaps Number of vehicles Number of Vehicle in Number of Vehicles Types of vehicles Sold till FY 15-16 FY 2016-17 Sold till FY 2016-17 Engines Non-renewable Numbers 1,05,182 1,18,911 1,26,972 SCV 43530 8357 62640 Sand Tons 51,468 66,726 50,451 LCV 6450 530 51887 HCV 3100 253 6980 Trends in direct material consumption such as steel through initiative such as using high strength steel and sheets and plates, castings, forgings, etc. are largely alternate engineering plastic to reduce the weight of Total 53080 9140 3353 determined by volumes and the number of material product and thereby reducing the overall raw material conversion operations carried out in-house. We have consumption. During 2016-17, we have recycled achieved a significant reduction in steel and ferrous alloy 23644.19 tons of metal scrap and forging, internally, Network Spread 412 consumption in FY 2016-17 as compared to FY 2015-17 at our manufacturing locations and used the same in even though there has been an increase in production our manufacturing process. We also use recycled steel Exchange Volume 1712 by 6%. We are continuously seeking to optimize material melting scrap in our manufacturing process. usage and recycling to avoid virgin material consumption 113 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 114 Subsidiaries’ Performance in 2016-17 TTL, being a design firm, does not procure or consume raw material. Material Consumption at Our Subsidiaries TAL Type of MaterialMaterial Renewable/NonUnits in tons Quantity in 2015-16 Quantity in 2016-17 Consumed Renewable Material Steel including Non-renewable tons 62.85 65 Forgings Casting Non-renewable tons 332 50 The percentage of recycled input material (metal scrap Paints and Thinner Non-renewable KL 16.95 13 and forging and Steel melting scrap) has been calculated based on the total metal material input, ferrous and nonOil and Lubricants Non renewable KL 15 31 ferrous metal, consumed during 2016-17 Wood Renewable CFT 32452 30806.56 Material Packaging Composite We are yet to initiate process to reclaim packaging Non-renewable tons 59.223 85.737 Material material at TML level. We, however, are fully aware of the impact of packaging materials on the environment and Titanium Non-renewable tons 33.78 84.042 we have been undertaking several interventions to reduce our packaging requirements. We have been traditionally Aluminum Non-renewable KL 24.8 34.788 using wood for packaging in form of crates and pallets. This has now been substituted with either reusable plastic TMML or metal cases. We are further looking to minimize the use of corrugated boxes and increase the use of reusable Type of MaterialMaterial packaging materials, such as plastic bins with no poly Renewable/NonUnits Quantity in 2015-16 Quantity in 2016-17 Consumed Renewable Material bags, which can be utilised a multiple number of times. For internal movement of parts and components we have Galvanized Steel Non-renewable tons 10,724 15,215 nearly done away with non-reusable packaging options and this has helped us cut down on packaging waste FRP (Fibre Non-renewable tons 248 1,336 which is generated at our manufacturing locations. Reinforced Plastic) Plywood Renewable m2 1,88,886 2,59,848 Glass Non-renewable tons 59,037 2,446 Plastic Non-renewable tons 27,49,644 5,40,145 In collaboration with our suppliers, logistics partners Aluminium Non-renewable tons 225 453 and rental Packaging companies, we have replaced expandable packaging with returnable FLC packaging Thinner Non-renewable L 73,529 1,91,153 which not only results to reduced waste generation but also has low lifetime cost, faster turnaround time and Paint Used Non-renewable L 2,13,888 1,19,806 eliminates mishandling during material handling. 115 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 116 TMLDL Type of materialMaterial Renewable/nonUnits Quantity in 2015-16 Quantity in 2016-17 Consumed renewable material Case Study: Hazardous Waste Reduction and Resource Conservation Through Colour Change Optimization in Paint Shop Steel Non-renewable tons 342.92 261.68 TML Pantnagar is manufacturing about 22 models of commercial vehicles in more than 12 colours, leading to Paints Non-renewable KL 29.65 36.26 around 530 colour model mix in the paint shop. This has a direct impact on hazardous waste generation from painting process and energy consumption in the paint shop. Colour changes, as high as 150 nos. in a day, were leading to poor productivity and paint and thinner wastages. Oil Non-renewable KL 587.67 405.65 Lubricants Non-renewable tons 576.21 139.1 Steel Shot Non-renewable tons 131.38 158.96 All the materials are externally sourced. Material usage optimization is a key concern for all our subsidiaries. Case Study: Wood Recycling at TAL At TAL Pune, the materials are received in wooden With this wood recycling initiative, we have not just packing boxes. The empty wooden boxes are either reduced our wood consumption under CCI but also kept separately for reuse or are disassembled and new have recycled 3496 CFT of wood in 2016-17 and were boxes are made as per the packaging requirement. also able to achieve cost reduction up to 60% against ordering new wooden boxes. We migrated from Model wise painting strategy to COLOR wise painting process. Key modifications include: 1. Process change w.r.t. material flow, 2. Revised strategy from PPC dept. (Production, Planning and Control), 3. Body buffer storage planning, and 4. Real time coordination with internal customers as well as necessary infrastructure changes such providing body buffer zones at different points of painting. Benefits Achieved: Colour change project has reduced hazardous waste generation of paint and thinner to significant limit. The thinner and paint consumption has reduced by 100 ml/robot/instance of flushing and 50 ml/robot/instance respectively. This also reducing our power consumption by 7.8 kWh/vehicle and propane consumption by 0.7 kg/vehicle thus, reducing carbon emissions. 117 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 118 Workforce Factories are not built by investments in buildings and machinery alone. But, investment in men, in employees is more important when building an industry. S. M. Moolgaokar Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Workforce Our workforce is what makes our organisation one of the best. We want to encourage our employees by implementing our systemic career management strategy. We ensure they work with benefits, dignity, safety and human rights. 121 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 122 Workforce and other public amenities which can be availed either for free or at a nominal cost by TML employees and their family members. Furthermore, Tata Motors Limited All our security personnel are trained on TCoC including human rights aspects before they begin their duties as part of their induction procedure, a process managed by the Employee Relations (ER) department. ensures that all contract workforce is entitled to benefits Workforce Breakup at TML Dedication and technical expertise of our employees is the such as provident fund and insurance. root of our success. We put our best efforts to attract and retain the best people. In order to achieve this, we offer Dignity and Collective Bargaining: We respect the dignity of our people attractive and secure jobs, comprehensive every individual. Our code of conduct and Human Rights development and training opportunities, and good longWorkplace Policy embody our company’s policy to deal term prospects. Our systematic career management for fairly and honestly with our associates. We fully recognize high-potential and managerial staff fosters and enhances the freedom of association, the right to organize, and the the professional development, enabling us to fill key positions right to collective bargaining. We communicate major throughout our locations with qualified specialists. changes in our management to the labour union as agreed to in the collective agreement or relevant legislation. The We have initiated an organizational restructuring28 process union and management discuss key issues through a in FY 2016-17 to improve organizational effectiveness management-labour council meeting to find solutions. and ensure lean and agile business operations. One of We also hold management briefings on a regular basis to our key highlights, during the fiscal year 2016-17, is the keep the labour union up to date on the market situation Our permanent workforce headcount at the end of FY last fiscal year (2015-16). landmark agreement signed with our Pune blue collared and business practices. 2016-17 was 26,035 as compared to 26,375 during the employees to introduce performance based wage structure29. This change in the wage structure has been During the reporting year 2016-17, 52.31% settled for 3 years. Approximately 10% of the worker’s of total permanent workforces in TML are salary has been converted as variable and is linked to unionized employees. performance. Going forward, we intend to bring in the similar performance linked wage structure at Sanand, Human Rights: We strictly adhere to our policy of having no Lucknow and Jamshedpur plants. child labour and forced labour. All the security personnel have been trained to ensure no underage workers enter the Approach Towards Employees plant premises and even our contractors are given strict instructions which prohibit them from employing underage We are committed to providing an appropriate conducive workers. For any operation, the only exceptions to the 18 environment for all our employees to explore and grow years age bar are those who are part of the government in their individual career path. In line with our Affirmative Action Policy, we adhere to our commitment to nondiscrimination and recruit solely based on merit and opportunity for career growth is provided based on Workforce Breakup at Subsidiaries individual merit. As part of our human resources (HR) planning, we annually determine the skill sets we need Workforce as of 31 March 2017 based on our corporate and locational strategies and we align our young talent and further training programs as TAL TMLDL TMML TTL well as our hiring plans accordingly. Employee by Benefits: We offer all statutory benefits to our employees Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Categories such as pension, gratuity, insurance and health benefits. approved apprenticeship schemes and internships. We The remuneration for any employee is strictly based on conduct training on human rights periodically for all Permanent 839 57 2097 30 1742 19 3916 570 merit and is governed by the pay scale of a particular employees and security personnel. grade. TML employees can also avail accommodation Temporary 272 6 1193 85 104 2 376 87 A total of 23993 blue collar employees have been trained, in plants where we maintain our own townships. At which includes TML’s permanent employees, temporary Jamshedpur, for example, we operate schools, hospitals Full time NA NA NA NA 320 24 NA NA employees and apprentices. 28 http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/articleshow/58812402.cms?utm_source=contentofinterest&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=cppst Part time NA NA NA NA 467 3 NA NA 29 http://www.tatamotors.com/media-press-coverage/tata-motors-signs-crucial-wage-pact/ 123 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 124 Permanent Employees for Subsidiary TAL TMLDL TMML TTL 2014-15 649 2203 7930 Not disclosed 2015-16 718 2217 1804 4189 2016-17 896 2127 1761 4486 New Hires and Turnover New Hires 1st April 2016 to 31st March 2017 at TML In FY 2016-17, 115 female employees of TML took number of employees who returned from maternity leave, maternity leave while 109 female employees resumed 109 are still employed after 12 months of resuming, Male Female Employee Category work from maternity leave. This includes employees indicating 100% retention rate amongst employees who <30 years 30-50 years >50 years <30 years 30-50 years >50 years who had gone on leave in the previous year. Of the total took maternity leave. Senior Management 0 24 5 0 2 0 Middle Management 600 140 2 72 5 0 Junior Management 55 8 0 3 2 0 Non-Management 36 190 33 0 2 0 Total 691 362 40 75 11 0 Attrition at TML 1st April 2016 to 31st March 2017 at TML Male Female Employee Category <30 years 30-50 years >50 years <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Senior Management 0 31 42 0 5 1 Middle management 475 349 129 75 17 1 Junior management 66 28 57 4 3 2 Nonmanagement 17 40 384 0 3 6 Total 558 448 612 79 28 10 The rate of hiring represented as total permanent was 6.6%. In the previous year (2015-16), the rate hire had employees hired as the percentage of total permanent been 5.8% while the rate attrition was 11%. employees for 2016-17 is 4.5% while the rate of attrition 30 Includes permanent employee numbers for Senior, Middle and Junior management for TMML Lucknow. Data for TMML Dharwad is not included. 31 We have initiated to report on New hire at TML from 2015-16. 125 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 126 New Hires and Turnover of Subsidiaries New Hires at TAL Attrition at TMLDL 1st April 2016 to 31st March 2017 1st April 2016 to 31st March 2017 TAL (New Hires) Attrition (TMLDL) <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 21 0 20 1 Senior Management 0 0 0 0 0 Middle Management 4 52 1 56 1 Middle Management 11 4 5 19 1 Junior Management 410 62 0 437 35 Junior Management 2 1 9 12 0 Non-Management 278 3 0 256 25 Non-Management 0 3 57 60 0 Total 692 138 1 769 62 Total 13 8 71 91 1 The employee count at TMLDL has been steady during the reporting year. Rate of new hire has been 1.2% and employee turnover was 4.3% of the total employee count. Attrition at TAL 1st April 2016 to 31st March 2017 New Hires at TTL Attrition (TAL) <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female 1st April 2016 to 31st March 2017 New Hires (TTL Pune) Senior Management 2 5 5 12 0 <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Middle Management 5 43 1 49 0 Senior Management 0 9 1 10 0 Junior Management 76 24 0 91 9 Middle Management 2 60 0 60 2 Non-Management 13 0 8 21 0 Junior Management 675 122 0 648 149 Total 96 72 14 173 9 Non-management 260 29 8 237 60 The rate of new hire at TAL is 92.7% of the total employees and rate of turnover (attrition) is 20.3% of the total employee Total 937 220 9 955 211 count during the reporting year. New Hires at TMLDL Attrition at TTL 1 April 2016 to 31st March 2017 st 1st April 2016 to 31st March 2017 New Hires (TMLDL Jamshedpur) Attrition (TTL Pune) <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 0 0 0 0 Senior Management NA 2 5 7 NA Middle Management 18 4 0 22 0 Middle Management NA 84 2 80 6 Junior Management 5 0 0 5 0 Junior Management 358 155 2 447 68 Non-Management 0 0 0 0 0 Non-Management 248 67 6 266 55 Total 23 4 0 27 0 Total 606 308 15 800 129 127 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 128 At TTL, during the reporting year, overall employee count has remained steady. Though the employee turnover rate has been formed which comprises of the board of members, continuous mentoring support to the women been 25.9%, the new hire rate for the same period was 20.7% of the total employee count in 2016-17 ExCom and other senior management representatives. managers as they get ready to take charge. They constantly review the change in the diversity ratio The program is targeted for women managers who New Hires at TMML and analyse the factors responsible for the alteration are nominated by their seniors. GearUp has four whether positive or negative. Also, diversity related issues dimensional approaches: 1st April 2016 to 31st March 2017 are tackled by the council which includes the complaints New Hires (TMML) yy Management Development Programme (MDP) registered as well as measures implemented to sort out <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female is designed to create a sense of understanding of the issues. Though we envisage to go beyond gender various business functions and their interdependent diversity and improve overall diversity, our immediate Senior Management 0 7 0 7 0 nature for organisational impacts, while providing focus is on ensuring and attempting for a healthy gender inputs for enhancing behavioural competencies. diversity at all employee categories. Middle Management 8 5 0 13 0 This is a 5-day residential course organised at Tata Approach to Gender Diversity is Three-Fold : Management Training Center, Pune. Junior Management 4 2 0 5 1 yy Individual Development Plan (IDP) is a continuous development process to enable women managers Non-Management 0 0 0 0 0 to make best use of their skills and advance in individual’s plan as well as strategic goals of the Total 12 14 0 25 1 organisation. yy We Mentor, a women mentorship program, aimed to create and ensure mutually beneficial relationship Attrition at TMML between mentors and mentee that enables career 1st April 2016 to 31st March 2017 development for the mentee. Attrition (TMML) <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female yy Power of You is a day-long workshop addressing the critical enabler of gender inclusion by leveraging Senior Management 1 2 2 5 0 the power of women employees to drive change. This workshop aims to help participant take charge and challenge the status quo at TML with regards Middle Management 6 8 0 13 1 to gender inclusion. Junior Management 17 17 1 34 1 Key Initiative and Performance in 2016-17 for During the reporting year, 14 number of women managers Gender Diversity have been identified for “GearUp” programme. Non-Management 7 9 0 16 0 Our initiatives for the reporting year were focused on increasing the number of women employee across the }} To encourage more female employees in Total 31 36 3 68 2 organisation and hierarchy. manufacturing plants, TML has decided to hire 10th }} “GearUp” program has been initiated to develop and 12th pass students directly instead of relying on The rate of new hire and employee turnover was 1.47% and 3.97% of the total employee count respectively, at TMML, women managers and thereby increase number of ITIs. TML has signed a memorandum of understanding during the reporting year. women in leadership role. The program is designed to (MoU) with the government-recognized Automotive provide management development inputs focused on Skill Development Council (ASDC) for a collaborative building Individual development plan while providing skill development program in the automotive Gender Diversity Approach Towards Diversity sector. We have enrolled girls from economically We are committed to providing equal opportunities to all Our mission statement is “To facilitate a work environment weak households through the NEEM (National our employees. We do not discriminate on any ground that encourages diversity and is inclusive, respectful and Employability Enhancement Mission) scheme by the including gender, race, caste, colour, marital status, appreciative towards all our employees”. We also have a Indian Government and trained them. After vigorous nationality and disability. At Tata Group level, diversity and stringent policy against any sexual harassment and TML efforts for changing views and overcoming initial inclusion are considered to be of paramount importance to is committed to ensuring that none of the employees face qualms from, primarily, male workforce, we saw shape our future business perspective. This has resulted any sexual harassment. acceptance of our female colleagues. Our efforts into the launch of our flagship D&I initiative program called included meeting with team, recruitment of female Tata LEAD in 2014 and one of the major area of focus had With the aim to double women workforce and have 1000 supervisors and guards, construction of infrastructure been identified as Gender Diversity. women leader by 2020, TML’s Diversity Council has for comfortable working space, etc. Alongside skill training, the new women employees were provided 129 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 130 sessions in prevention of sexual harassment policies, We maintain equal remuneration for all our employees safety and healthcare, and were made aware of the irrespective of gender. Tata code of conduct and Tata history. }} Adequate infrastructure for ease of operation and conduct, Tata history, etc. During 2016-17, approximately 3.08% of TML’s total women line managers were provided. Through this initiative, we have been able to recruit 1700 employees were female employees. Our initiatives }} Sessions with senior leaders, women role models females in the shop-floor till July 2016. This has resulted towards improving diversity have set the path towards }} Women employees were provided sessions in and supervisors were organised on a regular basis to to increase in the number of women in shop floor by 14% increasing the number of women in our workforce across prevention of sexual harassment policies, safety and inspire women workers. during the reporting year. organisation and hierarchy. healthcare, and were made aware of the Tata code of Total Male and Female Employees by Employee Category at TML Male Female % female Attrition (TML) of Total Total <30 30-50 >50 Total <30 30-50 >50 Male men Years Years Years Women Years Years Years Senior Management 998 1 697 300 35 0 28 7 3.39% Middle Management 7485 1918 4900 667 432 211 211 10 5.46% Junior Management 2821 875 1589 357 218 88 102 28 7.17% Non-Management 13929 1766 9371 2792 117 17 73 27 0.83% (Permanent Blue Collar) Total 25233 4560 16557 4116 802 316 414 72 3.08% The total number of female employees has reduced by Through this, Tata Motors is building a balanced, diverse learning offered, efforts are taken to closely align learning 1.12% in 2016-17 as compared 2015-16. This is largely and inclusive work culture on the shop floor while helping & development with business needs and priorities through due to the lack of new female hire at the shop floor and build a strong society by providing skill development and a learning governance body called as Learning Advisory significant female attrition. We realised that diversity in employment to young women, aligned with the Skill India Council (LAC). LACs play a threefold role namely – the workforce will create more productive teams on the mission, building a strong talent pool. We have targeted designing, implementing and reviewing the learning shop floor. However, India’s traditional outlook on suitable trainees from villages and small towns especially from agenda and is overall responsible for skill development. jobs for women deemed working in a manufacturing economically undeveloped regions. During the reporting year LAC has been reconstituted sector unfit for women. Thus their decision to recruit more and aspires to meet every 6 months to set direction and women in the manufacturing plants faced opposition from Having trainees on the shop floors for a period of two years review progress. The training needs are driven by different workers, some unions and even some line managers. has helped in saving time and resources. It significantly business needs and relevance and are assessed through }} Women are not encouraged to work outside home or improved quality and reduced the number of defects and 6Ds (Define, Design, Deliver, Drive, Deploy and Document) There were many reasons why women were scarce on the do mechanical work, particularly in rural and semiresulted in over 30% improvement of productivity in the program, which provide disciplines of learning. We adhere shop floor, such as: rural areas. model line. to our strict policy of non-discrimination while selecting the employees for undergoing training and skill development. }} Lack of access to technical training for women To overcome these challenges, we, at TML, have taken Training and Skill Development various initiatives and attempts to create women friendly Blue Collar: To enhance the skill set of our blue}} A majority of the men on the floor still believed that Skill development of our employees and meeting the working environment, change in perception of our male collar employees, we have established Functional Skill assembling vehicles was not a woman’s job. changing demand of business is key to our business colleagues and inspire women. Training at each plant level and have deputed National continuity. Our training and skill development are driven Employability Enhancement Mission (NEEM) agent }} Women were typically taken on as temporary workers }} The HR heads and plant heads in each plant, along by the business needs and strategic decisions. to initiate training and enhance the knowledge of the for a period of 6 to 7 months on support jobs. Hence with their teams, adopted an approach of intense employees. The effectiveness of the training and skill ROI (hiring, training, etc.) was not enough to break communication with emphasis on convincing male Management of Training and Skill Development development exercise is assessed through improvement even. employees through meetings and discussions As a means of ensuring business relevance and value of in performance index and knowledge index. 131 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 132 White Collar: The skill development and training needs Learning Management System (LMS) platform for overall of our white collar employees are managed through management of training and skill development. academy concept with dedicated Chief Learning Officer as overall responsible for the same. The specific Tata Motors Academy launched E-learning offerings for Average Training Man-hours at TML Subsidiaries training needs are assessed through inputs from People our managerial population and dealer personnel to drive Managers on leadership behaviour and various sessions a culture of self-learning and make the learning process Category of Senior Middle Junior Nonwith managers on strategy and technology. The learning more inclusive and efficient. Our workforce undergoes Subsidiaries employment Management Management Management management is conducted in four major functional areas: formal performance management and development reviews on an annual basis. The remaining number of Male 838.50 2232.25 5020.00 67.40 employees has access to a range of opportunities aimed at developing a workforce with the right skills, experience Female 8.00 46.00 426.50 0.00 and training. Performance management among this segment is largely team-based. We also provide adequate TAL Total 846.50 2278.25 5446.50 67.40 assistance to superannuating employees in order to help them better manage career endings. Average training 47.03 23.73 21.44 33.70 man-hours During the reporting year, we have conducted programs on vehicle integration are conducted which are approved by Govt. (DGTT) for our blue collar employees. For Male 628.50 41291.50 4004.75 2150.00 our white collar employees, we have conducted three noteworthy programs, namely, Female 45.25 182.50 187.50 19.00 TMLDL a) Leadership+, a focused program for techno-functional Total 673.75 41474.00 4192.25 2169.00 skill development of leaders. Average training 23.23 193.80 10.72 1.46 b) “i Teach” is a train the trainer program to provide support man-hours to convert trainers’ knowledge in training material. The effectiveness of the learning and skill development Male 1282.00 5328.00 4892.00 7538.00 programs are assessed through feedback on the c) “B-HR” and “HR-VP” programs, related to Human trainings from participant, instructor, superior and overall Resource, focused on conceptual learning on workforce Female 0.00 202.00 408.00 337.00 program evaluation process. We have an established management and TML’s way of working. TMML Total 1282.00 5530.00 5300.00 7875.00 Average Training Man-Hours at TML Average training 91.57 67.44 21.29 4.59 Number of employees man-hours receiving regular Training Man-Hours performance Male NA NA NA NA Total feedback as per Category of Total Male Female category employment employees employees Female NA NA NA NA Male Female Total Average Male Female Total 1587 20011 171472 4981 TTL Senior management 998 35 47010 1341 48351 46.81 1028 37 Total (Per employee) 12.80 26.40 51.85 10.40 Average training Middle management 7485 432 399812 26690 426502 53.87 7735 439 Man-hours(Per 0.103 0.017 0.016 0.022 Employee) Junior Management 2821 218 121405 10888 132293 43.53 3247 230 Average training man-hours have been calculated on Tata Technologies Limited does not disclose the training Nonmanagement the basis of total count of males and females and total information on gender basis due to legal restrictions on (permanent blue col13929 117 88327 941 89267 6.36 650 0 training hours. TTL’s operations in Europe and North America. lar workforce) 133 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 134 Workplace Safety Where a question of safety is concerned and there is difference of opinion between yourselves and your executives or advisors, I think that your judgement should prevail only where it weighs on the side of still greater safety. J.R.D. Tata Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Workplace Safety Workplace security is of utmost priority to our company as we want to provide safe working place for productive efforts from our workforce. We have ensured all CV and PV manufacturing plants in India are certified to OHSAS 18001 – Occupational Health & Safety Management System and a robust first party, second party and third party audit mechanism is in place. This section gives an overview of the safety performance and management approach 137 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 138 Workplace Management Approach Towards Safety Ensuring workplace safety is of paramount importance to facilities Coverage under Employees State Insurance }} I-Drive safe is our existing safety training for drivers. Safety us. We have dedicated committees and various functional (ESI) Act, Training, Development and Morale of Workmen, This year we have extended it to fleet customer drivers teams to ensure safety and implementation of our safety Work-men Compensation, Safety and Environment, and by training of Tata bus drivers. Through this initiative standards. SHE committee at the Board of Director Joint Committees and Grievance Procedure are also we intend to encourage a safe driving culture amongst level isoverall responsible and reviews TML’s safety covered under various local agreements with trade union. our employee and associates and have trained them We are committed to provide a safe and healthy working performance every quarter. on Defensive Driving. In excess of 19,103 employees environment for our employees and associates. We ensure Key initiatives in 2016-17 and associates till date have been trained under this that none of our employees or workers are subjected to Plant level sub-committees for safety are formed, who campaign, initiated few years ago. high incident or high risk disease related to their individual Our key initiatives in 2016-17 have been centred on functionally, report to corporate level sub-committees. SHE occupation. A company-wide occupational health and enhanced governance, awareness and further internalising }} ‘My Road My Discipline’ Road Safety Week campaign reviews happens at three levels starting from factory level safety policy exists in order to ensure increased vigilance safety. The initiatives are as follows: during January 11 to 17 included Road Safety by Factory Implementation committee followed by plant and awareness on health and safety. We recognise that to Celebrations conducted in all location including all level Apex committee or sub-committee subsequently by }} Through second party audits, which involve auditors achieve our target in safety is crucial to internalise safety Plants, Offices, Dealerships, Warehouses, Vendors SHE council and finally by the SHE committee. from other TML plants, we have initiated process of and engage with our employees. and Social Awareness messages were aired on FM on enhancing robustness in governance mechanism Road Safety in 8 cities across India. for monitoring implementation of level of safety standards through second party audit. }} Safe20 is a 20 minutes for safety engagement program, which involves taking safety at work place. }} TML has introduced “SenSHEtise”, a women safety Sessions on Road Safety were conducted at 9 offices awareness campaign, in pan India. A total of 950 across India engaging tunes of 1,000+ employees women employees’ undergone training focused on along with mentoring of Flexi Work Force under “MY women’s Safety and Self-defence in 14 sessions BUDDY” program by Permanent BlueCollar Work force across Offices and Plants. / Group leaders. CVBU plant head leads the corporate level sub-committee. standards and procedures are available in centralized A total of 100 safety Factory Implementation committees portal for ease of availability. There has been introduction }} Jagruti – An awareness campaign for building }} We have celebrated National Road Safety week and have been institutionalized across all the CV plants that of three new safety standard/policies in FY 2016-17 to capability of dealers’ workshop manager with regards National Safety week in the month of January 2017, meet on a monthly basis to review and improve the address and avoid the occurrence of unfortunate fatalities to workplace safety. This programme is collaboration where we engage not only workers, but also associate safety management system. Similarly, for PVBU there we encountered in this financial year, namely, lone of the Company, Castrol and training partner ICECD. with social set-up around local community. Posters are 27 committees in action to take on safety culture working policies, CCTV use and replacement of vehicles We have covered more than 1800 workshop through and banners on safety, containing social message for transformation agenda. Safety audits are conducted on for business purpose (for travel safety), industrial hygiene. this program and we seek to continue and enhance people on road safety, were published for creating regular basis as per the plan by the Safety coordinators/ safety culture at our dealers’ locations. awareness. line managers which are in turn reviewed by the Safety All CV and PV Manufacturing Plants in India are also Committees respectively as well as in the Steering Committees. certified to OHSAS 18001 – Occupational Health & Safety Management System and robust first party, second party This year, we have initiated safety audits for our dealers’ At every plant, we have 50% workforce representation in workshop. We have categorised the audits into short and third party audit mechanism is in place. The results of the safety committee. term and long term addressing 7 critical points of safety 2nd party audit is also monitored by Corporate Standards and overall SHE adherence respectively. Through this and Procedures Sub-Committee and SHE Council. The engagement, we seek to provide support and influence We have a robust investigation mechanism for any major safety at focused vendors (FBV). canteen at our Pune plant has been certified to ISO 22000. safety incidents and necessary corrective actions are Furthermore, health and safety parameters are such as implemented as necessary. TML has a total of 18 safety Performance Based Payment Scheme (PBMS), Discipline standards developed in relation to managerial, cultural, Use of PPEs (Personal Protective Equipment), medical behavioural and technical aspects of safety. The safety 139 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 140 TML’s performance in 2016-17 Safety Performance For all employees at TML (2016-17) Safety Performance for all workers (excluding employees) at TML (2016-17) Location Name Pune Jamshedpur Lucknow Pantnagar Dharwad Pune PV Sanand Location Name Pune CV Jamshedpur Lucknow Pantnagar Dharwad Pune PV Sanand Male 11 6 1 1 0 0 4 Male 3 1 0 1 0 1 0 Lost time Lost time injuries (Nos.) injuries (Nos.) Female 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 Female 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 Lost time injury Male 0.21 0.15 0.06 0.04 0 0 0.31 Male 0.24 0.07 0.00 0.14 0 0.28 0.00 Lost time injury rate (per million rate (per million manhours) Female 0 0.48 0 0 0 0 0 manhours) Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 1.06 0.00 Male 64 16 20 24 6 26 75 Total recordable Male 11 2 3 3 1 6 7 cases (Nos.) Total recordable Female 1 4 1 0 0 1 0 cases (Nos.) Female 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 Total recordable Male 1.21 0.46 1.17 1.01 1.49 2.30 5.84 cases frequency Total recordable Male 0.90 0.21 0.51 0.41 0.53 1.69 1.99 rate (per million cases frequency manhours) Female 0.66 0.48 3.09 0 0 1.17 0 rate (per million manhours) Female 0 0 0 0 0 4.75 0 Male 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities Male 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Male 374 12442 32 11 18 0 0 7 Mandays lost Male 6064 280 0 18 0 11 0 Female 0 162 0 0 0 0 0 Mandays lost Female 0 0 0 0 0 66 0 Male 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Occupational disease rate Male 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Occupational disease rate Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Male 0.21 17.79 0.62 0.78 0 0 0.55 Lost day rate Female 0 66.54 0 0 0 0 0 Our Lost Time Injury Frequency rate (LTI-FR) has reduced from 0.17 to 0.15, showing an overall reduction of 11.8% as compared Male 2.99 2.19 3.09 2.38 1.72 2.85 2.07 with 2015-16 safety performance. Similarly, Total Recordable Case Frequency rate (TCR-FR) has reduced to 1.41 from 1.49, Absentee rate showing an improvement in performance by 5.36%. (in %) Female 4.32 3.93 5.15 9.18 5.62 3.76 7.40 32 Manday loss of 6000 per fatality has been accounted. One of the fatalities has occurred during business travel and outside TML Jamshedpur plant premise. 141 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 142 Subsidiaries’ performance in 2016-17 Safety Performance for Employees (2016-17) TTL TAL TMLDL TMML Indicators Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Lost time injuries (Nos.) 3 0 0 0 3 0 7 0 Lost time injury frequency rate including fatalities (per 0.15 0 0 0 0.23 0 2.52 0 million man-hours) Total recordable cases 9 3 4 0 20 0 24 0 (Nos.) Total recordable cases frequency rate (per million 0.6133 4.29 0 1.55 0 24.28 0 man-hours) Mandays lost 19 0 0 0 201 4.67 0 Absentee rate NA NA NA NA NA NA 51.03 0 Occupational disease rate 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Safety Performance For all Workers(Excluding Employees) (2016-17) TTL TAL TMLDL TMML Indicators Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Lost Time Injuries (Nos.) 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Including Fatalities (per 0 0 0 0 0 0 2.51 0 million man-hours) Total Recordable Cases 0 0 3 0 1 0 15 0 (Nos.) Total Recordable Cases Frequency Rate (per million 0 0 22.35 0 0.43 0 9.75 0 man-hours) Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ­ TRC-FR at TTL is not monitored as gender. 33 143 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 144 Value Chain Sustainability Due to our scale of operations, we interact with a large base of vendor and suppliers in the entire length of our value chain. We take care to monitor our relations based on supplier performance and market demand. This section covers our strategies regarding the entirety of our value chain starting from sourcing raw materials to dealers who manage our end products. 145 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 146 Value Chain Value chain describes the full range of activities which are required to bring a product or service from conception, through the different phases of production (involving a Our large and diverse supplier base is periodically Packaging & Logistics Management Sustainability combination of physical transformation and the input of rationalized on the basis of performance and market Integrated packaging, known as packaging logistics, various producer services), delivery to final consumers, requirements. We engage with our supply chain on process arises as one key factor that could contribute in and final disposal after use. a range of issues through our R&D (ERC), Strategic increasing the efficiency and sustainability of supply chains. Sourcing (SS) and Procurement & Supply Chain (P&SC). Tata Motors Value Chain P&SC communicates and transacts business with Integrated packaging includes suppliers through a dedicated internet portal called 1. Process of planning, Supplier Relation Management. TML engages with 2. Implementing and controlling the coordinated packaging dealers through an integrated CRM-DMS, which enables system of preparing goods us to monitor finances and inventory at dealer level, and services, spares and complaints at the customer end. Objective of this function is to maximise consumer value and sales by ensuring secure, safe, efficient and effective Our supply chains are characterized by technology driven process for the following: suppliers of proprietary components (fuel pumps, tires, adhesives, sealants, electronic controls etc.) and wellestablished tier structure inherent to manufacturing sector and large number of Small & Medium Enterprises (SME’s). TML has a comprehensive environmental management system in place which enables the company to produce high quality vehicles while minimizing the environmental impacts of its activities, product and services. About 92% of our supplier base is located in India. A significant part of the supply chain is manufacturing companies that are technology driven and energy intensive. Continuous efforts are undertaken to increase the fuel efficiency and develop innovative mobility solutions to reduce the GHG emissions. Dealers are supported to the fullest extent to build their knowledge and capacity to perform sales and also communicate to customers efficiently about our product and brand. TML places strong focus to improvise its logistics system which leads to reduced cost and improved efficiency. Conflicts Mineral Management The United States Dodd-Frank Act, Section 1502, is P&SC has initiated global actions centrally for optimizing a landmark legislation that requires manufacturing logistics, packaging, cost, and reducing damages to auto companies to identify and disclose to the U.S. Securities components. Several factors such as labour, material and Exchange Commission (SEC) the source of 3TG flow, pull systems, layout, cost, safety, ergonomics etc. minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold) used in their are considered before finalising the design of packaging products when those minerals originate from or around the and labelling. Returnable type of packaging such as war-torn region of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). polypropylene boxes is gaining more importance over single use type of packaging. This is done to As a Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) registrant, achieve reduction of expendable packaging dunnage we need to be in compliance with the requirement of for components such as fender, rear wall, dashboard, the aforesaid section. In this regard, we have developed fuel tanks etc. For heavier components, returnable and company-wide Conflict Minerals Policy and have a foldable steel bins, pallets, trolleys, plastic bags are used. Conflict Minerals Compliance Program in place to Also, wood packing is replaced by steel rack packing design. implement our Conflict Minerals Policy. This is necessary auto components/sub-systems sourced by TML may Other step in this direction included setting up of have 3TG minerals. consolidation centres at key geographical locations 147 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 148 across the country to streamline material receipt inOn-site vendor audits are carried out in which safety, line with production plans. ‘Milk Runs’ for local runs health and environmental issues are taken into account. Sustainable transportation were established (Kolhapur region for Engagement with dealers is done through periodic Pune CV, Pune PV, TML Dharwad from Pune etc.), in which National Dealer Council, Regional Dealer Councils and transport vehicles collect components from suppliers Annual Dealer Conference and these interactions serve Supply Chain as per requirement and transport to our manufacturing as a platform for discussing strategic and tactical plans plant, which avoids use of multiple vehicles and material for business growth. handling. To optimize number of trucks entering the manufacturing plants, special containerized vehicles (32’ Local Sourcing and 52’) were introduced for optimum payload utilization. Procurement is a strategic function to help improve Due to the nature of our business, we have diverse and profitability. Our seven manufacturing plants across India complex supply chain. We have been engaging with supply Value Chain Engagement source material from hubs located in north, west and chain through Project Sankalp targeting those Supplier With the launch of Tata Motors Integrated Supplier south of the country and hence promote the local industry Partners who are at the bottom of the pyramid in terms Quality Manual, the supply quality process is further and community. To establish the supply chain base at of quality, productivity and profitability through capability strengthened. The manual provides a common 16 step green-field locations, vendor parks were set up at Sanand building, elimination of waste (rework, rejections, transit process to ensure that TML requirements are complied and Pantnagar.All these steps have resulted in the growth damages, etc.) conservation of resources and a better with by all partners and highest quality standards are of the local economy, promote local procurement, reduce work environment, hygiene and safety thereby ensuring achieved. TML have also established vendor councils in logistic complexities and have minimized packaging and the business continuity. Experts from different functions 4 regions-North, South, East and West of India. These transportation. In FY 2016-17, our manufacturing plants such as Quality, Manufacturing, Technical Services, councils provide a platform for top level management sourced 50.88% of materials and services by suppliers Production Engineering and Kaizen are nominated as a and suppliers to interact. Periodic vendor meets are also based within the state where our plants are located. Supplier Improvement Team (SIT) to closely engage and held at every location to communicate on key issues likework with identified suppliers. The program continued to supply schedules, quality and vendor ratings. which is being implemented in phases. In Phase I, during focus on its basic approach of transformation through 2016-17, we have built the foundation for engaging and Location wise Local Procurement 6 pillar approaches of Cleanliness, Safety, Health and sensitizing our supply chain on ESG issues. We have Hygiene, Data Management, Quality, Supplier issue started the activity with the identification of our top 200 resolution. Knowledge enhancement at the foundries is suppliers based on share of business. We have adopted done through “Project Vihaan”. systematic approach for supply chain engagement, In the year 2016-17, we have taken focused effort towards which includes formulating the guidelines, preparation making our supply chain sustainable. of baseline data template, conducting workshops for suppliers and training sessions for local TML’s purchase Management Approach Towards and supply chain team, data collection from suppliers and Sustainable Supply Chain on-site sustainability assessment for suppliers. In line with our Environmental Procurement Policy and Phase 1 Sustainable Supply Chain initiative Step by Step Tata Group Sustainability Policy, we are committed to process: adopt a procurement process, which is sustainable in nature. We are engaging with our suppliers to sensitize them on issues of environmental impact, social impact and ethical conduct of the business which can intangibly pose a threat to our business continuity and brand dilution. To make the upstream supply chain sustainable and increase the awareness among suppliers for Environmental Social Governance (ESG) issues, a focused initiative in 2016-17 has been taken up to sensitise our TML has a dedicated code of conduct for suppliers as under the Supplier Code of Conduct. In addition to all suppliers. Our corporate SHE team, with support from plant well as dealers. All the suppliers are expected to adhere the above mentioned principles, Dealer code of Conduct level purchase and supply chain teams are responsible to the Principles of TCoC such as products and services, includes the aspect of Fair competition as well. TCoC for enhancing and ensuring sustainable supply chain. regulatory compliance, bribery and corruption, human has been communicated to dealers and suppliers and are The management structure of corporate SHE team is as rights, gifts and hospitality, health and safety, environment, expected to ensure compliance. Dealers and suppliers can described in section “Our Sustainability management” conflict of interest, third party representation, protecting notify TML about their ethical concerns and grievances to company assets and reporting violations mentioned ethicsoffice@tatamotors.com. We have taken up the Sustainable Supply Chain Initiative 149 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 150 The details on the major activities taken in Phase I are health and safety, packaging and logistics and social given as follows: responsibilities. We also engage with our Tier 2 supply chain through our Tier 1 suppliers on management }} TML has formulated “Sustainability Guidelines for systems, TCoC and awareness on “Sustainability Supply Chain Performance in 2016-17 Suppliers” for our suppliers covering key topics like Guidelines for Suppliers”. governance, legal compliance, TCoC, management As aforementioned, we have conducted site assessment of 52 suppliers and the combined performance is as below: system certification, transparency and reporting, }} Workshops and training sessions were conducted Occupational Health and Safety, labour and human to sensitize our suppliers and TML’s local purchase rights including child labour and forced labour. and supply chain team on the importance of Furthermore, TML’s policies related to environment, sustainability and threat posed by ESG factors on safety and health, climate change and environmental business continuity. Through these workshops, we procurement are also shared with suppliers as a also provide a platform for our suppliers to share their part of this guideline. This guideline and baseline data success stories and exchange best practices. In the template has been communicated to all 200 identified 2016-17 workshops were conducted on Sustainable suppliers. Supply Chain for our suppliers at Pune, Pantnagar, Jamshedpur, Dharwad, Tata Marcopolo Dharwad and Lucknow plant wherein more than 200 suppliers attended and approximately 100 employees from TML. These workshops were conducted to make suppliers and TML’s purchase and supply chain team aware on the Environmental, Social and Governance aspects of the business. }} During the year 2016-17, around 105 suppliers shared their sustainability related data, for the year 2015-16, with us which was followed by TML’s site }} We have prepared template for baseline data assessment at supplier’s premise to verify the data collection from our suppliers. The template covers provided by them. A total of 52 Suppliers were assessed information and topics on organisational profile, on their site till end of March 2017. roles and responsibilities, review mechanisms, legal compliance related to economic, environmental and social, TCoC suppliers code of conduct, management system certification -ISO 14001, ISO 18001, ISO 9001, ISO 50001 and SA 8000. The template also seeks information on transparency and reporting, audit mechanism and availability of any sustainability disclosure related to CDP, GRI etc. In addition, our sustainable supply chain baseline data collection template ask for data related to energy and GHG emission, environmental including waste, water and hazardous chemical, labour condition, 151 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 152 Resulting from our sustainable supply chain engagement, assessment for 60 additional suppliers. Based on the 8 and 5 of our Tier 1 suppliers have initiated the process learning from Phase I, we have revised “Sustainability for implementation of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Guidelines for Suppliers” and baseline data template. We also envisage to reward and recognise our noteworthy There were no incidents of labour and human rights sustainability performers of our Phase I suppliers. violations and non-compliance with environmental and social regulations. The adherence with TCoC – Supplier We shall continue to conduct work-shops and provide code of conduct and legal compliance with economic, platform to suppliers to share their best practices based environmental and social norms and regulations has been on outcome from Phase I engagement. We are also assessed by TML. There have been no instances of strikes seeking to establish the mechanism for capturing the and grievances reported by 52 suppliers assessed in Phase I. value derived by our suppliers from sustainable supply chain engagement. In coming 3 to 5 years we are planning The 52 suppliers have even shared TML’s “Sustainability to engage with all of our critical Tier 1 suppliers. Guidelines for Suppliers” with more than 400 Tier 2 suppliers and assessed them, through questionnaire, on Post commencement of our sustainable supply chain management system certifications, namely, ISO 14001, initiatives; we selected 2 of our suppliers and helped them OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 and TCoC. in the process of implementation of GreenCo requirements and the same have been assessed and certified by CII. Way Forward with Our Supply Chain In 2017-18, we shall initiate the Phase II of our sustainable supply chain engagement where in, we shall perform site Case Study: Sustainability at MAHLE BEHR India Private Limited Mahle, one of our critical Tier 1 suppliers, who has been evaluated as a part of our on-site sustainable supply chain assessment, is making commendable progress towards environmental sustainability. Mahle has more than 50% of its total energy demand supplied by renewable energy and has benefitted from energy efficiency implementation such as VDF and LED lighting across the facility. Online energy monitoring system has also been implemented for better control. In addition to progress in green energy, Mahle has also made advancement in waste reduction through establishment of lean manufacturing process to eliminate waste generation and recycling of waste at the recycling yard for aluminium, plastic and paper. By implementing returnable packaging system, 40% of the corrugated packaging waste has been reduced. 153 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 154 CSR Businesses need to go beyond the interests of their companies to the communities they serve. Ratan Tata Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] CSR The Tata culture of giving back flows from the tradition of nation and community building sowed more than a century back by Jamsetji Tata, the Founder of the group. We are involved in a wide variety of community development and environment preservation projects to help solve social issues through our business. Our social activities focus on health, primary education, skills training and entrepreneurship, livelihoods, women empowerment and strengthening services for the differently-abled. 157 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 158 CSR For every rupee of investment by TML in the Skill Development Program at RKM, INR 3.1 of social value The CSR teams across the locations work in tandem with the implementing agencies to bring the disadvantaged communities in the areas surrounding our manufacturing attributable to TML is created as plants and corporate office at equal footing. Our location The values of corporate citizenship for TML are derived on 2014. The same is calculated to specific programmes ensure that we develop customised from the parent Tata Group. The journey of our community increase to INR 4.1 by 2024. solutions to cater to the needs of each community based development programs began with the commencement on their geographical location and cultural beliefs. of our first manufacturing operations at Jamshedpur in 1950s. Going ahead on the same path, we facilitate Communities We work with the most deprived communities to raise various developmental projects for the communities in The presence of our manufacturing plants at six different their standard of living by investing heavily in health, which we operate. In line with our TCoC and values of Tata locations across the country gives us an opportunity to education and skill development. Community members group, we are committed to build responsible business work and interact with diverse set of people. Diversity We see employee volunteering as character building are consulted at each stage of the project development that meets the needs of our stakeholders. is not only in their language, food habits and cultural activity that helps all our employees be socially and encouraged to participate in its execution, monitoring beliefs but also in developmental challenges, education responsible individuals. Our implementing partners are through the formation of committees like water user Management Approach Towards levels and community needs. Each region has its own experts in their domain and we rely heavily on them for group. The community members are also trained to Community Engagement set of unique problems and the needs of the community programme execution. Guided by the motto of More ensure the sustainability of the project through soft and at each location is deep rooted within the socio-cultural In line with our CSR policy, we believe in actively assisting from Less for More, we collaborate with them to take technical skills training. environment of the region. in the improvement of the quality of life of the people in the our message of social good to a larger base. As a global communities, giving preference to local areas around our company, we are conscious of our responsibility towards business operations. We seek to relentlessly strive in our the international community and we involve them in our skilling programme for international students. Case Study: TANDA (DNT community): An Educated Tomorrow for Denotified Tribes Members endeavour of nation-building, sustainable development, accelerated inclusive growth and social equity. We continuously attempt to strategically align social responsibility with our pursuit of Business excellence. In FY 2017, 11,130 number of Employees, contributing for 47151 working hours, participated as volunteers Our Community Engagement Management: Through regular consultation with internal and external stakeholders and participatory approach, we develop comprehensive sustainable solutions for the communities. Our community intervention aims to solicit active participation from local communities, government and NGOs. To achieve this, we form multi-stakeholder Project TANDA (Towards Advocacy Networking and Developmental Action) is Tata Institute of Social Sciences partnerships which help us in developing robust and high (TISS) field action project which works for the upliftment of the members of Denotified Tribes. Historically, impact CSR programs. Our strong commitment to CSR members of these tribes were branded as criminals under the British rule and they continue to face social is further visible from our Affirmative Action program. exclusion. They are condemned to live a life of social isolation and are often denied education and formal It is primarily focused on facilitating direct/indirect employment opportunities. The CSR committee at the highest level comprises of employment for the SC/ST personnel thus encouraging 5 members from Board of Directors who meet 3 to 4 their positive discrimination. We support the project through sponsoring the Community Learning Centres at three locations in Navi Mumbai – times a year to approve policy and budget related to CSR Sathe Nagar, Ganpatipada and Mahaveer Quarry. The centre caters to the educational requirements of students activities. The selection of the community engagement We calculate Social Return on Investment (SROI) for of class 1 to 10. Students of standard 8, 9 and 10 are taught through e-learning tools which facilitate concept activities is done on 5 key criteria: a) proximity of the our long-duration projects, which are in operation for clarity and higher subject retention. local community; b) alignment with our four focus areas; more than 5 years, to assess the social benefit of such c) deprived section of the society (SC/ST) under our community projects. The SROI calculation of our projects Almost all the students at the centre are first generational learners. The centre also encourages a deeper Affirmative Action; d) innovation in our value chain and e) is externally assured to ensure the reliability of the engagement of parents in their child’s education. Regular parent teacher meetings are held where the parents are measurable and clear outcome. assessment. updated of their child’s progress. This has also helped in improving interpersonal relationship between parents and the children. 159 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 160 Aadhar Our Affirmative Action (AA) programme aims to agencies. Every year we recruit around 5,000 youth under Case study: Skill Development at Nangia Motors mainstream Scheduled Castes / Scheduled Tribes Apprentice Training and NEEM Program. In FY 2016communities through focused programmes in the 17 more than 24% of the recruits were from the SC/ST domain of Employment, Entrepreneurship, Employability category (1846 recruits out of the total 7695 recruits). and Education. In line with our philosophy of ‘More from Less for More’, 18% of population around our manufacturing location we have also partnered with various State Governments, is from SC/ST communities but their participation in such as Bihar Mahadalit Vikas Mission and West Bengal the company’s direct or indirect workforce is just 10%. Scheduled Castes & Scheduled Tribes Development and To bridge this gap, we have developed business-linked Finance Corporation for skill development of SC/ST youth programs which are implemented across the country in in automotive trades. partnership with our dealers and NGOs/Technical training The dealership collaborates with PACE (Pratham Centre for Education) to provide vocational training to tribal youth in Nagpur. The technical training is imparted by PACE and the on-the-job training is facilitated by Nangia Motors. During the OJT stipend housing and food is also taken care by the dealership. So far 6 candidates have been taken on payroll and 12 candidates are enrolled as interns. Our Four PILLARS Initiatives and Programs Additionally we hold awareness sessions for community members on preventive measures for better health. Our CSR programme, Ankur has four pillars – health, We tie-up with anganwadis and nutrition rehabilitation education, employability and environment. The centres to ensure better nutrition and health awareness programmes are designed to promote our involvement for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers. At at every stage of an individual’s life. Our four pillars some locations, we have set up malnutrition treatment of community development have been strengthened centres where infants suffering from severe acute in this year by increasing the scope and reach of our malnutrition are looked after and efforts are directed to CSR programs. These programs are aimed at building improve their health status. Our initiatives also focus human capital and bringing in an inclusive growth for on holding awareness sessions for adolescent girls to the communities. The focus of our programs has been address their queries on puberty, health and hygiene. As high as 50% of the students belonging to SC/ST include the SC/ST entrepreneurs in its vendor base. to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the CSR backgrounds drop out of schools due to insufficient The team identifies AA vendors who can supply auto programs through inclusive innovation. The projects are funds and through our financial aid through scholarships components and on clearing the initial verifications and designed and implemented to make the rural areas selfand special coaching programmes, we help them quality checks they are registered in the TML database. reliant to meet their basic needs and lead a quality life. complete their education. In FY 2016 17, we have given Efforts are then taken to build capacity of Tier 2 AA vendors Through Aadhar, our affirmative action programme we scholarships to 870 AA students. We have increased our to enable them to become Tier 1 suppliers. Currently, 26 reach the historically marginalised groups – scheduled outreach of special coaching classes and presently, 6,199 AA Vendors are associated with our Tier 1 supply chain castes and scheduled tribes. 40% of our CSR budget is AA students across locations are enrolled in it. and their share of business has progressively increased earmarked for programmes towards their upliftment over the years. In FY 17, we have added 4 new vendors in through education, employment employability and Enterprising SC/ST youth are also trained, mentored and our supply chain. And extended business of 677 lakhs to entrepreneurship. encouraged to start business enterprises. Our Strategic AA vendors till Nov 2016. Sourcing Team has undertaken several initiatives to Arogya (Health) Aarogya focuses on enhancing the health of infants, adolescent girls, pregnant women and lactating mothers. 40% of the CSR budget is earmarked for Affirmative Action programmes. 161 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 162 Case Study: Towards a Healthy Tomorrow Case Study: Tata Education Excellence Programme (TEEP) Zohar Shaikh, 8 months old was admitted at Chota Sion hospital (Mumbai) and was diagnosed with severe acute malnourishment. She weighed only 4.86 kg at the time of admission and was a passive child. The doctors started her treatment with feeding her the MNT (Medical Nutrition Therapy) paste. She consumed 104 units of the MNT packet throughout the course of her treatment. As oral feeding is often rejected by the child, the doctors administered it through the gastrostomy tube. On the 14th day her weight increased to 5.67 kg and the end of the treatment her weight was at a healthy 6.80 kg. Improvement in her weight has also transformed her to an active and responsive child. Her parents mentioned that up on gaining weight she looks cheerful. She is now able to achieve developmental milestones according to her age. Health care is a growing industry. Ideal nurse -patient Technology). This coaching facility was availed by 161 ratio stands at 1 nurse for every 500 people. India faces students. Need based scholarships are also awarded to a shortage of 2.5 million nurses and our programme engineering students for them to continue their studies. TEEP enables schools in the semi urban and rural areas to standardize their processes and achieve a minimum aims to fill this gap. Majority of the requests for bedside level of maturity. The structured framework of TEEP and checklist of questions help the schools to identify gaps attendants come from families who want a fulltime Our programmes also focus on their overall personality and align its processes to develop a system for focused growth of school in all respects. The Pearl, Pankh and caretaker for geriatrics. We acted on this insight and TML development and the deserving students are mentored InnoTeaching initiatives of TEEP have encouraged teachers and students to brainstorm new and unique ideas in partnership with Wockhardt Health developed a course by known figures in their area of interest. We also work which promote quality education and improve educational performance. for General Duty Assistant. Through this course, the to upgrade the school infrastructure and promote digital participants can offer their services at hospitals, nursing learning. The schools at village undergo formal training by TBeX post by which they streamline their processes like homes and at private homes. The infrastructural support housekeeping, record keeping, monitoring the attendance of students, checking the quality and timely service for the training in form of laboratory, classroom furniture of midday meals. Other dimensions include introduction of co-curricular activities like environmental education, and scholarships for students was sponsored by TML. health checkup, sports, various competitions at the school, teacher’s workshop and regularization of parent teachers meetings. The schools are duly assessed by TBeX against the set parameters on application for TEEP Vidyadhanam (Education) and if they are successful the school graduates from ‘Saral’ to ‘Basic’ level. This initiative helped to improve According to UNESCO, 47 million students in India drop the rate of attendance among the students. The attendance rate rose to 85% at school, 100% for the enrolment out of higher secondary school. Ministry of Human of children graduating from Anganwadi Kendras to the Primary School and 100% for enrolment of students Resource Development reported that the national dropgraduating from the Primary School to Middle Schools. out rate of students in higher secondary education is 17.86%. A major reason for the students to discontinue Introduction of TEEP has ushered a positive transformation among parents, members of the school managing their education is lack of funds. Our education initiatives committee, representatives of the Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) ensure that students receive support at every stage of their educational journey. Along with Avanti Fellows we coach standard 12 students to crack IIT – JEE (joint entrance examination to secure admission at Indian Institute of 163 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 164 IIT FAP Programme in the district – PadheDantewada, LikheDantewada and to interest school students in agriculture. Along Case Study: Ideal for others in the Community Financial Aid Programme has a unique sustainable with BachpanBanao, the technique of Combination of structure at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT). Students Activities for Maximised Learning (CAMal) is adopted Yasmini, 22 years old lives with her family of five in Ahmedabad. After the death of her father, her mother has donate back to the program the support received when to improve the learning level of the students. Through been the primary breadwinner in the family. Her mother works as a sweeper and on an monthly income of Rs they graduate and get a job thus keeping the program an extensive survey, drop-out students were identified 8000 was not able to support her family. Yasmini dropped out of graduate school in the first year due to lack of self-perpetuating. The support of TML has been critical in and counselled by BachpanBanao/ iThought /Childline funds. She learnt of the retail training from the mobilisers and decided to enrol for it. She found the course to be expanding both the scope and the scale of the program. teams. The principal of the institutions, these students useful and completed it successfully. Up on course completion she was offered a job at Friends Care Foundation 47% of the students supported through the programme were studying at were requested to admit them. 20 such where she works as the tele caller and earns Rs 6,500 per month. belong to the backward (SC, ST and OBC) communities. students were re-enrolled in their schools. Agriculture is The support of TML also enabled IITBAA (Alumni a part of course curriculum in some schools but they do She feels confident than before and has been trying to improve her English speaking skills. To supplement her Association) expand the scope of FAP with the introduction not have a dedicated staff member for the subject. Rural efforts, she also joined English speaking classes and plans to resume her college education in the future. Young of a number of value added services including mentoring, agriculture extension officers are requested to conduct girls in her community look up to her and have expressed their desire to join the retail training course. Her family industrial visits, leadership training workshops, agriculture demonstrations for students. is very happy with her progress and believe that with the economic improvement, her personality has undergone communication and soft skills training counselling etc. a positive transformation. Kaushalya (Employability) The students are personally mentored by senior leaders at TML and other organisations according to their area Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship reports of interest. The objective is to improve their confidence that only 2.3% of the workforce in India has undergone employability skills and make FAP an aspirational program formal skill training. Absence of formal skills renders for students rather than only a means for financial aid. population largely unemployable. Labour Bureau’s fifth employment-unemployment survey reported that 13.2% Collaborating with Reputed Academic Institutions of people between 18 32 years of age were unemployed. To incorporate fresh perspectives in our programmes To address this skill gap, under our Kaushalya initiatives we partner with reputed academic institutions like we partner with skill development centres and support Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Indian Institute of the students financially and with technical expertise. Management and Indian Institute of Science. Students are We collaborate as knowledge and technical partners awarded fellowships to cover causes close to their heart with centres for automotive trades like driver training and develop sustainable solutions for social issues. These and mechanic courses. Non-automotive, market driven projects are mentored by the faculty at the institution. courses such as electrician training, computer skills and beautician training are also promoted by the centres. Two projects undertaken by TISS graduates are focused scale plantation drives and support the development Agriculture and allied training in the field of horticulture, Autotech fest was conducted for on improving the educational status of children in Bihar of community infrastructure. Devices that function floriculture, dairy development and animal husbandry students. Five events, Automobile (of the Musahar community, most backward castes) and on renewable sources of energysolar lamps are also helps the cultivators earn supplementary income for the Quiz, Project Expo, Junkyard Wards, naxal affected region of Dantewada. promoted by our team and distributed among underprivileged household. Auto Expo, Battle of Trainers, were held and the students participated community members who need them the most. In Khushinagar district, Bihar, only 52 children of the enthusiastically in these. Musahar community (population 90,000) are studying up to senior secondary. The numbers are fewer for Dome and Dhangar community. As a part of the project, education Vasundhara (Environment) awareness campaigns were undertaken in the district. Native forests in India are disappearing at a rate of Parents were counselled and funds were mobilized to set up to 2.7 percent per year and the forest cover still up a resource centre that can help the underprivileged stands still below the mandated 33%. Forest wealth children with their study related expenses. Based on a is dwindling due to overgrazing, over exploitation, small test, students were identified and encouraged to encroachments, unsustainable practices, forest fire and enrol in professional/vocational courses. 39 academically unplanned urbanisation. Depletion of forests disturbs bright students were also identified for special coaching. the delicate ecological balance and also contributes to The education initiative at Dantewada has a three climate change. Our initiatives under the environment pronged approach to combat high drop-out rate aim to promote environmental consciousness among among the students, to improve the quality of education communities especially students. We also promote large 165 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 166 Amrutdhara In our society, the deep-seated patriarchy manifests itself in a number of ways; one of them is the gendered division India ranks dismally on the 120th spot out of 122 nations of water consumption and procurement. Indian women for its water quality and 133rd out of 180 nations for its have always borne the brunt of water shortages. The water availability. Only about one-third of rural households responsibility of fetching water primarily lies with women. in India are reached by piped water supplies. The balance This unequal distribution of labour means that women two-third of rural households is still living ‘beyond the travel great distances, walking over uneven terrain to pipe’. More than half of the pipes in rural areas in India fetch water, irrespective of the season or their physical deliver untreated water (Safe Water Network Report). health. For young girls, it means dropping out of school Although the country has made improvements over or managing water collection duties along with their the past decades to both the availability and quality of education and other household chores. municipal drinking water systems, its large population and rural areas are left out. SMDF (Sumant Moolgaonkar Development Foundation) through its Amrutdhara programme aims to provide Our initiative “Amrutdhara”, flagship programme undertaken by Sumant safe drinking water to water stressed villages across Case Study: Catch Them Young Environmental Consciousness Among School Going Children Moolgaonkar Development Foundation, the country on a sustainable basis. The diversity in the facilitates sustainable drinking water geographical landscape gives SMDF an opportunity to solutions. innovate on water solutions. Depending up on the terrain, Our implementing partner Bombay Natural History Society held sessions for school students of Municipal schools in Mumbai and Thane to promote environmental consciousness among students. The students were the water solution could be installing RO plant, developing educated on solid waste management, sustainable development, judicious use of water and electricity and percolation wells or rebuilding water reservoirs. kitchen gardening techniques. Booklets on these topics were developed in the regional language to drive the message in an efficient manner. These booklets were visually appealing and the information was imparted as an interaction between two young characters. The students were also taken out on nature trails so that they can better connect the environment conservation concepts in their everyday life. Based on the sessions conducted, the students were encouraged to develop science projects based on one of the five themes. They were mentored on this project by a school faculty. Case Study: Building Water Solution at 5,000 ft The Pantnagar team developed a low cost sustainable drinking water system in hills at an altitude of 5000ft-6000ft. The residents of Gumodi Village, Dwarahat Block, Ranikhet have been facing water crisis due the reduction in the forest cover and. The drying up of traditional sources of water and nonavailability of alternative source of water meant that the women in the village had to walk great distances to fetch water. Majority of the residents of the village belong to scheduled castes and also face social exclusion from accessing other water points. Along with Pan Himalayan Grassroots Development Foundation the CSR team built an infiltration well that serves as a protected intake structure for drinking water systems and collects water from subterranean water capillaries, which are located deeper than traditional nallas. Along with the 24X7 availability of water, the villagers were also gainfully employed for two months for project execution. Along with reducing the distance women have to walk for fetching water, the project has also encouraged conservation of bio diversity and tree plantation at the project site. 167 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 168 169 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Independent Assurance Statement Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Independent Assurance Statement 170 171 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Independent Assurance Statement Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Independent Assurance Statement 172 GRI Index GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Section Name Page Number UNIVERSAL STANDARDS GRI 102: General ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the Organization 9-10 102-2 Activities, Brands, Products, and Services 9-10 End cover 102-3 Location of Headquarters page 102-4 Location of Operations About Tata Motors Limited 9-10 102-5 Ownership and Legal Form 9-10 102-6 Markets Served 9-10 102-7 Scale of the Organization 9-10 102-8 Information on Employees and Workforce 140-146 Other Workers 102-9 Supply Chain Supply Chain 164-166 102-10 Significant Changes to the Organization Sustainable Supply Chain 167-171 and It’s Supply Chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Approach Governance 15 Sustainability Strategy and 102-12 External Initiatives 63-64 Management Goals List of Membership 102-13 Membership of Associations 24-25 Association STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from Senior Decision-maker Message from CEO & MD 3-4 Key challenges: faced and 102-15 Key Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities 54-55 emerging Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, Principles, Standards, and Mission, Vision and Values 12, 17-20 Norms of Behaviour Ethics & Integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for Advice and Concerns Ethics & Integrity 17-20 About Ethics 173 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Independent Assurance Statement Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix 174 GRI Standard Disclosure Section Name Page Number GRI Standard Disclosure Section Name Page Number GRI 102: General GOVERNANCE GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-18 Governance Structure 15-21 Disclosures 2016 Corporate Governance 102-19 Delegating Authority 15-21 102-40 List of Stakeholder Groups 56-57 102-20 Executive-Level Responsibility for Governance 22 Economic, Environmental, and Social Topics 102-41 Collective Bargaining Agreements 140 102-21 Consulting Stakeholders on Economic, Engaging with 56-57 Environmental, and Social Topics Stakeholders Engaging with 102-42 Identifying and Selecting Stakeholders 58 Stakeholders 102-22 Composition of the Highest Governance 16-17 Body and It’s Committees 102-43 Approach to Stakeholder Engagement 58 102-23 Chair of the Highest Governance Body Corporate Governance 15 102-24 Nominating and Selecting the Highest 102-44 Key Topics and Concerns Raised 59-61 16-17 Governance Body 102-25 Conflicts of Interest Tata Code of Conduct 18 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-26 Role of Highest Governance Body in 102-45 Entities Included in the Consolidated 16-17 About the Report 6-7 Setting Purpose, Values and Strategy Financial Statements 102-27 Collective Knowledge of Highest Corporate Governance 102-46 Defining Report Content and About the Report: Scope 15-21 2 Governance Body Topic Boundaries & Boundary 102-28 Evaluating the Highest Governance 15-21 Body’s Performance 102-47 List of Material Topics Material Topics 60,61 Key Challenges: Faced and 102-29 Identifying and Managing Economic, Emerging Our 23, 53-55 No restatement is Environmental, and Social Impacts 102-48 Restatements of Information NA Sustainability Governance applicable. 102-30 Effectiveness of Risk Management Key Challenges: Faced and 53-55 102-49 Changes in Reporting 1-2 Processes Emerging 102-31 Review of Economic, Environmental 23 and Social Topics 102-50 Reporting Period 1-2 Our Sustainability 102-32 Highest Governance Body’s Role in Governance About the Report 23 Sustainability Reporting 102-51 Date of Most Recent Report 1-2 102-33 Communicating Critical Concerns 17-20 Ethics & Integrity 102-52 Reporting Cycle 1-2 102-34 Nature and Total Number of 19-20 Critical Concerns 102-53 Contact Point for Questions End Cover of End Cover of the Report 102-35 Remuneration Policies 110-111 Regarding the Report the Report 102-54 Claims of Reporting in Accordance with 102-36 Process for Determining Remuneration 110-111 About the Report 1-2 the GRI Standards 102-37 Stakeholders Involvement in Remuneration Annual Report 110-111 102-55 GRI Content Index GRI Index 191-206 102-38 Annual Total Compensation Ratio 112 102-39 Percentage Increase in Independent Assurance 112 102-56 External Assurance 186-190 Annual Total Compensation Ratio Statement 175 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix 176 PerforJustification for PerforJustification for GRI Page mance Exclusions of GRI Page mance Exclusions of Disclosure Section Name Disclosure Section Name Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Coverage Information Coverage Information ANTI CORRUPTION & ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS 103-1 Explanation of the material ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE topic and its Boundaries Materiality This is not a part of 103-1 Explanation assessment our materiality matrix GRI 103: 103-2 The of the material Independent 59-61, however, TML chose Management management topic and its BoundMateriality Assurance 186-190 to voluntarily disclose Approach 2016 approach and its aries assessment Statement on anti-competitive GRI 103: Economic components 103-2 The behaviour. All the Tata Management Performance 59-61, 73, 103-3 Evaluation of management companies needs to Approach 2016 Independent 186-190 the management approach and its adhere to Tata Code of Assurance approach components Conduct for business Statement 205-1 Operations TML India ethic and integrity. Since 103-3 Evaluation Annual reports of each assessed for risks this is not a part of the of the management of the subsidiaries are related to corruption materiality matrix we approach published separately and 205-2 chose not to include economic Communication and the disclosure for our 201-1 Direct ecoperformance of each of Economic training about subsidiaries in the nomic value gener73 subsidiaries is available GRI 205: Performance anti-corruption 21 sustainability report. ated and distributed in individual annual reAnti-corruption policies and We shall evaluate the TML, India port. Since all the annual procedures intensity of linkage of 201-2 Financial imreports are not published Anti-Corruption 205-3 Confirmed each indicator with plications and other at the same time as that Economic incidents of the subsidiaries and risks and opportu74 of Tata Motors Limited, Performance corruption and based on our study, we GRI 201: nities due to climate we have not included actions taken shall gradually include Economic change economic performance of the subsidiaries in TML’s 206-1 Legal actions applicable indicators in Performance sustainability report. for anti-competitive the disclosure. 2016 201-3 Defined benebehavior, anti-trust, fit plan and monopoly 73 obligations and othpractices er retirement plans Economic ENVIRONMENTAL Performance MATERIALS 201-4 Financial 103-1 Explanation Materiality TTL being in design assistance received 73 of the material topic assessment development, raw from government and its Boundaries Sustainability material consumption 103-2 The Strategies 59-61 is not applicable. The PROCUREMENT PRACTICES GRI 103: management Our management 63 -64, 79, amount of recycled 103-1 Explanation Management approach and its for Environmental 110 -118, TML India material used in the of the material Approach 2016 components topics 186-190 process of manufacturing TML has started topic and its BoundRaw material Key are not been completely Materiality engagement with aries 103-3 Evaluation of initiatives tracked for the assessment suppliers for GRI 103: the management Independent subsidiaries. Currently, 103-2 The Value chain sustainable supply chain Management 59-61, 164, approach Assurance evaluating the intensity of management Sustainability in 2016-17. We are in Approach 2016 186-190 process to linkage of each indicator approach and its Independent TML include all our critical 301-1 Materials with packaging materials components Assurance TML India India, TAL, Tier 1 suppliers in used by weight or 114-117 are not reclaimed by Statement TMLDL, 103-3 Evaluation coming 3 to 5 years. volume our subsidiaries. We TMML of the management Currently, we are not shall initiate the process GRI 301: approach engaging with our 301-2 Recycled Raw material of the subsidiaries. Materials 2016 115 TML India subsidiaries’ supply input materials used Based on our study, we GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of chain. We intend to do the shall gradually include Value Chain 301-3 Reclaimed Procurement spending on local 166 same in near future. applicable indicators in Sustainability products and their 122 TML India Practices 2016 suppliers the disclosure. packaging materials 177 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix 178 PerforJustification for PerforJustification for GRI Page mance Exclusions of GRI Page mance Exclusions of Disclosure Section Name Disclosure Section Name Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Coverage Information Coverage Information ENERGY WATER 103-1 Explanation Materiality TML, India of the material topic assessment 303-3 Water TAL, TTL, 105, 106 and its Boundaries Sustainability recycled and reused TMLDL, Energy consumption Strategies TMML 103-2 The 59-61 outside the management Our management organisation is BIODIVERSITY GRI 103: 63 -64, approach and its for Environmental applicable for all our Management 79 TML India components topics Energy and subsidiaries however, 103-1 Explanation Approach 2016 186-190 emission Key currently the mapping of of the material topic 103-3 Evaluation of initiatives the energy and its Boundaries Materiality the management Independent consumption outside Mapping approach Assurance the organisation is not Sustainability Statement tracked. TML shall 103-2 The Strategies and 59-61 TML India, support all the GRI 103: management Management 63 -64, 302-1 Energy subsidiaries in Management approach and its Goals Our 79, TAL, TTL, consumption within 85-93 implementation of Approach 2016 components management for 186-190 TMLDL, the organization process for tracking the Environmental TMML Biodiversity has been indicator and gradually topics independent identified as the least 302-2 Energy Assurance consumption include it in our future 103-3 Evaluation of critical topic as per our 88 TML India disclosure. the management Statement materiality assessment. outside of the organization The reduction of energy approach TML has voluntarily consumption within each decided to include GRI 302: Energy and TML India, of the subsidiaries is not biodiversity as a material Energy 2016 302-3 Energy Emission TAL, TTL, currently tracked. We 87, 91 topic for Tata Motors intensity TMLDL, shall initiate the process 304-1 Operational Limited. As per Tata TMML of assessing the subsites owned, Group sustainability 302-4 Reduction of sidiaries for tracking the leased, managed 91 policy, all the Tata energy consumption relevant information and in, or adjacent to, companies are to assess gradually include the disprotected areas 107, 108 302-5 Reduction in the natural capital, TML India closure for subsidiaries. and areas of high energy requirements including biodiversity, for 92 biodiversity value of products and TML, India all its locations. Since the outside protected services biodiversity has not been areas identified as medium or WATER high critical issue, we 103-1 Explanation Materiality have opted not to include of the material topic assessment this disclosure for our 304-2 Significant and its Boundaries Sustainability Since water is not a part subsidiaries. We shall impacts of 103-2 The Strategies of materiality matrix and initiate the process of GRI 304: activities, products, 107, 108 management approach Our management 59-61 considering the relevance, evaluating the intensity of BIODIVERSITY and services on Biodiversity GRI 103: and its components for Environmental 63 -64, we have not included the linkage of each indicator 2016 biodiversity Management topics. Water 79, 104, TML India disclosure on significant with the subsidiaries. Approach 2016 and effluent 186-190 water source affected Based on our study, we 103-3 Evaluation of management by our subsidiaries’ shall gradually include the management Key initiatives operations in our applicable indicators in Independent 304-3 Habitats approach sustainability report 107, 108 the disclosure. Assurance protected or restored for 2016-17. We shall Statement evaluate the intensity of TML India linkage of each indicator 303-1 Water 304-4 IUCN Red List TAL, TTL, with the subsidiaries and withdrawal by 105, 106 species and national TMLDL, based on our study, we source conservation GRI 303: Water and effluent TMML shall gradually include applicable indicators in list species with 107, 108 Water 2016 303-2 Water management the disclosure. habitats in areas sources significantly affected by 105 TML India affected by operations withdrawal of water 179 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix 180 PerforJustification for PerforJustification for GRI Page mance Exclusions of GRI Page mance Exclusions of Disclosure Section Name Disclosure Section Name Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Coverage Information Coverage Information EMISSIONS EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Materiality Materiality 103-1 Explanation assessment 103-1 Explanation assessment of the material topic Sustainability of the material topic Sustainability and its Boundaries Strategies and its Boundaries Strategies and Our management Management 103-2 The 59-61 GRI 103: for Environmental Goals 59-61 management 63 -64, 103-2 The Management topics TML India GRI 103: Our management 63 -64, approach and its 79, 95 management Approach 2016 Waste Management for Environmental 79, 83-84, TML India components 186-190 approach and its management key Approach 2016 topics 186-190 initiatives components Energy and 103-3 Evaluation of Independent emission – key the management Assurance initiatives approach Statement 103-3 Evaluation of Independent the management Assurance 306-1 Water approach Statement discharge by quality 105 and destination NA Since the energy 306-2 Waste by 305-1 Direct (Scope consumption outside the 85-93 type and disposal 97-102 1) GHG emissions organisational boundaries TML, India method of subsidiaries are not TAL, TTL, No incident tracked, we are unable 306-3 Significant Waste TMLDL, of significant TML India, 305-2 Energy to calculate the Scope 3 GRI 306: spills management, TMML spills TAL, TTL, indirect (Scope 2) 85-93 GHG emission for each of Effluents and Water and effluent No TMLDL, GHG emissions the subsidiaries. Waste management international TMML Since the reduction of Energy & 306-4 Transport of energy consumption is transportation Emissions hazardous waste not tracked, the reduction of hazardous 305-3 Other indirect of GHG emission could waste. (Scope 3) GHG 88 TML India not be calculated. emissions 306-5 Water bodies We shall initiate the affected by water process of assessing 115 discharges and/or the subsidiaries for TML, India runoff tracking the relevant GRI 305: 305-4 GHG TAL, TTL, information and gradually 87, 91 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE EMISSIONS emissions intensity TMLDL, include the disclosure for 2016 TMML subsidiaries. 103-1 Explanation Materiality of the material topic assessment 305-5 Reduction of Energy & and its Boundaries Sustainability 92 TML India GHG emissions Emissions Strategies 103-2 The Our management 59-61 GRI 103: management for Environmental 63 -64, Energy & Management TML India NA 305-6 Emissions approach and its topics 79,109 Emissions: Approach 2016 of ozone-depleting 94 components Environmental 186-190 Ozone Depleting stewardship key substances (ODS) Substance TML India 103-3 Evaluation of initiatives TAL, TTL, the management Independent 305-7 Nitrogen TMLDL, approach Assurance oxides (NOX), TMML Energy & sulphur oxides GRI 307: 307-1 NonTML Emissions: Air 93-94 (SOX), and other Environmental compliance with Environmental India, TTL, Emissions 109-110 significant air Compliance environmental laws Stewardship TMLDL, emissions 2016 and regulations TMML 181 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix 182 PerforJustification for PerforJustification for GRI Page mance Exclusions of GRI Page mance Exclusions of Disclosure Section Name Disclosure Section Name Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Coverage Information Coverage Information SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Materiality 103-1 Explanation 103-1 Explanation assessment We have started the of the material topic Materiality of the material topic Sustainability process of engaging and its Boundaries Mapping and its Boundaries Strategies TML supply chain in the Sustainability 59-61 103-2 The 59-61 103-2 The GRI 103: Our management financial 2015-16 and GRI 103: Strategies and 63 -64, management 63 -64, management Management for supply chain we are targeting to cover Management Management 156, 157 TML India Worker with high rate approach and its 167, 168 approach and its Approach 2016 Sustainable supply 100% of TML’s critical tier Approach 2016 Goals 186-190 incident and high risk components 186-190 components chain initiates 1 suppliers. Engagement Independent related to occupation 103-3 Evaluation of Independent with supply chain is a 103-3 Evaluation of Assurance and health and safety the management Assurance continuous process and the management Statement topic covered in formal approach Statement we shall continue to approach agreement have not increase the coverage been disclosed in this TML, India. of the engagement 403-1 Workers year’s sustainability 308-1 New suppliers gradually and increase report. TAL, TMLDL, representation that were screened our coverage to TMML are manufacturing 164 in formal joint using environmental subsidiaries. We have 156 TML India companies and have management– GRI 308: criteria already started engaging proper representation worker health and Supplier with supply chain of safety committees of the workers. All our Value chain Environmental TMML. For TTL, TAL and subsidiaries have proper sustainability Assessment 308-2 Negative TMLDL the number of 403-2 Types of safety standards. Since 2016 environmental suppliers are insignificant injury and rates of TML India this is our transition from impacts in the 167-170 as compared to TML and injury, occupational TAL, TTL, GRI G4 to GRI standard, supply chain and thus, are not included in diseases, lost days, 158-160 TMLDL, we have prioritised to the disclosure. GRI 403: align our sustainability actions taken and absenteeism, Management TMML Occupational report as per GRI and number of workSystems Health and standard and provide related fatalities Workplace Safety SOCIAL Safety maximum disclosure 2016 403-3 Workers with coverage for Tata EMPLOYMENT high incidence or Motors Limited. We shall 103-1 Explanation high risk of diseases 158-160 TML India gradually start covering of the material topic related to their this indicator for our and its Boundaries Materiality occupation subsidiaries in our future assessment reporting. 59-61 403-4 Health 103-2 The Sustainability GRI 103: 63 -64 We have not covered and safety topics management Strategies Management 140, 146, TML India benefits and parental covered in formal 156-157 TML India approach and its Workforce Approach 2016 147, leaves for our agreements with components Independent 186-190 subsidiaries for the trade unions Assurance Statement financial 2016-17 103-3 Evaluation of sustainability report. TRAINING AND EDUCATION the management Employee benefits at approach our subsidiaries are as 103-1 Explanation TML India, per Tata Group’s policy. of the material topic 401-1 New and its Boundaries Materiality TAL, TTL, We shall include the employee hires and Mapping TMLDL, disclosure on employee employee turnover Sustainability TMML benefits and parental 103-2 The 59-61 leave applicable to our GRI 103: Strategies and GRI 401: 401-2 Benefits management 63 -64, This is a voluntary subsidiaries in our future Management Management TML India Employment provided to full-time Workforce approach and its 149, 150 disclosure. sustainability report. Approach 2016 Goals 2016 employees that components 186-190 140 TML India Independent are not provided to Assurance temporary or part103-3 Evaluation of Statement time employees the management approach 401-3 Parental leave 143 TML India 183 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix 184 PerforJustification for PerforJustification for GRI Page mance Exclusions of GRI Page mance Exclusions of Disclosure Section Name Disclosure Section Name Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Coverage Information Coverage Information FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR (for supply chain) TML, India 404-1 Average TAL, TTL, 103-1 Explanation hours of training per 150, 151 We have started the TMLDL, of the material topic year per employee process of engaging TMML and its Boundaries TML supply chain in the 103-2 The financial 2015-16 and management Materiality we are targeting to cover GRI 404: 404-2 Programs for approach and its Mapping 100% of TML’s critical tier Training and upgrading employee 59-61 149, 150 TML This is a voluntary components Sustainability 1 suppliers. Engagement Education skills and transition Workforce GRI 103: 63 -64, disclosure. Strategies and with supply chain is a 2016 assistance Programs Management 167, 168 Management continuous process and Approach 2016 186-190 Goals we shall continue to 404-3 Percentage Independent increase the coverage of employees 103-3 Evaluation of Assurance TML India of the engagement receiving regular the management gradually and increase 150 TML approach performance and our coverage to career development subsidiaries. We have reviews already started engaging with supply chain of CHILD LABOR (For Supply Chain) TMML. For TTL, TAL and 409-1 Operations TMLDL the number of GRI 409: suppliers are insignificant and suppliers at Forced or Sustainable as compared to TML and significant risk for 170 103-1 Explanation Compulsory Supply Chain thus, are not included in incidents of forced of the material topic Labor 2016 the disclosure. or compulsory labor and its Boundaries Materiality We have started the HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT (For Supply Chain) Mapping process of engaging Sustainability TML supply chain in the 59-61 103-1 Explanation GRI 103: 103-2 The Strategies and financial 2015-16 and 63 -64, of the material topic We have started the Management management Management we are targeting to cover 167, 168 and its Boundaries Materiality process of engaging Approach 2016 approach and its Goals 100% of TML’s critical tier 186-190 1 suppliers. Engagement Mapping TML supply chain in the components Independent 59-61 Assurance with supply chain is a 103-2 The Sustainability financial 2015-16 and GRI 103: 63 -64, Statement continuous process and management Strategies and we are targeting to cover Management 167, 168 we shall continue to approach and its Management 100% of TML’s critical tier Approach 2016 186-190 increase the coverage components Goals 1 suppliers. Engagement 103-3 Evaluation of TML India of the engagement Independent with supply chain is a the management gradually and increase Assurance continuous process and 103-3 Evaluation of approach our coverage to we shall continue to the management subsidiaries. We have approach increase the coverage already started engaging TML India of the engagement with supply chain of gradually and increase TMML. For TTL, TAL and our coverage to TMLDL the number of 412-3 Significant subsidiaries. We have suppliers are insignificant investment already started engaging 408-1 Operations as compared to TML and agreements and with supply chain of GRI 408: and suppliers at GRI 412: Sustainable thus, are not included in contracts that TMML. For TTL, TAL and Child Labor significant risk for 170 Human Rights Supply Chain the disclosure. include human 170 TMLDL the number of 2016 incidents of child Assessment rights clauses or suppliers are insignificant labor 2016 that underwent as compared to TML and human rights thus, are not included in screening the disclosure. 185 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix 186 PerforJustification for PerforJustification for GRI Page mance Exclusions of GRI Page mance Exclusions of Disclosure Section Name Disclosure Section Name Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Coverage Information Coverage Information LOCAL COMMUNITIES MARKETING AND LABELING 103-1 Explanation This is not a part of 103-1 Explanation of the material topic our materiality matrix of the material topic and its Boundaries Materiality however, TML chose and its Boundaries Materiality assessment to voluntarily disclose 59-61 Mapping 103-2 The Sustainability on our community GRI 103: 63 -64, Sustainability management Strategies engagement and impact 103-2 The 59-61 Management 176 TML, India. GRI 103: Strategies and approach and its CSR of business to the local management 63 -64, Approach 2016 186-190 Management Management components Independent communities. Since approach and its 36, 39-41 Approach 2016 Goals Assurance this is not a part of the components 186-190 Independent 103-3 Evaluation of Statement materiality matrix we Assurance All our subsidiaries the management chose not to include 103-3 Evaluation of Statement follows Tata Code of approach the disclosure for our the management Conduct and quality assubsidiaries in the approach surance for the products. sustainability report. We shall evaluate the 417-1 Requirements We shall start the process 413-2 Operations intensity of linkage of GRI 413: for product and TML, India. of evaluating the intensity with significant each indicator with 37 Local service information of linkage of each indicaactual and potential 176-185 TML, India the subsidiaries and Communities and labelling tor with the subsidiaries negative impacts on based on our study, we 2016 based on our study, TML local communities shall gradually include 417-2 Incidents of shall gradually include applicable indicators in non-compliance applicable indicators in the disclosure. GRI 417: concerning product the disclosure. Sustainable 37 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Marketing and and service information and Mobility Solutions Labelling 2016 103-1 Explanation labelling of the material topic Materiality and its Boundaries Mapping 417-3 Incidents of Sustainability 59-61 non-compliance 103-2 The GRI 103: Strategies and 63 -64, concerning 37 management Management Management 36, 39-41 marketing approach and its The magnitude of the Approach 2016 Goals 186-190 communications components direct customer dealing Independent for our subsidiaries is 103-3 Evaluation of Assurance SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE xx% of the total direct the management Statement customer of the TML. approach 103-1 Explanation Furthermore, all our subsidiaries follows Tata of the material topic 416-1 Assessment Materiality Code of Conduct and and its Boundaries of the health and assessment safety impacts of 40-45 quality assurance for the Sustainability TML, India 59-61 product and service products. GRI 103: 103-2 The Strategies We shall start the process management 63 -64 categories Management Corporate of evaluating the intensity approach and its 15-20 Approach 2016 governance of linkage of each indicacomponents 186-190 TML India GRI 416: Helping the Independent tor with the subsidiaries. TAL, TTL, Customer customers, Assurance Based on our study, TML 103-3 Evaluation of TMLDL, NA Health Product Statement 416-2 Incidents of shall gradually include the management TMML and Safety stewardship non-compliance applicable indicators in approach 2016 concerning the the disclosure. 37 health and safety 419-1 Nonimpacts of products GRI 419: compliance with and services Socioeconomic Corporate laws and regulations 19-21 Compliance Governance in the social and 2016 economic area 187 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix 188 NVG Mapping Area Advanced Criteria Page Reference Principle Description Page No Criterion 5: The COP describes robust commitments, Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and strategies or policies in the area of human Principle 1 15-20 Accountability. rights Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to We have implemented Policy on Human Principle 2 39-49 Criterion 6: sustainability throughout their life cycle. Rights, Policy on Equal Opportunity and The COP describes effective management Non-Discrimination in Employment, Principle 3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees. 140-151 systems to integrate the human rights Environmental Policy, Green Building Human Rights principles Policy, Policy on Bribery and Corruption in Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, Implementation support of broader UN goals and issues. Principle 4 65-68 especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized. Criterion 7: Details on Human Rights Implementation The COP describes effective monitoring can be found in Corporate Governance Principle 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights. 65-68 and evaluation mechanisms of human (Page 15) and Workforce (Page 140) rights integration sections of the report. Principle 6 Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment. 65-68 Criterion 8: Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a The COP describes key outcomes of Principle 7 79-118 responsible manner. human rights integration Principle 8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development 24-25 Criterion 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in The COP describes robust commitments, Principle 9 39-49 a responsible manner. strategies or policies in the area of labour UNGC-COP Mapping Criterion 10: The COP describes effective management Area Advanced Criteria Page Reference systems to integrate the labour principles Details on Labour Principles Labour Principles Implementation can be found in Corporate Criterion 1: Implementation Governance (Page 15) and Workforce Details on our high-level sustainability Criterion 11: The COP describes key aspects of the (Page 140) sections of the report. strategy can found in Managing Director's The COP describes effective monitoring company’s high-level sustainability Statement (Page 3) and Material Issues and evaluation mechanisms of labour strategy in line with Global Compact (Page 58) sections of the report. principles integration principles Details on effective decision-making Criterion 12: Criterion 2: Strategy, Governance processes and systems of governance The COP describes key outcomes of The COP describes effective and Engagement for corporate sustainability can be found integration of the labour principles decision-making processes and systems in Corporate Governance (Page 15) of the of governance for corporate sustainability report Criterion 13: Details on engagement with all important The COP describes robust commitments, Criterion 3: stakeholders can be found in Stakeholder strategies or policies in the area of The COP describes engagement with all Engagement section (Page 56) of the environmental stewardship important stakeholders report. We have implemented Policy on Human Criterion 14: Rights, Policy on Equal Opportunity and The COP describes effective management Details on Environmental Stewardship Non-Discrimination in Employment, systems to integrate the environmental Implementation can be found in Environmental Policy, Green Building Environmental principles Corporate Governance (Page 15), Product Policy, Policy on Bribery and Corruption in Stewardship Stewardship (Page 39), Energy and support of broader UN goals and issues. Implementation Criterion 15: emission (Page 81) and Environmental Criterion 4: Actions taken in support of broader The COP describes effective monitoring Stewardship (Page 109) sections of the UN Goals and Issues The COP describes actions taken in UN goals and issues can be found and evaluation mechanisms for report. support of broader UN goals and issues in Corporate Governance (Page 15), environmental stewardship Economic Performance (Page 73) Product stewardship (Page 39), Energy and emission (Page 81), Environmental Criterion 16: Stewardship (Page 109), The COP describes key outcomes of Workforce (Page 140) and CSR integration of the environmental (Page 176) sections of the report. principles 189 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix 190 Area Advanced Criteria Page Reference Sustainable Development Goals Section name Page number Criterion 17: (SDGs) The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of antiAffordable and “Energy and emissions” 81-94 corruption Clean Energy “Economic performance”, “Tata Code of Conduct”, Criterion 18: Decent Work and 73-74, 18, 81-94, 140-151, “Energy and Emissions”,“Workforce”, “Workplace The COP describes effective management We have implemented Policy on Bribery Economic Growth 156-161, 164-170 safety”, “Value Chain Sustainability” systems to integrate the anti-corruption and anti-Corruption in support of Anti-corruption principle broader UN goals and issues. Details on Industry, Innovation and “Sustainability Mobility Solutions” 35-49 implementation implementation can be found in Corporate Infrastructure Criterion 19: The COP describes effective monitoring Governance (Page 15) section of the and evaluation mechanisms for the report. Reduce Inequality “CSR”, “Workforce” 176-185, 140-151 integration of anticorruption Sustainable Cities and Criterion 20: “Sustainability Mobility Solutions” 35-49 Communities The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the anti-corruption principle Responsible Consumption and “Raw material” and “Waste Management” 111-118, 95-102 Details on Value Chain Implementation Production Criterion 21: can be found in Corporate Governance Value chain The COP describes implementation of the “CSR”, “Energy and emissions”, “Value Chain (Page 15), Stakeholder Engagement (Page Climate Action 176-185, 81-94, 164-170 implementation Global Compact principles in the value Sustainability”’ 61) and Value Chain Sustainability (Page Chain 164) sections of the report. Life On Land “CSR” and “Biodiversity”, “Energy and Emissions”. 176-185, 81-94, 107-108 Details on company’s profile and context Criterion 22: of operation can be found in About Tata The COP provides information on the Motors Limited (Page 9) and Corporate Peace, Justice and company’s profile and context of Tata Code of Conduct Value Chain Sustainability 18, 164-170 Governance (Page 15) sections of the Strong Institution operation report. Partnerships for Goals “CSR”, “Environmental Stewardship” 176-185, 109-110 Transparency and Criterion 22: This report uses GRI Standard “in Verification The COP incorporates high standards of accordance – comprehensive” Reporting transparency and disclosure Guidelines. Alignment with <IR> Criterion 23: This report is independently assured by The COP is independently verified by a Content Elements Section Name Page Number M/s DNV GL credible third party Organizational Overview and “About Tata Motors Limited” 9-10 External Environment SDG Mapping Governance “Corporate Governance” 15-21 Sustainable Development Goals Section name Page number (SDGs) Business Model “Governance” and “About Tata Motors Limited” 15-27, 9-10 176 185, 164 – 170, 140No poverty “ CSR”, “Value Chain Sustainability, “Workforce” . Risk and Opportunity “Key challenges: faced and emerging” 53-55 151 Good Health and “Workplace safety”, & “CSR” , “Energy and emissions”, 156-161, 176-185, 81-94, Strategy and Resource “Sustainability strategies and Management approach 63-64, 36, 39, 73, 79, Well-Being “Water and effluent management” 103-106 Allocation for each material topic. 140, 156, 165, 167 “Sustainable Mobility Solutions” and “Business with Quality Education “CSR” 176-185 Performance 35-49, 71-185 Responsibility [3Ps]” Gender Equality “Gender diversity” 146-149 “Message from CEO and MD”, “Message from COO Outlook 3-4, 5, 9-10 and ED” and “About Tata Motors Limited” Clean Water and Basis of Preparation and “CSR”, “Water management” and “Waste Management” 176-185, 103-106, 95-102 “Materiality Assessment” 58-61 Sanitation Presentation 191 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix 192 Capitals Section Page number CFC Chlorofluorocarbon The financial input, economic value generated and retained CFT Cubic Feet Financial 73-74 has been mentioned in “Economic performance” section Description of our assets, manufacturing plants and CHWTSDF Common Hazardous Waste Treatment Storage and Disposal Facility productions is provided in “About the report” and “About Tata 1-2, 9-10, CII Confederation of Indian Industries Manufactured Motors Limited”. 111-118 The material used for the production is provided in “Raw material” section. CMVR The Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989 Our intellectual capital, mainly, comprises of Tata Code of Conduct, ethics manual, R&D, patents and other new products CNG Compressed Natural Gas Intellectual and technical stewardship. 15-21, 39-49 This is addressed in “Ethics and Integrity” and “Product CRM Customer Relationship Management Stewardship” section. CSC Corporate Steering Committee Our workforce and their development is key to our success. Details on our total workforce, gender diversity and training and development are provided in “Workforce” section. CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Human 140-151 Safety of our workforce is of utmost importance. Our strategy and performance in safety of our workforce is provided in CV Commercial vehicles “Workforce safety” section. DDT Defensive Driving Training Business with responsibility has been one of our core 140-151, principles. Our interaction with our internal stakeholder Social and Relationship 164-171, DMS Dealer Management System (employees) and external stakeholder (communities) have 176-185 been described in “Workforce”, “Value Chain Sustainability” and “CSR” DRFM Domestic Regulation Forecast Matrix Energy and environment, including water, waste, biodiversity Natural and climate change are identified as key issues for TML. 79-118 EMS Energy Management System Details are provided in “Protecting Environment” section. ENCON Energy Conservation targets Abbreviations ESG Environment, Social and Governance AA Affirmative Action ETP Effluents Treatment Plant ADAS Advanced Driver Assist System ERC Engineering Research Centre ARAI Automotive Research Association India ELV End of Life Vehicle BS III Bharat Stage III FLC Foldable Large Container BS IV Bharat Stage IV FO Furnace Oil BS V Bharat Stage V FY Financial Year BS VI Bharat Stage VI GJ Gega joule BIW Body in white GHG Greenhouse gas CAE Computer Aided Engineering GRI Global Reporting Initiative CAFE Corporate Average Fuel Economy HCV Heavy Commercial Vehicle CCI Competitive Commission of India HR Human Resource CDP Carbon Disclosure Project HSD High speed diesel 193 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix 194 IIT Indian Institute of Technology IR Integrated Reporting IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ISO International Organization for Standardization ITI Industrial Training Institute JV Joint venture KL Kilo litre LAC Learning Advisory Council LCA Life Cycle Assessment LCV Light Commercial Vehicle LDO Light Diesel Oil LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LNG Liquefied Natural Gas LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas MCV Medium Commercial Vehicle M&HCV Medium and Heavy Commercial Vehicle MW Mega watt NCAP New Car Assessment Programme NDC Nationally Determined Contribution NGO Non Governmental Organization NVG SEE National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic NOx Oxides of Nitrogen ODS Ozone Depleting Substance OEM Original Equipment Manufacturers OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series PCBU Passenger Car Business Unit PCRA Petroleum Conservation Research Association PM Particulate matter PV Passenger Vehicles 195 Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2016-17 | Appendix 196
