UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 ABOUT THE DANISH AGRO GROUP Danish Agro is an international agricultural Danish Agro was founded in 1901, and is group, with 5,000 employees in 16 countries, now one of the biggest and most important mainly in Scandinavia and the Baltic Region. agribusiness groups in Northern Europe. We are an independent, cooperative company, All the policies referred to in this report have owned by approx. 10,500 Danish farmers. been adopted by the group, and as such apply to all subsidiaries. The group is a member of industry trade organisations DAKOFO, the Danish Grain The group mainly operates within the sale of and Feed Trade Association, and the Danish feed mixes, ingredients and vitamin mixes, Agriculture and Food Council. fertiliser, crop protection, seeds and energy, plus the purchase of crops from farmers. The group is also distributor of a number of strong farm machinery brands, and runs an extensive chain of hobby and leisure retail outlets. 2 SUSTAINABILITY AN INTEGRATED PART OF OUR BUSINESS Care for the environment, society and ecoWe want to engage in constructive and innonomy is fundamental to Danish Agro. vative dialogue with our suppliers based on the principles of human and labour rights. Sustainable development of society is dependent on productive, competitive and efficient This includes focus on health and the worbusiness. We believe that contributing to king environment, and we do not tolerate that is the only responsible thing to do. forced or child labour. This is Danish Agro’s third Communication We focused even more on our trainee proon Progress report and acts as the group’s gramme in 2016, via which we take direct mandatory report on social responsibility. responsibility for the youngsters on the programme, sharing our knowledge and giving During the past year, we have focused on them a good start in the agribusiness induactivities that are directly relevant to our stry. business and the environment we are part of. Our CSR activities focus on those areas in When it comes to our own business prawhich we have expertise and know-how. ctices, we oppose any form of corruption, including blackmail and bribery. We take a proactive approach to social and environmental responsibility throughout the We conduct our commercial activities in value chain based on the UN Global Comaccordance with international, national and pact’s 10 principles. local laws and regulations relevant to our business. With regard to climate and the environment, we focus on making as little impact as posOur trading on the world market is on the sible. We worked on defining the framework basis of free competition and in accordance for a climate partnership agreement with with competition laws. Trade restrictions our Danish energy supplier, DONG Energy applied by the UN are always respected. A/S during 2016, an agreement that was signed in January this year. We look forward to working further with the Global Compact principles this year. We undertook to reduce our energy consumption by 20% by 2021. We want this partnership to act as a template for similar projects throughout the rest of the group. Within social responsibility, we focus on a personnel policy with the emphasis on safety at work, training and a healthy working Christian Junker environment. CEO, Danish Agro 3 HUMAN RIGHTS The UN principles about social ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS responsibility and sustainability The group’s support and respect for internaThe business should tional conventions on human rights are reflected internally, including by our HR policies, 1. Support and respect the protection of and externally by the collaborative trading internationally-proclaimed human rights, and activities we engage in internationally. and Danish Agro’s Supervisory Board worked 2. Make sure that it is not complicit in on applying the recommendations of the human rights abuses. Committee for Good Corporate Governance, dated 6 May 2013, in 2016. ’Good Corporate Governance’ is a universal term for a number of actions and initiatives POLICIES that form part of good management for large companies. Danish Agro’s Supervisory Danish Agro supports and respects internatiBoard worked proactively to identify and onally-recognised human rights throughout upgrade its existing competences. its organisation. We also worked on quantifying targets and That means that we support and respect policies for gender equality fulfilment within international agreements on human rights. the management team, and reporting for the We do not accept forced labour and/or child same. We operate within a male-dominated labour, and respect the right of our emploindustry and we are a relatively male-domiyees as to choice of trade union and to take nated business. part in collective wage bargaining. In practice, that makes it difficult to attract We also observe relevant standards concerwomen to board and management positions ning working hours throughout the group. within the agribusiness industry. Finally, we ensure that wages comply with the law and industry standards in those Nine members were elected to the current countries in which we are active. Supervisory Board, all of them men. Danish Agro believes in diversity including gender equality for the Supervisory Board. Diversity has to be prioritised, but not at the expense of competence. The Supervisory Board therefore believes that it will be an ambitious yet realistic target to increase the current female representation on the board to 15%, corresponding to one person, by the annual general meeting (AGM) in 2018. The board believes this to be an ambitious but realistic target, given the gender breakdown on the boards of comparable businesses. 4 This target will require Danish Agro being We have also worked proactively towards able to attract a higher proportion of women our goal of appointing more women within to the board than that represented by management and a policy for the manageself-employed female farmers in 2016. If not, ment team has been finalised. the target will not be reached. It is designed to improve representation of This is primarily due to a process already the minority gender within the management started to identify the right candidate, able of the Danish Agro group in line with Section to supplement the existing competences of 139a, subsection 1 (2) of the Companies Act. the board. The process will continue throughout 2017. Danish Agro’s current gender ratio in management positions is as follows: The Supervisory Board will actively strive to ensure that female candidates are appointed 1. Group executive board 0% to the board to a greater degree than previ2. Group management, incl. staff 0% ously, and the group supports diversity in the 3. Company management within group 19 % farming and food industries generally. After the AGM in 2018, new targets for The activities below have been implemented female membership of the Danish Agro to increase the proportion of the minority Supervisory Board will be set. gender in management jobs: The target will only concern those board Ensure that Danish Agro’s personnel members elected by the AGM and regions. policies promote gender equality within The board members elected by the emploall career opportunities, including for yees are not included. employment procedures and recruitment. The composition of subsidiary company Ensure that there are male and female boards is based on group considerations for candidates whenever possible for internal maximum support for group strategy. and external management recruitment That’s why they are often composed of memEnsure that internal training and personal bers of group management in Danish Agro development are designed for the devela.m.b.a. plus representatives from the ultiopment of female talent in line with male mate owners. 5 LABOUR RIGHTS The UN principles about social POLICIES responsibility and sustainability We will provide an exciting, attractive, effeThe business should ctive and involving workplace for all group employees. 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right That means that we will provide a multifaceto collective bargaining; ted and inclusive workplace, offering opportunity for everyone. We will provide space for 4. Support the elimination of all forms our employees to progress in their job and of forced and compulsory labour; develop leaders able to inspire their personnel to achieve their best. 5. Support the effective abolition of child labour; and We will persistently strive to ensure efficient working processes throughout the group. We 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect offer competitive terms for our employees of employment and occupation. and focus on creating a safe, healthy working environment. Finally, we offer working conditions that comply with the law, relevant guidelines and the standards of the UN Global Compact. Danish Agro has a working environment committee tasked with ensuring the best conditions for our employees. The group also has a collaboration committee in which the management and employees are represented, to support job satisfaction and dialogue within the group. 6 ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS Danish Agro is a member of the GLS-A agribusiness industry. The course will involve employer’s federation. Membership acts as periods at the academy and practical experia guarantee for decent conditions for the ence postings with the parent company and company’s employees, via collective and local subsidiaries, focusing on sales. wage agreements. We believe that we have a responsibility to The group HR function was upgraded in 2016 share our know-how and experience with with the recruitment of a new Group HR young people with an interest in the induManager. A process has now been started to stry. strengthen management within the group through training, workshops, etc. Agricultural education courses give young people the essentials, which Danish Agro will The aim is to strengthen commercial activithen supplement with the knowledge our ties and improve the quality of the group’s trainee programme will provide in terms of management with regard to change manacommercial skills and practical experience. gement, communication and personnel management. We are working on developing and implementing a group trainee programme to coorWe focused in 2016 on the group’s trainee dinate the efforts made to bring in trainees programme, aimed at young people with an across all our subsidiaries. agricultural background interested in selling to the wholesale sector. In the future, they will be linked directly to subsidiaries based on the needs those comThe first five trainees started in September panies have, and every subsidiary in every 2015, and are doing really well. A further country will follow the same trainee guidethree trainees started in the autumn of 2016. lines. We want the eight trainees to undertake a That will increase value for the individual customised course focusing on either pigs, companies and their trainees, who will be cattle, plant breeding, poultry or logistics, in able, for example, to follow programmes or which they get to explore every inch of the even employment throughout the group. 7 8 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE The UN principles about social ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS responsibility and sustainability The Danish Agro group applies consistent The business should focus to its impact on the environment. This is particularly true of the immediate area 7. Support a precautionary approach to in which we are located. We focus strongly environmental challenges; on having the most efficient logistics setup possible, to reduce unnecessary transport by 8. Undertake initiatives to promote road and sea. greater environmental responsibility; and The group started a major project in 2015 on improving its energy efficiency designed to 9. Encourage the development and gather details of the group’s energy supplies diffusion of environmentally friendly through to the spring of 2016, and to find technologies. ways of optimising and streamlining consumption to the benefit of the environment and our overheads. The project complied with the EU’s requirePOLICIES ment that large companies must undertake mandatory energy audits to identify possible Danish Agro wants to reduce its impact on energy savings. the environment as much as possible, not least within the areas in which we are locaIt was expanded at the end of the year, by ted. incorporating it into a climate partnership agreement with Danish energy provider That means that we promote sustainable DONG Energy A/S. processes within the group, and are in constant dialogue with stakeholders on environThe agreement commits Danish Agro to mental issues. We focus on saving energy reducing energy consumption in Denmark and reducing consumption of materials by by 20% by 2021 compared to 2015. constantly monitoring and optimising the way we operate. As part of the agreement, DONG will provide consultancy and implementation of We comply with all relevant legislation and energy-efficiency measures, whilst we have requirements, and take a proactive approach undertaken to buy a certain amount of electo the principles of the UN Global Compact. tricity from sustainable sources. 9 The group consumed 66,830 MWH of electriWe were the first in Denmark to be certified city in 2015, most of which was used at eight according to the German non-GM certisites where feed production, drying facilities fication VLOG, which stands for ”Verband etc. are located. Lebensmittel ohne Gentechnik” in December 2016. These are the locations which will be focused upon, where we implement measures within The standard ensures full control of the heat recycling, ventilation automation, more processes involved in production of non-GM climate-friendly lighting, replace oil-fired feeds, a form of production we started in the boilers etc. autumn of 2016. Danish Agro will report progress as part of Apart from improving production safety and its annual reports in future. Denmark is the quality, the new certification also means a pilot country within this field, and we plan number of benefits to farmers who have to expand the project to group members in agreed to take non-GM feeds from Danish other countries. Agro. For example: reference samples of the feed no longer have to be taken at the farm Within transport, Danish Agro has bought 16 upon delivery. new 7 axle trucks that can carry approx. 15% more goods at a time than 6 axle trucks. The Farmers can also achieve a lower risk stanew trucks only use between 1-5% extra fuel tus with their dairy much easier. All-in-all, per kilometre and given that they carry more, it means smoother processes and less help save the environment and cut group bureaucracy. overheads. 73 out of 101 trucks in Danish Agro’s fleet are now 7 axle, and we plan to Our seven feed factories in Denmark were phase out the 6 axle models progressively. also the first in the world to be certified according to the new global ISO standard The group is focusing generally on the focusing on feed and animal food safety in implementation of ISO 14001 Environmental May 2016. Management Certification. The new standard with its technical name Certification systematises planning, control ’ISO/TS 22002-6’ is designed to make it even and evaluation of environmental improvesafer for consumers to buy and use feeds and ments, and will benefit the environment, animal food products. customers and the business. Certification means that we have to set up, Customers will be guaranteed greater transimplement and maintain control programparency for environmental aspects of our mes designed to protect animal food. production processes. The standard is a valuable tool in our efforts Danish Agro focuses strongly on food safety to continuously document high levels of feed and quality through consistent quality and animal food products, and is the official management. ISO standard in over 160 countries. 10 ANTI CORRUPTION The UN principles about social ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS responsibility and sustainability The Danish Agro group has a fixed set of The business should internal competition rules to be followed by all our employees at all times. 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and They are designed to ensure that our emplobribery. yees abide by the law in Denmark and the corresponding national laws in the countries in which we operate. The objective of such laws is to protect free POLICIES enterprise in a healthy, competitive economy, which is the basis of Danish Agro’s business. Integrity is in focus in every aspect of our business. All group managers sign a declaration that they will abide by our internal competition That means that we set high standards of rules as part of their contract of employcommercial ethics throughout the value ment. Information on the rules is also circuchain and the group. We tackle dilemmas lated regularly internally. according to our values, and strive for transparency in our commercial decisions and No breaches of competition legislation were practices. recorded amongst group members in 2016, which we regard as very positive. We abide by all applicable laws and adopt a proactive approach to the principles of susDanish Agro will not accept unethical busitainability in the UN Global Compact. ness practices. 11 Danish Agro a.m.b.a. Køgevej 55 DK-4653 Karise Tlf. +45 7215 8000 mail@danishagro.dk www.danishagro.dk
