SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Sustainability Approach CONTENTS ABOUT MESSAGE CCI AT A THE REPORT FROM THE CEO GLANCE 01 02 04 PERFORMANCE AWARDS SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS RECEIVED JOURNEY 08 10 14 EXTERNAL INTEGRATING CORPORATE RECOGNITION SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE 15 16 AND ETHICS 26 SUSTANABILITY APPROACH 1 ABOUT THE REPORT 102-45; 102-46; 102-48 CCI’s 9th sustainability report Communication on Progress Limited Assurance in accordance shares our practices and (COP) to the United Nations with the international standard performance results obtained Global Compact (UNGC) as Assurance Engagements Other during the period between well as our progress report on Than Audits or Reviews of January 1 and December 31, how we incorporate the United Historical Financial Information 2016 for six of the 10 operating Nations Women’s Empowerment (ISAE 3000 (Revised)). countries: Turkey, Jordan, Principles (WEPs). Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan Structure and Kyrgyzstan. Verification The year 2016 was a transition This year we extended the For the sixth consecutive year, period for sustainability practices scope and boundary of our certain data in this report at CCI. In our efforts to update report by including full data were independently audited. our 2025 Road map and our from CCI Kyrgyzstan, so that the The GHG emissions of CCI reporting approach, we changed coverage of the report reached Turkey’s manufacturing, sales the report structure to reflect 88% of CCI’s total production and distribution operations for our “One Team” themed report. volume and 85% of CCI’s 2016 were audited, as in the employees as of December 31, last four years, by a third-party This year, we prepared three 2016. To meet the information auditing organization, SGS, and full sections that represent our disclosure requirements of verified in accordance with the different stakeholders’ interests. various sustainability indices, International Organization for Sustainability Approach section we added new contents to our Standardization’s ISO 14064-3 includes general information report, as we did in the previous 2006 Standard as meeting the about CCI and governance year’s report. We also included requirements of ISO 14064-1. issues. In the Sustainability in results and related information CCI Turkey successfully passed Review section, we summarize on projects that were initiated the audits. Both GHG Protocol’s our programs and efforts to in the reporting period but will Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions create value for our stakeholders. continue in 2017. were verified as a result of this Finally, Performance Indicators process. The level of assurance section provides supplementary Standards Used was deemed “reasonable” and technical and numerical the materiality was considered to information about our operations The three principles of the be below 5% by the verifier. The for relevant stakeholders. AA1000 Assurance Standard assurance statement is included namely materiality, inclusiveness in Performance Indicators Feedback and responsivenessguide the section of the report. content development process Receiving feedback from our of this report. In addition, we Selected information, as stakeholders is vital to help us measure and report our social, defined in the Independent improve both our practices and environmental and ethical Limited Assurance Report in our reporting processes. We performance using leading Performance Indicators section evaluate every issue that comes principles, standards and of this report, received limited to our attention, and use any methodologies such as those assurance from the independent feedback from our stakeholders adopted by the Global Reporting audit company EY. In 2016 we to continuously improve our Initiative (GRI) Standards, CDP obtained, for the sixth time, practices. Programs, the International limited assurance on Selected Labor Organization (ILO), the Information for our operations in We invite our stakeholders to United Nations Convention Turkey. The Selected Information share their opinions, suggestions Against Corruption (UNCAC) covered total energy data, peror complaints by sending an and the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) product energy use, total water e-mail to Protocol developed by the withdrawal and consumption corporate.affairs@cci.com.tr, World Resources Institute (WRI). data, and per-product water use, as described in the CCI or by calling the Corporate The contents of this report have Reporting Guidance included Affairs Department at been prepared in accordance in Performance Indicators +90 216 528 40 00, with the “core” option of the section of the report. Within the GRI Standards Sustainability context of this audit, 2016 data or through the Contact Us tab Reporting Guidelines. The from CCI’s Turkey plants were on our website report also serves as our assessed to reach a conclusion of cci.com.tr. 2 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dear Stakeholders, With transparency and We firmly believe in the value accountability among its of constant dialogue with all I am pleased to state that core values, CCI has been our stakeholders, in 2016 we CCI closed 2016 successfully regularly disclosing its social, initiated a new “Stakeholder growing its business and environmental and economic Day” event series to serve as an improving its sustainability performance in line with engagement platform to further performance. Growing steadily international standards since improve relations with key local and sustainably over the past 2008. In our 2016 report we partners. decade, CCI has transformed focused on how we created itself from a local bottler into a value for our stakeholders, CCI’s commitment to multinational, with operations community and the transparency and to successful spanning 10 countries in a environment and took steps sustainability practices diverse and fast-growing towards developing a more continues to be recognized by market of more than 380 million integrated reporting approach. respected standards bodies people. This year, we also expanded the such as the UN’s Global scope of our report by including Compact 100 sustainability Various economic and political full data from our Kyrgyzstan index, the FTSE4Good challenges in our region operations and increasing the Emerging Index, MSCI, continued to impact our report’s coverage to 88% of ECPI and the Borsa Istanbul business in 2016. Thanks to CCI’s total production volume. Sustainability Index. We are our robust business model and committed to raising the bar experienced leadership, we In 2016 we revised our strategic further by publishing CCI’s first managed to close the year with framework, reevaluating our integrated report by 2020, growth. In 2016 our volume potential challenges and including information on all rose by 3.2% to 1.189 billion unit opportunities in the evolving CCI operations, and thereby cases, while sales increased by marketplace and setting new achieving the next level of 5% to TL 7 billion and EBITDA targets for 2025. In line with assurance in sustainability. grew by 4% to TL 1.1 billion. our vision to be the best FMCG company across our Our Priorities markets, we set CCI’s three main priorities as customer Among our priorities in and consumer, people and sustainability is to support the community. The chief goal communities we serve through of our sustainability efforts effective CSR programs. In 2016 is to be recognized by all our our community support efforts stakeholders as one of the most focused primarily on women responsible corporate citizens and youth empowerment, in our coverage area. To achieve responsible water usage and this we have set four strategic employee volunteerism. In priorities: communicate with collaboration with WWF, stakeholders to establish CCI as our 21 water filtration plants a trusted partner; engage our in Pakistan provided clean employees to act as “one team” drinking water to 750,000 while empowering leaders to people, contributing to a 10-15% guide our sustainability journey; decrease in the transmission of reduce our environmental water-borne diseases. impacts in areas such as water, energy, greenhouse We continued to run various gas (GHG) emissions programs to empower and packaging wastes; youth across our operational and support the geography our flagship communities we serve legacy program 3.2.1 Move! has through effective empowered thousands of youth corporate social through sports, games and responsibility (CSR) skills training. In 2017 we plan programs. to include refugee youth and engage more CCI employees as volunteers in the program. SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 3 Another key priority is engaging purchased electricity from based targets for our next our employees to act as One renewable resources in Turkey. generation of sustainability Team while empowering leaders As cooling equipment accounts goals. In the medium term, to move our sustainability for around 32% of our GHG we will continue to focus on journey forward. Employees are emissions, we saved about 474 water usage, women and youth the most valuable resource in million kWh of electricity in our empowerment, sustainable ensuring CCI’s success. In 2016 six reporting countries through sourcing and packaging we announced a new strategy our cooler EMD program recovery. We will continue to and framework for fostering in 2016, thus reducing CO2 honor the UN Global Compact’s diversity and inclusion. In line emissions by 230,000 tons – an 10 principles and Women’s with our commitments to the amount that would require 19.2 Empowerment Principles. We UN Women’s Empowerment million trees to extract from the commit to further improving Principles and TCCC’s strategy, atmosphere. our environmental performance we aim to increase the share of by reducing water use in our women in our workforce. This year CCI received an “A” plants and our value chain, score in the sixth annual Climate and continue to implement In occupational health and Change Report published by local water replenishment safety (OHS), we launched Turkey’s Carbon Disclosure programs where water stress our new “Hand in Hand” Project, which recognized us is high. We will also look for program in 2016 to standardize as one of the country’s leading new opportunities to increase practices across our operations. companies on climate change recycling of post-consumer Nonetheless, despite all our for the fifth time. In 2016 we wastes, thus accelerating our efforts and focus on OHS, in also launched a sustainable transition to life-cycle-based 2016 we unfortunately had a sourcing program to comply sustainability practices. work-related fatality as a result with the Sustainable Agriculture of a motorbike traffic accident Guidelines of The Coca-Cola As we make progress in our in our Pakistan operation, where Company (TCCC). Through journey and advance to higher we sadly lost one of our preeffective water management levels of sustainability, the seller colleagues. Following practices, we saved about challenges also tend to become this regrettable incident, we 477,000 m3 of water in our six harder and more complex. decided to focus more on traffic reporting countries. We also Overcoming them requires safety programs in Pakistan, and increased waste recycling rates full and sincere commitment, launched a safety campaign for in our production and reduced innovative approaches, and motorcycle drivers in 2017. the amount of materials used close collaboration among all and GHG emissions generated stakeholders. CCI is determined A further priority area for from packaging operations and committed to work as one sustainability is reducing in the value chainthrough team to make sure our business our environmental impacts sustainable packaging projects thrives in a sustainable way in areas such as water, designed to make our bottles that creates value for all our energy, GHG emissions and with lighter weight and shorter stakeholders. packaging wastes. Achieving necks. Through these and similar environmental sustainability projects, we plan to further On behalf of all my colleagues, in all our operations is of vital reduce our GHG emissions and I would like to thank you, our importance to the continued eventually achieve TCCC’s 2020 stakeholders, for your feedback, success of our business. Our carbon footprint goal. contribution and support in commitment to this extends making CCI’s sustainability across our entire value chain, journey a successful one. from ingredient sourcing to Looking Towards packaging, recycling and 2025 recovery. Having reduced the Our first rule is to seek ways of environmental impact from producing more while using less. our plants and reached a In 2016 we saved 1,620 million respectable performance level, Burak Başarır MJ of energy and reduced CO2 we will continue our efforts in Coca-Cola İçecek, CEO emissions by 6,920 tons through 2017-18 by first carrying out efficiency projects at our plants. a life-cycle evaluation of our We also sourced 13.8% of our impacts, then setting science4 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CCI AT A GLANCE CCI is the fifth-largest bottler CCI employs close to 10,000 CCI’s shares are traded on in the Coca-Cola system people and has a total of 25 the Borsa Istanbul (BIST) in terms of sales volume. plants, offering a wide range under “CCOLA.IS,” American CCI produces, distributes of beverages to a consumer depositary receipts (ADR) are and sells sparkling and still base of 380 million people. In traded over the counter in the beverages of The Coca-Cola addition to sparkling beverages, United States under “COLAY,” Company (TCCC) throughout the product portfolio includes and Eurobond is traded on the Turkey, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, juices, waters, sports and Irish Stock Exchange under Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, energy drinks, teas, coffees and “CCOLAT” tickers. Turkmenistan, Jordan, Iraq, iced teas. Syria and Tajikistan. Our Vision “Be the best FMCG company across our markets” SUSTANABILITY APPROACH 5 Our Vision Model Our Values PASSION ACCOUNTABILITY TEAMWORK INTEGRITY We put our heart and We act with a high We collaborate for our We are open, honest mind into what we do. sense of responsibility collective success. and ethical, and we and hold ourselves trust and respect each accountable. other. CCI Operating Geography Percentage Per-capita CCI’s market Population of population GDP per consumption share in CCI’s ranking (2016) below the age of capita ($) of sparkling sparkling in sparkling (millions) 30 (2015) (2016)(1) beverages (L) beverages(2) beverages Turkey 79.0 48% 20,100 39 64 1 Pakistan 193.7 63% 5,100 22 37 2 Iraq 33.6 69% 16,500 35 2 Jordan 9.8 62% 11,100 38 2 Syria 17.8 62% 2,900 Kazakhstan 17.8 50% 25,700 40 49 1 Azerbaijan 9.7 48% 17,700 16 61 1 Turkmenistan 5.6 57% 17,300 42 63 1 Kyrgyztan 5.9 59% 3,500 23 69 Tajikistan 8.5 66% 3,000 9 (1) Source: CIA World Factbook Estimation (2) Source: Nielsen and Ipsos GDP per capita based on purchasing power parity (PPP) 6 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Thanks to our robust business model and experienced leadership, CCI managed to close the year with growth. In 2016, CCI’s sales volume rose by 3.2% to reach 1,189 billion unit cases, sales increased by 5% to TL 7 billion and EBITDA grew by 4% to TL 1.1 billion. SUSTANABILITY APPROACH 7 Summary of Financials CONSOLIDATED (MILLION TL) 2015 2016 Operating in Sales Volume (million unit cases) 1,152 1,189 10 Countries 25 Plants Net Sales 6,724 7,050 with EBIT 640 641 EBIT Margin 9.5% 9.1% EBITDA 1,051 1,093 10,060 EBITDA Margin 15.6% 15.5% Net Income 117 (28) Net Income Margin 1.7% (0.4)% employees Total Equity 4,142 4,997 Total Assets 8,946 10,456 Net Debt 2,372 2,293 750,000 Key Financial and Operational Indicators (1 January 31 December 2016) 2015 2016 SALES VOLUME Net Sales sales points 1,189 7,050 380 million Sales Volume Net Sales Increase Increase 3.2% 4.9% consumers million unit cases million TL Turkey Turkey 1.4% 7.0% International 5.2% International (7.5%) more than Consolidated 3.2% Consolidated 4.9% 25 brands Brands EBIT EBITDA 641 1,093 EBITDA EBIT Increase Increase million TL 0.2% million TL 3.9% Turkey Turkey 8.4% 1.8% International International 2.4% (0.2%) Consolidated Consolidated 0.2% 3.9% 8 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 2016 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS We succeeded in WOMEN COMMUNITY identifying and PROGRAMS implementing improvements that resulted in Our female employee ratio is annual savings of 14.2% 5.5% 16.3% Program supported approximately 200 physical approximately in Turkey in Jordan in Kazakhstan education teachers from 180 14.2% 6.5% 18.9% public schools, 75 coaches and $14 million in Azerbaijan in Pakistan in Kyrgyzstan 120 youth leaders and engaged more than 95,000 young people in sports and group activities with in Turkey, Kazakhstan and 142 Pakistan. Operational Excellence projects. TRAINING 5,507 distributor employees and owners participated in 431 training sessions. We provided We reached 51,228 man-hours 500,000 young people of OHS training to our employees across our operations. with our projects Within the scope of the Paani Project, 21 filtration plants have generated more than 12 million We provided liters of safe drinking water and 4,902 hours enabled water access for more than of environmental training to our employees. 750,000 individuals. SUSTANABILITY APPROACH 9 WATER GHG We saved about With our EMD program we 296,078 m3 saved approximately 474 million kWh electricity in six countries of water of operation. We achieved in six countries of operation. 230,000 tons of The water replenishment rate for Turkey has reached 150%, CO2 reduction equal to about which is equal to the amount 4,271 million of CO2 that 19.2 million trees annually extract from the liters of water. atmosphere. SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING We saved a total of Our efficiency projects and We reached a 2,869 tons of the OE Program conducted throughout our CCI plants led 52% post-consumer recycling rate for plastics, glass, metal of resin to a savings of and aluminum-packaging waste in six countries of operation 1,620 million MJ in Turkey. energy with our sustainable packaging program. and reduced 6,920 The total waste recycling Approximately throughout all our plants was 94.8% 90.3% 91.2% 9,360 tons of in Turkey 96.3% in Jordan 93% in Kazakhstan 98.1% tons of CO2. CO2 emission in Azerbaijan in Pakistan in Kyrgyzstan was avoided in Turkey because of returnable glass bottle PlantBottle resin was used in practices. all Damla 330 ml produced in Turkey. 10 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 AWARDS RECEIVED 2003 2013 2015 • CCI Ankara plant wins the • CCI receives an Ethics Award • The 321 Move! Program is TCCC Eurasia Africa Group from the Ethical Values Center awarded a Bronze Stevie Award Presidency Quality Award. Association. in the 12th Annual International Business Awards. 2010 • CCI wins three prizes in the 2013 TCCC EAG President’s • CCI Turkey receives three • CCI İzmir plant wins the Sustainability Awards: The awards, including the Grand Best Performing Plant for Grand Prize for Best Country Prize of Best Country Bottling the Environment Award by Bottling Operation, the Best Operation of Coca-Cola Eurasia the TCCC EAG President’s Performing Plant for Quality and Africa Sustainability Environment Awards. and the Best Performing Plant Awards in 2015. In addition, CCI for the Environment. Azerbaijan and CCI Kazakhstan • CCI Turkey wins the Best are voted among the 10 Country Bottling Operation 2014 finalists nominated for this Grand Prize by the TCCC prize. CCI Turkey also receives EAG President’s Environment • CCI is the first and only the Excellence Award in the Awards. company from Turkey and individual Well-being category the CocaCola system to be and its İzmir plant receives the 2011 included in the UNGC 100 Best Performing Plant award in Index. the environment category. • CCI Jordan wins an Occupational Health and Safety • CCI İzmir plant receives • CCI Bursa plant receives the Management Award. an award in the Water EFQM Excellence Award in Management category from the the Developing Organizational 2012 Green Business Platform. Capability category. • CCI Ankara plant is awarded the EFQM’s (the • CCI receives the second• CCI Mahmudiye plant is given European Foundation for highest score and wins second the National Quality Excellence Quality Management) Taking place in the Transparency Grand Prize. Responsibility for a Sustainable category in the CDP Turkey Future prize. Climate Leadership Awards. • The Turkey, Azerbaijan and • CCI is awarded the Grand Jordan operations are among Prize in the ÇEVKO Green the finalists in TCCC EAG Dot Industry Awards, which President’s Sustainability recognizes companies with Awards. CCI Turkey wins environmentally sustainable the Best Country Bottling practices. Operation Grand Prize. CCI Ankara plant is recognized as • CCI Ankara plant is awarded the Best Performing Plant for as the Best Performing Plant Quality and CCI İzmir plant as for Quality and CCI İzmir plant the Best Performing Plant for as the Best Performing Plant the Environment. for the Environment in the 2014 TCCC Eurasia & Africa Group (EAG) President’s Sustainability Awards. • CCI Bursa and Mahmudiye plants receive National Quality Excellence Awards. SUSTANABILITY APPROACH 11 2016 Waste Management CCI Receives Award for CCI 2016 Climate CCI Turkey received the Leadership “Waste Management Award Award” in 2017 with 2016 recycling performance of packaging waste and waste CCI was ranked among Turkey’s management achievements climate change leaders within in the FMCG sector. As a the scope of CDP’s ‘‘Climate member of ÇEVKO, CCI became the 2nd Company in Change Report 2016’’ waste collection, recycling and once again received the and recovery, achieving 48% 2016 Climate Leadership Award packaging waste recovery in CCI Receives Plaque of 2016. on November 30, in Istanbul. Appreciation CCI had previously received the CDP Climate Leadership On the occasion of the presidential visit to Pakistan for continuous support CCI Receives Award in the categories of to communities in need, CCI was awarded by the Pakistan Red Crescent HR Excellence performance and disclosure with a plaque of appreciation for its cooperative approach during the times Award of crisis and natural disasters. between 2012 and 2014. CCI Kyrgyzstan became one of the winners of the 2016 HR Excellence Awards in the CCI Receives Water “opportunities” category, Efficiency Award from the organized by the internal Sustainability Academy HR agency Wind. The CCI recevied the grand prize in Water Efficiency category at the “opportunities” category 4th Sustainable Business Awards atward is given to companies in Turkey. CCI received the 2017 award with its Water Efficiency that provide the best Monitoring System Project, workplace. The objective of developed and implemented by the HR Excellence Award is its Damla water plant at Sapanca. The Project allows for the realto select, evaluate, promote time monitoring of the plant’s and share the best HR water use during production, which results in increased water practices in the local labor saving and better management of market. the plant’s environmental impact. 14 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CCI’S SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY 2002 2007 2009 2010 • CCI’s 1st environment policy • CCI ranks 5th in Turkey’s • CCI ranks 1st in Turkey’s • CCI’s 2020 Vision and takes effect. Accountability Rating. Accountability Rating. Strategic Framework is • CCI becomes a signatory to announced. the United Nations Global Compact. 2014 2013 2012 2011 • CCI is the first and only company • All plants in all operating • CDP recognizes CCI as one • CCI becomes a charter from Turkey -and within Turkey the countries complete the of Turkey’s top two carbon member of the Climate Coca-Cola systemto be included Top 10 Energy-Saving performance leaders. Change Leaders Group. in the UNGC 100 Index. Challenge Program and • CCI İzmir and Mersin • CCI becomes Turkey’s • CCI receives the second-highest CCI Turkey becomes the plants complete the Top 10 first food and beverage score and wins second place in the first multi-plant country Energy-Saving Challange of company to participate in Transparency category in the CDP operation in the Coca-Cola TCCC and the WWF (World disclosure leaders. Turkey Climate Leadership Awards. system to complete the Wildlife Fund). • CCI signs the 200C • CCI becomes the first and only program. • CCI is named among the Communiqué regarding company in Turkey to participate in • CCI announces its new companies with the best climate protection. the CDP Water Program. Code of Ethics, Workplace sustainable development • CCI’s Corporate Governance Rights Policy and Ethics practices in Turkey, and Rating score as measured by SAHA Service. represents Turkey in increases from 8.8 to 9.25. • CCI Turkey receives the the Rio+20 innovation first ISO 14064-1 certificate competition. for its greenhouse gas emissions. • CCI becomes the first and only company in Turkey and within the Coca-Cola 2015 system to be included in 2016 the UN Global Compact • CCI is the only company from Turkey that is included in the UNGC • 100 Index. CCI is named one of Turkey’s carbon disclosure • CCI continues to be listed in the BIST Sustainability 2017 100 Index (as of May 2016). and performance leaders Index. • CCI’s 2025 Vision and Strategic by CDP in its Turkey 100 • CCI joins the MSCI Global Framework is announced. Climate Change Report Sustainability Index. • CCI is quoted in the BIST 50 2013. • CCI joins the FTSE4Good • CCI continues to be listed • Sustainability Index. • CCI Turkey receives Emerging Index. in the BIST Sustainability • CCI is quoted in the Euronext a Gender Equality • CCI is ranked among Index, MSCI Sustainability Vigeo Emerging 70 Index. Certification from Turkey’s climate change Leaders Index and • CCI becomes a signatory to the UN KAGIDER. leaders by CDP’s “Climate FTSE4Good Emerging Women’s Empowerment Principles. Change Report 2016”. Index. • CCI’s Corporate Governance Rating score as measured by SAHA increases from 9.25 to 9.40. SUSTANABILITY APPROACH 15 EXTERNAL RECOGNITION IN 2016-2017 CCI is the First and Only Turkish Company in the UNGC 100 Index Since its launch by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2013, CCI continues to be the first and the only company in Turkey to be included in the UNGC 100 Index. The 100 companies listed in the index are selected from the eligible UNGC members around the World. These members have implemented and demonstrated an executive commitment to the 10 principles of the UNGC, for which companies that continuously improve and disclose their sustainability performance and maintain a baseline profitability are selected for the index. CCI Continues to be included in the BIST BIST Sustainability Index SÜRDÜRÜLEBİLİRLİK ENDEKSİ Based on the evaluation of its sustainability practices and performance in 2016-17, CCI was selected from the Borsa Istanbul (BIST) companies to be included in the BIST Sustainability Index for the period between November 2016-October 2017 and 2017 November-2018 October. BIST CCI is Selected for the MSCI ESG Leaders SÜRDÜRÜLEBİLİRLİK ENDEKSİ ŞİRKETİ Sustainability Index Following the evaluation of our environment, society and corporate governance performance for 2015-16, CCI was selected by Morgan Stanley Capital International to be included in the BIST MSCI Global Sustainability Index, receiving an AA score in our evaluation. CCI has been selected to be included in 2017 MSCI ESG SUSTAINABILITY Leaders Index with AA score for the second time. INDEX CCI Joins the FTSE4Good Emerging Index CCI’s selection for the FTSE4Good Emerging Index was due to our high performance in the fields of environment, society BIST and corporate governance. The FTSE4Good Emerging Index SUSTAINABILITY INDEXwas launched at the end of 2016 by FTSE Russell, and currently CONSTITUENT COMPANY covers over 20 emerging countries. CCI remains a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index in 2017. The index is an extension of FTSE4Good Index Series, which is designed to measure the performance of companies that demonstrate strong environment, society and corporate governance practices and helps investors integrate these factors into their investment decisions. 16 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability is a fundamental Our goal is to be our Within each focus area, we and indispensable aspect of customer’s preferred partner strategically manage specific our business. It is embedded in while we maintain a great place material issues such as water our 2025 vision and goals. to work for our employees and management, women and a model of good corporate youth empowerment and We integrate sustainability citizenship. volunteerism throughout our principles into all our various operations. We evaluate operations and activities. Our sustainability strategy, each issue’s performance In line with our 2025 vision, guided by our 2025 Vision, results, determine the points we continue to integrate focuses on the issues that are of development and put real sustainability principles into all material for our stakeholders practices into our company life, of our operations and activities. and our company. We work and product that increase closely evaluate and manage the value we create for our As we aim to create value for these issues under six major stakeholders. all our stakeholders, we offer categories: Consumer Welldiverse consumer choices that Being, Workplace Rights, With the aim to achieve our allow for a wide selection of Environmental Footprint, 2025 vision, in addition to products for every lifestyle and Community Development, integrating sustainability into occasion. Economic Development our business practices, we also and Customer Value. reviewed our business model and assessed our value creation process in 2016. SUSTANABILITY APPROACH 17 The Road Ahead The output of value creation identified Top 10 performance scope of the value we create model is our sustainability areas and it is our commitment for our stakeholders. 2018 commitment for the year 2025. to identify and set quantifiable will be the year that we will The year 2017 assumes critical goals during 2017. We link announce our goals. importance in the process of our company goals with UN setting next generation targets. Sustainable Development Goals Aligned with the TCCC, we have and in order to broaden the WHAT WE ACHIEVED FOR OUR VALUE CHAIN DURING 2016 Logistics We reduced 5,591 tons of CO2 emissions as a result of route optimization, Manufacturing product distribution Refrigeration and fleet improvement practices in last three We saved: years. We achieved 1,620 million MJ energy; 230,000 tons of 6,920 tons of CO2; CO2 reduction in 6 Approximately 300,000 countries of operation m3 of water; and through our 2,869 tons of resin. EMD Program. We achieved more than 11% CO2 reduction per product through our We provided 12,525 Lightweight Packaging man-hours of OHS Program at our Turkey, training to our Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, distributors. Azerbaijan and Jordan operations between 2010 In CCI Turkey, we Packaging and 2016. achieved a 52% postDistribution TCCC focused on sustainably consumer recycling rate. sourcing key agricultural We achieved 45% of our ingredients by 2020 and target: in cooling, logistics and developed Sustainable manufacturing operations in Agriculture Guiding Turkey: “Reduce the carbon Principles. As CCI, we footprint of the drink in your initiated a sustainable hand by 25% sourcing program for sugar by 2020”. and sweeteners. Ingredients Customers& Consumers 18 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY CCI’S NEXT GENERATION SUSTAINABILITY GOAL AREAS Commitment Areas Our 2020 Target SDG’s 1. Water Footprint: Replenished 100% of the water used by returning treated water from Develop and continue community our manufacturing processes back into the water replenishment programs environment. Program will be continued by locally with TCCC. restoring the water we use through our local water projects. 2. Carbon Footprint: Achieve TCCC’s 2020 goal for its global system: “Reduce 25% carbon footprint Reduce 25% carbon footprint of of the drink in your hand” compared with the 2010 the drink in your hand. figure. 3. Sustainable Packaging: Increase the recovery Achieve 60% post-consumer and recycling of our packaging that is dispersed into packaging recovery rate in our our markets and work on our PET options. Turkey operation by 2020. 4. Waste: Increase recycling of total waste Reach 98% recycling rate in our generated. Turkey operation. 5. Suppliers: Achieve TCCC’s global system goal in Accomplish 96% compliance in SGP Audits among our key suppliers. SGP Audits. Commit to adopt a science-based emissions reduction target to 6. Climate Protection: Actively engage in climate generate the innovations needed change mitigation and policy making to transition to a low-carbon, sustainable economy. 7. Sustainable Sourcing: Certify key agricultural Continue TCCC’s Sustainable sources against TCCC’s Sustainable Agricultural Sourcing Program for sugar and Guiding Principles. sweeteners. 8. Women’s Leadership: Further increase our Increase the presence of women in overall ratio for females in senior management our operations positions.. by 20%. 9. Social Investment: Invest 3% of our annual preInvest 3% of our annual pre-tax tax profit in communities in Turkey. profit in communities in Turkey. 10. Volunteer Projects: We aim to increase Expand volunteerism program in volunteering initiatives and the number of employee all CCI countries. participants in these projects. SUSTANABILITY APPROACH 19 The next steps in our Target Initiative, a collaboration With strategic focus, future sustainability agenda will between CDP, World Resources orientation and integrated focus on new topics such Institute (WRI), the World thinking, we will share the as life-cycle evaluation of Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), value creation for the future, our environmental impacts, and the United Nations Global including short, mid and sustainable agriculture, human Compact (UNGC) and one of the long-term goals in the rights and circular economy. the We Mean Business Coalition Integrated Report that we will By 2018, we plan to become a commitments. issue by 2020. signatory to the Science Based THE WAY FORWARD 2017-2018 2019 2020 Setting goals for Focusing on life Issuing integrated 2025 cycle of our report environmental Identifying top 10 footprint (carbon Broadening performance areas footprint and geographic scope aligning with SDGs sustainable of reporting agriculture) Communicating Extending 2025 goals Become a member assurance scope of Science Based to other CCI Targets Initiative* operations and human rights indicators * The Science Based Targets Initiative is a partnership between CDP, UN Global Compact, WRI and WWF, which helps companies determine how much they must cut emissions to prevent the worst impact of climate change. 20 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Organization The CCI Board of Directors Turkey Network and UNGC targets set by the SSC into is actively engaged in the Board Member. Since 2015, CCI their respective functional Company’s sustainability Corporate Affairs Director Atilla objectives. All CCI function issues and its commitment to D. Yerlikaya has also functioned heads play a critical role in integrate sustainability into as the Deputy Chairman of making sure that sustainability our business strategy. The CCI UNGC Turkey Network. priorities and targets are Board of Directors’ Corporate embedded in field operations. Governance Committee has The main responsibilities of the The strategic orientation and the ultimate responsibility in SSC are: objectives that are determined determining and implementing by upper-level management the sustainability strategy. This • To set the long-term are then transformed and responsibility is undertaken by sustainability vision, strategy, integrated into field practices. the CCI Executive Committee, plan and goals, and to submit which is headed by the CEO, these for CEO approval; The Climate Protection & and by the CCI Sustainability • To make decisions on capital Energy Management and Steering Committee (SSC) expenditures regarding the Environment & Water that became functional in sustainability; Management working 2015. The CCI Executive • To review performance and groups support the SSC. The Committee is comprised of quarterly progress on key Corporate Affairs function is senior management, and the performance indicators responsible for the disclosure, SSC is composed of CCI’s (KPIs); and reporting and communication Finance, Corporate Affairs, • To give final approval for of sustainability targets and Legal, Human Resources and sustainability disclosures. performance results. Finally, Supply Chain Directors. In 2016, our employees are key to the one of CCI’s independent board CCI function heads at both integration of sustainability into members, Yılmaz Argüden, was the group and country levels our overall business. also the Chairman of UNGC integrate the sustainability CCI EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE CCI Sustainability Steering Committee Operational Sustainability Group Environment & Water Climate Protection & Energy Management Working Group (TR) Management Working Group (TR) SUSTANABILITY APPROACH 21 Sustainability Communication Communicating with our The CCI’s Sustainability Report a number of benefits from our stakeholders with regard to is the most significant tool reporting efforts such as our our sustainability performance for us to communicate our inclusion in global sustainability is an integral part of our efforts to our stakeholders. indices, positive relationships corporate citizenship We have been sharing our with stakeholder groups that understanding. Our objective sustainability efforts through appreciate transparency on is to establish CCI as the leader these reports for 8 years. As environmental and social of sustainability, accountability our sustainability reporting matters and enhancing our and transparency. has evolved, we have realized reputation. Sustainability Reporting Trend 2007-2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 • 1 GRI Certified st • 1 GRI B st • 1st GRI B Report in Level Report Level Report Turkey • Scope: Turkey, • Scope: Turkey, • Scope: Turkey Kazakhstan Kazakhstan, • Accountability and Jordan Jordan and rating 2008 • GC COP Azerbaijan 1. Ranking • GC COP Coca-Cola ‹çecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report (Turkey) January 2007March 2008 Corporate Social Responsibility Report March 2008 March 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 SUSTAINABILITY 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2013 1 January 2011 31 December 2011 REPORT • 2 A+ GRI nd 2012 • G3.1 Guidelines • GRI G4 Level Report GRI A+ Level Guidelines • Scope: Turkey, Report • Scope: Turkey, Kazakhstan, • Scope: Turkey, Kazakhstan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Jordan and Azerbaijan Jordan, Azerbaijan + Best Practices Azerbaijan • GC COP of Pakistan + Best Practices • Independent • CCI 2011 CSR of Pakistan Assurance on Report • GC COP Water, Energy finalist • Independent and Waste in two Assurance on (Azerbaijan, categories at Water, Energy Kazakhstan, the “2013 CRA” and Waste Jordan and • Independent (Azerbaijan, Turkey) and GHG Assurance on Kazakhstan, in Turkey Water & Energy Jordan and TR Turkey) and GHG in Turkey 2014 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 2016 • • • SUSTAINABILITY GRI G4 Guidelines GRI G4 Guidelines New GRI Sustainability Report 2015 REPORT Sustainability Report 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2015 • Scope: Turkey, • Scope: Turkey, Standards Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan, • Extension in reporting scope Jordan, Jordan, and boundary Azerbaijan and Azerbaijan and by including Pakistan Pakistan full data from • External Review • Independent our Kyrgyzstan operations • OSB Mah. Deniz Feneri Sokak No: 4 ahallesi Deniz Feneri Sokak No.4 / 34776 Dudullu Istanbul, Turkey Independent 34776 Dudullu Ümraniye İstanbul assurance on • Independent Tel: +90 216 528 40 00 Fax: +90 216 365 84 67-68 Tel: +90 216 528 40 00 Fax: +90 216 510 70 12 www.cci.com.tr www.cci.com.tr assurance on Water, assurance on Water, Energy of Turkey Water & Energy Energy of Turkey & Pakistan data of Turkey & Pakistan • Verification on • Verification on GHG emissions • Readlines Audit GHG of Turkey of Turkey for Park • GC COP & WEP • GC COP & WEP • Sustainability • Sustainability Index Index requirements requirements 22 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY Accordingly, with the addition listed in the Global Compact Istanbul Sustainability Index. of our efforts in sustainability Sustainability 100 Index since and reporting, we have 2013. CCI was included in the Since the inclusion of financial achieved a serious track new FTSE4Good Emerging information in sustainability record for transparency and Index for 2016-17 and ranked reporting has become an accountability, which is integral 4th among global beverage accepted corporate discipline, to our vision of incorporating companies with AA rating on CCI has set target to issue sustainability into our way the MSCI Global Sustainability an integrated report by of doing business. CCI has Indexes in 2016 and 2017. After 2020 reporting with its 2019 now been recognized for our 2016-year performance, performance by increasing the this in global and national CCI was included in the 2017 boundary of the scope to 100% sustainability indices. ECPI Sustainability Index for coverage. the first time. Additionally, for CCI is the only Turkish the third consecutive year we company that has been have been listed in the Borsa Our Memberships • ÇEVKO (Environmental • SUDER (Packed Water • Brand Protection Group Protection and Packaging Manufacturers Association) • UN Global Compact Waste Recovery and • MEYED (Fruit Juice Network Turkey Recycling Trust) Industry Association) • TÜSİAD (Turkish Industry • TEİD (Turkish Ethics and and Business Association) Reputation Society) • YASED (International • TÜYİD (Investor Relations Investors Association) Association) • MEDER (Beverage Industry • TOBB (Union of Chambers Association) and Commodity Exchanges • KALDER (Turkish Quality of Turkey) Association) • TGDF (Federation of • DEİK (Foreign Economic Food and Drink Industry Relations Board) Associations of Turkey) Initiatives to which we are Signatories • CDP Climate Change • The 2°C Challenge Program Communiqué of the Prince • CDP Water Program of Wales’s Corporate Leaders • Equality at Work Platform Group • United Nations Global • United Nations Women’s Compact (UNGC) Empowerment Principles • Turkish Climate Platform of the Turkish Climate Change Leaders Group SUSTANABILITY APPROACH 23 102-46; 102-47; 102-49 Updated Materiality Analysis Our material sustainability concerns are relevant because In 2016, the Sustainability Work Group reviewed our While we they have significant impact issue universe in light of our determine on the value we create for risk management practices, our stakeholders. While we the data and information material issues, determine material issues, we requested by our stakeholders, consider the broader social, as well as CCI’s and TCCC’s we consider the economic and environmental impacts they create for both priorities. The graph below illustrates the results of the broader social, our business and value chain. material assessment conducted economic and We also consider relevant in 2017. While conducting risks and opportunities and this assessment, we took into environmental stakeholder expectations account our direct and indirect with regard to specific issues. level of influence on the issue. impacts they This evaluation process is a continuous and consistent Issues on the top right are the focus of this report since they create for both process for us during which have a relatively significant our business and we review our progress and impact on the value we create. assessment results every year. value chain. Materiality Analysis Chart HIGH • Consumer Health Well-Being • Energy Efficiency and Carbon Reduction • Packaging and Waste • Water Use • Security Practices • Community Engagement • Corporate Governance Influence on Stakeholder Assessment and Decision • Wastewater • Sustainable • Economic Performance Agriculture • Work Place Rights (sweetener) • Diversity and Inclusion • Transport (including Women • Indirect Economic Empowerment) Impact • Business Ethics • Product Quality • Compliance and Labeling • Occupational Health and Safety LOW MEDIUM • Supplier and Distributor Assessment • Investment and Procurement Practices • Training and Education • Biodiversity • Emissions to Air LOW MEDIUM HIGH Significance of Environmental, Social and Economic Impact * The issues that are highlighted in blue are also material for our supply chain (e.g. our suppliers, distributors, customers, consumers and TCCC). 24 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY 102-40; 102-42; 102-43 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder engagement and questionnaires, and STAKEHOLDER DAY is the cornerstone of our stakeholder reputation surveys. SERIES KICKS-OFF IN corporate responsibility. Detailed further information MERSİN Building an effective and strong on how we respond to stakeholder dialogue is at the stakeholders’s questions and foundation of our business, concerns are included on the CCI and TCCC developed sustainability reporting 2016 Sustainability Report the Stakeholder Day series initiatives and our sustainability Performance Indicators section. as a new local engagement performance. platform to further improve At an international level, we relations with key local In 2013, we prioritized are signatory and member of stakeholders and to raise our stakeholders and our multi-stakeholder initiatives awareness of TCCC’s communication methods by such as UNGC and GRI. We are economic and social impacts, means of a comprehensive proactively working together sustainability efforts and stakeholder mapping study with our external partners in manufacturing capabilities in pursuant to AccountAbility’s order to bring together the CCI’s operating regions. The AA1000 SES Standard and expertise of many organizations first Stakeholder Day event the EFQM Business Excellence and individuals. Our CEO, Burak was held at the Mersin Plant Model. We identified our key Başarır is the chairman of the in April 2017, where CCI and stakeholders as: ÖSGD (Turkish Private Sector TCCC representatives had Volunteerism Association) the opportunity to share • Investors and board of directors. Our with the local stakeholders financial institutions, Corporate Affairs Director A.D. information on the operations non-governmental Yerlikaya who is at the board of in the region, CSR efforts organizations, opinion UNGC Turkey Network, since and the sustainability vision. leaders, shareholders, 2012, has been selected to 39 representatives from employees, and the the board of the GRI’s Global public institutions, academia, Coca-Cola system. Sustainability Standard (GSSB) NGOs, business and • For business continuity, for a term of 3 years till 2019. educational institutions and we also engage regularly local suppliers attended the and intensively with other Additionally, we are a member event. Stakeholders provided stakeholders, including: of TUSIAD Environment and very useful feedback • Distributors, customers, and Climate Change Working related to our performance suppliers. Group. We participate in on sustainability, social regular meetings of this investments, governance To evaluate both our materials Working Group. We are taking practices and communication issues and sustainability part in TUSIAD Environment platforms, which can provide performance, we seek and Climate Change Working improvement opportunities alternative ways to collect our Group to engage with public across CCI’s sustainability stakeholder’s opinions and authorities on climate change efforts. feedbacks. We engage with issues including the Paris each stakeholder group on a Agreement, national policies regular basis and share our and positions. sustainability efforts through various methods. Besides corporate publications such as the annual report or sustainability report, we communicate with our stakeholders through varied platforms such as stakeholder workshops, Stakeholder Day, the external report review committee, factory visits, investor calls SUSTANABILITY APPROACH 25 102-42; 102-43 EXTERNAL REVIEW COMMITTEE FEEDBACK UPDATE In 2015, as a result of our encouraged implementing This led to a more engagement with the integrated thinking and consolidated explanation external review committee, including more of a value on how we created value which was composed of creation process in our for our stakeholders in this NGO representatives and sustainability report. report. We also included IR academicians, we collected Accordingly, we focused on preparation in our reporting valuable feedback on both more intensely developing plan. our sustainability and the integration of a reporting performance. sustainability strategy into The most vital feedback our business efforts. 2015-2016 CCI REPUTATION RESEARCH At CCI, we biannually responsibility and local opinion leaders’ measure our reputation transparency performance. priorities were employment, among our managers When analyzed with environmental investments, and employees, local reference to the results energy efficiency, communities and opinion of 2013 research, 77% wastewater management leaders. This way, we form of 2,684 interviewees and training/development. action plans with regards looked positively upon to the expectations of CCI’s reputation in the As a result of the study, our stakeholders, and aforementioned fields. we determined our main create a roadmap for According to the group of development areas as our corporate reputation national opinion leaders follows: to continue to strategy. Through research of Turkey, CCI’s reputation assess the environmental conducted via a third performance when impacts of products and party between December benchmarked against packages throughout their 2015 and February 2016 4 national and foreign lifecycle, conduct activities in accordance with EFQM competitors was found to that support communities and AA1000 standards, be the highest. The findings by participation in NGOs, we questioned our revealed stakeholders’ effectively use natural product and service priorities for CCI as water resources, render company quality, brand, working management, energy management easily environment, financial efficiency, occupational accessible and develop durability, management health and safety, product further as a consistent and quality, environmental security and quality, reliable employer. impacts, corporate social whereas national and 26 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Corporate Governance CCI’s strong corporate stakeholders, we publish an Detection Committees governance structure plays annual Corporate Governance operate. Determination a vital role in achieving Principles Compliance Report, and implementation of our strategic goals. CCI which includes information our sustainability strategy conducts all of its operations corresponding to Corporate is managed by Corporate within the framework of Governance Principles. Governance Committee. established regulations in For further information on operating countries and Corporate governance is Corporate Governance, see the the Corporate Governance managed and represented CCI 2016 Annual Report and Principles as outlined by by the Board of Directors, our investor relations website Turkey’s Capital Markets under which Audit, Corporate on cci.com.tr. Board. To transparently inform Governance and Risk GOALS and COMMITMENTS Priority Areas 2016 Goals Performance in 2016 Status 2017 Goals We continued to update and To update and further further develop practices for Ongoing develop the ERM website. To continue to update and Risk the ERM website. further develop the ERM Management website. To integrate the ERM process Risk dashboards were shared Achieved into strategic planning. in each country BP. To further implement To implement Information We continued to implement Information Information Security Security standards in our Security Standards to other Ongoing Security other countries of operation. countries of operation. standards in our other countries of operation. To continue to give our To give training on our Code training on Code of Ethics of Ethics and Anti-bribery We provided training in all Achieved and anti-bribery policy to policy to all management CCI countries. all management teams in all teams in all CCI countries. Business CCI counties. Ethics To continue to give our To review and update our We reviewed our Code training on Code of Ethics Code of Ethics and antiof Ethics and anti-bribery Achieved and anti-bribery policy to bribery policy in line with policy in line with TCCC practices. all management teams in all TCCC practices. CCI counties. Risk Management CCI’s management has the identifies critical threats and Risks that are assessed as primary ownership of the Risk opportunities and manages high-priority are reported to Management and Internal these according to the the Risk Committee along Control System. Enterprise Company’s risk appetite, using with mitigation action plans, Risk Management (ERM), a systematic and disciplined to be reported to the Board which directly reports to the approach that is integrated into of Directors. CCI employees CEO and the Risk Committee, the Strategic Business Planning are regularly trained on risk acts as a facilitator and process. management. provides assurance and CCI management uses consultancy services in the risk The ERM investigates risks the pillars explained in the management area. on country and group levels company’s strategic business and shares opinion with the plan to evaluate business Under the ERM framework, management on identified risks. Each country operation’s CCI’s management risks. management periodically SUSTANABILITY APPROACH 27 assesses these risks and and key mitigations are given are exchange rate uncertainty, prepares mitigation plans, below. slowdown in economic activity which are monitored by the and adverse tax initiatives. top management and the Risk Besides financial risks, rated as Committee. CCI’s principal risks CCI’s top three risks for 2016 Risk Pillar Principal Risk Key Mitigations • Implement locally relevant projects with local and international project Community & Stakeholder partners. • Drive stakeholder perception through transparency and reporting Relations practices. • Water reduction activities at plants. Water Scarcity • Continue local replenish and access to water program. • Sustainable sourcing. • Waste water treatment systems. Wastewater • Periodic analysis. • ISO 14001 EMS and KORE Audits. Sustainability Energy • OE Projects, Behavioral Energy Program • Improve energy efficiency (achieve energy use ratio targets). • Energy efficiency and GHG emission reduction programs at plants, logistics and cooling operations. • Post-consumer packaging programs to reduce packaging materials and Climate Change GHG emissions. • Policy making and engagement with NGOs and legal authorities. • Investigate alternative clean energy sources. • Conduct SVA studies. Water • Follow-up of Source Water Protection Plan. • Implementation of water efficiency projects. • Improvement of WUR (water use ratio). Food Safety • Implementation KORE audits and International Standards. • Implement sustainable packaging and waste solutions. • Maintain packaging innovation, Lightweight, PlantPet, recycling Packaging activities. Supply Chain • Coordination with local authorities for waste collection and recycling. Supplier Management • Follow-up of SGP audit findings. Quality • KORE audits and International Standards. • Establish an early warning mechanism for critical draft and recent regulations. Compliance Risks • Lobby as an industry against unfavorable regulatory and tax initiatives Legal & of the government. Compliance • Train employees on the Code of Ethics. Ethics-Bribery & • Encourage effective use of Ethics HotLine. Corruption • Implement ethics program. • SGP Audits. Human & Workplace • Follow-up SGP audit results. Rights • Ethics Hotline. • Hand in Hand Safety Program . • KORE Compliance Implementations. Work Life Health & Safety • Distributor safety process implementations. • Contractor safety process implementations. • Driving Safety Program. • Continue with talent development forum. Sustainable Talent • Effective cooperation with respected universities to build employer Capability branding. 28 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Integrity and honesty are fundamental to our business. SUSTANABILITY APPROACH 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Information Security Since 2014, CCI has introduced posters in working areas security is online for employees’ a number of studies to and distribution of leaflets use. These studies are increase awareness about the to employees to stress the supported by training sessions importance of information importance of information provided to Group Office security. Firstly, the official CCI security. employees. As of December Information Security Policy 2016, 168 CCI employees were was published. The following Again, since 2014, a dedicated trained about information studies included display of intranet site for information security. Business Continuity CCI implements the TCCC’s incident management teams in As a part of the IMCR program, Incident Management and each country of operation. Each each country conducts the Crisis Resolution (IMCR) team joins our annual training IMCR Validation program, program, which is designed to sessions, and collectively which aims to create readiness create and maintain an efficient they work on simulations of for crisis situations, build and integrated structure for complex incidents. In addition awareness, identify gaps preventing and managing to the IMCR training sessions and develop action plans incidents. Implementing that were delivered to teams to make improvements. We the IMCR program is a key in Turkey, Jordan, Azerbaijan completed the IMCR Validation management activity, and it is and Kazakhstan in 2014, we program in Azerbaijan, Jordan everyone’s responsibility at CCI. provided further training in and Pakistan in 2014, and in Kazakhstan, and Tajikistan in Kyrgyzstan and North Iraq in To ensure that we prevent or 2015 and we conducted IMCR 2015 and in 2016 we completed reduce the impact of incidents training in Jordan in 2016. the program in Tajikistan, on our business, we have Turkmenistan and South Iraq. Ethics Integrity and honesty are CCI’s Corporate Governance use the CCI Ethics Service, fundamental to our business. Committee ensures full which is run by a completely Since our reputation is a implementation and independent third party and is reflection of our integrity enforcement of the Code available 24/7 to all employees. and honesty, it is our duty of Ethics. Implementation There are translators providing to protect our most valuable of the Code is under the translation services online asset: the Coca-Cola brand. responsibility of the CCI in Arabic, English, Georgian, Ethics and Compliance Officer Russian and Turkish. The CCI Code of Ethics and the Local Ethics and guides our employees to live Compliance Officers. CCI Ethics CCI Ethics Service our values and “do the right and Compliance Committee, communication channels are: thing”. It outlines the behavior is composed of CCI’s CFO, expected from every employee Human Resources Director, 1. E-mail: employee’s name and its scope applies to all CCI General Counsel, Corporate and e-mail address are countries of operation. Our CCI Affairs Director and Chief Audit kept confidential. Code of Ethics and Code of Executive. 2. CCI Ethics and Compliance Ethics Handbook are available websites www.ccietikhat. for everyone for their further There are several channels com (in Turkish) and review and understanding, available for our employees www.cciethicsline.com (in and can be reached on CCI’s to express their concerns English, Russian and corporate website: on ethical issues. They can Arabic): employees can www.cci.com.tr/en/ direct their concerns to their login to the page investor-relations/ managers or Local Ethics and anonymously and enter corporategovernance/codeCompliance Officers, or can their message. of-ethics. 3. Dedicated phone number. 30 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS The Corporate Governance Code of Ethics Matters are Committee has also developed shared with our employees in necessary mechanisms for In the reporting scope electronic format. Moreover, 897 stakeholders to report any representatives and consultants illegal or unethical practices in assigned by CCI and third the company to the Corporate parties doing work on behalf Governance Committee or the of CCI may also obtain a copy Audit Committee. CCI Internal of the Code and learn therein Audit Department handles man-hours of training about their obligations. investigations concerning Code were provided to trainers in six country of Ethics violations and the operations In 2013, our employees began CCI Ethics and Compliance to receive trainings on the Committee makes decisions revised Code of Ethics, the based on the findings of the Code of Ethics Handbook investigations. Violations of a more serious and procedural provisions. nature may result in suspension In 2016, to ensure that the Certain categories of decisionwithout pay, loss of progress Code of Ethics was rolled-out making authority may be payments and bonuses or effectively in all CCI countries, delegated to Local Ethics and termination of employment. Code of Ethics trainers were Compliance Committees in trained in each country accordance with the Guidelines All newly recruited employees to introduce local training for Handling Code of Ethics must sign an acknowledgement sessions. Within this scope, Matters. form confirming that they have 897 man-hours of training read the Code of Ethics were provided to trainers in We impose disciplinary and agree to abide by its six country operations in the measures that fit the nature provisions. All employees are reporting scope. and circumstances of each required to periodically make Code violation. Letters of this acknowledgement. The reprimand are issued for lessCode of Ethics Handbook significant, first-time offenses. and Guidelines for Handling SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Sustainability in Review SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW BN CONTENTS CONSUMER CUSTOMER WORKPLACE WELL-BEING VALUE RIGHTS 01 04 08 ECONOMIC COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT FOOTPRINT 24 28 42 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 1 CONSUMER WELL-BEING While we offer our consumers commitment to well-being. We beverage” mindset. We provide a wide choice of products fit aim to meet the ever-evolving affordable, ready, innovative for every lifestyle and occasion, preferences of our consumers products for all occasions. product safety and quality and provide more choice in our remains the priority of our beverage portfolio with a “total GOALS and COMMITMENTS Priority Areas 2016 Goals Performance in 2016 Status 2017 Goals CCI Amman, Erbil, Faisalabad, Karachi, Multan – new plant, To continue to have Product safety To have zero major findings in Rahim Yar Khan, Çorlu, zero major findings in Achieved and quality food safety and quality audits. Sapanca and Elazığ plants food safety and quality passed the audits with zero audits. major findings. To continue with the To continue with the Open to 552,390 users made 644,421 Open to Curiosity Consumer Curiosity platform as a means visits, and 884,352 pages Achieved platform as a means to Well-Being to communicate with our were viewed in total during communicate with our consumers. the visit sessions. consumers. Total Bevarages Portfolio At CCI, we offer beverages Our stakeholders can visit no-calorie beverage options. to a consumer base of 380 merakettim.coca-colaturkiye. 10% of our product portfolio is million people. We aim to com and coca-colafabrikasi. composed of low or no-calorie meet the ever-evolving com for further information. products. preferences of our consumers, and provide more choice in At the core of our Responsible advertising and our beverage portfolio with a efforts for transparent marketing forms another total beverage mindset. We consumer engagement lies important component of our provide affordable, available, comprehensive and clear engagement with consumers. admirable, innovative products nutritional information. In addition to adherence to by leveraging all occasions. We comply with labeling the legal requirements of regulations in the countries our countries of operation We provide our consumers where our products are sold and the expectations of our with clear, understandable and and provide our consumers stakeholders, TCCC’s standards scientific information regarding with nutritional information and policies serve as an integral our products. about all of our products, roadmap to advertising and allowing them to make choices marketing practices. In line As part of our efforts for a that best fit their lifestyles. At with TCCC’s Global School more transparent relationship a minimum, our labels provide Beverage Guidelines we do not with our consumers we basic nutritional information sell our sparkling beverages launched the online Open to about the beverage, such as the in elementary schools. Curiosity platform in Turkey, amount of energy (kilocalories, Specifically, to honor the rights which provides a direct calories, kilojoules), protein, of parents and caregivers to forum for our consumers carbohydrates, fats, total make the appropriate choices to address their concerns sugars and sodium. for their children, we do not regarding our products. engage in advertising or Furthermore, stakeholders We offer more than 25 brands marketing activities targeting who are interested in seeing to our consumers. In order children under the age of 12. our production processes to meet the ever-changing Our stakeholders can access can easily attend our plant preferences of our consumers further information regarding tours –in person or virtually– and to build a stronger our responsible marketing to learn about the production business, we offer a wide policy at http://www.cocaphases of Coca-Cola products. choice across our beverage colacompany.com/stories/ portfolio that includes low or responsiblemarketing-policy. 2 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CONSUMER WELL-BEING Product Safety And Quality At CCI, we conduct bottling managing food safety and each plant’s engagement with operations in 25 plants quality, environment, and approved excellence programs. throughout 10 countries. The health and safety performance Please see Performance sustainability of our business in our plants. Annual KORE Indicators section of the lies first and foremost in the audits and assessments are report, “Management Systems excellence of these operations. carried out in each plant by Standards and Principles” for third-party organizations and an explanation of compliance KORE (The Coca-Cola TCCC’s internal auditors to with regards to internal Operating Requirements), the ensure our compliance with policies, external standards and set of operating requirements the requirements as well as principles. in the Coca-Cola system, forms possession of relevant and our main reference point in applicable certifications and SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 3 External audits Quality, Environment, All of our plants in 10 countries of operation hold conducted at Health, Safety & Food ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS Quality 18001 and FSSC 22000 our plants verify certificates. our compliance Energy & GHG Food Packaging with relevant All of our plants, sales All of our plants that standards. operations and offices in Turkey are certified with ISO 50001 produce preforms hold PAS 223 Packaging certificates. As of the end Energy Management and ISO 14064-1 Green House Gases of reporting Standards. Our Burundai plant period; in Kazakhstan also holds the ISO 50001 certificate. KORE Audits During the reporting period, of the end of the reporting 10 CCI plants were audited period, all plants in our six Compliance with product and all of them passed the countries of operation held safety and quality audit successfully. In addition, FSSC 22000 certificates. requirements both by third-party external audits our suppliers and our on compliance with the FSSC own plants is regularly 22000 standard were carried monitored through out, resulting in either reunannounced audits by certification or follow-up. As TCCC. The sustainability of our business lies first and foremost in the excellence of our bottling operations. 4 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CUSTOMER VALUE GOALS and COMMITMENTS To conduct a Supplier To conduct a Supplier Satisfaction Survey every The survey will take Ongoing Satisfaction Survey in two years and increase our place in 2017. 2017. Sustainability of supplier satisfaction scores. our Suppliers To attain a success rate To attain a success rate of The success rate was of 93% for the SGP 92% for the SGP audits in all Underperformed realized as 89%. audits in all countries of countries of operation. operation. We reached 4,855 To continue providing employees of 229 To continue providing Consumer occupational health and distributors and occupational health Achieved Well-Being safety training to our provided them with and safety training to distributors. 12,525 man-hours of our distributors. OHS training. To achieve a customer We conducted satisfaction performance customer satisfaction Customer To repeat satisfaction score that is above the studies in Turkey and Achieved Satisfaction average score of our Pakistan with more than studies. competitors. 3,600 customers. In line with our 2025 Vision, Syria, South Iraq and Tajikistan) CUSTOMER TRAININGS we aim to be the preferred since 2012. Satisfaction surveys 19 partner of our customers. are conducted at least once Winning with the customer every two years. As a result of customer is the key motivation behind the surveys, we measure our development training sessions our customer-centric supply ability to meet and exceed our chain organization, our joint customers’ needs and prepare initiatives with customers and our superior execution. In order action plans for areas of improvement. 373 participants in Turkey to reach more than 380 million consumers, we work with During 2016, more than 3,600 In 2016, we organized 19 approximately 750,000 sales customers responded to our customer development points, including supermarkets, customer satisfaction studies in training sessions for 373 restaurants, convenience Turkey and Pakistan. participants in Turkey. stores, hotels and other retail In the same period, we outlets. One of our most In Turkey, our customers and organized a training significant business partners distributors benefit from the program for our larger and an important link in our CCI Customer Interaction size local customers in value chain, our customers Center, which functions as Turkey on the subject of help us to create sustainable an important communication institutionalization in family value and profitable growth. mechanism for addressing businesses in collaboration To this end, we utilize effective their requests and complaints. with Boğaziçi University. communication channels and The CCI Customer Interaction enable stronger partnerships. Center aims to serve as a contact center to build an Customer Satisfaction Studies excellent customer experience provide us with one of our by handling inbound and prominent communication outbound calls. During the mechanisms that allow us reporting period, 230,000 calls to track our customers’ were processed from 70,000 satisfaction level across unique customers and multiple our operational geography. surveys were conducted, We have been conducting including the Customer customer satisfaction surveys in Satisfaction Survey reaching Turkey since 2005 and at other 20,000 customers in a year. operation countries (except SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 5 Excellence in Supply Chain Our wide geographical and economic impacts. Thus, policies and practices with presence means that we must we see it as our responsibility regard to our own operations, consider how to manage to diligently follow our and to implement them within a large value chain with sustainability approach, remain all phases in our value chain. significant social, environmental limitless in our sustainability A CASE OF SUCCESS IN TURKEY IN OE PROJECTS Throughout our organization, we strive to incorporate a culture of Operational Excellence (OE) with the long-term intention of diligently improving our business processes and systems. The OE Model is based on Lean Six Sigma methodologies and applied to all company functions. While the model focuses on maximizing quality and efficiency and minimizing failure, it also aims to decrease the environmental impacts that arise from our bottling operations. Since Implementation In 2016 approximately 1,149 OE projects 727 certifications 142 OE projects $14 million saving 102 2008 to 2016 CUMULATIVE 736 531 $61.5 Number of Projects 42 6 53 12 projects certification million savings Number of Certifications 1,2 $/Year Saving *Calculated on a yearly basis. 2006 2014 We strive to use the most to better understand and serve with our customers. In 2016, efficient and most costour customers. we carried out many projects effective sales and distribution to develop our relations with method for each customer. In Furthermore, we continue customers and continue our addition to several customer to add value both for our sustainable growth in the development programs and customers and our company market. quality system inspections, we with numerous projects we carry out focus group studies undertake in collaboration 6 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CUSTOMER VALUE CCI Turkey Innovation Day Day in 2016. This dynamic The Innovation Day brings event offers us an opportunity together CCIdea, OE projects EFQM Model’s fundamental to recognize and reward and the Innovation Competition goal, “harnessing creativity innovation and activate new within a single framework. and innovation,” has been the ideas that can lead to a positive inspiration for establishing the impact on our communities and first CCI Turkey Innovation business operations. 20 GREEN-BELTS 1,205 IDEAS 10 FINALISTS 13 BLACK-BELTS Received 1,205 ideas from Out of 73 proposals, 10 20 employees earned our employees within the were presented as finalists green-belt certificates scope of CCIdea. on Innovation Day. and 13 employees earned black-belt certificates on Innovation Day. We received two awards in the Anadolu Group’s Bi’ Fikir Festivali (An Idea Festival). Attended by Group companies, the festival rewards companies that are successful in the area of innovation. After presenting two of our finalist projects at the festival, we won the “Total Number of Ideas” and “Total Number of Projects” categories in 2017. Superior Execution THE CCI CUSTOMER INTERACTION CENTER Every year, we conduct Distributor Satisfaction Surveys via a third-party service provider to The CCI Customer Interaction to 195,000 service requests evaluate the satisfaction level Center in Turkey serves CCI’s in different subjects such as of our distributors. Reflecting customers and distributors. customer, distributor, new an evaluation of our company The center has been customer, fleet and finance. image, the surveys help us to see engaged in new processes and has widened its focus of We provided our strengths and weaknesses 687,464 with regards to our partnership operation, becoming a unit with and ability to manage our focused on solutions and distributor network. While 97% of efficiency for both internal minutes of service our distributors participated in our and external customers. attending to survey in 2016, the results of the In 2016, we provided 687,464 195,000 Distributor Satisfaction Surveys of the past years illustrate a clear minutes of service attending service requests increase in satisfaction scores. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 7 Distributor Satisfaction Survey 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Turkey) Satisfaction Score 83.8 84.0 84.9 84.5 84.3 Customer 89.2 88.4 87.8 87.7 89.3 Satisfaction In order to accompany the employees of our distributors practice for distributors, in sustainable development of with 431 training sessions Azerbaijan, Turkey, Kazakhstan, our distributors, we provide on various technical and Jordan and Pakistan. We them with capacity-building personal development topics. reached 4,855 employees of training. During the reporting 5,507 employees and owners 229 distributors and provided period, within the scope participated in these sessions. them with 12,525 man-hours of of the Distributor Business Within the same period, we OHS training. Development project, we continued our Distributor provided the owners and Safety Program, our OHS RED PRACTICES As a result of our focus on a coke journey for consumers superior execution, in 2016 we through several craving managed to win two separate interaction zones in order to The Right Execution Daily GCCL Awards which is the increase IC consumption in (RED) system helps us premiere opportunity for The cinema channel. to offer products to our Coca-Cola System customer customers and consumers and commercial associates We aim to offer a sustainable in the optimal way. In 2016, globally to celebrate and share RTM model for delivering we successfully continued best-in-class work with each superior customer service our (RED) project in all of other and the system. through perfect commercial our operations, which allows execution. Turkey’s indirect us to monitor and follow The first one is, “Segmented RTM model serves the “Best in merchandising standards Execution Strategy in Class Customer Service” based and practices at our sales Traditional Channel, Turkey” on the market dynamics. We points. implementing the Traditional listen to both customers and Trade segmented execution distributors. While managing In 2016, we took the level guidance to Turkey’s market distributors we involve and of monitoring in our RED and creating a mechanism for contribute to their operations, project in Turkey one level outlets’ shopper profile and investing in them to develop higher by introducing image potential classifications for a their operational capabilities. recognition technology. robust execution capability We constantly check and This new technology and best shopper experience. improve customer satisfaction allowed us to cover all of On top of the previous levels by supervising each our traditional sales points segmentation model, new distributor’s results. All these with the RED project. It also segmentation maximized value provide an effective, efficient allowed our sales teams to opportunities and also offered and sustainable RTM model. follow their own customers’ general solutions to each One of our RTM sustainability merchandising standards segment, regardless of different strategies is optimizing the and practices by themselves shopper profiles, and growth daily number of vehicle through photography. potential at the point of sale. movements and the kilometers driven daily and the time in The second one is “A step field. change in Coca-Cola Incidence @ Cinemas, Turkey”, creating 8 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORKPLACE RIGHTS Our employees are key to are recognized and respected. As part of our commitment our success. It is our main The CCI Workplace Rights to protect our employees and responsibility to create a Policy (WRP) is our guide to safeguard our value chain, we workplace environment sustaining these values within require our suppliers to comply in which they feel valued, all of our operations. with the Supplier Guiding encouraged, and where their Principles (SGP), which provides workplace and human rights the same coverage as the WRP. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 9 The CCI Work Place Rights Basic Work Principles and Policy is based on international Rights and United Nations standards of human rights Global Compact. according to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Labor Organization Declaration of 10 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 102-41 WORKPLACE RIGHTS TOPICS COVERED IN THE CCI WORKPLACE RIGHTS POLICY Freedom of Working Hours and Wages Prohibition of Workplace Association and Collective Bargaining Forced Labor Security Prevention of Commitment Community and Arbitrary to not Employ Stakeholder Discrimination Child Labor Engagement Prohibition A Safe and of Forced Labor Healthy Workplace CCI’s WRP policy is available online at http://cci.com.tr/UserFiles/pdf/2015/CCIWRPPolicy.Pdf In addition to internal audits target of achieving “green shows the WRP and SGP audit at CCI, independent auditing code” status; in other words, performance results for all CCI companies authorized by 100% compliance for all WRP operations for the year 2016: TCCC routinely audits CCI and SGP audits with zero plants. We have set a clear findings. The table below Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan Turkmenistan North Iraq Iraq Green Green Green Green Green Green Green Green N/A The CCI WRP is available in onboarding and orientation 310 in Azerbaijan, 116 in Turkey, English as well as in all local program. Throughout 2016, 40 in Kyrgyzstan and 38 in languages and our training is 1,741 employees in CCI Jordan participated in WRP available as part of the online Pakistan, 412 in Kazakhstan, training. COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS We respect our employees’ legally recognized trade As of year-end 2016, right to exercise freedom unions. We take collective 90.38% of our blue-collar of association and bargaining agreements employees in our Turkey collective bargaining and (CBAs) and our relationship operations and 100% of commit to constructive with unions in general our blue-collar employees dialogue with employees as important employee in Pakistan operations are who are members of engagement mechanisms. covered by CBAs. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 11 GOALS and COMMITMENTS Priority Areas 2016 Goals Performance in 2016 Status 2017 Goals To obtain “green scores” To maintain “green scores” Workplace We obtained “Green Scores” on WRP audits for all CCI Achieved on WRP audits for all CCI Rights operations in 10 countries. in all our countries. operations in 10 countries Increase women in the To sustain and increase workplace by 1%. female representation in Women currently hold 32% Sustain 32% women in managerial positions and in of managerial positions Achieved managerial positions. the Executive Committee across CCI. Maintain 62% Generation (Excom) across CCI. Y/Millennials in the total Diversity and workforce. Inclusion To define a diversity and Establish Women Clubs in inclusion (D&I) strategy We defined a D&I strategy CCI Pakistan, Kazakhstan, and framework for CCI. D&I and framework. Kyrgyzstan and Turkey. cluster will be inserted into D&I cluster was added to Achieved Create Women’s Leadership the employee engagement the employee engagement Development, Mentoring survey with regard to this survey. and Gender Sensitization focus area. Programs. MOB was delivered to 467 Targeted leadership To build and sustain managers in total. development programs Leadership a collaborative and SOB was delivered to 906 Ongoing for top executives, senior Development cooperative team supervisors in total. leaders and mid-level performance culture. iLead2020 was delivered to managers. 44 leaders in total. We monitored annual To encourage all employees leaves and overtime ratios to use their 2017 annual Work-Life No new target. monthly within all CCI Ongoing leave as well as 20% of prior Balance countries internally and with years’ accumulated annual management reports. leave. Based on the Survey We conducted the Employee conducted in 2016, Employee To define and follow Engagement Survey across Achieved engagement action plans Engagement engagement action plans. CCI. will be defined in detail function by function. OHS Policy, To have no major findings All countries were checked Procedures To renew compliance audits. for legal compliance. Achieved from KORE and local legal audits. and Systems All countries to have The pilot project started To have the online system defensive driving training by with practical trainings in our Ongoing tested in Turkey, Jordan and an online source. İzmir Plant. Pakistan. Safe Driving To test an alternative tracking The new system is still on To have the system running Ongoing technology. trial. in CCI Turkey. OHS To reduce the overall LTIR The overall LTIR was 0.69 The overall LTIR score to be Underperformed Performance score to 0.42. for 2016. reduced to 0.5. 100% Implementation of contractor procedures as The contractor procedures To control the maturity of Achieved described in Hand in Hand were implemented. the system periodically. OHS procedures. Along the To prepare a monthly Supply Chain reporting format for A-Class To spread reporting to all Completed at CCI Turkey. Ongoing distributors regarding Health countries. and Safety (H&S). 12 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORKPLACE RIGHTS People Management At CCI we see ourselves as and CCI Talent Management Performance Management one, diverse, engaged and Principles and shared it with all System ensures that we remain inclusive team. Our employees’ employees. equipped, and maintain fairness skills and expertise are critical and transparency. We aim to to our creation of sustainable In order to support and be deliver successful results by value. We seek ways to provide more effective in the career improving performance whilst different opportunities for planning process, we also developing capabilities of both our employees to develop continue to use the platform teams and individuals. The CCI themselves and we believe it “My Career Talk”. This platform Performance Management is our responsibility to provide helps CCI employees to identify Process facilitates smart employees with a workplace their career goals, establish goals and secures that our that is productive, happy and a plan for pursuing them and organization delivers successful safe. take personal responsibility for results by improving the skills achieving those goals. and performance of teams and We have established systems individuals. and programs that offer We continue to conduct our support to our employees so TDFs (Talent Development In 2016, we published our that they are able to improve Forums) to fill positions Performance Management their skills, knowledge and with the right people. We Policy and also introduced understanding, and raise their facilitate the transfer of crucial the Performance Calibration living and working standards. knowledge, experience and Guideline to equip managers talent by offering opportunities and senior leaders with Detailed data on our employee through international and local calibration philosophy. At demographics is provided in career moves. In 2016, we filled CCI, performance assessment the Performance Indicators 46 critical positions from our processes are implemented section of the report. internal talent pool. for all employees regardless of gender, seniority and/or Talent Management My Career Platform, which was nationality. established in 2015, provides Through talent management, end-to-end information, a CCI ensures that it has “precise one-stop solution to career at talents optimally deployed and properly engaged” to deliver CCI’s strategy to produce CCI, Talent Management and TDF processes. We encourage all of our employees to take 7,477 employees in business results. We believe all responsibility for their careers reporting scope of our employees are talented, and to get the support available their individual expertise is paramount to our success and that our ability to identify and to them from internal tools and resources. 143,365 total hours develop talent is of utmost Late in 2016, we launched of training importance. CCI Leaders have the CCI Career Navigation a duty and responsibility to help all employees foster their strengths and empower them Framework. Career Navigation is a structured tool that was created to support employees 19,2 average hours to meet their career aspirations. and managers in career of training planning and development. In line with our 2025 Vision, It is a resource for thinking we are regularly making through “Critical Experiences” improvements to our talent and “Opportunities” that an management approach. employee should pursue inlieu In 2016, the main focus of of their career aspirations. talent management was on developing leadership Our talent management behaviors. We introduced the approach, which is new CCI leadership behaviors accompanied by our SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 13 ACTION IN THE FIELD In 2016, we organized the The project participants, and presented them to Action in the Field project consisting of senior our Senior Management for college students in students, went through a competing for awards. At Turkey. With this project, we special selection process, the end of the project, six created a candidate pool followed by a four-day participants joined the CCI of new college graduates company orientation family as trainees and four and further strengthened program. They then as sales representatives. our employer brand. developed team projects CCI ensures that it has “precise talents optimally deployed and properly engaged” to deliver CCI’s strategy to produce business results. 14 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORKPLACE RIGHTS Learning and Supervisor on Board (SOB) University, is expected to Program is a program prepared continue in 2017 and to reach Development for employees who are already 125 employees. managing a team with less At CCI, we promote a work than a year of experience. In addition to these programs, environment where continuous The program aims to improve a wide variety of learning learning is achieved. We the participants’ basic team solutions are also offered carry out our learning and management skills and also to employees, including but development activities informs them about the not limited to, coaching and under the main headings of necessary HR procedures for mentoring, research articles, Commercial Development, managing people. With a target books, conferences, seminars, Leadership Development and audience of about 905 people, and business English language Functional Development. the program was launched development. All of these in Pakistan, Azerbaijan, resources are structured under Collaborating for Value Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan CCI UNI, which is supported Program helps increase in 2015 and continued in all CCI through Learning Management our employees’ commercial countries in 2016; reaching its System software. capability across our entire target audience as of geography. We conduct February 2017. As a result of these programs, standardized and countrya total of 143,365 man-hours specific customized training Finance Leader Certification of training were offered sessions in the classroom, Program was designed for to CCI employees in 2016. the field and on the job. More finance employees up to the Detailed data is provided in the than 2,000 sales colleagues managerial level. The program, Performance Indicators section completed our basic sales accredited by Boğaziçi of the report. training “Collaborating for Value” in 2016. iLead Leadership Program reached a total of 323 managers, 54 high-level and 269 mid-level employees, in all CCI countries. The program modules are aligned with CCI’s vision and are designed to reinforce leadership qualities and engagement, increase business insight and develop skills to lead us into the future. Manager on Board (MOB) Program is a program for new managers with the goal of supporting participants to become more effective by focusing on the balance between business and people management. It was initially launched in 2015 in Pakistan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Jordan, and was spread to all CCI countries in 2016. As of February 2017, the program reached its target of 467 people. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 15 Diversity and Inclusion At CCI, from recruitment to as respected members of CCI, to our sustainable growth. As compensation and promotion, regardless of their gender, a result, we aim for an inclusive our equal opportunity nationality, age, language culture where all employees approach applies to all human or religion. We embrace are supported in speaking their resources processes. We aim differences and accept them mind, sharing their ideas and to foster a workplace where as significant to the synergy opinions. all our employees feel valued created in our workplace and 11.3% Female 21.6% Female Senior 15.3% Female New Employees Managers Employee Hires DIVERSITY & INCLUSION FOR US AT CCI All employees are Gender and supported to openly CCI values all employees generational diversity share their thoughts, for their contribution whereby ideas and opinions, and to sustainable growth more women and act with respect and regardless of their Gen Y/Millennials cooperation in their gender, nationality, are part of efforts to meet business language and role. our workforce. needs. While we aim to recruit and retain a competent and dynamic workforce, we foster gender, generational and cultural diversity in our workplace, as is expressed by our signature support of the UN’s Women Empowerment Principles (WEPs) and multigenerational hiring efforts. As a company that faces major challenges with regard to female employment due to its operational geography, we unequivocally invest the energy to overcome these barriers with concrete, mid and long-term objectives. 16 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORKPLACE RIGHTS FEMALE EMPLOYEE RATIO BY COUNTRIES OF OPERATION (%) 50% In 2015, we formed a Diversity 47.7% and Inclusion Steering Committee, meeting every six 44.1% months, the Committee’s main 41.0% 40% objective is to advise on how can achieve the gender goals 30% we set for 2025 and create an inclusive culture throughout our organization. 20% 16.3% Female representation in 14.3% 15.0% 13.8% 14.1% 12.5% 14.2% 14.2% leadership positions is another priority as we work towards 12.3% 10% 9.4% 10.2% 11.3% 5.6% 6.5% gender diversity in our workforce. Female members of 5.0% 5.5% 5.4% 4.0% 0% senior management make up 2014 2015 2016 66.7% in Azerbaijan operations, Total Turkey Operations* Turkey Group Office Jordan 50% in Kazakhstan, 40% in Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan Jordan, 16.7% in Kyrgyzstan * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. and 12.5% in Turkey of the total senior management. REPRESENTATION OF GENERATIONS Parental Leave 3% Boomers Our female employees take ages 52-71 paid maternity leave as per laws and regulations set within their respective 36% Generation X countries of operation. In 2016, return to work rates ages 36-51 of female employees who took parental leave in Turkey operation was 95%. For Kazakhstan, Jordan, Azerbaijan and Kyrgyzstan operations, consolidated 61% return to work rate Millenials ages 20-35 was 68%. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 17 Women’s Club CCI Women’s Clubs are The Women’s Club is an platforms for female employees example of CCI’s commitment to interact and organize to women: to create new various activities focusing job opportunities, increase on networking, capability capabilities, create networks development, leadership skills and inspire the next and empowerment in the generation’s female leaders. workplace and community. 18 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORKPLACE RIGHTS Women’s Empowerment economic potential, TCCC to business skills training launched 5by20, a global courses, financial services To foster women’s commitment to enable the and connections with peers entrepreneurial potential is an economic empowerment of 5 and mentors. As a sign of our excellent way for communities million women entrepreneurs commitment to this cause, to prosper. Yet, women still across TCCC’s value chain by we have been a signatory to constitute a fraction of the 2020. As a bottling partner of the Women’s Empowerment global labor force. In 2010, as TCCC we support this global Principles (WEP) since March a recognition of the challenges commitment. Our efforts focus 2015. faced by women and their on offering women access My Sister Program The My Sister Project, which The project, in Turkey, To date, the My Sister Projects has made a considerable where female labor force has touched nearly 1,000 difference in the lives of participation is in decline, women, including ladies from participants, is a part of the offers women platforms a variety of backgrounds, 5By20 initiative launched where they can improve including housewives, by The Coca-Cola Company their business skills and gain engineers, entrepreneurs and with the goal to economically competencies via training university students. empower 5 million women and consultancy programs. entrepreneurs by 2020. TCCC partners with Boğaziçi University, with support from the Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey, governorships, and municipalities in the project cities. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 19 The Coca-Cola Belestery Program Launched in 2013, The Cocaskills training and technical with business training and Cola Belestery Program in support to women in Almaty presented their business ideas Kazakhstan partners with the and Astana on how to start on issues such as cultivation Coalition for Green Economy and effectively run a business of agricultural and bakery and Development of G-global, specifically using green products and furniture and the Social Dynamics technologies. manufacturing. The program Public Fund aims to develop also provided grants to 10 entrepreneurship among In 2016, 2,040 women from women to be used in realizing women in Kazakhstan. The the regions of Akmola, Almaty their business concept. program provides business and Karaganda were provided 20 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORKPLACE RIGHTS UNDP Women’s Empowerment Program CCI Azerbaijan has partnered The program offers training provides in-kind contributions with the United Nations such as business development to disabled women eager to Development Program (UNDP) and effective communication start their own businesses. Azerbaijan since 2014 to and presentation skills, as As part of the program, a sponsor the Economic and well as awareness-raising Women’s Resource Center will Social Empowerment of Young activities to help reduce gender be established. Women. The project aims to stereotyping. The program also create opportunities for women and youth to participate in economic and social life. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 21 The Zarya Project CCI Pakistan initiated the project Zarya with the objective of empowering women in the workplace and society. As the first phase of Zarya, the Zeenat Gari project was launched to provide microfinance opportunities to disadvantaged women in Pakistan. In 2016, CCI Pakistan initiated the second phase of the project, called Tabeer Stores. Tabeer Stores provide microfinance to disadvantaged women to set up and run small grocery stores. 10 Tabeer stores were established in 2016. 22 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORKPLACE RIGHTS Health and Safety It is our primary responsibility Country Health and Safety to provide our employees a safe and healthy working environment. By doing so, we (H&S) committees and the Group H&S Manager coordinate H&S matters throughout all 0.60 Lost Time can improve our employees’ CCI countries. H&S managers Injury Rate work-life balance, and positively and/or specialists are assigned impact their motivation and our productivity and business performance. to all CCI plants where we operate. The CEO is the topranking executive who has 51,228 Man-hours OHS ultimate responsibility and the Training Provided • Protect the most valuable HR Director is at the top in the to Employees and important resource chain of command for H&S of our company – our management. human capital – from any occupational health and Hand in Hand Safety safety risks or hazards. Program • Ensure that OHS is an In 2016, we established the integral part of our business Hand in Hand Occupational and is actively supported Safety System in order to through management standardize occupational health leadership and commitment. and safety practices at CCI. Below are some examples of • Protect the Company progress that were made in from any legal challenges 2016 to support our targets: by complying with (at a minimum) local legal • Hand in Hand Safety requirements and applying program implementation industry best practices to was completed at all CCI set higher standards than Plants. such legal requirements. • We standardized the • Protect all other resources level of operational and assets from any losses safety practices and the that may be caused by occupational safety training work-related risks and programs in our operations, hazards. • We adapted a more Health and safety issues are proactive and accurate managed through the Cocaapproach to risk analysis to Cola Operating Requirements identify unsafe behaviors, (KORE). All our operating situations and risks to which plants received OHSAS our employees are exposed, 18001 Management System certification by year-end • As the number of near 2016 and our Tajikistan plant misses increased, the also achieved OHSAS 18001 number of major accidents Certification in February 2017. and incidents decreased. Furthermore, OHS issues are handled within the context of collective bargaining agreements signed with labor unions. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 23 A significant improvement road and hit a trailer that was and periodic OHS trainings to is expected in the 2017 being pulled by a tractor. After our employees and contractors performance trends with the this loss, CCI decided to focus conducting work on behalf of integration of Hand in Hand on traffic safety programs and CCI. Safety Management, the act as a pioneer for national Safety Maturity Index (SMI) traffic safety in Pakistan. We In 2016, we provided 51,228 culture-focused and proactive raised a safety campaign for man-hours of OHS training reporting methodology and motorbike riders and drivers, our employees throughout focused H&S leadership. which other multinational our operations. The main companies followed. The topics of the training sessions In 2016, a fatality occurred as a campaign will begin in 2017. included site orientation, first result of an unfortunate traffic aid, confined space, working at accident. Our pre-seller lost To expand and strengthen our height, emergency response, control of his motorbike in an occupational health and safety CCI’s Golden Rules, defensive effort to avoid a hole in the culture, we provide targeted driving and forklift safety. In 2015, we launched the TOTAL H&S TRAINING HOURS Distributor Safety program ACROSS COUNTRIES of OPERATION and began implementation in Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan, 25,000 Azerbaijan and Pakistan. In 2016, we reached 229 distributors and 4,855 of 22,726 their employees through the program. 20,000 Detailed numeric information 18,557 about our OHS performance is provided in the Performance Indicators section of the 16,159 Report. 15,000 12,062 10,000 6,603 4,525 Turkey 5,000 4,581 4,392 Jordan 3,198 Kazakhstan 2,235 Azerbaijan 992 Pakistan 679 0 Kyrgyzstan 2015 2016 24 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CCI conducts bottling and Supplier Guiding As a part of our supplier distribution operations with agreements since 2002, the 25 plants in 10 countries, Principles (SGP) Supplier Guiding Principles creating a positive economic (SGP) determine the social, impact both directly and We create economic environmental, ethical and indirectly. Our products are impact both upstream and economic minimums, which produced, sourced (where downstream. Our suppliers TCCC and its bottlers expect possible), distributed and play an important role in from their suppliers. The latest sold locally. A bottle of Cocacreating this impact. Our local human rights advances from Cola creates added value for procurement policy supports Ruggie, OECD and UNGC multiple sectors during its the sustainable development standards, as well as guidance journey from the production of local economies and we provided by the Danish Institute line to the consumer. Many support our suppliers to for Human Rights study of sectors, including agriculture, improve their sustainability TCCC policies and practices energy, production, logistics, performance with effective have been adapted to SGP transportation, distribution, supplier development standards. At a minimum, our retail, cooling, advertising, practices. suppliers are required to meet media and packaging play these standards with respect to a role in the production their operations. of a single bottle of Coke. SUPPLIER GUIDING PRINCIPLES TOPICS Compliance with Freedom of Health and Laws and Regulations Association and Collective Bargaining Safety Demonstration Work Hours Wages and of Compliance and Overtime Benefits Environment Non-discrimination ZERO TOLERANCE ON Child Labor Forced Labor Abuse of Labor You can access the SGP from the TCCC’s corporate website: http://www.coca-colacompany.com/ content/dam/journey/us/en/private/fileassets/pdf/unknown/unknown/SGP_Brochure_ENG.pdf We consistently cultivate principles to their stakeholders, Supplier audits are conducted effective communication, in particular to their workforce. by TCCC’s and CCI’s own and conduct audit and We attach the SGP Policy to trained personnel as well as development practices in order our supplier contracts when by third parties. For our direct to ensure that our suppliers applicable with the expectation material and cooler suppliers, adhere to our principles. Our that they will develop and it is obligatory to undergo suppliers receive a copy of implement appropriate SGP audit and comply with our SGP at the beginning of internal business processes SGP standards before making the business relationship and to safeguard compliance contracts. are expected to transfer these with the SGP requirements. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 25 We consistently cultivate trained personnel as well as the audits for compliance with effective communication, by third parties. For our direct SGP without any major issues. and conduct audit and material and cooler suppliers, While this was below our goal development practices in order it is obligatory to undergo set for 92%, we have made to ensure that our suppliers SGP audit and comply with an effort to work closely with adhere to our principles. Our SGP standards before making these suppliers so that we can suppliers receive a copy of contracts. resolve their issues and bring our SGP at the beginning of them back to SGP compliance. the business relationship and Third-party audits include As a result of the SGP audit, a are expected to transfer these confidential interviews with remediation action plan that principles to their stakeholders, employees and on-site contract covers specific matters such in particular to their workforce. workers. A supplier who fails as working hours (especially We attach the SGP Policy to to meet any aspect of the SGP night shifts), rest day violation, our supplier contracts when requirements is expected to overtime and health and safety, applicable with the expectation implement corrective actions. were sent to the relevant that they will develop and If a supplier fails to adhere to suppliers and follow-up implement appropriate our principles, sanctions that audits were organized. In the internal business processes include termination of the last three years, TCCC has to safeguard compliance contract are applicable. audited all of CCI’s suppliers of with the SGP requirements. ingredients and packaging. Supplier audits are conducted During the reporting period, by TCCC’s and CCI’s own 75% of our suppliers passed SGP AUDIT TARGETS FOR YEARS 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 88% 91% 92% 93% 94% 95% 96% Local Procurement Local Local procurement is a Procurement Turkey* Jordan** Azerbaijan*** Pakistan significant practice that enables (%) us to contribute to local 2016 95 49 47 95 economies. The proportion of spending on raw materials from 2015 95 49 47 95 local suppliers (within the same country) is provided in the 2014 98 65 54 95 adjacent table. 2013 96 68 48 94 2012 96 20 41 n/a * Concentrate is not included. ** In Jordan, we switched to local suppliers for sugar, can and preform in 2013, which resulted in an increased percentage. *** There are no approved suppliers in these local markets for some product and service categories. (There are no local suppliers available for some of the product categories with high spend. Selection and approval of the suppliers are done by TCCC.) 26 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Economic Impact CCI has operations in 10 We reach close to 750,000 Pakistan generates Rs 5 in the countries with 25 plants and sales points with our extensive Pakistan economy. Additionally, create direct and indirect sales and distribution network. CCI’s tax multiplier in Pakistan positive economic impact. We support local retailers to is 2, which means for every build their businesses through Rs 1 tax paid by CCI Pakistan, Our business stimulates job providing assets and trainings. almost Rs 2 are generated in creation throughout our value Finally, through strong supplier the taxation for government. cycle. We contribute to the contributions, we also support economic success of each our suppliers to increase their For our Turkey operations, community by employing international competitiveness. every 1 TL generated by the local people; paying taxes to Coca-Cola system in Turkey governments; paying suppliers An independent economic yields 6.8 TL in the economy. for goods, services and capital impact study conducted for Additionally, our operations equipment; and supporting CCI Pakistan showed that the enable 2.5 billion TL value community investment CCI Pakistan has an output added in retail business and programs. multiplier of 5, which means also generates income for that an injection of Rs 1 by CCI 145,000 farmers. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 27 THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF COCA-COLA IN PAKISTAN An injection of Rs. 1 by CCI For every Rs. 1 tax paid by Our Pakistan yields almost Rs. 5 CCI Pakistan, almost employment rate is 13.6% in the economy. Rs. 2 are Generated for the government. Rs. 5 Rs.5 Rs. 1 THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF COCA-COLA IN TURKEY Every 1 TL generated by Enables The Coca-Cola system the Coca-Cola system in Turkey yields 6.8 TL in the 2.5 billion TL enables a direct indirect and included employment value added in the retail economy. impact of 30,000 business, supporting the industry. Generated income for people. 145,000 farmers. 6.8 TL 1 TL 28 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT We proudly serve a population for each and every member of Our community investment of more than 380 million across these communities. Our goal focuses on 3 areas: 10 countries. While growing is to be recognized as a good volunteerism, youth our business, we also work to corporate citizen by all our empowerment and water. ensure that we create value stakeholders. GOALS and COMMITMENTS Performance in Priority Areas 2016 Goals Status 2017 Goals 2016 To train at least 2,000 women, To train at least 2,000 and provide 10 applicants women and to allocate We trained 2,040 with grants while expanding grants to 10 applicants women and allocated 10 Achieved the geography of the project within the entrepreneurship grants. beyond the 3 regions in program for women in established in Kazakhstan in Kazakhstan. 2016. The establishment of 10 Tabeer stores under Project Zayram, a provider of micro We helped to set up 10 We aim to help set up a total finance opportunities to Tabeer stores within Achieved of 15 Tabeer stores by the end aid disadvantaged women to the scope of Project Community of 2017. set up small grocery stores Zayram. Development as a mode of income in Pakistan. To reach 70,000 farmers through a project to demonstrate efficient We reached 9,600 No goals for 2017. Project is Ongoing irrigation technologies in farmers in 2016 completed. the Kyzylorda region of Kazakhstan. 40,000 trees were To plant 15,000 trees planted in 4 locations in To plant 15,000 more trees in through the program in Achieved Baku and its suburbs as Baku. Azerbaijan. of June 1, 2016. To provide clean drinking We provided clean A goal for 2018 is not yet set water to 500,000 people in water to 750,000 Water Achieved approval for additional plants. total in Pakistan through the people in Pakistan as of based on the pending project until the end of 2016. March 2017. To reach 80,000 young We reached 90,000 people in 120 schools in To reach 120,000 students in students in 131 schools Achieved Turkey to inspire them to be 18 cities in 150 schools. in 15 cities. more physically active. Youth Include 50 youth aged 17 Empowerment to 22 from all over Kazakhstan To reach 80,000 young We reached 28 schools, in the project aimed at people in 120 schools in 3,500 Achieved the development of social Turkey to inspire them to be students and 70 PE entrepreneurship and conduct more physically active. teachers. training for the 10 best participants. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 29 We care about the needs of the we identify community Foundation and the Coca-Cola local communities where we challenges and needs, and Life Plus Foundation on projects operate. Through partnerships develop and implement addressing the different needs and collaboration with both projects to address them. We of our stakeholders. local and international partners, work closely with the Anadolu The Anadolu Foundation In 1979, the founders of the Through the Foundation’s The My Dear Teacher project, Anadolu Group established Young Social Entrepreneurs conducted by the Foundation the Anadolu Foundation with project, which received funding on a national scale, offers the aim of creating lasting from the Istanbul Development opportunities for youth and solutions for social needs. The Agency’s Financial Support for teachers to develop sustainable foundation’s mission is to make Children and Youth program, solutions for their communities. a difference by improving young entrepreneurs have the people’s quality of life through possibility to develop their For more information and to supporting development in capacities and develop joint see the Annual Report of the education, health and social projects with universities, Anadolu Foundation issues. local governments and NGOs. www.anadoluvakfi.org.tr/en. The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation CCI supports the efforts of The multi-stakeholder projects. undertakes 3 main initiatives: Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation, It has conducted more than Life Plus Environment Program, which was founded in 2009 60 projects in more than 50 Let’s Play and My Sister. in Turkey. The Foundation cities in Turkey, reaching more has been conducting projects than 1,000,000 people and Please visit www.hayataarti.org in partnership with about investing close to 30 million for detailed information on these 135 institutions including TL in social and environmental initiatives. NGOs, universities and public development since 2009. The agencies to conduct national, Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation 30 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Volunteerism Encouraging and supporting employees to take an active CCI Supports Its Volunteers employee volunteerism is one role through volunteering. and They Support the of the building blocks of CCI’s Society organizational culture. Within In 2013, we launched the its 2025 Vision, CCI’s main goal CCI Volunteers initiative to Since 2010, CCI has yearly is to be recognized as one of integrate social responsibility organized the Community the most responsible corporate into our company culture Champions award program citizens by all stakeholders. and encourage employee to acknowledge and reward To reach this objective, CCI volunteerism in support of employees who voluntarily supports civic initiatives community development initiate or participate in social that help build stronger programs. We also began the projects. In 2013, in order communities, focusing primarily establishment of Employee to encourage employee on women’s empowerment, and Family Volunteering Clubs volunteering, CCI launched youth development and in our countries of operation, the CCI Volunteers initiative environmental protection. In which in turn has created and established employee doing this, CCI collaborates yet another platform for our volunteering clubs throughout with local and international employees to improve internal its operations. These clubs NGOs and encourages its communication. helped employees to organize 14 NGO’s 49 represented by participants The Volunteering Program was officially launched in May 2017 in the company’s headquarters in Istanbul, with the participation of 14 NGOs represented by 49 participants. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 31 and jointly engage in social and support volunteering platform CokePort, indicating projects. Every year, CCI activities for all its employees. their preferred fields of activity. employees actively coordinate Launched first in Turkey, the In April 2017, 25 employees and participate in volunteer program will be gradually from 9 locations were trained activities that serve their expanded to other CCI on the program’s mechanism communities, which range countries. As part of the and the volunteering process to from environmental cleanups program, CCI collaborates form local coordination teams. and planting trees to visiting with around a dozen civil Working Group Meetings have orphans or children at associations and foundations, been realized in İstanbul, Bursa, hospitals, distributing food to as well as the Ministry of Ankara, Elazığ and İzmir, with needy families and renovating Education, universities and others to follow. After the school facilities, to name but a local governments. meetings, CCI volunteers began few. individual fieldwork or formed Under the Volunteering project groups. In 2017, CCI took a very Program, CCI employees important step by launching can apply individually or as a the CCI Volunteering Program group to become volunteers to systematically encourage through the company’s intranet 7 volunteer activities with 300+ CCI volunteers So far in 2017, seven volunteer activities have been realized in different cities under the program targeting disadvantaged women, children and families, people with disabilities, refugee children and the elderly, with the participation of more than 300 CCI volunteers from CCI’s Çorlu, Bursa, İstanbul, Mersin and Ankara operations. 32 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT YOUTH EMPOWERMENT CCI serves a predominantly young population of more than 380 million and almost 60% of population is below 29 years of age. Investing in our geographical regions’ young and growing population is critical to the sustainable development of our communities. We consolidate our efforts for youth development into two key areas: youth entrepreneurship and sports. We reached 500,000 young people with our projects SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 33 Youth Empowerment Youth Inc. Program Copa Coca-Cola Football (PE) teachers. Between 2013 Tournament and 2017, 3.2.1 Move! supported In 2013, TCCC launched its 152 PE teachers from 131 public Youth Inc. program with the The 4th season of the Copa schools in 15 provinces in objective to help develop Coca-Cola grassroots football Turkey, mainly by creating and a new generation of young tournament took place in renovating sports facilities and entrepreneurs who would Iraq. The tournament brought providing sports equipment establish and run successful together more than 400 for students. The projects businesses as well as become schools from seven provinces reached more than 90,000 the private sector’s future and more than 3,500 students. young people through sports leaders in Azerbaijan. The For the first time this year, 60 and group activities. 3.2.1 Move! program is supported by CCI girls’ schools from Baghdad participants actively practice Azerbaijan and organized in also participated in the 30 different kinds of sports at partnership with Azerbaijan’s tournament, marking the first school and have so far formed Ministry of Youth and Sports, time in Iraq where girls’ schools 538 new school teams. 82% of and the Debates in Civil Society actively participated in a sports the participants express that Public Union. event of such large scale. they felt more fit, self-confident and happier. Consisting of five stages, Coca-Cola Bylgary Dop the program is designed to Football Tournament spread over five years. During the first three stages, more Jointly organized every year than 5,500 young people in Kazakhstan by Coca-Cola participated in training and the Football Federation of courses on various elements of Kazakhstan since 2006, this business management. Once grassroots football tournament they complete the training reached around 400,000 courses, young entrepreneurs students in 6,200 schools in its are exposed to real business 10th season during the 2015management practices in 16 academic year. Honored selected companies, liaise twice by UEFA awards, the with successful entrepreneurs, Coca-Cola Bylgary Dop is the and get ready to access the largest football tournament initial funds to start their own in Kazakhstan reaching 80% businesses. of the country’s student population and opens the The Olympic Moves Program doors to a professional football career for several youth. The Program was launched in December 2015 in Azerbaijan Physical Education Teachers with the collaboration of CocaTake the Lead in Turkey Cola, the National Olympic Committee of Azerbaijan, the 3.2.1 Move! set out to Ministry of Education and the transform public schools Ministry of Youth and Sport, into habitats that effectively with the mission to increase foster students’ physical and sports participation in youth personal development through and foster healthier, happier local projects developed and and more active communities. executed by Physical Education 34 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Coca-Cola Turkmenistan Grassroots Football Tournament Jointly organized every year Football Tournament took by Coca-Cola, the Football place between April and June. Federation of Turkmenistan, Around 100,000 children from Turkmenistan Sports 1,784 schools from across the Committee and the Ministry country participated in the of Education, the Coca-Cola tournament. Turkmenistan Grassroots SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 35 Making Way for Bright Leaders in Pakistan Witnessing the program’s youth team members through youth leaders mobilized close success and impact in Turkey, weekly physical activity to 30,000 youth in Pakistan. CCI expanded the project to programs at schools. It also The program also helps other countries. In Pakistan, trains students to become develop healthy relationships 3.2.1 Bhago! was launched in youth leaders and coaches and between mentors and youth to August 2014, and runs in 30 to organize their own sports support personal development, schools from low-income rural events for the local community, focusing on teamwork, areas in Lahore. It engages which creates a rippling effect. leadership and communication around 3,000 boys and girls as So far, 75 coaches and 120 skills. 36 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Re-Activating Iraqi Youth In Iraq, the program educational infrastructure own social projects. 90% currently runs under the has been destroyed and of the participants have name of 3.2.1 Entalik! in security is still an issue, indicated that the program three districts of Baghdad. the program provides a encouraged them to do So far, 60 coaches and 120 safe environment for youth sports regularly, not only youth leaders have worked to have fun and learn at school but also in sports in 30 schools providing together, enhancing their centers and even at home. 3,000 youth with fun and life and leadership skills. physically active life skills Students then become training. In a war-torn youth leaders and have the country where much of the opportunity to run their SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 37 Refreshing Physical Activity for Youth in Kazakhstan Coca-Cola İçecek’s awardof sports equipment. In of the 3.2.1 – Move! project, winning legacy program addition, we focused on young people aged 17 to 3.2.1 Move! has reawakened helping PE teachers to develop 22 will receive real help enthusiasm in the development their professional capacities, in implementing socially of thousands of youth since its meanwhile introducing creative meaningful projects through inception in 2013. Aiming to and innovative learning entrepreneurial activities. With promote a culture of healthy methods. So far, more than 40 this project, identification and lifestyle among rural teenagers physical education teachers support of youth initiatives and children, the program have been trained within the aimed at solving specific social continues to grow as newly scope of the project. and environmental problems in formed youth leaders spread it various regions of the country throughout the community and In 2017, within the framework will be supported. creates impact in their local communities. The program was expanded to Kazakhstan in 2014, as experts visited Almaty and Akmola regions to conduct a large-scale study regarding the conditions of schools and children. Holding meetings with teachers and discussing with students, the experts concluded that the materials and technical equipment of the schools were insufficient, hence demotivating students from an active and health lifestyle. Evaluating the results of the research, we conducted a competition, the Best School Sports Project, which covered 19 schools from low-income rural areas. We delivered sports equipment, board games and gymnastic exercises to these schools and repaired 3 gymnasiums, allowing 3,000 students to benefit from the renovation of sports facilities and donation 38 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 3.2.1 Move! Receives Social Responsibility Innovation Award The 3.2.1 Move! social responsibility project received the Innovation Prize at the 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Awards organized by the Turkish Confederation of Employer Associations (TISK). SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 39 3.2.1 Move! projects reached more than 90,000 young people through sports and group activities. 40 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Water Stewardship Access to clean drinking water the total population in Pakistan Water Trust. Each plant has is a major problem in today’s is without access to safe the capacity to produce over world. We attach particular drinking water. Furthermore, 2,000 liters per hour and serve importance to water related UNICEF reports that patients a community of over 20,000 issues in water stress areas, with water-related diseases people every day. since water problems directly occupy 20-40% of hospital affect the welfare of the beds in Pakistan. Another In keeping with our objective to communities where we operate publication by Pakistan’s provide safe drinking water, CCI and the sustainability of our Waters at Risk states that Pakistan launched the Paani – business . 33% of deaths in Pakistan are Safe Water Initiative, in 2015, due to water borne diseases: with the aim of providing clean Access to clean drinking water typhoid, cholera, dysentery and water to 750,000+ people is a significant health concern hepatitis. across Pakistan by the end of in our geography. In Pakistan, 2016. The project was launched we have been running our Addressing the safe and implemented in Paani Clean Water project in drinking water needs of our collaboration with WWF collaboration with the World communities, CCI Pakistan set Pakistan. A total of 15 plants Wildlife Fund (WWF). up its first filtration plant in have been set up in the Malir, Karachi in collaboration outskirts of Lahore over the PAANI with Rotary International course of two years. Extensive Safe Water Initiative Pakistan. The second plant was community outreach and installed at Lari Adda, Lahore mobilization activities have also Access to safe drinking water in collaboration with the Clean been conducted in the targeted in Pakistan is a critical issue. A Water Trust. areas informing people about report by Pakistan Council of In addition, two plants in theimportance of safe drinking Research in Water Resources Rahimyar Khan were installed water and its appropriate (PCRWR) reveals that 44% of under the banner of the Clean usage. 21 filtration plants “Our lives have been “I am a lady health 12 million liters of easier since this facility visitor. Because of is established. We also poor infrastructure, safe drinking water use the water coming tap water is used to from here while we be of very bad quality, cook. A lot of people but since the filtration are taking water from plant was installed, Water access here at all times during diseases in children for 750,000+ the day.” have drastically individuals decreased.” 10-15% decrease in the ourbreak of diseases SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 41 Two types of water treatment technology (UV Filtration & Reverse Osmosis) have been used depending on the water quality of the target area. As of March 2017, 21 filtration plants have generated more than 12 Million liters of safe drinking water (as per flow meter reading) enabling water access for 750,000+ individuals living in the densely populated communities where the plants have been set up. 42 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT In today’s world, environmental Protection, Water Stewardship, and Tajikistan hold the ISO problems are inescapable and Sustainable Packaging and 14001 standard certificates. In inherent to any discussion of Waste. In addition to these Turkey, specifically, all plants, natural resources. Furthermore, comprehensive focus areas, sales operations and offices the rising effect of climate we monitor and manage our are certified according to ISO change, now a globally atmospheric emissions and 50001 Energy Management accepted reality, has a direct wastewater discharge quality System and ISO 14064-1 GHG impact on environmental in line with each country of Standards. sustainability and the continuity operation’s national regulations of our business. When and TCCC standards. CCI’s sustainability combined with such global governance structure is concerns as our growing Our Environment Policy is organized to support and population, sustainability plays available at www.cci.com.tr. manage comprehensive key even more of a vital role in the environmental concerns. continuity of our success in a All of our operations are The CCI Group Supply Chain globally responsible manner. conducted with a vigilant Director has the ultimate awareness of our impact on the responsibility for environmental Our primary goal is to environment. In accordance, management and is diligent continuously seek ways to we are consistent in our with regard to our adherence produce more by using less compliance with local legal to our sustainability goals. resources. requirements, international For further details, our standards and TCCC KORE environment management Our environmental approach requirements. All our plants in organization is explained on includes an in-depth focus Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan, “Sustainability Organization” on three key areas: Energy Azerbaijan, Pakistan, part of Sustainability Approach Efficiency and Climate Kyrgyzstan, Iraq, Turkmenistan section. To increase our performance and create environmental awareness, we organized training courses for our employees at our plants. In 2016, we provided 4,902 man-hours of environment training to our employees in Turkey, Jordan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan. Key Performance Indicators COUNTRY YEAR Total Waste Energy Use Ratio GHG Emissions Water Use Ratio Recycling Rate (MJ/L) Ratio (gCO2-e/L) (L/L) (%) 2016 0.25* 29.09** 1.47* 94.79 TURKEY 2020 TARGET 0.28 28.54 1.35 98.00 2016 0.30 48.00 1.71 90.30 JORDAN 2020 TARGET 0.30 50.00 1.50 95.00 2016 0.55 59.86 1.67 91.20 KAZAKHSTAN 2020 TARGET 0.38 45.00 1.47 96.00 2016 0.37 60.24 1.82 96.30 AZERBAIJAN 2020 TARGET 0.32 55.00 1.79 98.00 2016 0.40 36.37 2.00 93.00 PAKISTAN 2020 TARGET 0.43 tbd tbd tbd 2016 0.48 33.52 1.88 98.10 KYRGYZSTAN 2020 TARGET 0.45 28.00 1.70 98.50 * Figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. ** Figure has been verified by SGS. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 43 GOALS and COMMITMENTS Priority Areas 2016 Goals Performance in 2016 Status 2017 Goals To achieve the following energy To achieve the following We achieved: use ratios: energy use ratios: 0.25 MJ/L for Turkey Achieved 0.27 MJ/L for Turkey 0.26 MJ/L for Turkey 0.30 MJ/L for Jordan Achieved 0.28 MJ/L for Jordan 0.32 MJ/L for Jordan 0.55 MJ/L for Kazakhstan Achieved 0.44 MJ/L for Kazakhstan 0.72 MJ/L for Kazakhstan 0.37 MJ/L for Azerbaijan Achieved Energy 0.37 MJ/L for Azerbaijan 0.37 MJ/L for Azerbaijan 0.40 MJ/L in Pakistan Achieved 0.41 MJ/L in Pakistan 0.43 MJ/L in Pakistan. New 0.48 MJ/L in Kyrgyzstan. Efficiency 0.46 MJ/L in Kyrgyzstan. To explore opportunities to roll out Pilot studies the program in other plants with To expand the program in Turkey implemented in İzmir, Achieved the lessons learned from the pilot and other countries of operation. Çorlu and Bursa plants. implementation. For CCI plants to achieve a We achieved: For CCI plants to achieve a carbon emissions ratio of: 27.5 CO2 g/L in Turkey Achieved carbon emissions ratio of: 27.5 CO2 g/L in Turkey 48.0 CO2 g/L in Jordan Achieved 26.60 CO2 g/L in Turkey 59.86 CO2 g/L in Kazakhstan Achieved 44.80 CO2 g/L in Jordan 48.0 CO2 g/L in Jordan 60.24 CO2 g/L in Azerbaijan Achieved 52.00 CO2 g/L in Kazakhstan 68.0 CO2 g/L in Kazakhstan 36.37 CO2 g/L in Pakistan Achieved 60.24 CO2 g/L in Azerbaijan 65.0 CO2 g/L in Azerbaijan New 33.52 CO2 g/L in Achieved 37.28 CO2 g/L in Pakistan 38.0 CO2 g/L in Pakistan. Kyrgyzstan. 34.92 CO2 g/L in Kyrgyzstan. Climate Protection We continued our To ensure that 100% of all newly support to suppliers To ensure that 100% of all newly purchased cooler equipment is and helped them to Ongoing purchased cooler equipment is HFC-free by the end of 2017. develop feasible cooler HFC-free by the end of 2017. alternatives. To increase our EMDequipped We have 88% EMD ratio in To increase EMD-equipped coolers to 89% of the total in Underperformed Turkey operations. coolers to 89%. Turkey. We achieved: To achieve a water use ratio of: To achieve a water use ratio of: 1.47 L/L in Turkey Underperformed 1.44 L/L in Turkey 1.40 L/L in Turkey 1.71 L/L in Jordan Achieved 1.67 L/L in Jordan 1.85 L/L in Jordan Water 1.67 L/L in Kazakhstan Underperformed 1.63 L/L in Kazakhstan 1.50 L/L in Kazakhstan 1.82 L/L in Azerbaijan Achieved 1.80 L/L in Azerbaijan Management 1.84 L/L in Azerbaijan 2.00 L/L in Pakistan Underperformed 1.83 L/L in Pakistan 1.89 L/L in Pakistan. New 1.88 L/L in Kyrgyzstan. 1.80 L/L in Kyrgyzstan. and Stewardship To conduct the second SVA study The second SVA study To conduct SVA study in our in our Bursa, Elazığ, Mahmudiye, wasconducted in our Bursa, Achieved Karachi, Faisalabad, Gujranwala, Köyceğiz, Almaty and Amman Elazığ, Mahmudiye, Köyceğiz, Bishkek and Erbil plants. plants. Almaty and Amman plants. We achieved: To achieve a total waste ratio of: To achieve a total waste ratio of: 4.99 g/L in Turkey Underperformed 4.97 g/L in Turkey 4.9 g/L in Turkey 3.07 g/L in Jordan Underperformed 2.27 g/L in Jordan 2.2 g/L in Jordan 2.08 g/L in Kazakhstan Achieved 1.91 g/L in Kazakhstan 2.2 g/L in Kazakhstan 0.96 g/L in Azerbaijan Achieved 0.96 g/L in Azerbaijan 1.2 g/L in Azerbaijan 8.90 g/L in Pakistan Achieved 9.93 g/L in Pakistan 11.1 g/L in Pakistan. New 3.81 g/L in Kyrgyzstan. 3.65 g/L in Kyrgyzstan. To continue assessing To continue assessing opportunities We saved 2,869 tons of resin in opportunities to reduce resin and Packaging and to reduce resin and glass used in six countries of operation. Achieved glass used in the packaging we the packaging we use. Waste use. To conduct feasibility studies for To continue conducting implementing Lightweight projects We continued feasibility Ongoing feasibility studies for implementing in studies. Lightweight projects in Pakistan. Pakistan. To produce all 1 L Damla water We produced all 330 ml Damla To continue to produce all 1 L bottles in Turkey using PlantBottle water bottles in Turkey using Ongoing Damla water bottles in Turkey resin. PlantBottle resin. using PlantBottle resin. We received a fine for a plant Environmental 100% compliance with legal 100% compliance with legal in Kyrgyzstan regarding waste environmental limits and TCCC’s Underperformed environmental limits Compliance water quality. The fine is less standards. and TCCC’s standards. than $200,000.* In 2017, we will organize a Sustainable To establish a workgroup to workshop with TCCC regarding A workgroup was established investigate opportunities and New sustainable agriculture project and Sourcing conduct feasibility studies. in 2016. conduct feasibility study for this project. * Fines of USD 200,000 are deemed significant by CCI. We were not able to achieve our WUR target in our Pakistan operation, due to changeovers, frequent start-ups and shut-downs and use of returnable bottles resulted in excessive water use. Construction, building renovations in the buildings, infrastructure and production areas and high quantities of broken glass increased the amount of total wastes generated in Jordan. 44 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Energy Management & Climate Protection Energy efficiency and may have medium term direct immediate action. Burning fossil climate protection is one of and indirect implications for fuels for energy (electricity, three priority areas in our our business, supply chain and heat and logistics) is one of sustainability strategy. We communities. These potential the largest sources of humanrecognize that climate change effects bring about the need for caused GHG emissions. The focus areas of our energy efficiency and climate protection strategy are: 1 2 3 Reducing energy use and Reducing Reducing indirect emissions by GHG emissions in our logistics-based focusing on our climate friendly manufacturing operations, direct emissions refrigeration programs; manufacturing and sales with effective offices by implementing fleet and fuel energy efficiency programs; management and 4 optimization Increasing awareness practices; on climate protection by collaborating 6 with our distributors, Promoting climate 5 dealers, suppliers and protection awareness Calculating, other stakeholders; by engaging with our verifying and stakeholders in climate reporting change platforms; accurate carbon footprint 7 of our 9 Investigating operations; Calculating opportunities the carbon and conducting footprint of a feasibility our products 8 study to supply Researching and investing in in line with sustainable clean and renewable energy a life-cycle sources. where possible; approach; Throughout the CCI operations, consumption and related GHG order to achieve our goals. we calibrate reduction targets emissions in our value chain These efforts require both that directly and indirectly (packaging, manufacturing, national and international impact energy use and GHG transportation and cooling coordination as we aim to work emissions and track the processes) and implement in collaboration with and in performance of our operations. GHG reduction programs, adherence to global efforts for We also systematically seek while improving operational climate protection. measures to reduce our energy efficiency and quality in SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 45 ENERGY USE RATIO (MJ/L) CCI Receives 2016 CDP 1.12 Climate Leadership Award 0.72 CCI was ranked among 0.67 Turkey’s climate change leaders within the scope 0.55 of CDP’s ‘‘Climate Change 0.52 0.41 0.48 0.48 Report 2016’’ and received 0.40 0.41 0.40 the 2016 Climate Leadership 0.39 0.37 0.37 0.33 Award. This marks another 0.30 0.26 0.26 0.27 important achievement in 0.25 the field of sustainability. CCI had previously received the CDP Climate Leadership 2006 2014 2015 2016 Award in the categories of performance and Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan disclosure between 2011 and 2014. As a platform for IMPROVEMENTS IN CORE EURs BETWEEN companies to disclose their 2006 AND 2016 (MJ/L) climate change strategies to international corporate 1.12 2006 2015 2016 investors, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 0.72 0.67 is considered to be the 0.49 0.48 0.48 world’s most prestigious 0.55 0.37 and comprehensive 0.30 environmental initiative. 0.26 0.40 0.25 TCCC Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan *Pakistan data was included in the sustainability report in 2015 and Kyrgzystan data was included in 2016 report. 46 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT The Investigating, creating the Energy Efficiency new approaches and Top 10 by promoting a promoting effective change company roadmap that Behavioral are all foundational to TCCC’s Behavioral Energy is holistic in its approach to “Energy Excellence” Energy Efficiency Program (Energy and helps spread a Excellence). This program sense of ownership and is designed with staff accountability of this central Efficiency awareness and culture at its core, and aims to issue. By the end of 2015, at our İzmir Plant, a 4.89% Program reveal the ways in which energy saving was realized the CCI system effects for overall electricity personal interactions and consumption. This savings behaviors related to work was visible in 2016, and for and the workplace. Our 2017 will be replicated in 10 goal is to extend beyond countries 21 plants at CCI. In 2016, we saved 25% The CCI Multan 1,620 Million plant was awarded MJ energy and with the LEED Silver energy reduced 6,920 Certification in the consumption “New Buildings” reduction tons of CO2 45% category. throughout The CCI Multan plant our efficiency successfully increased its water saving water saving by 45%, reduced projects and 50% its waste water ratio by 50% the OE Program and energy consumption by 25%. As a result of this conducted in CCI successful coordination, the waste water plant has sustained existing plants. local water resources. reduction SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 47 We supply energy needs of our post Mix We invested Line in our İzmir Plant from $ 5,434 million for 100% clean energy 286,015 EMD resources. equipped coolers in Turkey since 2009 With our EMD program, we saved approximately 474 million kWh electricity We supplied 13.8% of our in six countries of operation. We achieved purchased electricity from 230,000 tons of CO2 clean energy that 19.2 million trees annully extract from the sources in 2016. atmosphere. Our Carbon Footprint our operations’ environmental processes. In order to decrease sustainability of sourcing, the carbon emissions created Sustainability in our business packaging, manufacturing, during these processes, we has a direct relationship to distribution and refrigeration employ several practices. A CASE OF SUCCESS IN TURKEY IN OE PROJECTS CARBON Supply Chain Core Business Operations EMISSIONS ACROSS %20 %28 %11 %9 %32 OUR Ingredients Packaging Manufacturing Distribution Refrigeration VALUE CHAIN IN 2016 (%) In our CCI Turkey operation, corresponded to a 15.9% GHG emissions reduction we managed to reduce our increase in Scope 2 emissions activities, an 11% decrease in total Scope 1 emissions (due due to electricity use at CCI cooler emissions as a result to mainly combustion of fuels, Turkey operation. Additionally, of good maintenance and transportation and fugitive emissions from distributor decrease in cooler disposal, and gases) from 104,635 tons coolers have slightly increased reductions of 21% in business to 89,827 tons compared compared to the 2015 figure. travel and 42% in employee to 2015. Increase in the IEA However, we achieved 3.63% commuting. Turkey Country GHG Factor reduction in emissions through 48 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Our absolute emissions in emissions for the six countries represents grams of CO2-e per six countries of operation of operation is provided liter of product produced. increased from 616,509 tons in Performance Indicators to 723,124 tons, mainly due to section of the Report under, As a result of efforts put into the increase in the production “Performance Indicators.” practice, in 2016, we have a numbers of all operations in GHG reduction of 208,307 tons 2016. In addition to monitoring total of CO2-e in Turkey resulting emissions for each country of from emission reduction A table providing a detailed operation, we also monitor our activities in cooling and overview of our GHG GHG emissions ratio, which manufacturing operations. GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS IN TURKEY BETWEEN 2014 and 2016 (tons) Product 2,441 Distribution Fleet Improvement Fugitive Emissions 3,095 Reduction In =1,000 Coolers Route 3,150 =10,000 Optimization Energy Efficiency 83,721 =100,000 and Low Carbon Projects Cooler EMD 548,632 Improvement TOTAL 641,039 REDUCE THE CO2 EMISSIONS EMBEDDED IN THE DRINK IN YOUR HAND BY 25% BY 2020 The Coca-Cola system across our manufacturing amount to 177.05 gr/L, launched a global initiative processes, packaging which was 192.93 gr/L in in 2013 called “Reduce the formats, delivery fleet, 2010. CO2 emissions embedded refrigeration equipment and in the drink in your hand ingredient sourcing. This is For 2017, we aim to by 25% by 2020” aimed at a comprehensive approach, calculate the product reducing GHG emissions since the goal covers Scope carbon footprint for our across its entire value chain. 1, 2 and 3 emissions. Our value chain including In CCI, we are aligning goal for Turkey operations manufacturing, cooling, our climate protection is to achieve 144.7 g CO2/l fleet and logistics, target with this overall GHG emissions by 2020 packaging and ingredient objective in order to covering manufacturing, material sourcing for all CCI achieve comprehensive fleet and cooler functions. operating countries in the carbon footprint reductions In 2016, we decreased this reporting scope. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 49 2020 DRINK IN YOUR HAND TARGET Our goal for We achieved approximately Turkey operations is to achieve 45% of the TCCC’s 144.7 g CO2/I GHG “Reduce the CO2 emissions by 2020 in the Drink In Your covering manufacturing, fleet Hand by 2020” Goal and cooler functions. In 2016, we decreased this amount to in manufacturing, logistics and cooling operations in Turkey. 177.05 g/L which was 192.93 g/L in 2010. 2016 EMISSIONS BY SCOPE AND REGION 331 18.009 0 SCOPE 1 21.009 44.247 6.231 4.464 14.271 3.271 SCOPE 2 69.697 5.985 39.270 41.694 2.249 SCOPE 3 414.372 22.550 12.578 251.636 73.974 5.520 TOTAL 528.316 27.345 24.794 311.915 Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan Transport and Distribution is crucial to our business 2013, 65 distributors and five performance. As transportation direct distribution points in We transport millions of accounts for about 7% of the Turkey have used this platform goods and products from total direct GHG emissions of to date. We continued our our suppliers to our plants, our value chain, our efforts Road Net program in 2016, and from our plants to our to decrease this number are which reduces driving by 1.35 customers and distributors. paramount and varied. million kilometers, meaning Our extensive logistics network approximately 1,050 tons means that the sales and Addressing the issue twofold, less GHG emissions and a distribution of our products we aim to reduce how many fuel savings of $650,000 combined form the largest part vehicles are in transit and the every year. Combination of our operations. kilometers travelled at the with the “Reduce the Carbon same time that we choose Footprint in The Drink in Your Our business success is vehicles that consume less Hand by 25%” program, we dependent on a far-reaching fuel and emit less carbon. Our have furthered our intention and thorough logistics network “Route Optimization Project” to decrease fleet emission. that must reflect a balance is in line with this specific In 2016, our Scope 1+3 fleet between effectiveness and objective. Via the platform emissions was 15.8 gr/L; we aim energy reduction. As such, “Road Net,” developed for to reduce this amount to 15.5 optimization of distribution our Turkey operations in gr/L in 2017. 50 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Cooling Practices new purchases: we switched to reduce energy consumption to HFC-free equipment that by 42%, which results in It goes without saying that contains refrigerant gases with reduced GHG emissions refrigeration greatly improves low global warming potential, associated with energy use. our consumers’ enjoyment we fit existing equipment with Also, new coolers (larger than of our products. Again, with energy efficient technology, 250-liter capacity) with EMD regard to protecting the and we continue to work capacities were purchased environment, we need to create with suppliers to innovate as a part of the program. By a balance between our efforts and develop climate-friendly 2016 year-end we achieved to please our customers and cooling technologies. We 88% EMD ratio in our Turkey our responsibility to decrease continue to reach beyond operations (Please see the our environmental footprint. our current efforts as we Performance Indicators section As of year-end 2016, we collaborate with suppliers to of the report for detailed data have approximately 834,000 develop new technologies to on EMD ratios for six countries cooling devices in six countries be used in cooling operations. of the reporting scope). By 2017 of operation included in this When efforts to refurbish are year end, we aim to increase report. As we contribute to no longer economically viable EMD ratio to 89%, which economic value created by we make it a priority to we should result in the reduction investing in technologically collected and disposed of old of 206,046 tons of CO2 for CCI developed cooling devices, we cooling equipment 19,517 Turkey operation. also reduce our climate change pieces within this reporting impact. period alone. With the EMD Program, we aim to prevent the emissions A TCCC study found that In effect since 2009, our of 1.75 million tons CO2 gas within our value chain, cooling Energy Management Device between 2010-2020. In 2016, equipment is a large source of (EMD) Program is another this program allowed us to save GHG emissions, accounting for forum from which we are approximately 474 million kWh approximately 32% for our total able to address our cooling electricity in six countries of operations. Based on these equipment’s environmental operation. study results, we have chosen footprint. By using EMD more efficient equipment for equipped coolers, we are able By 2016 year-end we managed to reach 88% EMD ratio in Turkey operations. In 2020, we aim to increase EMD ratio to 93% and 206,046 tons of CO2 reduction. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 51 At CCI Turkey operations, we began to use LED lights in our newly purchased coolers in 2012 and 11% of our coolers used LED lights by the end of 2012. In 2017, 100% of our newly purchased coolers are equipped with LED lights, which increased our overall ratio to 40%. Today, every eight coolers out of 20 have LED lighting. With this strategy, we will keep increasing our ratio and minimizing our energy consumption. We achieved 230,000 tons of CO2 reduction, which equals the amount of CO2 extracted from the atmosphere annually by 19.2 million trees. Between 2009 and 2016 free solution is not currently HFC-free cooling equipment, our EMD program in Turkey available, we collaborate we managed to reduce our total resulted in a total energy with our suppliers to develop fugitive CO2 emissions by 3,855 19.2 savings of about 1.981 billion new HFC-free solutions. This tons between 2009 and 2016. kWh (equal to the annual effort is vital: HFC-free coolers energy consumption of when compared to their HFC 341,000 Turkish households) counterparts have at least and a total reduction of 1,000 times less effect on approximately 913,900 tons global warming. of CO2 emissions (equal to the amount of CO2 extracted from the atmosphere annually by 76 Refrigerants in cooling equipment may slowly leak million trees’ annual CO2 extraction million trees). into the atmosphere during use or may leak completely if Global climate change is the equipment is not properly directly impacted by HFCs disposed of at the end of its life used as refrigerants in coolers. cycle. CCI always ensures that Together with its bottling coolers are properly emptied partners, TCCC has established of any gases, that may remain. the goal that 100% of new coldBy the end of 2016, 60% of the drink equipment will be HFCcoolers we use in Turkey were free. Where a commercial HFCHFC-free. Due to our use of 83 With our climate-friendly studies in six countries of operation, we achieved approximately 1,000,000 tons of CO2 emissions reductions equivalent to 83 million trees’ million trees extracted from atmosphere annual CO2 extraction since 2009. 52 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Water Management Water is one of the world’s operations is of the highest • Mitigating risk for most important natural priority and we fully support communities and for our resources. It is also the main TCCC’s ultimate goal of business by partnering with ingredient of our products “replenish every drop of governments, and a vital element of our water we used.” Our strategies • NGOs and communities production processes. Since in water management are to assess, understand and water sources have been summarized below: chart effective, long-term affected by overuse, increasing water stress demand and climate change, • Improving the overall water• solutions, and implement it has become a global issue use efficiency in our plants; source water protection that needs to be managed • Implementing Source plans; consciously. Otherwise, the Vulnerability Assessment • Replenishing the water we effects of mismanagement will and Source Water use back to communities harm societies, businesses and Protection studies to and nature by implementing life for all. • protect water catchment locally relevant programs; basins in the regions where • Researching and investing There is a direct link between our plants are located; in new technologies to sustainable use of water • Managing wastewater and reduce water consumption; and the sustainability of our stormwater discharge in our • Investigating opportunities business. Therefore, minimizing plants (achieving 100% and conducting feasibility our impact on water and • compliance in wastewater study to supply sustainable sustaining our water efficient treatment); • sources. Our Total Volume of Water Our Water Use Water Consumption Recycled and Ratio Reused (m3) We consistently decrease We strive to reduce our overall water consumption. We recycle and reuse the the amount of water used water in our production for producing one liter of 8,792,859 m3 processes. product. of water 477,000 m3 1.61L/L Turkey Water Replenishment 150% Rate (%) TCCS 2020 Objective We replenish the amount of water 100% Eurasia Above figures equivalent to our 69% are 2016 figures product volume. of 6 countries of operation. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 53 We submitted our third annual report to the 2016 CDP Water Program describing our water strategy, disclosing our SVA study summary update, the results of water risk assessments, and the data on our water withdrawal, discharge and consumption. We received a “B” assessment score by CDP with our third report. We submitted our fourth report to the CDP Water Program in June 2017. According to a study industry. CCI Turkey accounts of our water comes from wells, conducted by Turkey’s State for 0.0038 billion m3, or only 11% comes from spring water Hydraulic Works, the amount 0.076% of Turkey’s industrial (spring water is used only in of annual total usable water water usage. (Source: www. Turkey) and 8% comes from in Turkey is 112 billion m3, of dsi.gov.tr/toprak-ve-sumunicipal water systems. which five billion m3 is used in kaynaklari). Approximately 81% CCI İZMIR PLANT HELD “WATER WORKSHOP IN INDUSTRY SECTOR” Water Workshop in the water issues and legal the sustainable production Industry Sector, conducted requirements, draft Water activities of businesses. in cooperation with the Law requirements and At the event, our İzmir Ministry of Industry relevant EU Directives. Plant was visited as an and Technology was exemplary practice. We aim held at our İzmir Plant. The event aimed to conduct to continue to communicate Representatives from the awareness raising and CCI’s water related strategy ministries of Industry, capacity developing studies and achievements of CCI Forestry and Water Affairs and increase effective water to local communities, and Environment and management culture by government agencies Urbanization as well as enhancing communication and media in forthcoming from NGOs, sector peers, and cooperation of public periods. academics who attended and private sectors and the workshop to discuss NGOs in order to support Plant Water Use & Another important indicator during 2006-16, thanks to Minimization we monitor is how much water the efficiency projects put in is used for producing one liter practice in our plants. Our total water consumption of product. Accordingly, we amounted to 8,792,859 m3 in set water use reduction targets At CCI operations, we started the six countries of operation based on this KPI and keep water reduction activities included in the reporting scope, close track of our performance. in 2006. Our 2020 goal is which was 8,215,227 m3 with Since 2006, there has been to achieve 1.35 liter use per five countries of operation in a 22.7% improvement in liter product in our Turkey the previous year. Detailed data Coca-Cola’s water efficiency operations. In 2016, our water on the total water consumption system-wide. As CCI, we align usage ratio was as 1.47 L/L. for the last three years is with TCCC’s strategy, we have Improvements between 2006provided in a table in the improved our water efficiency 2016 for operations within the Environmental Performance by 15.5% in CCI Turkey, 50.3% reporting scope are presented Indicators section of the report. in Jordan, 20.5% in Kazakhstan below: and 13.3% in Azerbaijan 54 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Improvements in WURs Between In support of our 2006 and 2016 (L/L) * commitment to 2006 2016 water sustainability, 3.44 the “Top 10 Water 2.56 Saving Program” 1.96 1.74 2.1 2.1 2.00 1.88 is designed to 1.71 1.67 1.82 1.47 reduce water usage in our production facilities and TCCC Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan *Pakistan data was included in the sustainability report in 2015 and Kyrgzystan data was included in 2016 report. aims to support the continuous In all CCI plants, we develop, exchangers regeneration, CIP invest and implement water last step water collecting improvement in saving programs every at the Kyrgyzstan plant, year in line with OE Culture. water savings by softners manufacturing The “Top 10 Water Saving capacity enhancement, carbon plants regarding Program”, reuse of pumps backwash recovery Project, cooling water in aseptic lines, and Ammonia Cooling system water use ratio. garden irrigation and cooling Treated Water Flushing All CCI plants towers at CCI Turkey plants, for temperature control optimization of reverse osmosis projects at Pakistan plants completed the water use at the Azerbaijan plant, recycling of cooling are some examples for water minimization projects that were program in 2016. water and water from ionimplemented in 2016. Source Water Vulnerability This assessment is conducted with plant authorities or site Assessment every five years in all CCI representatives, interviews with plants. As of December local and national authorities The water we use in our 31, 2016, all CCI plants had as well as desktop studies. products and our production completed their SVA studies These assessments inventory processes is drawn from local in all countries of operation. the social, environmental and water sources. As a part of our The second cycle of SVA study political risks to the water water stewardship program, began in 2016 and the cycle sources supplying our facilities put in practice to source water will be completed in all CCI and surrounding communities. responsibly and manage risks, operations by 2020. We evaluate the results of these we conduct a local source studies with a SWPP and take vulnerability assessment (SVA) During any SVA study, an action on a plant-by-plant basis. and develop Source Water analysis of water basins Protection Plan (SWPP) to and sub-basins around our mitigate water-related risks plants is conducted, and it to our System and to the includes the topographical, communities we serve. geological, hydro-geological and hydrological assessment SVAs allow us to assess of the study areas as well as vulnerabilities to community identification of any risks to sources of water and help the sustainability of water us to determine potential resources within these areas. impacts of our water usage and SVA studies include processes wastewater discharge. such as field surveys, interviews SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 55 Replenish Every Drop of Water We Used 477,000 m3 $100,456 In 2016, we saved approximately 477,000 m3 of water of saving Investment in the six countries of operation, where the total water efficiency investments amounted to approximately $100,456. Water Map Water Saving Projects Our plants have created water CCI Turkey plants minimized map in order to follow water and reused projects inline with consumption on a daily basis. Operational Excellence Culture annually. In 2016, we achieved 54,300 m3 reduction by implementing 54,300 m 3 water saving projects at CCI Turkey plants. of saving The water committee set a goal for year 2017. A water Water efficiency checklist was created and a survey will be Efficiency conducted in order in all CCI Turkey plants in order to Survey determine minimization and recovery opportunities. 2020 240,000 m3 GOAL water saving 56 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Replenish Programs TCCC began water from safe water access to water and sanitation; replenishment programs in watershed protection and • to protect watersheds; 2005, and have been working water for productive use. These • to provide water for since then with communities, programs have been developed productive use; governments and respected with consideration of the • to educate and raise third-parties to commission following objectives: awareness about and support projects that water issues, including address local water needs • to improve safe access to engagement on water policy. TCCC’S REPLENISHMENT GOAL The Coca-Cola system aims regions (e.g. Sapanca NGO representatives, for “water neutrality” which region) through community academicians and the local is defined as: water projects in line with community. the results of source water 1) Returning the water vulnerability assessments The water replenishment we use back to the (SVA) conducted for each project in Konya initiated by communities we serve by of plants. Coca-Cola has a budget of treating all wastewater $1.5 million distributed over and returning it to the Turkey is considered a three years, from 2014 to environment at a level “nearly waterscarce” 2016. of purity that supports country, with an average aquatic life. allowance of only 1,520 Agriculture of m3 of water per person, 2) Replenishing the and more than 70% the Future Project amount of water of the country’s fresh equivalent to our water is being used for Agriculture of the Future product volume through agriculture. In this sense, Project has two objectives. locally-relevant water The Life Plus Environment The first is to improve the and sanitation projects. Program was initiated water-holding capacity of with the aim to foster a soil, ensuring efficient use of The Coca-Cola System new approach to land and land and water. The second (TCCS) globally balanced water management in line is to increase the capacity an estimated 100% of with adaptation to climate to use “ecosystem services” the equivalent amount of change and decreasing in agriculture through direct water used in their finished water resources. seeding and windbreaks. beverages in 2015. The The Project was realized water replenishment rate Two projects have been in partnership with The for Turkey has reached conducted under the Life Coca-Cola Life Plus 150%, equal to about 4,271 Plus Environment Program: Foundation, the Ministry million liters of water in Agriculture of the Future of Food, Agriculture and the same year. In TCCC’s and Harran Night Irrigation. Livestock, and the Nature Eurasia region (which The Program has so far Conservation Centre. includes CCI’s Turkey, saved 3.6 million liters of Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and water on 20 million m2 of Biodiversity Conservation Turkmenistan operations agricultural land. Some Aspect of the Project but excludes Jordan), 200,000 saplings were also the replenishment rate planted as windbreakers in The Agriculture of the increased to 69%. We will the Konya basin, and the Future Project aims to continue replenishment program has reached 1,500 promote the “ecosystem programs in 2017 in local people, including farmers, services” approach in SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 57 agricultural practices As a part of the biodiversity evaporation. In order to in order to conserve monitoring activities reduce the amount of water agricultural ecosystems in the project, 43 bird lost by evaporation, it is and biodiversity without species, 18 plant species, important to do irrigation reducing the prosperity 15 butterfly species, and in the early hours of the of the communities. The 10 small mammal species day, in the evening or at project’s ecosystem services have been observed in the night, rather than during and biodiversity monitoring direct seeding areas, wind the daytime. Reducing activities are summarized break zones and control water loss will also minimize below. areas. The project also environmental problems develops environmentcaused by over-irrigation, Ecosystem Services friendly solutions to the such as salination, fungal Approach in the Project problems of agricultural diseases and pollution. production, such as rodent With the implementation Natural ecosystems that management. As a part of this project, 1.5 billion directly or indirectly of biological pest control liters of water were saved provide various benefits scheme, owl and kestrel in Harran. In addition, for human welfare are boxes are placed in farming farmers achieved a 15% called ecosystem services. areas as an alternative to yield increase. Furthermore, Agriculture is a dominant chemical pesticides used to an irrigation management human activity, and exterminate the rodents in scheme is developed in agricultural land covers the fields. Geographical Information nearly 40% of the world’s Systems (GIS) environment total land area. The Harran Night for an irrigation union, ecosystem services used by Irrigation Project which is first of its kind. GISagricultural production can based water management be provisioning (freshwater, Harran Plain is one of the and night irrigation is now genetic biodiversity agricultural production promoted by the Regulation etc.), supporting (soil centers in Turkey. During on Water Usage Control structure and fertility) or summer months, irrigation is in Irrigation Systems and regulating services (climate done at high temperatures, Reduction of Water Losses. regulation, pollination, which increases biological control etc.). In the Agriculture of the Future Project, the aim is to integrate the Ecosystem Approach – a strategy for sustainable management of land, water and living resources – into agricultural activities. The Ecosystem Approach provides tools to minimize the conflicts between nature conservation and economic activities, thus enhancing the sustainability of socio-ecological systems. The project is the first of its kind to use such a comprehensive approach in handling socio-economic activities and environmental values together. 58 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Sustainable Sourcing Sustainable agriculture is TCCC’s approach to sustainable In line with TCCC’s strategy, critical for us to meet the agriculture is founded on CCI set a goal to investigate expectations of our consumers, principles that protect the sustainable sourcing customers and other environment, uphold workplace opportunities for sugar and stakeholders and to enable rights and help build more sweeteners, engage with the continued growth of our sustainable communities. Cocastakeholders and conduct a business. Sourcing of CCI’s raw Cola is addressing the feasibility study for sustainable materials accounts for a large challenges of agriculture sugar sourcing in Turkey portion of our economic, social availability, quality and safety by 2016. We established a and environmental footprint. while also helping to improve study group formed by TCCC livelihoods and the well-being and CCI PAC, Technical and Sustainable sourcing is of farming communities. TCCC Procurement responsible purchasing ingredients from has focused on sustainably for understanding how to farm locations and suppliers sourcing key agricultural comply with SAGP. Related that meet TCCC-approved ingredients by 2020 and information regarding the standards, most preferably developed Sustainable validation process, compliance adhering to the TCCC’s Agriculture Guiding Principles. standards and expectations Sustainable Agriculture Compliance with SAGP will were discussed. In 2017, a Guiding Principles (SAGP), be verified according to workshop was organized on which, among other things, set international third-party the SAGP compliance program standards to be met by farm standards such as Bonsucro, for suppliers. CCI’s sweetener suppliers for human Rainforest Alliance, Sustainable suppliers were invited to and workplace rights, Agriculture Initiative the meeting. As a next step, environmental protection Platform (SAI) and Fairtrade suppliers will work on SAGP and responsible farming International or equivalent. and share their project management. calendar for their compliance with the program. SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE GUIDING PRINCIPLES Workplace and Environment Farm Management Human Rights Systems • Freedom of association • Water management • Harvest and postand collective • Energy management harvest handling bargaining and climate protection • Reproductive material • Prohibit child labor • Conservation of natural identity, selection and • Eliminate discrimination habitats and ecosystems handling • Work hours and wages • Soil management • Management systems, • Safe and healthy • Crop protection record keeping and workplaces transparency • Community and • Business integrity traditional rights SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 59 Wastewater Management At CCI we have high standards the local authorities. TCCC for In 2016, we discharged a total for the wastewater we Treated Wastewater Quality are of about 3.20 million m3 of discharge in the environment. given in Performance Indicators wastewater in six countries of “Zero wastewater generation” section. All CCI operations operation. Of this amount, we and “reclamation” defines are regularly audited in detail treated 1,847,206 m3 in our our wastewater management in this scope, in addition own waste treatment plants, approach. We do not only to ISO 14001 Environment 673,550 m3 in organized comply with local laws Management System Audits by industrial zone treatment regulating wastewater third parties. We monitor our facilities, and 678,160 m3 was treatment and discharge in wastewater parameters with discharged to surface water all the countries in which we periodic analyses and reduce after treatment. operate, but we also must act our environmental impact by in accordance with TCCC’s treating wastewater prior to To monitor and manage the standards that determine the discharge and we develop quality of the wastewater we wastewater pollutant limits for projects to reduce wastewater discharge, we also measure our operations. In many cases generated as a result of our the amount of wastewater the allowed discharge limits activities. discharged per liter of product set by TCCC are much lower for their compliance with the than the limits established by program. Recycling Packaging is an essential transport of our products. Our OUR SUSTAINABLE aspect of the quality of our efforts began in 2008 when PACKAGING products and ensures safe we reduced the length of the STRATEGY delivery of our products to our bottleneck for the lightweight customers and consumers. We PET bottle. A standard amount are dedicated to packaging of resin is used in PET bottles REDUCE our products in the most through Lightweight and Short Pet and Glass sustainable way possible. We Neck projects. In 2015, we Lightweight continuously work to develop conducted a benchmark study lighter packaging by using covering all CCI countries of less material, using recycled operation to map the amount REUSE and renewable materials and of resin used for all sizes of Returnable encouraging our consumers to bottles and to share among Glass Bottles recycle. With our sustainable the plants best practices of packaging efforts to conserve lightweight applications. RECYCLE resources and use less energy, Post-Consumer we not only contribute to the With our lightweight practices, Packaging Wastes circular economy, but we also we not only save materials Collection reduce our environmental used in our product packaging effect since packaging is one but we also reduce GHG of the biggest sources of our emissions generated during RENEW PlantBottle carbon footprint. the production process. We achieved 24% reduction in GHG As defined in our strategy, we emissions since 2010 in CCI put several practices into action Turkey, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan to reduce the amount of natural and Kyrgyzstan operations resources used in packaging by implementing lightweight by not compromising the safe programs. 60 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 2016 SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING PERFORMANCE OF CCI CCI Turkey achieved Avoided 10,400 tons 441 tons 52% of glass waste of 30% plant 9,360 tons based material in of CO2 Damla 330ml post-consumer with returnable packaging wastes bottle practices Bottle recovery rate plastic glass metal aluminium 2,869 tons Lightweight & of resin saving in Short Neck 6 countries due to projects +11% Total reduction in waste GHG emissions recycling rate with at plants light weight projects Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan 94.8% 90.3% 91.2% More than 11% reduction in GHG emissions with light weight Azerbaijan Pakistan projects in the value chain of Kyrgyzstan Kazakhstan, Turkey, Azerbaijan, 96.3% 93% 98.1% Kyrgyztan. ACHIEVE SAVE SAVE 54% 1,771.8 4,818 2017 recovery in tons of material tons PLAN of material post-consumer amounting to amounting to packaging wastes $431,000 $6,300 of savings of savings in Turkey in Kyrgyztan 2 02 0 P L A N 60% post-consumer packaging waste recycling rate in Turkey SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 61 Post-Consumer Packaging listen to their concerns and and aluminum-packaging waste Wastes Recycling work to implement projects was 52%, which increased thereof. 4% compared to the previous Our recycling efforts include year’s figure. We achieved encouraging our customers In Turkey, there exists this rate with the help of our to use returnable bottles, and legislation mandating recycling authorized business partner, helping authorized business of post-consumer packaging Çevko Foundation. We aim to partners collect packaging waste. The system in Turkey achieve a 60% post-consumer waste. We seriously consider is based on a concept of packaging recycling rate in our stakeholders’ expectations extended producer’s liability. Turkey by 2020. about waste management, By 2016, the recycling rate in Turkey for plastics, glass, metal POST-CONSUMER PACKAGING WASTES RECYCLING RATE BY YEARS IN TURKEY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 Target Target 37% 38% 40% 42% 44% 48% 52% 54% 60% In 2013, we formed a Recycling operations where there is no material” in our countries of Task Force, a cross-functional legal, organized recycling operation. In Kazakhstan, one team with the aim of defining scheme. The Recycling Task of CCI’s priority countries to CCI’s long-term recycling Force conducted an analysis of establish a recycling scheme, strategy for post-consumer the waste infrastructure, legal we commenced stakeholder packaging material. The background, and stakeholder engagement efforts to create a Task Force was established expectations regarding common vision for recycling in specially for CCI’s country recycling of packaging the country. RETURNABLE BOTTLE USE IN TURKEY With returnable bottle practices, glass bottles can be used up to eight times. By this practice, less energy is used for bottle production and, in 2016, approximately 9,360 tons of CO2 emission was avoided. This amount is equal to the amount that 780 thousand trees annually extract from the atmosphere. With returnable bottle practices, we also avoided 10.4 tons of glass waste in 2016. 62 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT PlantBottle to produce a key ingredient in the plastic, PlantBottle Considering that about 60% of packaging uses materials that TCCC’s beverage volume today are up to 30% plant-based. is delivered in PET plastic Essentially, we are trading fossil packaging and that in some fuels for plant-based materials countries we are not legally without sacrificing performance allowed to use recycled plastic, or recyclability. TCCC invests in alternative technologies to reduce its In 2013, we conducted several environmental footprint due to trials at our plants using PET use. PlantBottle. After obtaining legal permits in 2014, we Developed by TCCC, started to produce 330-ml PlantBottle packaging replaces Damla water bottles in Turkey the traditional fossil-based using PlantBottle resin. In ingredients used to make 2016, we used about 441 tons PET plastic with renewable of PlantBottle resin. Detailed substitutes made from plants. information about PlantBottle The key difference between can be found at: http://www. PlantBottle packaging and coca-colacompany.com/ traditional PET plastic bottles is stories/plant-bottle-basics. that instead of using petroleum and other fossil fuels Zero Waste to Landfill ISO 14001 environmental purposes in all CCI operations. management system and Waste that cannot be recycled Waste generated by our carry out related operations in or recovered is sorted production, sales offices, accordance with CCI’s according to specific, construction, food and other environmental policy, legally defined categories and processes is an important legislations and TCCC’s KOREdelivered to licensed disposal part of our environmental EOSH requirements. facilities or municipalities to be management system. We work used as landfill or to be to minimize our environmental In our manufacturing sites, incinerated. According to our footprint by minimizing the we segregate our wastes as waste management standard, amount of waste that is reusable, recyclable, hazardous, all waste disposal sites are disposed of safely and in landfill and non-recyclable evaluated before use, and compliance with legislation. wastes. All waste that can periodically thereafter, to Our main strategy is based on be reused is reused, and that verify and document site preventing, reducing, reusing, which can be recycled and acceptability. recycling and recovering the recovered is delivered to waste. To do so, we employ the licensed companies for these CCI Turkey received the “Waste Management Award” in 2017 for its 2016 recycling performance of packaging waste and waste management achievements in the FMCG sector. As a member of ÇEVKO, CCI became the 2nd Company in Turkey in waste collection, recycling and recovery, achieving 48% packaging waste recovery in 2016. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 63 “Achieving zero waste an indicator that shows the to improve our performance generation” is our ultimate amount of waste generated per in all countries of operation. goal and we do our best to liter of product produced(g/l). Detailed information about accomplish this by reusing We investigate alternative total waste recycling rate and recycling all the waste methods and strive to recycle and total waste ratio can be produced from our sites. 100% of total waste generated found in the environmental Accordingly, we have from our operations. Results performance indicators part of determined a key performance are carefully observed, the report. In 2015, our Pakistan indicator: “total waste recycling monitored and evaluated to operation and in 2016, our %.” We also keep track of achieve better performance. Kyrgyzstan operation reported our total waste ratio, which is Since 2006, we have managed this data for the first time. IMPROVEMENTS IN TOTAL WASTE RECYCLING RATE BETWEEN 2006 AND 2016* 2006 2016 90.99 81.60 75.55 93.00 94.67 94.79 90.30 91.16 98.1 96.30 Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan *Pakistan data was included in the sustainability report in 2015 and Kyrgzystan data was included in 2016 report. 64 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 The CCI Code of Ethics guides our employees to live our values and “do the right thing.” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Performance Indicators CONTENTS CCI REPORTING MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE GUIDANCE SYSTEMS STANDARDS INDICATORS 01 08 AND PRINCIPLES 07 HOW DO WE RESPOND GRI INDEPENDENT TO STAKEHOLDERS’ STANDARDS ASSURANCE QUESTIONS AND CONTENT LETTER 40 CONCERNS? INDEX 34 35 GREENHOUSE GAS VERIFICATION STATEMENT 41 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 1 CCI REPORTING GUIDANCE (RG) This document provides GHG emissions of Turkey PLANT: All on-site facilities, guidance on the indicators operations were verified in line including production buildings, included in the 2016 CCI with the ISO 14064-3 Standard. water treatment units, sustainability report, some of wastewater treatment units, which have been externally Legal entities covered fully by warehouses, laboratories, assured for the current or a this report include: administration buildings and prior period. technical service operations. • Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş., Turkey Indicators that have been • Coca-Cola Satış ve Dağıtım ENERGY: Electricity, natural externally assured for this A.Ş., Turkey gas, diesel, gasoline, fuel oil, • Mahmudiye Kaynak Suyu Ltd. liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) year’s report are marked Şti., Turkey with an asterisk in the report. and steam. For the purpose of • J.V. Coca-Cola Almaty Bottlers Other indicators covered this report, energy does not LLP, Kazakhstan in this sustainability report include alternative forms of fuel, • Azerbaijan Coca-Cola Bottlers are reported in line with the such as bio-waste, biomass, Limited LLC., Azerbaijan GRI Standards of the Global bio-diesel, or renewable sources • The Coca-Cola Bottling Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Company of Jordan Ltd., of energy such as wind or are listed on pages 35-39. Jordan solar energy, which collectively • Coca-Cola Beverages Pakistan represent an insignificant share The data within the scope Ltd., Pakistan of total energy consumption and of this guidance document • Kyrgyzstan carbon emissions. is for the financial year ending on December 31, 2016 For a full list of entities included ENERGY CONSUMPTION and concerns the relevant in CCI’s financial statements, (MJ): The energy consumed operations in Turkey, Jordan, please see page 48 of the CCI during the reporting year Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, 2016 Annual Report, available (January 1 to December 31, Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan. on: http://www.cci.com.tr/ 2016). Energy consumption Referral to “The Company” Portals/0/Documents/PDF/ data covers energy used in the covers these six countries, Annual_Report/2016/CCI_2016_ operation of on-site industrial unless stated otherwise. AR15Mart.pdf. facilities and manufacturing processes, including electrical General Reporting systems, heating, lighting, 2016 Assurance Principles on-site transportation, air Scope circulation and air conditioning In preparing this guidance (HVAC system). Manufacturing The Reporting Guidance document, consideration has processes refer to the energy (RG) document covers The been given to the following consumed in the core bottling Company’s data-gathering and principles: (filling) operation. Total energy reporting obligations for the consumption also includes indicators listed below. It is the • Information Preparation – to preform injection for those responsibility of The Company highlight the primary principles plants that use this energymanagement to ensure that of relevance and reliability of intensive process as well as appropriate procedures are in information; and energy used for CO2 production place to prepare data related to • Information Reporting – to processes in our plants in these indicators in line with the highlight the primary principles Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. RG in all material respects. of comparability, consistency (especially with regard to other ENERGY USE RATIO (EUR, The total energy consumption, data, including that of previous MJ): MJ of energy consumed energy usage ratio (EUR), total years), understandability per liter of product produced, water withdrawal and water and transparency in order to calculated as the sum of all provide clarity to users. individual energy sources from usage ratio (WUR) of The the filling (core) production Company’s Turkey operations, in year 2016, were audited Key Definitions processes (in MJ) divided by according to the ISAE 3000 production volume (in liters). To For the purpose of this report, allow comparability between Standard (Revised). the following definitions apply: different CCI plants: 2 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CCI REPORTING GUIDANCE • Energy consumption during and reporting GHG emissions 2016 CCI sustainability report, preform injection, an energyat the organization level. accredited waste contractors intensive process, is excluded Consequently, GHG emissions collected tons of waste for from the EUR since only a reported for Turkey also include recycling and re-use. few sites employ this process. CCI’s GHG emissions from its Of those CCI operations that non-plant buildings, e.g. offices, WASTE DISPOSAL (TON): fall within the scope of this fleet transport and fugitive Waste disposal has followed RG, only the Turkish bottling facilities in Ankara and Çorlu, emissions. Where a plant the GRI Standards 306-2 the international operations in generates energy on-site, the classification. To determine Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, related energy consumption the method of disposal, CCI and the bottling facility in is defined as the energy of has used the legal categories Lahore, Pakistan employed an the fuel used for generation laid out in the disposal operational preform injection (e.g. for on-site, diesel-fired documentation provided by its process during the reporting electricity generators, the accredited waste contractors. period. energy consumption would Based on the disposal • Energy consumption for CO2 be the diesel used rather than documentation, the categories production processes in our the electricity output of the of waste generated by CCI plants in Kazakhstan and generator). during the reporting period Azerbaijan is also excluded from the EUR calculation. were recycling, re-use, recovery, • Beginning in 2013, the WASTE (TON): Waste incineration and landfill. Some electricity producing process, generated at a given site hazardous waste is sold for which is present only in includes waste due to use as fuel in processes such Kazakhstan, is included in EUR production, construction, as cement manufacturing. calculations. food services or any other In accordance with the legal activity. Examples of the types categories of accredited waste GHG EMISSIONS (TON): of solid waste generated by documentation, this waste is Emissions during the reporting The Company include paper, classified as recovery rather year (January 1 to December plastic, corrugated cardboard, than incineration. 31,2016). The GHGs reported metal, glass, sludge from water, are those currently required by waste oils, fleet waste (tires, REUSED WASTE (TON): the United Nations Framework batteries, coolants, oils, etc.) Waste used again for the same Convention on Climate Change and damaged ingredients or or different purposes without and the Kyoto Protocol. These products, plus all hazardous re-processing, e.g., wood. GHGs are currently: carbon waste such as solvents, inks dioxide (CO2), methane and lab waste. Liquid waste RECYCLED WASTE (TON): (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), disposed of through the Waste that is broken down into hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), wastewater system is not raw materials, changed and perfluorocarbons (PFCs), included in the calculations as reprocessed for use and used Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and such waste is accounted for in for new products. Recyclable nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). Other wastewater discharge volume materials include many kinds GHGs, including those regulated and wastewater sludge. of glass, paper, metal, plastic, by the Montreal Protocol, are textiles, and electronics. The excluded from GHG emissions TOTAL WASTE RATIO (G/L): composting or other reuse of and analyzed separately. “GHG Grams of total waste generated biodegradable waste – such as emissions” refers to emissions per liter of product produced. food or garden waste – is also from all production processes, considered recycling. such as bottling and preform WASTE RECYCLING RATE Materials to be recycled are injection, arising from The (%): Tons of waste recovered, brought to a collection center, Company’s plants in Jordan, re-used or recycled divided or picked up from the curbside, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and by total waste generated (in then sorted, cleaned and Pakistan. In Turkey, CCI has been tons), i.e. the Waste Recycling reprocessed into new materials reporting its GHG emissions Rate represents the portion of bound for manufacturing. more extensively since 2012 in waste that is not disposed to accordance with the ISO 14064a landfill or incinerated. In the RECOVERED WASTE 1 Standard for quantifying six countries covered by the (TON): Non-recyclable waste PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 3 materials and the extraction the market is measured either ENVIRONMENTAL therefrom of heat, electricity by weighing it directly or by COMPLIANCE: The monetary or energy through a variety calculations using waste factors value of significant fines (over of processes, including recorded after measuring the $200,000) and the total combustion, gasification, exact weight of each part of the number of non-monetary pyrolyzation and anaerobic equipment. sanctions for non-compliance digestion. For example, if waste with national Environmental is incinerated in an incineration LANDFILLED WASTE Laws and Regulations. This plant to generate energy, (TON): Waste sent to landfills indicator is aligned with GRI’s then the waste is “recovered.” (of either a municipality or Standards 307-1 indicator. If there is no use of energy an accredited company) and during the process, then the disposed of by burial. EMPLOYEE NUMBERS: waste is incinerated. There CCI employees working in The are several ways to recover WATER: Includes water from Company’s headquarters, plants energy from waste. Anaerobic all sources, including wells, and sales offices. Employee digestion is a process of spring water, municipality and figures are categorized as decomposition that occurs collected rainwater. permanent, temporary and naturally whereby organic contractor workers, and these matter is reduced to a simpler WATER CONSUMPTION data are recorded as year-end chemical component in the (LITER): All water used during figures. This indicator is aligned absence of oxygen. “Recovery” the reporting year (January with GRI’s Standards 108-2 also refers to incineration or 1 to December 31). Water indicator. directly controlled burning of consumption data includes water used for production, municipal solid waste in order water treatment, boiler INJURIES AND LOST to reduce waste and create makeup, cooling (contact and DAYS: Type of injury, rates of energy. Secondary recovered injury, lost days and total number non-contact), cleaning and fuel is energy recovered from of work-related fatalities, by sanitation, backwashing filters, waste that cannot be reused or region. This indicator is aligned irrigation, washing trucks recycled through mechanical with GRI’s Standards 403-2 and other vehicles, kitchen or and biological treatment indicator. CCI’s main injury metric canteen, toilets and sinks, and activities. Since most of the is the Lost Time Incident Rate fire control. waste is recovered for energy in (LTIR), which is number of lost licensed facilities before storage, time incidents/occupational WATER USE RATIO (L/L): hazardous waste in Turkey is illnesses multiplied by 200,000 Liters of water used per liter of categorized as “recovery.” product produced, calculated and then divided by the total as total water use (in liters) number of hours worked during WASTE STORED ON SITE divided by production volume the reporting period. (TON): Waste stored initially (in liters). before the final treatment. TRAINING (Hr): Average Wood waste is treated in WATER WITHDRAWAL hours of training carried out different ways, and the final (L): Total volume of water during the reporting period per treatment method is confirmed withdrawn from any source employee, categorized in terms with suppliers and categorized during the reporting year of OHS training, environmental by operations. Methods for (January 1 to December training and total training. This reuse, recycle and recovery of 31, 2016), including ground indicator is aligned with GRI’s hazardous waste are confirmed water, municipality water and Standards 404-1 indicator. with CCI’s service providers for collected rainwater. waste management. For our Scope of Reporting Turkey operations, disposal WASTE EFFLUENT (L): and treatment methods are The total volume of water The following tables summarize decided according to the waste discharges during the reporting the activities that are currently disposal codes defined in period by discharge and quality, reported within the scope of this the Turkish Hazardous Waste including treatment method. sustainability report for energy Control Regulation. The amount This indicator is aligned with consumption, GHG emissions, of waste from coolers and GRI’s Standards 306-1 indicator. water consumption and solid two-way bottles generated by waste. 4 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CCI REPORTING GUIDANCE Total Energy Consumption Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan Industrial sites where bottling processes are conducted, together Except Except with secondary operations such as x preform x x x preform preform injection*, bottle blowing production production and lift truck operations Technical service operations (e.g. x x x x x x repairing of coolers, etc.) Administrative buildings located at x x x x x x industrial sites Own transportation of materials and products within industrial plant x x x x x x sites (e.g., forklift operations) Data adjustment for preform CO2 injection, CO2 production and Only preform production Only preform Only CO2 None x electricity generation processes for process and preform process process energy consumption figures* processes *Adjustment is made to the EUR (core) to allow comparability between plants by removing certain energy-intensive processes from the EUR, but not from total energy consumption. As explained in the RG, an adjustment is made to the EUR for energy consumption for preform injection processes, electricity generation processes (present only in our Kazakhstan plant) and CO2 production processes (present only in our plants in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan). From 2013 onwards, energy use for electricity generation is included in the EUR data. GHG Emissions as CO2-e Verification Scope for Turkey Industrial sites comprising bottling facilities together with secondary operations such as lift truck operations x Technical service operations x Preform manufacturing, bottle blowing processes x Administrative buildings located at industrial sites x Administrative buildings located away from industrial sites and headquarters x Own transportation of materials and products within industrial plant sites (e.g. forklift operations) x Own transportation of materials and products out of industrial plant sites x Employees commuting with CCI-owned vehicles and sales fleet operations x Energy used in the cooling of products (off site) x Fugitive emissions from the cooling of products (off site) x Fugitive emissions from the cooling system (on site) x Fugitive emissions from fire extinguishers x Fugitive emissions of filling process x Fugitive emissions from off-site coolers x Fugitive emissions from on-site coolers x PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 5 Water Water Consumption Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan Industrial sites comprising bottle facilities x x x x x x Technical service operations at the site x x x x x x Administrative buildings located at x x x x x x industrial sites Waste Waste Generation Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan Industrial sites comprising bottle facilities x x x x x x Technical service operations at the site x x x x x x Administrative buildings located at x x x x x x industrial sites DATA PREPARATION Energy Consumption where a factor of 34.4 is used into the atmosphere per unit based on the 2016 analyses of energy consumed. Different Energy consumption data are conducted by an accredited types of energy sources have reported for electricity and local laboratory on the natural different conversion factors primary fuel sources, including gas used on site. that reflect their carbon dioxide natural gas, diesel, LPG, heavy • For fuels other than natural intensity. In future periods, fuel oil and steam. Electricity gas (diesel and heavy fuel oil), conversion factors may be and natural gas data are energy conversion factors updated to reflect changes obtained from supplier meters (from liters or kilograms to to, and/or improvements in, and reconciled with internal MJ) are obtained from the published data. During the meters (when available) and/ calculation tool provided by current period, the following or service provider invoices. TCCC Default Factors. conversion factors were used: Diesel, LPG, steam and fuel oil • For LPG (MJ/L) a conversion consumption data are obtained factor (net calorific value) For fuels such as natural gas, from supplier invoices. CCI of 50.0 was used as part of diesel and LPG, conversion Operations used the following the GHG verification process factors are derived from published conversion factors: in accordance with the calculation tools based on the requirements of ISO 14064-1. May 2015 version of the GHG • For electricity, the unit of • For diesel (MJ/L) a conversion Protocol Standards found on the supply is invoiced in kWh. To factor of 39.0 was used. GHG Protocol website (www. calculate energy use ratio, kWh • Steam (GKAL): 4,186.8 MJ ghgprotocol.org). The Global is converted to megajoules (Kazakhstan operations only) Warming Potentials (GWPs) (MJ) at a factor of 3.6. used to calculate the emissions • For natural gas, the unit of GHG Emissions of different GHGs in terms of supply for most suppliers is CO2-equivalents are taken from invoiced in m3. To calculate GHG emissions are calculated the Intergovernmental Panel the energy use ratio, cubic by CCI using published on Climate Change’s Fifth meters is converted to MJ conversion factors. Conversion Assessment Report. with a conversion factor of factors enable an estimate of 37.3, except for in Kazakhstan, the amount of GHGs released 6 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CCI REPORTING GUIDANCE In 2014, we began using the TCCC Default Factors for “SDW Fuel Conversion Factors”, “GHG emissions from transport CO2 Emissions which is updated every year by or mobile sources” tool, version TCCC. 2.6 of May 2015, from the • Natural gas (MJ): 0.05049 kg GHG Protocol of the World CO2 For our Kazakhstan operations, Resources Institute and World • LPG (MJ): 0.0594 kg CO2 since electricity is generated by Business Council for Sustainable a co-generation plant at the site, • Diesel (MJ, light fuel oil): Development to calculate the local laboratory analysis results emission values for employee 0.0704 kg CO2 are used for the calculation commuting and business • Heavy Fuel Oil (MJ): 0.0735 kg of GHG emissions in these categories. GHG emissions of CO2 (Azerbaijan operations operations. The average value Turkey are taken from the report only) of external laboratory analysis verified by the auditing firm • Electricity (kWh): For results are used to determine SGS in line with the ISO 14064-1 electricity, conversion the chemical composition of Standard. factors for GHG emissions samples of the natural gas used are obtained from the in the plant. Extrapolation Method Used International Energy for Energy Use Calculation Agency (IEA) and shared by and Total Energy TCCC with the entire CocaConsumption Cola system. Since the period covered by In this year’s report, we used invoices may not always fully IEA factors of the year 2014 (as align with The Company’s there is a two-year time gap reporting period, adjustments for IEA publish the factors for a are made where necessary in certain year). Combined factors order to align the consumption are used for all operations in data from the invoices with the the sustainability report. This reporting period as agreed with information is available in the The Company’s verifiers. internal document entitled 2010 IEA Factors 2011 IEA Factors 2012 IEA Factors 2013 IEA Factors 2014 IEA Factors kg CO2/kWh electricity (Used for the (Used for the (Used for the (Used for the (Used for the 2012 Report) 2013 Report) 2014 Report) 2015 Report) 2016 Report) Turkey 0.445025 0.457314 0.4591454 0.42868 0.497 Jordan 0.565506 0.637428 0.6356158 0.6393961 0.656 Kazakhstan 0.385311 0.395557 0.4608749 0.4324272 0.515 Azerbaijan 0.392798 0.444116 0.4936623 0.4687942 0.477 Pakistan Not used Not used 0.417622 0.4161746 0.425 Kyrgyzstan 0.050 Water Consumption Restatements Water consumption data is The measuring and reporting obtained from internal meters of assured environmental data where ground water is utilized. inevitably involves a degree Moreover, separate data on of estimation. In exceptional water consumption is obtained circumstances, restatements from supplier meters and of data reported in a prior year then reconciled with internal may be required. Restatements meters (when available) and/or are considered where the data service provider invoices where differs by more than 5% at The the water is supplied by the Company level. network. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 7 MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS STANDARDS AND PRINCIPLES Related External Standards and Issue Internal Policies Principles CCI Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Policy Environmental management ISO 14001 TCCC HSE Policy KORE EOSH* Requirements Water management KORE – EOSH Requirements ISO 14001 Energy management & carbon ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ISO 14064-1, KORE EOSH Requirements emissions GHG Protocol Production Sustainable packaging & waste KORE EOSH Requirements ISO 14001, PAS223 management Quality management (Production ISO 9001, EFQM Business Excellence KORE OE process) Model, Lean Six Sigma ISO 9001, ISO 22000, FSSC 22000, Product quality & safety KORE GFSI** Occupational health & safety KORE EOSH Requirements OHSAS 18001 Sustainable supply chain Supplier Guiding Principles UNGC, GRI TCCC Responsible Marketing Policy, Marketing responsibly TCCC Global School Beverage Guideline UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human and workplace rights Workplace Rights Policy Human Rights Other CCI Ethics Code, Workplace Rights Anti-corruption UNGC Policy Community involvement TCCC’s Policy UNGC Overall Code of Business Conduct, KORE UNGC, GRI * EOSH: Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health ** GFSI: Global Food Safety Initiative 8 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS This section contains additional data on CCI’s sustainability performance. Performance data of a new country operation is presented for the year the country is included in the scope of report for the first time. Sustainability Across Value Chain Concentrate & Materials Used in Products (tons) Sugar CO2 beverage base 2013 40,951 230,222 24,255 2014 42,169 217,892 23,508 Turkey 2015 44,095 227,812 27,072 2016 37,613 255,703 24,727 2013 190 7,293 997 2014 213 804 1,151 Jordan 2015 229 8,744 1,094 2016 215 9,463 987 2013 5,115 4,889 4,588 2014 4,672 66,914 4,815 Kazakhstan 2015 458 49,885 5,518 2016 2,481 42,739 4,268 2013 1,809 17,555 2,706 2014 1,878 18,954 2,954 Azerbaijan 2015 152 17,085 2,565 2016 636 11,054 1,312 2015 635 158,838 16,069 Pakistan 2016 5,413 180,611 19,934 Kyrgyzstan 2016 274 8,641 941 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 9 PET Aseptic Aluminum Plastic Packaging Steel Crown PE Closure preform Glass Carton Carton Cans & Cans Shrink & Materials Used (tons) and resin Packaging end Stretch 2013 945 4,112 55,369 25,664 458 8,481 10,866 6,667 2014 987 3,419 43,168 27,941 4,958 7,692 11,304 5,853 Turkey 2015 1,259 3,986 46,274 39,414 5,131 9,742 12,533 6,689 2016 1,385 3,966 4,758 45,844 4,825 8,924 12,008 7,082 2013 62 105 1,056 7,005 0 262 1,076 237 2014 49 121 1,247 4,942 0 317 1,293 274 Jordan 2015 45 129 1,234 1,272 0 220 1,719 289 2016 28 151 1,362 200 0 417 1,874 379 2013 69 1,263 16,305 6,124 694 1,329 339 1,878 2014 32 1,411 17,418 3,974 663 1,685 361 1,889 Kazakhstan 2015 44 1,367 17,464 3,674 581 1,696 325 205 2016 49 1,175 14,098 4,537 650 1,245 194 1,536 2013 0 817 9,939 0 0 786 0 850 2014 0 896 7,171 0 0 570 0 855 Azerbaijan 2015 0 528 6,776 0 0 384 0 737 2016 0 375 4,276 0 0 275 0 465 2015 21 237 43,783 21,762 n/a 4,263 571 4,161 Pakistan 2016 2,182 2,951 56,817 3,304 n/a 6,042 907 5,178 Kyrgyzstan 2016 0 250 2,932 0 0 192 0 266 Employee Profile Number of Employees 2013 2014 2015 2016 Turkey – Group Office 166 143 132 2,773 Turkey – Operations* 2,342 2,219 2,241 Jordan 409 397 404 398 Kazakhstan 749 845 950 717 Azerbaijan 373 390 352 296 Pakistan 4,491 4,175 3,564 3,356 Kyrgyzstan 366 384 355 307 *Turkey operations include Turkey factories and Turkey sales offices. 10 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Employees Male Female by Gender, Country Employment Type (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Turkey – Group Office 0.0 0.0 0,0 0.0 0.0 0,0 98.8 1.2 Turkey – Operations* 98.5 98.5 98.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 Jordan 100.0 99.5 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 Blue Kazakhstan 99.3 98.8 99.2 99.1 0.7 1.2 0.8 0.9 Collar Azerbaijan 97.5 97.4 97.1 97.0 2.5 2.6 2.9 3.0 Pakistan** 99.2 99.2 98.3 0.8 0.8 1.7 Kyrgyzstan 94.7 42.8 Turkey – Group Office 58.4 55.9 52.3 41.6 44.1 47.7 76.6 23.4 Turkey – Operations* 77.1 78.3 78.2 22.9 21.7 21.8 Jordan 91.8 90.4 89.4 89.3 8.2 9.6 10.6 10.7 White Collar Kazakhstan 75.2 77.7 76.7 70.7 24.8 22.3 23.3 29.3 Azerbaijan 77.7 78.2 81.1 79.7 22.3 21.8 18.9 19.8 Pakistan** 93.2 90.8 90.4 6.8 9.2 9.6 Kyrgyzstan 64.2 35.8 * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. Since 2014, we report the data for Turkey employee profile in two separate categories: Group Office and Operations. ** The blue-collar/white-collar distinction is based on permanent employees since Pakistan does not have this information for its temporary workers. Outsource-Core jobs (*) Outsource-Auxiliary jobs (**) Number of Outsourced Employees 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Turkey – Group Office 0 0 0 0 0 0 902 673 Turkey – Operations* 896 857 929 0 227 261 Jordan 7 0 0 0 53 55 48 50 Kazakhstan 0 0 8 0 86 106 108 122 Azerbaijan 164 153 0 0 33 42 44 37 Pakistan** 806 409 271 865 885 579 Kyrgyzstan 0 49 * Outsource-Core Jobs: Employees who are on the payroll of a third-party company and whose jobs are directly related to our own business (e.g., jobs in merchandising, sales, warehouse operations, production etc.) ** Outsource-Auxiliary Jobs: Employees who are on the payroll of a third-party company and whose jobs are not directly related to our own business (e.g., jobs in security, gardening, health services etc.) PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 11 Employees Male Female Total by Gender, Employment Country Type and Contract 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Number) Turkey – Group Office 873 0 0 0 11 0 0 0 884 0 0 0 Turkey – Operations* 851 830 829 13 13 13 864 843 842 Jordan 190 199 197 192 0 1 0 0 190 200 197 192 Blue Kazakhstan 299 335 376 325 2 4 3 3 301 339 379 328 Collar Azerbaijan 193 188 136 97 5 5 4 3 198 193 140 100 Pakistan** 1,866 1,535 1,289 15 14 22 1,881 1,549 1,311 Kyrgyzstan 161 9 170 Turkey – Group Office 97 80 69 69 63 63 166 143 132 1,447 442 1,889 Turkey – Operations* 1,140 1,078 1,094 338 298 305 1,478 1,376 1,399 Jordan 201 178 185 184 18 19 22 22 219 197 207 206 White Kazakhstan 337 393 438 275 111 113 133 114 448 506 571 389 Collar Azerbaijan 136 154 172 157 39 43 40 39 175 197 212 196 Pakistan** 2,008 1,830 1,848 147 185 197 2,155 2,015 2,045 Kyrgyzstan 88 49 137 Turkey – Group Office 97 80 69 69 63 63 166 143 132 2,319 451 2,770 Turkey – Operations* 1,990 1,908 1,921 347 309 316 2,337 2,217 2,237 Jordan 389 349 377 376 18 19 22 22 407 368 399 398 Permanent Kazakhstan 636 726 814 600 113 117 136 117 749 843 950 717 Azerbaijan 329 342 307 253 44 48 44 42 373 390 351 295 Pakistan** 3,874 3,287 3,015 162 198 206 4,036 3,485 3,221 Kyrgyzstan 249 58 307 Turkey – Group Office 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 3 Turkey – Operations* 1 0 2 4 2 2 5 2 4 Jordan 2 28 5 0 0 1 0 0 2 29 5 0 Temporary Kazakhstan 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 Pakistan** 136 78 122 3 1 13 139 79 135 Kyrgyzstan 0 0 0 * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. ** The blue-collar/white-collar distinction is based on permanent employees since Pakistan does not have this information for its temporary workers. 12 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Percentage Under 30 Between 30-50 Above 50 of Employees Country by Age (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Turkey – Group Office 0.0 0.0 0.0 77.8 60.0 54.5 22.2 40 45.5 0.0 80.0 20.0 Turkey – Operations 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Jordan 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Senior Kazakhstan 4.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 76.0 76.0 75.0 87.5 20.0 24.0 25.0 12.5 Management Azerbaijan 0,0 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 100 100 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pakistan** 0.0 0.0 90.0 90.0 10.0 10.0 Kyrgyzstan 16.7 83.3 0.0 Turkey – Group Office 9.6 11.9 13.2 87.3 81.8 80.2 3.2 6.3 6.6 27.1 71.4 11.5 Turkey – Operations 23.5 23.3 23.9 74.6 75.1 75.0 1.8 1.6 1.1 Jordan 35.3 30.9 38.2 42.5 60.0 62.4 56.0 53.2 4.7 6.7 5.8 4.3 Other Kazakhstan 49.9 40.4 36.3 30.3 43.1 52.1 56.5 61.5 7.0 7.5 7.2 8.2 Employees Azerbaijan 42.5 40.3 36.1 34.8 46.0 48.7 53.2 55.6 11.6 11.0 10.7 9.6 Pakistan 33.3 27.0 62.7 69.3 4.0 3.7 Kyrgyzstan 62.1 30.2 7.6 Number and Male Female Percentage (%) of Employees Country by Gender 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 (%) Turkey – Group Office 7 8 9 81.8 2 2 2 18.2 10 4 Turkey – Operations 5 7 7 87.5 2 1 1 12.5 Jordan 4 5 6 3 60.0 0 1 0 2 40.0 Senior Kazakhstan 18 18 4 4 50.0 7 7 4 4 50.0 Management Azerbaijan 3 3 3 2 67.0 3 3 3 1 33.3 Pakistan 7 10 100.0 3 0 0.0 Kyrgyzstan 5 83.3 1 16.7 Turkey – Group Office 91 72 60 49.6 66 61 61 50.4 2,310 449 Turkey – Operations 1,986 1,901 1,916 85.8 349 310 317 14.2 Jordan 387 372 376 373 94.9 18 19 22 20 5.1 Other Kazakhstan 618 710 810 596 84.1 106 110 132 113 15.9 Employees Azerbaijan 326 339 305 252 86.0 41 45 41 41 14.0 Pakistan 3,358 3,127 93.5 196 219 6.5 Kyrgyzstan 244 81.1 57 18.9 Note: 2013 Turkey figures include senior managers of CCI Group office and CCI Turkey operations. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 13 2013 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of Employees by Gender Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Turkey – Group Office 59.0 41.0 55.9 44.1 52.3 47.7 83.7 16.3 Turkey – Operations 85.0 15.0 85.9 14.1 85.8 14.2 Jordan 95.6 4.4 94.0 5.0 94.5 5.4 94.5 5.5 Kazakhstan 84.9 15.1 86.1 13.8 85.7 14.1 83.7 16.3 Azerbaijan 88.2 11.8 87.7 12.3 87.5 12.5 85.8 14.2 Pakistan 96.0 4.0 94.4 5.6 93.5 6.5 Kyrgyzstan 81.1 18.9 TOTAL 85.4 14.6 90.6 9.4 89.8 10.1 88.7 11.3 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of Employees by Gender Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Turkey – Group Office 98 68 80 63 69 63 2,320 453 Turkey – Operations 1,993 351 1,908 311 1,923 318 Jordan 391 18 377 20 382 22 376 22 Kazakhstan 636 113 728 117 814 136 600 117 Azerbaijan 329 44 342 48 308 44 254 42 Pakistan 3,874 162 3,365 199 3,137 219 Kyrgyzstan 249 58 TOTAL 3,676 628 7,412 766 6,857 775 6,608 839 14 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Number of Employees per Country 2013 2014 2015 2016 Employee Category Turkey – Group Office 7 8 8 114* Turkey – Operations 9 10 11 Jordan 4 6 6 5 Senior Kazakhstan 25 25 8 8 Management Azerbaijan 6 6 6 3 Pakistan 10 10 Kyrgyzstan 6 Turkey – Group Office 2,335 2,211 2,233 2,759 Turkey – Operations 157 133 121 Jordan 405 391 398 393 Other Kazakhstan 724 820 942 709 Employees Azerbaijan 367 384 346 293 Pakistan 3,554 3,346 Kyrgyzstan 301 *Turkey operations include Turkey factories and Turkey sales offices. Training Average Hours of Training 2013 2014 2015 2016 Per Employee Turkey – Group Office 37.7 9.7 12.4 20.3 Turkey – Operations 8.3 4.3 4.0 Jordan 26.4 35.1 64.8 13.8 Kazakhstan 13.5 29.3 27.0 23.12 Azerbaijan 11.1 14.1 37.5 30.6 Pakistan 71.5 27.8 Kyrgyzstan 27.8 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 15 Average hours of training Total number of hours of training Total number of hours of Total Number of Years per year per employee (Employee*Hour) by Countries training (Employee*Hour) Employee (Hour) Turkey 2013 56,429 20.3 2,773 2014 19,540 8.3 2,342 Turkey Operations* 2015 9,596 4.3 2,219 2016 8,976 4.0 2,241 2014 6,255 37.7 166 Corporate/Group Office 2015 1,384 9.7 143 2016 1,633 12.4 132 2013 10,788 26.4 409 2014 13,916 35.1 397 Jordan 2015 26,160 64.8 404 2016 5,297 13.3 398 2013 10,091 13.5 749 2014 24,757 29.3 845 Kazakhstan 2015 25,642 27.0 950 2016 16,606 23.2 717 2013 4,145 11.1 373 2014 5,481 14.1 390 Azerbaijan 2015 13,198 37.5 352 2016 9,051 30.6 296 2015 233,862 65.6 3,564 Pakistan 2016 93,256 27.8 3,356 Kyrgyzstan 2016 8,546 27.8 307 2013 81,453 18.9 4,304 2014 69,949 16.9 4,140 TOTAL 2015 309,842 40.6 7,632 2016 143,365 19.3 7,447 16 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS New Employee Hires Male Female Number and Percentage of New Employee Hires Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Turkey – Group Office 179 7.7 95 21.0 Turkey – Operations 2013 Jordan 136 34.8 5 27.8 Kazakhstan 188 29.6 28 24.8 Azerbaijan 82 24.9 1 2.3 Turkey – Group Office 1 1.0 1 1.5 Turkey – Operations 135 6.8 44 12.5 2014 Jordan 49 13.0 6 30.0 Kazakhstan 206 28.3 29 24.8 Azerbaijan 43 12.6 8 16.7 Turkey – Group Office 4 5.0 3 4.8 Turkey – Operations 172 9.0 32 10.3 Jordan 156 40.8 6 27.3 2015 Kazakhstan 241 29.6 41 30.1 Azerbaijan 41 13.3 6 13.6 Pakistan 79 2.3 49 24.6 Turkey – Group Office 3 4.3 5 7.9 Turkey – Operations 144 7.5 38 12.0 Jordan 148 39.4 6 27.2 2016 Kazakhstan 120 20.0 15 12.8 Azerbaijan 15 5.9 3 7.1 Pakistan 137 4.5 37 18.0 Kyrgyzstan 30 12.0 4 6.9 Note: “Employee turnover” refers to CCI employees who leave the organization voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement, or death in service. Note: “New Employee hires” refers to new CCI employees joining the organization for the first time. Note: For CCI, “age group” is not material data. Therefore this data is not provided in the table above. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 17 Employee Turnover TOTAL Male Female Average Hours of Training TURNOVER Per Employee Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Rate (%) Turkey – Group Office 205 8.8 41 9.1 8.9 Turkey – Operations 2013 Jordan 40 10.2 3 16.7 10.5 Kazakhstan 109 17.1 19 16.8 17.1 Azerbaijan 25 7.6 5 11.4 8.0 Turkey – Group Office 11 11.3 10 14.5 12.7 Turkey – Operations 342 17.2 64 18.2 17.3 2014 Jordan 49 13.0 6 30.0 13.9 Kazakhstan 109 15.0 18 15.4 15.0 Azerbaijan 30 8.8 4 8.3 8.7 Turkey – Group Office 13 16.3 4 6.3 11.9 Turkey – Operations 270 14.2 73 23.5 15.5 Jordan 53 13.9 3 13.6 13.9 2015 Kazakhstan 145 17.8 24 17.6 17.8 Azerbaijan 26 8.4 6 13.6 9.1 Pakistan 163 4.8 42 21.1 5.8 Turkey – Group Office 15 21.6 5 7.9 15.2 Turkey – Operations 157 8.2 45 14.2 9.0 Jordan 66 17.5 4 18.2 17.6 2016 Kazakhstan 334 55.6 34 29.1 51.3 Azerbaijan 59 23.3 4 9.5 21.4 Pakistan 417 13.8 37 18.0 14.1 Kyrgyzstan 68 27.3 11 19.0 25.7 18 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Local Employment Local Senior Management Local White Collar Local Blue Collar Local Employment in International Operations Employment Rate (%) Employment Rate (%) Employment Rate (%) Turkey 90.0 99.6 100.0 Jordan 60.0 97.0 99.0 2013 Azerbaijan 16.7 96.0 100.0 Kazakhstan 50.0 98.9 100.0 Turkey – Group Office 100.0 97.0 0.0 Turkey – Operations 90.0 99.8 100.0 Jordan 67.0 100.0 100.0 2014 Azerbaijan 16.7 96.0 100.0 Kazakhstan 50.0 99.2 100.0 Turkey – Group Office 100.0 89.5 0.0 Turkey – Operations 87.5 99.9 100.0 Jordan 33.3 100.0 100.0 2015 Azerbaijan 16.7 97.2 100.0 Kazakhstan 62.5 99.5 100.0 Pakistan 90.0 100.0 100.0 Turkey – Operations 100.0 99.9 100.0 Jordan 80.0 99.5 100.0 Azerbaijan 33.3 99.0 100.0 2016 Kazakhstan 50.0 98.5 100.0 Pakistan 70.0 99.8 100.0 Kyrgyzstan 50.0 97.1 100.0 Note: “Local” means from the country in question. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 19 Employee Breakdown by Seniority (Years of Service) Employee Breakdown by Seniority (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Turkey – Group Office 53.0 54.0 47.0 53.8 Turkey – Operations 43.3 40.0 42.6 Jordan 55.0 53.2 55.0 57.0 0 – 5 Years Kazakhstan 61.3 60.0 63.0 56.0 Azerbaijan 58.5 55.1 56.0 47.0 Pakistan 54.0 42.0 Kyrgyzstan 67.0 Turkey – Group Office 32.0 31.0 25.0 24.5 Turkey – Operations 32.4 31.0 29.1 Jordan 14.9 15.9 16.0 15.0 6 – 10 Years Kazakhstan 27.8 26.6 23.0 25.0 Azerbaijan 27.9 32.3 28.0 35.0 Pakistan 33.0 40.0 Kyrgyzstan 21.0 Turkey – Group Office 4.0 3.0 8.0 10.0 Turkey – Operations 6.9 11.0 11.3 Jordan 18.3 14.6 11.0 9.0 11 – 15 Years Kazakhstan 5.3 7.9 8.0 12.0 Azerbaijan 4.6 3.3 5.0 7.0 Pakistan 5.0 8.0 Kyrgyzstan 5.0 Turkey – Group Office 5.0 6.0 7.0 9.4 Turkey – Operations 13.9 13.0 11.8 Jordan 11.7 10.6 12.0 14.0 16 – 20 Years Kazakhstan 5.7 4.7 5.0 5.0 Azerbaijan 9.1 10.5 10.0 10.0 Pakistan 5.0 8.0 Kyrgyzstan 7.0 Turkey – Group Office 6.0 6.0 14.0 2.3 Turkey – Operations 3.5 5.0 5.2 Jordan 0.0 5.8 5.0 5.0 20+ Years Kazakhstan 0.0 0.7 1.0 2.0 Azerbaijan 0.0 0.0 1.0 1.0 Pakistan 0.0 2.0 Kyrgyzstan 1.0 Note: Figures as of December 31 in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. Note: 2013 Turkey figures include employees of CCI Turkey Operations and CCI Group Office. 20 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 OHS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Lost Time Incidents (workdays lost) Lost Time Incidents (Number) Number of Fatalities OHS Performance Indicators Employee Contractor Total Employee Contractor Total Employee Contractor Total 2012 Turkey 240 204 444 29 22 51 0 0 0 Jordan 186 56 242 12 0 12 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 2 2 0 0 0 OVERALL 426 260 686 41 24 65 0 0 0 2013 Turkey 208 79 287 21 12 33 0 0 0 Jordan 140 20 160 10 0 10 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 21 21 0 1 1 0 0 0 OVERALL 348 120 468 31 13 44 0 0 0 2014 Turkey 648 94 742 30 7 37 0 0 0 Jordan 146 0 146 9 0 9 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 OVERALL 794 94 888 39 7 46 0 0 0 2015 Turkey 146 292 438 15 15 30 0 0 0 Jordan 118 0 118 8 0 8 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pakistan 174 0 174 7 10 17 0 0 0 OVERALL 438 292 730 30 25 55 0 0 0 2016 Turkey 141 109 250 19 11 30 0 0 0 Jordan 296 0 296 18 0 18 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 32 16 48 2 1 3 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pakistan 220 4 224 4 1 5 1 0 1 Kyrgyzstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 OVERALL 689 129 818 43 13 56 1 0 1 * 2015 vehicle accident data for Pakistan was not prepared on a consistent basis between plants. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 21 OHS Performance LTIR LTISR Total Vehicle Accident Vehicle Accident Rate Indicators 2012 Turkey 0.90 7.84 250.00 15.33 Jordan 2.62 52.78 34.00 19.40 Kazakhstan 0.00 0.00 5.00 1.47 Azerbaijan 0.39 8.34 22.00 13.70 2013 Turkey 0.55 4.75 241.00 13.87 Jordan 1.56 27.67 54.00 23.80 Kazakhstan 0.00 0.00 8.00 2.93 Azerbaijan 0.17 3.58 6.00 3.40 OVERALL 0.55 5.90 309.00 12.97 2014 Turkey 0.67 8.83 164.00 14.22 Jordan 1.54 24.91 50.00 22.02 Kazakhstan 0.00 0.00 27.00 9.89 Azerbaijan 0.00 0.00 8.00 4.28 OVERALL 0.62 3.15 249.00 13.68 2015 Turkey 0.68 9.50 101.00 10.44 Jordan 1.42 20.93 74.00 32.60 Kazakhstan 0.00 0.00 2.00 0.73 Azerbaijan 0.00 0.00 3.00 1.74 Pakistan 0.37 3.77 13.00 2.51 OVERALL 0.49 6.63 193.00 8.97 2016 Turkey 0.68 5.69 100.00 10.88 Jordan 3.42 56.28 65.00 28.63 Kazakhstan 0.43 6.91 0.00 0.00 Azerbaijan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Pakistan 0.13 5.98 13.00 2.16 Kyrgyzstan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 OVERALL 0.57 8.35 178.00 8.59 22 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 OHS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Employees Covered by 2013 2014 2015 2016 Collective Bargaining Agreements # % # % # % # % Turkey – Operations* 38 4.10 41 4.30 52 6.20 761 90.38 Jordan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pakistan 2,156 100 1,881 100 1,470 100 1,229 1 Kyrgyzstan 0 0 Benefits Provided to Full-time Jordan Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan Jordan Employees in 2016 Private health insurance yes yes yes yes yes yes Private life insurance yes yes no no yes no Individual pension funds yes no no no no no Company products yes yes yes yes yes yes Seniority service awards yes no yes yes yes yes PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 23 ENVIRONMENT Energy Management and Climate Protection Fuel Plant Purchased Energy Energy Use (Million MJ)* TOTAL Heavy fuel oil Diesel LPG Natural gas Electricity Steam 2012 0 4.38 58.09 254.51 403.93 0 720.91 2013 0 3.23 59.62 255.56 391.25 0 709.66 Turkey 2014 0 1.75 55.69 269.10 385.69 0 712.23 2015 0 4.07 51.95 281.96 404.47 0 742.45 2016 0 2.88 35.63 263.24 400.74 0 702.49 2012 0 12.59 3.53 0 20.39 0 36.51 2013 0 7.45 4.66 0 19.27 0 31.38 Jordan 2014 5.28 3.41 4.00 0 22.60 0 35.29 2015 4.22 1.01 2.81 0 23.41 0 31.45 2016 3.97 0.61 3.00 0 23.93 0 31.51 2012 0 0 13.33 0 52.16 46.56 112.05 2013 0 0.54 13.90 106.65 50.20 54.63 225.92 Kazakhstan 2014 0 0.41 16.49 93.06 61.08 63.59 230.63 2015 0 0.38 14.15 82.36 71.62 60.74 229.25 2016 0 82.30 13.39 60.69 92.38 49.97 298.73 2012 1.30 0.00 5.79 30.06 46.79 0 83.94 2013 1.07 0.96 5.87 29.70 55.87 0 93.47 Azerbaijan 2014 0 0.71 7.34 29.30 60.49 0 97.84 2015 0 0.39 7.25 21.70 48.27 0 77.61 2016 0 0.00 8.75 15.70 30.52 0 54.97 2014 0 180.20 21.50 11.00 85.50 0 298.20 Pakistan 2015 0 345.83 50.08 46.39 229.22 0 671.53 2016 0 188.70 26.80 132.60 296.30 0 644.40 Kyrgyzstan 2016 0 0.93 0.92 16.12 22.75 0 40.72 2012 1.30 16.97 80.74 284.57 523.27 46.56 953.41 2013 1.07 12.18 84.05 391.91 516.59 54.63 1,060.43 TOTAL 2014 5.28 186.48 105.02 402.46 615.36 63.59 1,378.19 2015 4.22 351.68 126.24 432.41 776.99 60.74 1,752.28 2016 3.97 275.42 88.49 488.35 866.62 49.97 1,772.82 Note: These figures exclude energy use for preform injection and CO2 production processes in plants in Turkey, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan operations and Pakistan (Lahore Plant). Energy use for the electricity manufacturing process, which is present only in our Kazakhstan plant, is excluded from 2012 data, but included in 2013 and 2014 data. The energy metric used in Pakistan is the Total EUR and not the Core EUR. However, for benchmarking purposes against other international plants it is included in the table above. Kazakhstan Core EUR has increased in 2016 since a new plant (Astana) has started operation in 2016. * The figures for 2012 and 2013 in Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan operations, the figures for 2014 and 2015 in Turkey and Pakistan and the figures for 2016 in Turkey have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. 24 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENT Fuel Plant Purchased Energy Total Energy Use (Million MJ)* TOTAL Heavy fuel oil Diesel LPG Natural gas Electricity Steam 2012 0 4.56 58.09 272.85 503.53 0 839.03 2013 0 3.23 59.64 273.13 482.22 0 818.22 Turkey 2014 0 2.01 55.69 284.11 466.83 0 808.64 2015 0 4.16 51.95 297.53 492.90 0 846.54 2016 0 3.12 35.63 277.17 492.32 0 808.24 2012 0 12.59 3.53 0 20.39 0 36.51 2013 0 7.45 4.66 0 19.27 0 31.38 Jordan 2014 5.28 3.41 4.00 0 22.60 0 35.29 2015 4.22 1.01 2.81 0 23.41 0 31.45 2016 3.97 0.61 3.00 0 23.93 0 31.51 2012 0 0.16 13.33 134.59 83.42 46.56 278.06 2013 0 0.54 13.90 184.19 96.04 54.63 349.30 Kazakhstan 2014 0 0.41 16.49 188.45 110.62 63.59 379.56 2015 0 0.38 14.15 172.11 111.72 60.74 359.10 2016 0 96.83 13.39 134.45 119.23 49.97 413.87 2012 1.30 47.76 5.79 30.06 76.24 0 161.15 2013 1.07 49.52 5.87 29.70 84.30 0 170.46 Azerbaijan 2014 0 54.70 7.34 29.30 88.90 0 180.24 2015 0 0.39 7.25 75.58 71.61 0 154.83 2016 0 0 8.75 32.65 82.74 0 124.14 2014 0 434.85 45.81 57.81 233.57 0 772.04 Pakistan 2015 0 366.47 50.08 46.39 268.41 0 731.35 2016 0 195.60 46.49 132.59 338.56 0 713.24 Kyrgyzstan 2016 0 1.15 1.01 38.60 23.80 0 64.56 2012 1.30 65.07 80.74 437.50 683.58 46.56 1,314.75 2013 1.07 60.74 84.07 487.02 681.83 54.63 1,369.36 TOTAL 2014 5.28 495.38 129.33 559.67 922.52 63.59 2,175.77 2015 4.22 372.41 126.24 591.61 968.05 60.74 2,123.27 2016 3.97 297.31 108.27 615.46 1,080.58 49.97 2,155.56 Note: This table includes data on energy use for all processes in the plants. * The figures for 2012 and 2013 in Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan operations and the figures of 2014, 2015 and 2016 in Turkey have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 25 CCI uses two main KPIs to measure energy intensity: 1. Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L), which relate only to the core process (filling), so that the energy efficiency of the core process can be compared between plants. (For more information please see the Reporting Guidance section of the report.) 2. Total Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L), which is the total absolute energy consumption (in MJ) from the plant divided by total production (in liters). Total Energy Use Ratio 2012* 2013* 2014 2015 2016 (MJ/L) Turkey 0.30 0.30 0.30* 0.30* 0.29* Jordan 0.47 0.41 0.41 0.33 0.30 Kazakhstan 0.69 0.68 0.64 0.65 0.76 Azerbaijan 0.74 0.75 0.72 0.74 0.70 Pakistan 0.59* 0.52* 0.43 Kyrgyzstan 0.76 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L) 2012* 2013* 2014 2015 2016 Turkey 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.27* 0.25* Jordan 0.47 0.41 0.41 0.33 0.30 Kazakhstan 0.28 0.44 0.40 0.41 0.55 Azerbaijan 0.39 0.41 0.39 0.37 0.37 Pakistan 0.52 0.48* 0.40 Kyrgyzstan 0.48 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. 26 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENT GHG Emissions (tons of CO2 -e) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Turkey Scope 1 49,217 47,418 52,162 44,247 Scope 2 62,877 61,359 60,397 69,697 Scope 3*** 328,628 321,162 299,264 414,372 Total 440,722 429,939 411,823 528,316 Jordan Scope 1 786 866 535 331 Scope 2 3,412 3,990 4,673 4,464 Scope 3*** 27,073 27,202 28,062 22,550 Total 31,271 32,058 33,27 27,345 Kazakhstan Scope 1 9,597 18,734 13,942 18,009 Scope 2 10,553 10,133 13,42 14,271 Scope 3*** 34,836 42,998 36,902 41,694 Total 54,986 71,865 64,264 73,974 Azerbaijan Scope 1 5,335 9,215 6,797 6,231 Scope 2 10,399 8,817 6,789 5,985 Scope 3*** 12,716 14,092 14,438 12,578 Total 28,450 32,124 28,024 24,794 Pakistan Scope 1 35,554 31,199 21,009 Scope 2 27,095 30,653 39,270 Scope 3*** 0 237,843 251,636 Total 62,649 299,695 311,915 Kyrgyzstan Scope 1 2,090 Scope 2 3,271 Scope 3*** 2,249 Total 5,520 TOTAL Scope 1 64,935 111,787 104,635 91,917 Scope 2 87,241 111,394 115,932 136,958 Scope 3*** 403,253 405,454 616,509 745,079 OVERALL TOTAL 555,429 628,635 837,076 973,954 * Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from Turkey for 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 are verified by SGS according to the requirements of ISO 14064-1. **Scope 3 emissions for Turkey operations include energy consumption of coolers by distributors, employee commuting, downstream transport and investment. *** Scope 3 emissions include emissions resulting from energy consumption of coolers by distributors. Note: Scope 1 and Scope 2 data in the table above include emissions from all processes, including filling, preform injection, CO2 production and electricity production (only in Kazakhstan) in our plants. In all CCI countries except Turkey, emissions from fleet and fugitive emissions are excluded. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 27 Energy and Emission Energy Saving GHG Emissions Avoided Annual CO2 Extraction Reductions due to EMD (million kWh) (ton CO2) (tree)* Program in Turkey 2014 381 175,000 14.6 million 2015 402 172,315 14.4 million 2016 438 217,915 16.8 million *Assumption was made for a tree to extract 12 kg CO2 gas annually. Energy and Emission Reductions due to EMD Energy Saving GHG Emissions Avoided Annual CO2 Extraction Program in the Six (million kWh) (ton CO2) (tree) Countries of Operation. 2014 402 185 15.4 million 2015 428 184 15.3 million 2016* 475 231 19.2 million * Kyrgyzstan data is included for 2016 figures GHG Emissions Ratio (g/L) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Turkey 28.95 30.10 28.52 28.47 27.92 27.68 29.09 Jordan 72.44 56.03 55.31 54.76 55.89 49.31 48.00 Kazakhstan 56.90 49.46 41.07 39.22 49.85 49.44 59.86 Azerbaijan 53.54 49.44 62.55 69.38 71.82 64.58 60.24 Pakistan 41.82 36.37 Kyrgyzstan 33.52 Conversion Factors for CO2 Emissions due to Electricity Consumption 2010 IEA Factors 2011 IEA Factors 2012 IEA Factors 2013 IEA Factors 2014 IEA Factors kg CO2 /kWh electricity (Used for the (Used for the (Used for the (Used for the (Used for the 2012 Report) 2013 Report) 2014 Report) 2015 Report) 2016 Report) Turkey 0.445025 0.457314 0.4591454 0.42868 0.497 Jordan 0.565506 0.637428 0.6356158 0.6393961 0.656 Kazakhstan 0.385311 0.395557 0.4608749 0.4324272 0.515 Azerbaijan 0.392798 0.444116 0.4936623 0.4687942 0.477 Pakistan Not used Not used 0.417622 0.4161746 0.515 Kyrgyzstan Not used Not used Not used Not used 0.477 28 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENT AMOUNT Emissions Savings in Scope Turkey (tons of CO2-e) 2014 2015 2016 Product distribution fleet Scope 1 366 2,075 0 improvement Fugitive emissions Scope 1 299 145 2,651 reductions in coolers Energy efficiency and low Scope 1+2 2,030 1,402 80,289 carbon projects in plants Route optimization Scope 3 1,050 1,050 1,050 Cooler EMD Improvement Scope3 175,000 172,315 201,317 TOTAL Scope 1+2+3 178,745 176,987 285,307 2014 2015 2016 Energy Saved and GHG Emissions Reduced due GHG GHG GHG to Efficiency Projects in Monetary Monetary Energy Emissions Energy Emissions Energy Emissions Plants Saving Saving (Million MJ) (tons of (Million MJ) (tons of (Million MJ) (tons of (USD) (USD) CO2) CO2) CO2) Turkey 28.4 1,890 11.7 1,402 247,886 1,591.89 4,417.11 269,938 Jordan 4.7 515 2.5 200 40,869 2.87 372.85 95,100 Kazakhstan 9 1,499 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0.8 59 0.2 28 2,655 0.39 53.82 4,403 Pakistan 11.1 674 12.8 1,168 387,455 16.34 1,699 19,163 Kyrgyzstan 9.09 431.07 83,831.06 TOTAL 54 4,637 27.2 2,798 678,865 1,620.58 6,920.03 472,435.06 EMD Ratio (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Turkey 35 59 77 84 87 88 Jordan 5 5 5 5 5 5 Kazakhstan 12 19 29 29 39 41 Azerbaijan 50 50 50 50 50 50 Pakistan Kyrgyzstan 72.5 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 29 Water Management Water Use Ratio (L/L) 2012* 2013* 2014 2015 2016 Turkey 1.39 1.41 1.41* 1.44* 1.47* Jordan 2.06 2.00 2.04 1.89 1.71 Kazakhstan 1.76 1.65 1.55 1.47 1.67 Azerbaijan 1.90 1.92 1.82 1.85 1.82 Pakistan 2.40* 2.03* 2.00 Kyrgyzstan 1.88 Total Water Consumption by Region (m3) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Turkey 3,912,240* 3,832,252* 4,000,719* 4,130,826* Jordan 153,656* 177,081 180,232 177,137 Kazakhstan 849,980* 896,218 816,221 911,071 Azerbaijan 436,075* 457,873 388,103 251,715 Pakistan 3,138,972* 2,829,952* 3,161,737 Kyrgyzstan 160,373 TOTAL 5,351,951 8,502,396 8,215,227 8,792,859 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. Volume of Water Recycled and 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Reused (m3) Turkey 114,582 284,782 40,337 80 341,973 Jordan 10,942 0 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 6,758 5,58 5,942 5,191 5,236 Pakistan 68,216 129,005 Kyrgyzstan 720 TOTAL 132,282 290,362 46,279 153,407 476,934 30 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENT Percentage of Water Recycled and Reused (%)* 2013 2014 2015 2016 Turkey 7.3 1.1 2.0 7.4 Jordan 0 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 1.3 1.3 1.3 2.08 Pakistan 2.4 4 Kyrgyzstan 0.5 TOTAL 5.4 0.5 1.9 5.4 * Percentage is calculated based on the water consumption figures. Water Discharge by Destination (m3) Destination 2015 2016 Surface water 421,941 530,676 Turkey Organized Industrial Zone 181,205 505,514 Municipal sewage system 489,190 191,590 Surface water 0 0 Jordan Municipal sewage system 84,771 73,125 Surface water 0 0 Kazakhstan Municipal sewage system 198,552 303,110 Surface water 0 0 Azerbaijan Municipal sewage system 204,397 132,284 Surface water 156,553 147,484 Pakistan Organized Industrial Zone 519,763 168,036 Municipal sewage system 735,906 1,066,204 Surface water 0 Kyrgyzstan Organized Industrial Zone 0 Municipal sewage system 80,893 Surface water 578,494 678,160 TOTAL Organized Industrial Zone 700,968 673,550 Municipal sewage system 1,712,816 1,847,206 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 31 The Coca-Cola Company Requirements for Treated Wastewater Quality* Maximum Water Quality Parameters Allowable Limit Values 5-Day Biological Oxygen Demand < 50 mg/l pH Level 6.5-8** Total Suspended Solids < 50 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids < 2,000 mg/l Total Nitrogen < 5 mg/l Total Phosphorus < 2 mg/l These values indicate the maximum allowable limit values unless applicable legal requirements are more stringent. * These are six of the 20 water quality parameters established for the Coca-Cola system. ** Depends on receiving stream water conditions. Water Discharge (L/L) 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 Turkey 0.39 0.35 0.41 0.39 0.47 Jordan 2.43 1.00 1.04 0.89 0.71 Kazakhstan 0.87 0.50 0.42 0.36 1.69 Azerbaijan 1.16 1.05 0.94 0.97 0.96 Pakistan 1.35 1.01 0.82 Kyrgyzstan 0.95 32 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENT Sustainable Packaging and Waste Total Weight of Waste by Type and Turkey* Jordan Kazakhstan* Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan Disposal Method (Tons) Reuse 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.0 Recycle 15.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Landfill 7.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Hazardous Incineration 8.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Recovery 609.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 640.8 0.0 1.0 0.0 2013 Reuse 6.3 0.0 650.6 77.0 Recycle 12,510 467.5 85.9 212.6 NonLandfill 520.7 26.2 79.1 1.2 Hazardous Recovery 132.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 13,169.6 493.7 815.6 290.8 TOTAL 13,810.4 493.7 816.6 290.8 Reuse 2.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.0 Recycle 69.4 0.0 1.5 0.0 2.6 Landfill 5.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 28.0 Hazardous Incineration 8.2 0.0 0.4 0.0 122.8 Recovery 415.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 501.7 0.0 1.9 0.0 157.4 2014 Reuse 0.0 0.0 204.9 0.0 6,221 Recycle 12,032.5 260.3 757.8 486.0 10,630 NonLandfill 407.6 0.0 89.2 31.0 422.0 Hazardous Recovery 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 12,440.1 260.3 1,051.9 517.0 17,273.0 TOTAL 12,941.8 260.3 1,053.8 517.0 17,430.4 Reuse 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Recycle 18.7 0.0 17.1 0.0 0.0 Landfill 4.3 0.0 0.0 13.5 24.1 Hazardous Incineration 18.6 0.0 0.4 0.0 324.0 Recovery 2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 43.6 0.0 17.5 13.5 348.1 2015 Reuse 0.0 0.0 173.5 0.0 3,303.7 Recycle 7,662 225.3 823.6 241.1 9,511.9 NonLandfill 283 0.0 71.6 17.4 320.7 Hazardous Recovery 145 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 8,090 225.3 1,068.7 258.5 13,136.3 TOTAL 8,133.6 225.3 1,086.2 272.0 13,484.4 Reuse 78.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Recycle 243.7 0.0 9.4 19.6 0.0 Landfill 7.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.345 Hazardous Incineration 33.5 0.0 0.52 0.0 148,523 Recovery 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.8 TOTAL 363.5 0.0 9.9 19.6 148,523.3 2.8 2016 Reuse 2,025.2 0.0 123.1 0.0 1,945 317.6 Recycle 10,722.1 289.0 903.2 129.5 13,343 0 NonLandfill 696.8 0.0 100.5 4.6 326.2 3.5 Hazardous Recovery 115 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 TOTAL 13,559.1 289.0 1,126.8 134.1 15,614.2 321.1 TOTAL 13,922.6 289.0 1,136.7 153.7 164,137.5 323.9 * 2013 figures for Turkey and Kazakhstan have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 33 Total Waste Ratio (g/L) 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 Turkey 3.74 4.99* 4.77* 5.09 4.99 Jordan 15.72 6.44* 3.29 2.46 3.07 Kazakhstan 4.14 1.59* 1.82* 1.96 2.08 Azerbaijan 0.65 1.28* 2.06 1.23 0.96 Pakistan 9.66 8.90 Kyrgyzstan 3.81 *These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. Total Waste Recycling Rate (%) 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 Turkey 90.99 96.12 96.66 95.57 94.79 Jordan 81.60 94.70 90.45 94.10 90.30 Kazakhstan 94.67 90.30 91.70 93.00 91.20 Azerbaijan 75.55 99.60 94.00 95.60 96.30 Pakistan 70.54 93.00 Kyrgyzstan 98.10 Resin Saving (ton) 2016 Turkey 1,758 Jordan 36 Kazakhstan 46 Azerbaijan 310 Pakistan 643 Kyrgyzstan 76 TOTAL 2,869 Environmental Training Total Hours of Environment 2013 2014 2015 2016 Training (man-hours) Turkey 2,490 3,342 2,590 2,818 Jordan 80 34 56 95 Kazakhstan 63 98 344 295 Azerbaijan 79 224 224 188 Pakistan 1,971 1,072 Kyrgyzstan 434 TOTAL 2,172 3,698 5,185 4,902 34 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 HOW DO WE RESPOND TO STAKEHOLDERS’ 102-40; 102-43; 102-44 QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS? Frequency of Issues that were brought up Stakeholders Engagement Platforms engagement by stakeholders Annual report, investor conferences, analyst meetings, investor presentation, webcast, e-mail Investors distributions, special case announcements, CCI’s financial, operational and and financial Public Disclosure Platform, direct feedback forms Every year sustainability performance; institutions through the corporate website, sustainability future investment plans. report, CDP Climate Change Report, CDP Water Report, Sustainability Index Assessment. Project partnerships, corporate and individual CCI’s operational, environmental, employee memberships, participation in NGOs Regular quality and community-related performance; conferences and presentations, reputation survey, transparency and reporting. Stakeholder Day. Reputation Survey, sustainability report, External CCI’s operational, environmental, quality and Opinion leaders Stakeholder Review Committee, stakeholder Regular community-related performance, environmental engagement panel. impacts in the value chain. General Assemblies, corporate website, Public Financial and operational performance Shareholders Regular Disclosure Platform. and reporting. Employee engagement and satisfaction survey, Newsline, Newsletter, CokePort, press releases, Business results, environmental performance, Employees CCI training programs, leadership development Regular community projects, awards and recognitions, trainings, reputation surveys, CCIdea, Volunteer compensation and benefits topics. Programs, CEO Meetings. The Coca-Cola Regular meetings, TCCC’s Sustainability, Public Regular, CCI’s and its suppliers’ System Affairs and Communication Summits. very often sustainability performance Distributors/ Satisfaction Survey, distributor meetings and Business performance, commercial plans, Periodic Sellers trainings, regular visits, plant visits, distributor portal. satisfaction scores. Trainings, support programs, regular visits, plant visits, Coca-Cola Customer Road Show, Customer Business performance, commercial plans, Customers Periodic Satisfaction Survey, CCI Interaction Center, focus products, marketing plans. group studies, business development meetings. Quality of materials and services, Training programs, improvement audits, plant future plans, strategic initiatives, visits, supplier days, supplier performance scores, Suppliers Regular business performance, sustainability, supplier satisfaction surveys, cooperation portal, workplace rights, industrial development and pilot activities. innovation in cooling equipment. Information for contribution to sector Annual development, compliance with laws and reputation CCI’s operational, environmental, Public Institutions regulations, support for infrastructure survey, quality and community-related performance; and Organizations investments, Reputation Survey, Environment regular compliance with regulations. Days, Presentations, expertise sharing in public meetings conferences, plant visits. Coca-Cola Open to Curiosity Platform, Coca-Cola Product quality, consumer satisfaction, Consumers Social Interaction Center, informative publications, Regular low-and no-calorie product alternatives, plant visits, product labels. nutritional labeling, product ingredients. Union representation, collective labor agreements, Union Regular Human and workplace rights. representative meetings, plant visits. Industry-wide issues, regulations, Corporate memberships, joint projects, meetings, Sector Groups Regular legal compliance, speaking engagements at conferences. conferences, benchmark visits to plants. Stakeholder Survey, voluntary practices, CCI’s operational, environmental, donations, plant visits, field studies, needs Local community Annual quality and community-related performance; analyses for community investment projects, sponsorship and donation requests. economic impact assessments. Coca-Cola Open to Curiosity Platform, donations, plant visits, voluntary practices, product labels, Product quality, product ingredients, Society advertisement and marketing activities, social Regular marketing and promotion campaigns, engagement projects, field studies, meetings, sports tournaments. surveys and eliciting opinions, sustainability report. Products, marketing and promotion, Regular updated, statements, support programs, campaigns, product ingredients, Media Regular regular visits, plant visits, reputation survey. sustainability performance, community development projects. Conferences, career days, plant visits, Sustainability performance, Universities sponsorships, volunteering for community Regular career development opportunities. development projects. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 35 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page GRI 101: Foundation GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-1 CCI at a Glance 4 102-2 CCI at a Glance 4,7 102-3 Contact 44 102-4 CCI at a Glance 4 Corporate Website, http://cci.com.tr/Portals/3/Documents/PDF/CCI_ 102-5 Shareholder_Structure.pdf?ver=2017-06-05-133510-227 Organizational 102-6 CCI at a Glance 4 Profile 102-7 CCI at a Glance 11 102-8 Performance Indicators 5-7 102-9 Our Value Chain 5-7 102-10 Corporate Website, http://cci.com.tr/en/investor-relations 102-11 Risk Management 26-27 102-12 Sustainability Communication 22 102-13 Sustainability Communication 22 Strategy 102-14 Message from the CEO 2-3 Ethics and 102-16 Ethics 29-30 integrity Governance 102-18 Corporate Governance 26 Stakeholder Engagement; 24 102-40 How We Respond to Stakeholders’ Questions and Concerns? 34 102-41 Workplace Rights 10 Stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement; 24-25 Engagement 102-42 GRI Content Index: CCI defines all individuals and institutions that are influenced 35 by or have an influence on Company's operations as its stakeholders. Stakeholder Engagement; 24-25 102-43 How We Respond to Stakeholders’ Questions and Concerns? 34 102-44 How We Respond to Stakeholders’ Concerns 34 102-45 About the Report; Performance Indicators 1 102-46 About the Report; Updated Materiality Analysis 1; 23 102-47 Updated Materiality Analysis 23 102-48 About the Report 1 102-49 Updated Materiality Analysis 23 102-50 About the Report 1 Reporting Practice 102-51 GRI Content Index: 2016 35 102-52 GRI Content Index: Annual 35 102-53 About the Report 1 GRI Content Index: This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI 102-54 35 Standards: Core option. 102-55 GRI Content Index 35-39 102-56 About the Report; Independent Assurance Letter 1; 40 Our report is composed of three full sections. On GRI Table numbers in RED indicate that referenced page is on “Sustainability Approach”, numbers in BLACK indicate that referenced page is on “Sustainability in Review”, numbers in ORANGE indicate that referenced page is on “Performance Indicators” sections. 36 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX GRI 200: Economic Standard Series 2016 Material Topics Disclosure Page Updated Materiality Analysis; Integrating Sustainability 103-1 23, 16, 26 Corporate Governance and Ethics Corporate Governance 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-1 Updated Materiality Analysis: Integrating Sustainability 23, 16 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 Economic Performance 201-1 CCI Annual Report 2016 5 201-2 Energy Efficiency And Climate Protection 44 201-4 CCI Annual Report 2016 106 Updated Materiality Analysis 24 103-1 Integrating Sustainability 16 Economic Impact 26 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 Indirect 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 Economic Impact Water Stewardship 40 203-1 The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation 29 The Anadolu Foundation 29 203-2 Economic Impact 26 204-1 Excellence in Supply Chain 5 Updated Materiality Analysis 23 103-1 Integrating Sustainability 16 Corporate Governance and Ethics 26 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 Business Ethics GRI Content Index: All CCI operations are 205-1 36 assessed for risks related to corruption. 205-2 Ethics 29 GRI Content Index: During the reporting period, there were no legal actions 206-1 36 against us for anti-competetive behavior, anti-trust or monopoly practices. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 37 GRI 300: Environmental Standards Series 2016 Material Topics Disclosure Page Updated Materiality Analysis 23 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-1 Recycling 59 Sustainable Sourcing 58 Packaging and 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 Waste 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 301-2 Recycling 61 301-3 Recycling 61 306-2 Performance Indicators 32 Updated Materiality Analysis 23 103-1 Integrating Sustainability 16 Energy Management and Climate Protection 44 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 302-1 Performance Indicators 24 Energy Efficiency 302-3 Energy Efficiency And Climate Protection 45 and Carbon 302-4 Energy Efficiency And Climate Protection 47 Reduction 302-5 Recycling 60 305-1 Performance Indicators 26 305-2 Performance Indicators 26 305-3 Performance Indicators 26 305-4 Energy Efficiency And Climate Protection 49 305-5 Energy Efficiency And Climate Protection 48 Updated Materiality Analysis 23 103-1 Integrating Sustainability 16 Water Management 52 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 Water Use 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 303-1 Performance Indicators 29 303-2 Water Management 54 303-3 Performance Indicators 29 Updated Materiality Analysis 23 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-1 Water Management 52 Recycling 59 Wastewater 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 306-1 Performance Indicators 30 306-5 Water Management 54 Updated Materiality Analysis 23 103-1 Integrating Sustainability 16 Transport Transport and Distribution 49 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 Updated Materiality Analysis 23 103-1 Integrating Sustainability 16 Corporate Governance and Ethics 26 Compliance 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 GRI Content Index: During the reporting period, no significant fines* were paid for 307-1 37 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. GRI Content Index: During the reporting period, no significant fines were paid for 419-1 37 non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area. *Fines of USD 200,000 are deemed significant by CCI. 38 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX Updated Materiality Analysis 23 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-1 Excellence in Supply Chain 5 Superior Execution 6 Supplier and Distributor 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 Assessment 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 308-1 Excellence in Supply Chain 5 414-1 Excellence in Supply Chain 5 GRI 400: Social Standards Series 2016 Material Topics Disclosure Page Updated Materiality Analysis 23 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-1 Diversity and Inclusion 15 Women’s Empowerment 18 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 401-1 Performance Indicators 16-17 Diversity and 401-2 Workplace Rights 8 Inclusion (incl. Women 401-3 Diversity and Inclusion 15 Empowerment) 404-1 Learning and Development 14 Performance Indicators 18 405-1 Diversity and Inclusion 15 As CCI equal pay for equal work” is adopted as per Pay Policy principles in order 405-2 to reward our employees in accordance with their valuable contributions to our 38 company regardless of gender bias. During the reporting period, there have been no incidents of discrimination at CCI 406-1 38 operations. Updated Materiality Analysis 23 103-1 Integrating Sustainability 16 Workplace Rights 8 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 Workplace 402-1 CCI Annual Report 2016 53 Rights 407-1 Workplace Rights 10 408-1 CCI Annual Report 2016 27 409-1 CCI Annual Report 2016 27 Excellence in Supply Chain 5 412-1 Workplace Rights 8 Updated Materiality Analysis 23 103-1 Integrating Sustainability 16 Occupational Health and Safety 22 Occupational Health and 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 Safety 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 403-1 Occupational Health and Safety 22 403-2 Performance Indicators 20-21 Updated Materiality Analysis 23 103-1 Integrating Sustainability 16 Health and Safety 26 Security 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 Practices 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 All security personnel working in CCI operations are trained in human rights 410-1 38 policies and procedures. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 39 Updated Materiality Analysis 23 103-1 Integrating Sustainability 16 Community Development 28 Community Engagement 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 413-1 Community Development 28 Updated Materiality Analysis 23 Integrating Sustainability 103-1 16 Product Safety and Quality 1 Consumer Well-Being 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 Consumer 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 Health Well-Being 416-1 Product Safety and Quality 2 During the reporting period, there have been no incidents of non-compliance 416-2 39 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services. During the reporting period, there have been no incidents of non-compliance 417-3 39 concerning marketing communications. Updated Materiality Analysis 23 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-1 Product Safety and Quality 2 Consumer Well-Being 1 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 Product Quality and Labeling 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 417-1 Consumer Well-Being 1 During the reporting period, there have been no incidents of non-compliance 417-2 39 concerning product and service information and labeling Updated Materiality Analysis 23 103-1 Integrating Sustainability 16 Sustainable Product Safety and Quality 58 Agriculture (sugar) 103-2 Integrating Sustainability 16 103-3 Integrating Sustainability 16 Communication on Progress | UN Global Compact Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Workplace Rights 10-11 proclaimed human rights; and Community Development 28-41 Human Rights Workplace Rights 10-11 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Community Development 28-41 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Workplace Rights 10 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsary labour; Workplace Rights 8-10 Labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Workplace Rights 8-10 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Workplace Rights 8-10 occupation. Diversity and Inclusion 15-16 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautinary approach and environmental Energy Efficiency and 44-54 challenges; Climate Protection Environment Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Our Environmental Footprint 42-63 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Our Environmental Footprint 42-63 technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Anti-Corruption Ethics 29-30 extortion and bribery. 40 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE LETTER PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 41 GREENHOUSE GAS VERIFICATION STATEMENT 42 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GREENHOUSE GAS VERIFICATION STATEMENT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 43 44 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CONTACT CCI Atilla D. Yerlikaya Group Corporate Affairs Director corporate.affairs@cci.com.tr OSB Mah. Deniz Feneri Sokak No: 4 34776 Dudullu Ümraniye İstanbul Tel: +90 216 528 40 00 Fax: +90 216 510 70 12 www.cci.com.tr REPORTING CONSULTANT www.kiymetiharbiye.com DESIGN www.crosscom.biz LEGAL DISCLAIMER This sustainability report (the Report) was prepared by CCI within the principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and the United Nations Global Compact. This report has been prepared solely for informative purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information in this report constitutes a proposal or part of a proposal relating to the sale of CCI shares, or an invitation to this kind of sales process, and the publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this report’s preparation, and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, CCI does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. This report is printed on recycled paper. OSB Mah. Deniz Feneri Sokak No: 4 34776 Dudullu Ümraniye İstanbul Tel: +90 216 528 40 00 Fax: +90 216 510 70 12 www.cci.com.tr
