Sustainability is a choice Our approach to sustainability CEO With our new strategy in place during 2016, Cermaq has geared perspective up and refocused its vision as a driver for sustainable aquaculture. Working in the aquaculture industry for more than 30 tunities, a stronger basis for dialogue with stakeholders, years has been a spectacular journey, and in the past dec­ and a better ability to actually make progress on material ade the focus on sustainable development in the salmon topics. At the same time, strong partnerships enable us industry has moved to the core of our operations. to achieve more progress on common challenges such as the SDGs, and be at the forefront of innovation. We are By aligning our strategy with the UN Sustainable the only company in the industry to have audited sus­ Development Goals (SDGs), we are prioritizing areas tainability reports, and the only seafood company with where we can have a significant impact and make a quarterly performance updates online. We hope there difference. Our important work in the Global Salmon will be more companies who follow. Initiative (GSI) continues, and is going forward, and it is now time to expand our efforts also outside the salmon Our efforts have not gone unnoticed, and we are proud industry. As a consequence of our new strategy, Cermaq to have been ranked #1 of 100 seafood companies in has entered into selected partnerships with the seafood Seafood Intelligence’s flagship report on transparency in industry and the wider food sector within the areas of the global seafood industry in 2017. In 2016, we were rec­ ocean stewardship and responsible food production. In ognized as a corporate champion on SDG14: Life below November 2016, we started a comprehensive dialogue water by DNV GL in their report The future of spaceship with seven of the largest seafood companies in the world earth , projecting progress towards the SDGs. in the initiative Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship, and established clear commitments to transparency, As one of the world’s largest seafood companies, we ocean sustainability, innovation and responsible supply recognize that we are a part of a small but very influ­ chains. In 2017, we joined the FReSH program initiated ential group. And we have a responsibility to ensure by EAT and the World Business Council on Sustainable that the seafood industry is not only profitable but also Development. Our goal is to contribute to reshape the sustainable, working to achieve progress on the SDGs, in global food system and develop frameworks for healthy particular those related to the sea. With our partners, we and sustainable food production, and integrating sus­ represent a global force that can – and intend to – make a tainable seafood in diets worldwide. positive difference. Geir Molvik, Cermaq’s approach to sustainability is based on the CEO Cermaq Group pillars of transparency, partnerships and performance. We believe a company which openly reports its April 2017 results also has a better overview of its risk and oppor­ It is not only about supplying sustain­ Content 4 Global megatrends able seafood to consumers; it is about 6 Cermaq's strategy becoming stewards of the world’s 8 Our focus areas ocean and aqua­culture environments. 19 Value chain 20 Research and innovation — The Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship initiative 22 Key partnerships 3 Global A profound change of the global food and agriculture system is needed to nourish megatrends today’s 765 million hungry and the addi­ tional 2 billion people expected by 2050. — UN Sustainable Development Goal #2 Aquaculture will play a larger role 71 % of the planet is ocean but only Unbalanced diets in seafood consumption in the 2 % of the world’s food production contribute to health coming decade comes from the sea challenges worldwide 51 % 2012 49 % FAO FIPS (2014) 2% Over 1.9 million adults are overweight and could benefit from a 71 % ocean 29 % land more nutritious and 2 % seafood production 11 % arable land balanced diet – World Health Organization (2014) 38 % 2030 62 % With a population of 8.3 billion people by 2030, we’ll need… #Fish2030 50% 40% 35% more energy more water more food Wild catch Aquaculture — National Intelligence Council (2012) — United Nations The global food challenge: Adverse impacts on agriculture due to climate change Percentage change in crop yields between present and 2050. -50 % change +100 % change No data — World Resources Institute 3°C warmer world scenario 4 The solution Aquaculture is crucial for supplying the world's food needs for the next 50 years. – Former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan (AquaVision 2012) Benefits of farmed salmon Small carbon footprint A carbon footprint measures the total greenhouse gas emissions Efficient feed conversion caused directly and indirectly by Feed conversion ratio (FCR) measures the production of one kilo of the efficiency of different protein proedible product. duction methods. It demonstrates the kilograms (kg) of feed needed to increase the animal’s bodyweight by 1 kg. 2.9 Farmed Atlantic Salmon 1.3:1 1.9:1 2.8:1 6–9:1 2.7 Farmed Atlantic Chicken Pork Cattle* Lamb Salmon (no data) Chicken * The FCR of cattle production has a larger range due to the varying types of feed used. Varying feed costs for the industries considered above have an influence upon the feed conversion ratios. — Global Salmon Initiative 5.9 Pork High edible yield Edible yield is calculated by dividing edible meat by total body weight. 30 68% 46% 52% 38% Cattle Farmed Chicken Pork Beef Lamb Atlantic (no data) Salmon Lamb (no data) These calculations take into account differences in FCR, differences in edible yields, and the cost of progeny. A carbon footprint is measured in kilograms (kg) of — Global Salmon Initiative carbon dioxide equivalent (kgCO2e) per kg edible part of the product. — Global Salmon Initiative Low fresh water use “Fisheries and aqua15.000 3.500 900 culture is supporting the livelihoods of liters of water liters of water liters of water = = = 1 kg 1 kg 1 12 percent of the of beef of rice salmon world’s population.” — United Nations — FAO 2016 — International Salmon Farmers Association 5 Cermaq's strategy Our sustainability work is centered around five con­ crete focus areas, each describing our approach to contribute to achieving a corresponding Sustainable Development Goal (SDG). 6 Focus areas Healthy and Thriving People Responsible Climate nutritious food oceans leadership production action • Product quality • Biodiversity • Safety & workplace • Value chain approach • Adaptation • Fish health & welfare • Biosecurity • Community relations • Certifications • Emissions • Feed ingredients • Blue economy • Human rights • Beyond compliance • Innovation Page 8 Page 10 Page 12 Page 14 Page 16 Our ambition is to produce healthy and nutritious food to Our approach to achieving progress on our focus areas is a growing world population, and play a role in improving based on three pillars: the global food system. By aligning our work with the SDGs which we can significantly impact, we can achieve Transparency We are transparent in our work to create trust, more progress and pursue common opportunities in col­ ensure traceability and be accountable to our stakeholders. laboration with our customers, local communities, public Our audited annual sustainability reports and quarterly and private partners. online performance updates are examples of how we work on transparency. Sustainability in Cermaq means to produce healthy and nutritious salmon in an environmentally, socially and Performance We work continuously to create sustain­ economically responsible manner. Producing sustainable able value through operational excellence, research and salmon means we work continuously to ensure sustainable innovation. practices in all aspects of our operations, throughout the We focus on our highest impact areas and innovate across value chain. We do this through the means of partnership, disciplines to create shared value with society for the long transparency, and performance focusing on our highest term. Some measures to achieve this is ASC certification impact areas, as outlined in our five focus areas. and a dedicated global R&D team. Partnerships We share knowledge and engage in partner­ ships to find solutions to common challenges. Being open about results is key to corporate respon­ This means collaborating on key issues, sharing know­ sibility and is a driver of progress. Our quarterly ledge and engaging in dialogue. Our active engagement and annual performance reports can be found on in the Global Salmon Initiative (GSI) illustrates one of our www.cermaq.com/sustainability partnership activities. 7 Farmed salmon is rich in healthy nutrients such as marine omega-3, proteins, vitamins and minerals, and is a healthy food choice. Healthy and nutritious food Cermaq is committed to quality, traceability and food quality product. We follow strict regulations and measures safety at every level, from broodstock to the delivery of to ensure that our fish meet the highest safety and quality delicious, nutritious food. Salmon is one of the richest standards. The salmon diet consists mainly of protein and sources of omega-3 fatty acids, which are known to help fats. About 30 percent of the feed come from marine sourc­ lower the risk of cardiovascular disease. Experts recom­ es, such as forage fish, fish trimmings and byproducts. mend replacing some meat meals with fish, because it is By increasing the share of vegetable ingredients in the a healthier source of protein and a good source for other feed, the environmental footprint on marine resources is essential nutrients. It's a healthy change, and an essen­ reduced without compromising nutritional value. Certified tial one for our planet. soy, gluten (from wheat) and rapeseed oil are some of the ingredients used. However, most marine omega-3 today Transparency The best salmon has a delicate color and comes from fish oil, and Cermaq is engaged in research perfect texture, exquisite flavor and is rich in healthy nu­ and initiatives with the salmon industry and feed produc­ trients. We hold ourselves and our salmon to the highest ers to develop novel sources responding to future needs. standards, working with third-party certification bodies to build on the reputation for quality that our customers Partnerships We work actively with our customers and expect. Transparency and traceability is our promise to partners to deliver high quality salmon and create aware­ our customers. We report our sustainability performance ness of the role of sustainable seafood in healthy diets. quarterly on our web page and actively provide informa­ As business partners to initiatives such as EAT and the tion related to our many certifications. FReSH program (see page 22), we work together with com­ panies in the food sector, research institutions and civil Performance Healthy fish is a necessity in all fish farming society to integrate both health and sustainability aspects operations and of crucial importance to Cermaq in deliver­ into global food production and consumption. ing a high quality product. We work continuously to ensure optimal conditions for our salmon and the environment in which they live – in Patagonia, Tofino or the Arctic. SDG2 importance Good routines adapted to the different environmental conditions determine the management choices we make In a growing world population on each farm every day, throughout the whole life cycle with challenges related to obesi­ of the salmon. Keeping the fish in good condition, in a fa­ ty and hunger, farmed salmon may provide a solution to the growing demand for pro­ vorable location, is a key element in Cermaq´s fish health tein and healthy diets. Farmed salmon is a management. In our operations, we pay great attention healthy food choice and is rich in nutrients to water quality, genetics and stress reducing practices to such as omega-3, proteins, vitamins and enhance fish welfare. minerals. Our salmon receive the nutrients they need in each life stage through the feed. This is crucial to ensure a high 8 Cermaq’s fish welfare index (CWI) Salmon as superfood Fish quality depends on fish health and welfare. Cermaq Health authorities and nutrition advisors recommend has a holistic approach to fish welfare and recognizes the eating more seafood. Salmon contains marine omega-3 importance for our salmon to meet its needs at any givfatty acids, vitamin D, iodine, and selenium; nutrients en time, both physiological but also behavioral, in order which are rare in other types of food. In addition, to have good welfare. Based on this recognition, Cermaq salmon provides highly digestible protein. According to Norway has chosen to develop a welfare index which can NOFIMA, farmed salmon today contains over 20 times be used to classify the fish welfare status in each stage more essential fatty acids (EPA and DHA) compared to of the production. The Cermaq Welfare Index (CWI) is chicken, red meat and eggs. Farmed salmon have one based on measurable criteria of the physical environof the highest omega-3 levels of any seafood in the ment in which the salmon lives (including water quality grocery store, with between one and five grams of parameters) and scoring of the fish at an individual level omega-3 per 100 gram serving. and at a population level. Photo — Yuliya Gontar 9 Cermaq depends on healthy oceans to produce sustainable salmon, both in our operations and through our feed supply. Ocean stewardship and Thriving SDG14 is at the top of our agenda. oceans To grow our salmon, Cermaq and the salmon industry parency and sustainable practices in fisheries and aqua­ rely on thriving oceans and healthy marine ecosystems. culture. One example of this is through our participation Ecosystem integrity and access to marine resources is a in the Seafood Industry for Ocean Stewardship initiative, necessity for us to grow our salmon and for our indus­ established in 2016, together with some of the world’s try to provide the world with healthy seafood. We work largest seafood companies regarded as keystone actors in through partnerships and with strong commitment to marine ecosystems. transparent reporting to build trust, share best practice and drive progress on SDG14. In our operations and through our engagement in the Global Salmon Initiative (GSI) we work together with the Transparency Responsible sourcing is a key measure industry to find solutions to key sustainability challenges to preserve biodiversity and natural resources, and to in salmon farming, including feed and nutrition, biose­ strengthen resilience to climate change. Our biodiver­ curity impacts and implementing best practices through sity impact is monitored and reported on our web page, standardization. where we also map species present on the IUCN red list in areas of operation. Cermaq monitors the benthic im­ pacts of fish farming, and ensure that we comply with or exceed all fallowing requirements and have good benthic status. Wildlife interaction and sustainability indicators are reported monthly and in some cases weekly for our ASC certified sites. This information can be found on the ASC Dashboard on our webpage. Performance If fish farming is to be sustainable, the in­ dustry depends on sustainable feed resources. To reduce impacts on marine resources, an increasing share of the fish feed comes from agriculture (approximately 70 SDG14 importance percent). Responsible sourcing in the agricultural sector is therefore increasingly relevant for fish farming. Our The farming practices in the impact on fisheries is also through our feed supply, and salmon farming industry are more to manage risks in our feed supply chain, we have estab­ technologically advanced than any other fish farming practice. The salmon farming lished a Supplier Code of Conduct specifically for feeds sector may offer knowledge and techno­ suppliers. Measures include certified sources of the feed logy transfer to other aquaculture areas to ingredients used and R&D on optimal fish diets. enhance and encourage a sustainable use of the ocean in the rise of the blue economy. Partnerships We work with our suppliers and the indus­ try to eliminate any Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated (IUU) fishing from the supply chain and promote trans­ 10 Responsible sourcing of fish feed Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship Cermaq’s Code of Conduct for feed suppliers specifies Initiated in 2016, the Seafood Business for Ocean requirements to our feed suppliers on quality, traceability Stewardship (also referred to as Keystone Dialogues) and sustainability, including social standards. Requirements is an initiative that, for the first time, connects the include that fishmeal and fish oil should only be sourced global seafood business to science, connects wild from regulated and certified fisheries, and raw materials capture fisheries to aquaculture, and connects seafood used should be accompanied by certifications (e.g. MSC). companies all over the world. The ambition is to lead No ingredients shall originate from IUU catch or vulnera­ a global shift towards sustainable seafood production ble or endangered species, and all soy purchased shall be and a healthy ocean, actively contributing to the UN certified by the Round Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS) or SDGs – in particular SDG14. In the first dialogue, a joint equivalent. Type of raw material, country of origin and statement was produced by eight of the world’s largest name of supplier is to be reported regularly. The Code is seafood companies, including Cermaq, committing to available on www.cermaq.com working for ocean stewardship on a set of key areas. 11 In Cermaq, we rely on motivated employees and we want to be a responsible partner for the local communities where we operate, People to earn the trust we need to grow fish in our common waters. leadership Salmon farming is often located in remote coastal areas, ensuring safe working conditions, respecting human and our operations provide employment in local com­ rights and indigenous peoples’ rights, and working to en­ munities. Cermaq contributes to local value creation sure good labor standards in our operations and supply in many ways: we provide jobs, we purchase from local chain. One example of such dialogue is Cermaq Chile’s businesses, support community activities and events, CSR committee, established with members from Cermaq and provide education and learning opportunities in our Chile’s management team and trade unions to discuss areas of operation. key topics on a regular basis. Transparency Cermaq aims to be a responsible com­ Cermaq is a member of the UN Global Compact and we munity partner with a long term perspective. People work to ensure adherence to the ten Principles in our op­ leadership involves establishing good relations with our erations and supply chain, covering the topics of Human stakeholders including employees, customers, local com­ Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. We munities and suppliers. Establishing and maintaining encourage our suppliers to do the same and to integrate good relationships based on dialogue, transparency and the UN Sustainable Development Goals in their strate­ mutual understanding is important to us. Our stakehold­ gies. An example of how we work on indigenous peoples er dialogue is reported on our webpage and we provide rights, is the agreement between Cermaq Canada and the quarterly health and safety updates for all our opera­ Ahousaht First Nation, which is based on Cermaq Cana­ tions. We conduct community meetings and reach out da’s Principles for First Nations relations. to different stakeholders including trade unions, envi­ ronmental organizations and authorities, describing our performance and activities, and responding to requests for dialogue and information. Performance Important elements of our people leader­ ship are also to ensure a safe and motivating workplace. Our performance depends on the wellbeing of our peo­ SDG8 importance ple, and it is our goal to be an employer of choice, attract­ ing and retaining skilled and motivated employees who Salmon farming contributes want to be part of a growing and innovative industry. to rural jobs and local value We strengthen our health and safety awareness through creation. According to the UN, fisheries and aquaculture is supporting the livelihoods of a clear tone at the top of the importance of safety and 12 percent of the world’s population, and visible leadership. ‘Health and safety first’ is reflected the market value of marine and coastal in Cermaq’s Leadership Principles and performance is resources and industries accounts for about reported monthly to Cermaq’s management. 5 percent of global GDP (FAO 2016). 60 mil­ lion people are directly employed, with 140 million employed in the value chain. Partnerships An important part of being a responsible partner is being a responsible employer. This implies 12 Mechuque Island community training Principles for First Nation Relations, Cermaq Canada Cermaq Chile supports social training in regions with limTo guide the development of respectful relationships and ited work opportunities. In 2016, Cermaq Chile conductagreements with the Indigenous peoples in whose terried community training on Mechuque island within the tory we operate or propose to operate, Cermaq has estabArchipelago of Chiloé, an island with a population of 1 090 lished a set of principles for First Nations Relations. The 10 habitants, where Cermaq has operations. Cermaq Chile principles include a recognition of traditional territories funded a training course for 18 women to promote their and respecting the diversity of cultures among First Naskills in cut and confection of clothing as well as interior tions, as well as a common commitment to sustainability. decoration, to promote self-employment. The women Developing a mutually beneficial protocol agreereceived 18 hours of theoretical training and 32 hours of ment was the goal between the Ahousaht First Nation practical training. The objective of Cermaq Chile’s commuand Cermaq Canada. To achieve this goal, the Cermaq nity training activities is to support the development of Canada Principles of First Nation relations were used skills which may help the participants to find employment, to guide the agreement. The principles are available on improve small businesses or to change their field of work. www.cermaq.com 13 Our aim is to be a responsible salmon farmer with a small environmental footprint contributing to a sustain­ able blue economy. Responsible production Current practices in food production do not provide certifications are approved and third party audited by sufficient responses to properly address natural resource certification bodies we work with including DNV GL, constraints or the growing demand for food, water and KPMG and Bureau Veritas. Examples of other standards energy. A transformation of the global food system is where Cermaq can supply certified products include needed, and the ocean will contribute to a larger share of the Aboriginal Principles for Sustainable Aquaculture our food production in the future. Farmed salmon is an (APSA) certification in Canada, Halal certification in efficient food source, providing a high content of healthy Chile and Kosher certification in Chile and Norway. nutrients with a small ecological footprint compared Cermaq has a goal to achieve ASC certification on all with other animal proteins. our sites by 2020. Transparency Customers and stakeholders can be Partnerships To address the challenges in our global food confident that Cermaq is working actively to meet system, Cermaq has become a member of the FReSH environmental requirements and operate in a socially program, initiated by EAT and the World Business Coun­ responsible manner. To strengthen our environmental cil on Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Our goal of footprint, we work to optimize our value chain and iden­ advancing the role of sustainably produced seafood in the tify, manage and monitor risks. We seek to build trust global food supply is a key element in this work. and improve our sustainability performance by adhering to the most advanced standards for sustainable food pro­ duction and being transparent about our choices. Performance A natural premise for sustainable growth is demonstrating our efforts for responsible farming through certifications and practices beyond compliance with laws and regulations. Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) certification, BAP and Global G.A.P. are some of Cermaq’s third party certifications which drive SDG12 importance our commitment to continuous improvement. All our Farmed salmon is an efficient food source, providing a high content of healthy nutrients with a small ecological footprint compared with other animal proteins. High energy and protein retention, high edible yield and a relative­ ly small carbon and freshwater footprint makes sustainably farmed salmon a responsi­ ble food choice. 14 Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) certification FReSH program Cermaq has ASC certified sites in all production regions, and was the Cermaq is a partner in FReSH (Food Reform for first Company that obtained ASC-certification in Chile. The standard Sustainability and Health program), which is an includes more than 150 indicators related to seven principles: EAT and World Business Council on Sustainable 1. Comply with all applicable national laws and local regulations Development (WBCSD) initiative. Launched in 2. Conserve natural habitat, biodiversity and ecosystem function 2017, FReSH is designed to accelerate trans3. Protect the health and genetic integrity of wild populations formational change in global food systems, 4. Use resources in an efficient and responsible manner to reach healthy, enjoyable diets for all, that 5. Manage disease and parasites in an environmentally are produced responsibly within planetary responsible manner boundaries. Participants include Arla, Cermaq, 6. Develop and operate farms in a socially Danone, Google, Kellogg’s, responsible manner Nestlé, Unilever and Yara. 7. Be a good neighbor and conscientious citizen 15 Farmed salmon is a climate friendly food source, providing a solution to the world’s food needs in the coming years. Climate action The production of food is a major part of our climate Efficient energy use is important to Cermaq and we are challenge and contributes to a significant amount of taking steps to lower emissions on our sites. Initiatives global greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions from food include connecting to land based electricity from hydro­ production and impacts of climate change on agriculture power on sea water sites in Norway, implementing low and the food system will deeply affect the way we pro­ emission solutions on hatcheries, implementation of a duce food in the future. Currently only 2 percent of our carbon and energy management program in Canada and food consumption comes from the sea. But sustainable use of renewable energy on sites in Chile. In line with aquaculture will need to play a larger part to respond to global climate agreements, we are working to reduce our climate change and to reach the UN Sustainable Devel­ emissions by setting a science based emission target. opment Goals. Partnerships A large part of emissions from salmon pro­ Growing sustainably is Cermaq’s long term strategy. This duction is in the supply chain, through the feed produc­ involves adapting to climate change and increasing re­ tion and in transportation to markets. Cermaq is working silience while, at the same time, playing a natural part in with feed suppliers to encourage climate friendly feed the low carbon future by providing climate friendly food solutions, and engage with partners in the Global Salmon to our customers. Initiative (GSI) to encourage the production of oils rich in marine omega-3 from novel sources to build resilience. Transparency We communicate our energy use and Increasing filletation instead of transporting whole fish is emissions in our annual report and conduct annual re­ one way to reduce transport emissions as well as encour­ porting to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), describ­ aging low carbon solutions in our supply chain. ing our strategy and initiatives, targets, risks and oppor­ tunities. In addition, our ASC certified farms provide climate accounting at a farm level. Performance Growing sustainably means that we need to farm our fish within the environmental boundaries of the ecosystems in which we operate, build resilience to SDG13 importance climate change and anticipate developments in envi­ Being at the forefront of sustain­ ronmental conditions. Our fish is directly affected by able aquaculture, salmon farming climate risks such as rising sea water temperatures, algae has the potential to drive innovation in blooms, ocean acidification and extreme weather events. climate friendly seafood going forward. The We therefore engage heavily in research and develop­ production of food accounts for a significant ment initiatives e.g. working together with partners in part of global greenhouse gas emissions. Farmed salmon has a small carbon and water the development of closed cage solutions, environmental footprint compared to other sources of monitoring, and vaccine development. protein, and can contribute to a solution to the climate challenge. 16 Carbon and Energy Management Program, Cermaq Canada Replacing diesel with hydropower, Cermaq Norway Cermaq Canada has developed a Carbon and Energy ManMany salmon farming sites are located in remote ar­ agement Program (CEMP) for its entire operation in aligneas, depending on diesel generators for their power ment with the ISO50001 Energy Management Standard. The supply. In Cermaq Norway, a project is ongoing to main objectives are to reduce GHG emissions and energy use, implement hydropower electrification on farms with enhance social license to operate, and lower operating cost. proximity to the shore and access to power connec­ The plan includes a company wide target of 5% of tion. In 2017, five farming sites will be connected to emission reductions in 2018 based on a 2014 baseline, the the grid, leading to an estimated decrease in CO2 program has identified KPIs and assigned a dedicated Energy emissions by 1.158 tons annually. Team to drive progress on specific activities. The program Of the five sites, one is located in Nordland, the also uses an energy tracking tool, where energy consumpOksøya farm, and four are located in Norway’s north­ tion and emissions is recorded for tons of fish biomass ernmost county, Finnmark: the Ytre Koven, Skinnstakk­ produced by year, facilities, group of fish, growth stage and vika, Kråkevik and Slettnes farms. feed consumption, to enable measurement of progress. 17 Cermaq’s The table below provides a summary of each of Cermaq’s five focus areas with material topics, their importance to each corresponding SDG and indicators material topics that we report on. Our performance is available on www.cermaq.com Healthy and Thriving People Responsible Climate nutritious oceans leadership production action food • Product quality • Biodiversity • Safety and workspace • Value chain approach • Adaptation Material • Fish health and welfare • Biosecurity • Community relations • Certifications • Emissions • Feed ingredients • Blue economy • Human rights • Beyond compliance • Innovation topic In a growing world pop­ The salmon farming Salmon farming contrib­ Farmed salmon is an The production of food is Importance for SDGs and Cermaq ulation with challenges industry is more techno­ utes to rural jobs and local efficient food source, a major part of our climate related to obesity and logically advanced than value creation. According providing a high content challenge and contributes hunger, farmed salmon most other fish farming to the UN, fisheries and of healthy nutrients to a significant amount may provide a solution practices. Our industry aquaculture is supporting with a small ecological of global greenhouse gas to the growing demand may offer knowledge and the livelihoods of 12 per­ footprint compared with emissions. Farmed salmon for protein and ensure technology transfer to cent of the world’s pop­ other animal proteins. has a low carbon footprint healthy diets. Farmed other parts of aquacul­ ulation and contributes High energy and protein compared to other sources salmon is rich in nutri­ ture to enhance and en­ to about five percent of retention, high edible of protein. Salmon as a sus­ ents such as omega-3, courage a sustainable use global GDP (FAO 2016). yield and a relatively small tainable food source offers proteins, vitamins and of the ocean in the rise of Cermaq relies on carbon and water foot­ a solution to balancing the minerals, and is a healthy the blue economy. motivated employees and print makes sustainably global food system. food choice. As a salmon farming a good dialogue with local farmed salmon a responsi­ Being at the forefront Healthy fish is a ne­ company, Cermaq de­ communities. We seek to ble food choice. of sustainable aquaculture, cessity in all fish farming pends on healthy oceans contribute to local value Efficient use of Cermaq and the salmon operations of crucial to produce sustainable creation in many ways: by resources and responsible farming has the potential importance to Cermaq in salmon, both through our providing jobs, purchasing practices is a prerequisite to drive innovation in delivering a high quality operations and through from local businesses, for sustainable growth. climate friendly seafood product. A healthy fish our feed supply. Sustain­ supporting community Through advanced certifi­ going forward. Cermaq given nutritious feed able farming is at the core initiatives, and providing cations, Cermaq demon­ and the industry engage increases the quality of of our operations. education and learning strates high standards and actively in research and the salmon. opportunities. build trust. innovation to respond to the needs of the future. • Raw material ingredients • Feed sourcing and sup­ • Injuries, lost days, • Fallow time, benthic • Energy consumption Material indicators • Customer health and plier assessment absence impact • GHG emissions (Scope safety assessment • IUCN red list species • Senior management hired • Water withdrawal and 1, 2 and 3) • Fish mortality with habitats in areas of from local community recycled input materials • Energy reduction initi­ • Medicine use operation • Local community en­ • Non-compliance with atives • Animal species and • Wildlife interaction gagement programs environmental regula­ • Financial implications, breed type • Vaccination program • Community complaints tions other risks and oppor­ (Cermaq specific and GRI) • Non-compliance with • Fish escapes • Non-compliance with • Climate change risks tunities due to climate product health & safety • Sea lice counts societal regulations and opportunities change • Fines for product • Area Management • Incidents of violations • Whistle blowings non-compliance Agreements involving indigenous • Anti-corruption training peoples’s rights • Incidents of corruption • Economic value gener­ • ASC certification ated and distributed • Country-by-country financial and organiza­ tional data UN SDG More details can be found in our sustainability report on www.cermaq.com 18 Value chain Salmon farming follows the same life cycle that take place in the wild. Eggs are harvested from broodstock fish and are grown in fresh water to smolt size. Smolts are entered into sea water to grow to full size. Then they are carefully harvested and processed, and shipped to customers worldwide. 1 The eggs are harvested 4 Harvesting is conducted from broodstock fish, se­ with a strict focus on an­ lected for qualities such as imal welfare and quality. strong health, fast growth The harvest process is and low early maturation. quick and it takes only hours until the fish is on its way to the customer. 2 Salmon spend the first 5 Our sales offices supply part of their life in fresh salmon to our customers water. From egg to smolt, in more than 70 countries, the fish spends about 14 365 days a year. months in a land based hatchery. After hatching, the salmon lives in fresh­ water tanks on land. 3 Smolts are then entered 6 The fish is transported by into sea water to grow to sea, air and land world­ full size (4-6 kg), for a pe­ wide from our production riod of 14-20 months. The regions in Canada, Chile fish has plenty of room, and Norway. taking up 2.5 percent of the pen volume. The loca­ tion and use of the sites follow strict governmental regulations and is based on favourable environ­ mental conditions. 7 The final step is a healthy and nutritious meal. Cermaq provides the world with 2.5 million daily salmon meals. 19 Research and When we solve a problem or overcome an obstacle, innovation everyone benefits. We encounter many challenges and opportunities as Our global team takes part in setting the overall research we deepen our knowledge in sustainable salmon farm­ agenda for the industry through participation in indus­ ing, and as an industry leader it is our responsibility to try research funds and national research organizations. take a proactive approach to meet these challenges. Our Cermaq is a partner in two Centers of Research Based research focuses on fish health, farming technology, fish Innovation (SFI) established by the Research Council of genetics and nutrition/feed to ensure that our salmon is Norway: CtrlAqua and EXPOSED. A main objective of strong and healthy and our operations are at the fore­ these centers is to enhance innovation through long term front of sustainable salmon farming. research and close cooperation between research-inten­ sive enterprises and prominent research groups. CtrlAqua Cermaq runs more than 50 research projects on an annu­ focuses on research on closed containment systems, and al basis. We have our own R&D site in Colaco (region X) in EXPOSED explores opportunities for expansion into new Chile, in Bergen and in Finnmark, Norway. The projects areas currently unavailable for fish farming. are run by dedicated R&D teams, including six research­ ers in Cermaq’s global R&D team who works closely with research personnel and operational experts in each of the operating companies. Some of our research We are seeking innovative ways to use new technology to • In Finnmark, Cermaq has four R&D licenses for the Arctic drive sustainability and efficient use of resources in our Salmon Research Centre for the period 2015-2020. The operations. Initiatives and research capabilities include: center does research on optimal feed for salmon farming in an Arctic environment, and is a cooperation between • The concept iFarm is a sensor based technology which Cermaq, EWOS, NOFIMA, the University of Nordland, and take an individualized approach to raising fish by using the Norwegian University of Life Sciences. automatic image processing. This technology would • Cermaq's R&D Center in Colaco has offices, laboratory give us comprehensive information about each indivi­ and net pens of semi-commercial size. The facility can be dual salmon, while lowering fish stress through reduced used for trials on fish feed, vaccines, non-pharmaceutical handling. treatments, genetics and technology assessment. 20 Egg monitoring at Forsan hatchery in Nordland, Norway. 21 Key We want to make a positive differ­ ence – and through our local and partnerships global partnerships, we are working on key priorities in our five focus areas, and in particular SDG14. Local communities, environmental organizations, labor industry (e.g. Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship); unions and global initiatives such as the Global Salmon and in the wider food sector (e.g. the FReSH program). Initiative (GSI), UN Global Compact (UN GC) and World In addition, we work at a global level through UN GC, Business Council on Sustainable Development are all and we are engaging in targeted initiatives to drive pro­ valuable partners helping us to get better – every day. gress on SDG14: Life below water. Below are some key partners and business initiatives Cermaq is engaged in. On our webpage you will find on­ going infor­mation on our stakeholder engagement and Food sector work in local communities. d indust afoo ry Our approach to driving SDG progress in business Se We work in four dimensions: to enhance the sustainability on indust performance of our own operations; to improve industry lm ry Sa performance together with the salmon industry (Global Salmon Initiative, GSI); to drive sustainability in the seafood Cermaq Partners Objective Salmon industry Global Salmon Initiative Cermaq is a founding member of GSI, which was established in 2013. GSI is an industry initiative (GSI) aiming to find solutions to common sustainability challenges in the salmon industry. As of April 2017, it represents 12 companies accounting for 50% of global salmon production, and works actively to solve industry challenges on three areas: feed and nutrition, biosecurity and standardization. www.globalsalmoninitiative.org Seafood industry Seafood Business for Established in 2016 with eight of the world’s largest seafood companies, SeaBOS is an initiative Ocean Stewardship that connects the global seafood business to science, wild capture fisheries to aquaculture, (SeaBOS) and seafood companies worldwide. The ambition is to lead a global shift towards sustainable seafood production and a healthy ocean. www.keystonedialogues.earth Food sector FReSH program Food Reform for Sustainability and Health (FReSH) is a joint program between EAT and the World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD), where Cermaq contributes in two work­ streams (A: Healthy and sustainable diets; and B: Food production). Launched in January 2017, the program is designed to accelerate transformational change in global food systems. www.wbcsd.org/Projects/FReSH Global UN Global Compact UN Global Compact is an initiative based on CEO commitments to implement universal sustain­ ability principles and to take steps to support UN goals including the SDGs. Member companies work to align their strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and take actions that advance societal goals. www.unglobalcompact.org 22 Our sustainable choice Front page photo: Road to Cermaq farming sites in Skyring, We want to provide the world with healthy and sustainable food. To achieve this goal, we want to work in partnerships with those who share our vision to make a Photo — by Aksel | Design — neue.no positive difference. Región de Magallanes, Patagonia, Chile. We must plant the sea and herd its animals using the sea as farmers instead of hunters. That is what civilization is all about – farming replacing hunting. — Jacques-Yves Cousteau, Oceanographer www.cermaq.com
