Communication on Progress (COP) 한화케미칼 2017.07 Contents Part 1. Hanwha Chemical Introduction 1. CEO Declaration Statement 2. Company Profile 3. The 10 Principles of UNGC 4. Sustainability Management System 5. Stakeholder Communication Part2. 2016 Hanwha Chemical Sustainability Performance 1. Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 2. Reducing Environmental Impact 3. Securing Sustainable Competitiveness 4. Contributing to Regional Development 5. Nurturing Human Resources 6. Building Strong Partnership 2 Contents Part 1. Hanwha Chemical Introduction 1. CEO Declaration Statement 2. Company Profile 3. The 10 Principles of UNGC 4. Sustainability Management System 5. Stakeholder Communication Part2. 2016 Hanwha Chemical Sustainability Performance 1. Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 2. Reducing Environmental Impact 3. Securing Sustainable Competitiveness 4. Contributing to Regional Development 5. Nurturing Human Resources 6. Building Strong Partnership 3 CEO Declaration statement To our distinguished stakeholders, I would like to express my heart-felt gratitude to you for your unwavering interest in and encouragement to Hanwha Chemical. We at Hanwha Chemical strives to make continuous efforts to reinforce our sustainable management system, while focusing on generating positive impacts around the world through constant communications with our stakeholders. We firmly confirm our consistent supports for the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and the ten principles of the UNGC since 2014. In this report, we have highlighted our key performances from July 2016 to June 2017 in the following four areas: Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anticorruption. We look forward to your continued interest and encouragement of our sustainability management as we create a sustainable tomorrow that enhances the value of human life. Thank you. Chang-Bum Kim President & CEO Hanwha Chemical 4 Company Profile Since its founding is 1965, Hanwha Chemical has led the Korean petrochemical industry through market-leading general-purpose plastics and a variety of inorganic chemical products. As the first producer of PVC goods in Korea, Hanwha Chemical succeeded in producing a full array of primary petrochemical products, including LDPE(Low Density Polyethylene), LLDPE (Linear Low Density Polyethylene), and CA Company Information (Caustic soda/chlorine). Based on its leadership in the petrochemical market,  Company Name Hanwha Chemical Corporation Hanwha Chemical is now achieving prominence in the polysilicon and Toluene  Date Founded August 1965  No. of Employees 2,348 (As of the end of March 2017) Diisocyanate (TDI) fields, leaping forward as a leader in the chemical industry with  CEO Chang-Bum Kim its unrivaled creativity and competitiveness.  Major Businesses PO, PVC, CA, TDI, and Polysilicon  Head Office Hanwha Building, 86 Cheonggyecheon-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea 2016 Key Economic Performance (Unit: KRW 100M) Total Assets 73,326 Sales 34,827 EBITDA 5,749 Product at a Glance Hanwha Chemical offer top-of the-line products through R&D activities and market analysis. 5 The 10 Principles of UNGC Human Right Labor Human Right Anti-Corruption 6 Sustainability Management System To become a leader in the chemical industry with creativity and competitiveness, Hanwha Chemical devises strategies for sustainability management that focus on reliable products Key Directions of Sustainability Management and services, lead to investment and confidence from shareholders, and inspire pride in employees. Classification Directions Organization Environment Declaration for Sustainable Growth Management As a forward-looking, socially responsible company, Hanwha Chemical requires all employees to observe six key principles in their daily operations. These principles reflect the Company’s business objectives and management philosophy: Human Resource Management  We conduct all business to ensure social and environmental sustainability and benefit.  We respect regional characteristics and contribute to the local development  We address the wishes of stakeholders and improve in Volunteer areas where they raise concern Management  We meet our duty to law and ethical standards sincerely and fairly  We respect the importance of environmental management and comply with environmental safety and health guidelines Partnership  We share with communities and contribute through Management social activities with pride and responsibility Integrity Management 7 Stakeholder Communication Hanwha Chemical develops close cooperative relationships with stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, suppliers, non-profit organizations and government agencies, and regularly provides them with relevant information through its sustainability reports, website and social media. The Company provides the communication channels listed below in order to reflect the opinions of stakeholders on sustainable development. Key Communication Channels 8 Contents Part 1. Hanwha Chemical Introduction 1. CEO Declaration Statement 2. Company Profile 3. The 10 Principles of UNGC 4. Sustainability Management System 5. Stakeholder Communication Part2. 2016 Hanwha Chemical Sustainability Performance 1. Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 2. Reducing Environmental Impact 3. Securing Sustainable Competitiveness 4. Contributing to Regional Development 5. Nurturing Human Resources 6. Building Strong Partnership 9 Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) The contents of this COP are determined based on the following key issues, and other issues are also included in this report. Further information is provided in the company website(hcc.hanwha.co.kr) and DART (dart.fss.or.kr) 10 Reducing Environmental Impact As a responsible member of the community, Hanwha Chemical pursues strict management standards and systems to minimize emission of environmental pollution and chemical substances. Air Pollution Protection Air Pollution Reduced through Sources Management The Company’s Yeosu Plant produces hydrochloric acid the thermal cracking of chlorinated organic wastes. During the scrubbing process in its production of hydrochloric acid, the plant periodically employs TMS* to monitor the concentration of pollutants. The plant also uses barcode tags and implements LDAR* systems to track suspicious non-point sources of pollutants that may generate volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and hazardous chemicals. Through this periodic monitoring, the plant maintains its emissions of air pollutants at 30% below legal maximums. Water Conservation Wastewater Concentration Controlled by Water Analysis Laboratory Yeosu Plant operates an on-site water analysis laboratory to check wastewater parameters such as pH, COP. And SS in a daily basis for each process. Additionally, 11 major hazardous wastewater substance are analyzed by GC-MS* equipment that allow the plant to measure and maintain concentration levels of the wastewater discharges at 30% below those required by the regulation. 11 Securing Sustainable Competitiveness To secure sustainable competitiveness, Hanwha Chemical conducts sustainable technology development and develops eco-friendly products. Analysis of Eco-friendliness The eco-friendliness of products is one of the most significant issues in sustainability management. Hanwha Chemical manages product quality through analysis of restricted hazardous substances (RoHS) and total volatile organic compound (TVOC). In addition, the Company has obtained certification from the Korea Laboratory Accreditation Scheme (KOLAS) for its advanced hazardous materials analysis system. Analyses and assessments include the following: Our Eco-friendly Main Product : ‘Eco-DEHCH’ (Eco-friendly Plasticizers) As the world’s awareness of environmental protection rises, the monitoring and regulation of chemical substances has become more stringent than ever. The market for PVC plasticizers is also undergoing increased interest in eco-friendly materials. Along with this market change, the development of high-quality non-phthalate plasticizers is urgently needed. In response to the growth of eco-friendly markets, Hanwha Chemical is developing eco-friendly non-phthalate plasticizers. Following toxicity tests, it has completed verification and registration of these products as eco-friendly materials. The company has 12 started commercial producing of perfect non-phthalate plasticizers, Eco-DEHCH. Contributing to Regional Development (cont.) Hanwha Chemical upholds a certain motto in its social contribution : “If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together.” To this end, the company continually implements new activities to address the wide range of social issues facing communities. Currently, its social contribution focuses on next-generation natural energy sources that it can contribute and share with communities. Strategies of Social Contribution Hanwha Chemical’s social contribution strategies assist people in developing ecofriendly lifestyles through future-oriented technology and natural energy sources for local communities. Its CSR extends into fields of social welfare, culture and art patronage, education, and other public charity work through cooperation with outside professional organizations, especially for future generations and the less privileged. 13 Contributing to Regional Development Hanwha Chemical tailors CSR activities to each community and business. The Company focuses on four key areas: social welfare for the underprivileged; patronage of culture and arts; development of local communities; and education and public interest, in search of more structured social contribution. 1 Social Welfare for the Underprivileged 3 Warm-hearted Community Relationships Hanwha Chemical implements a variety of social contribution programs to Hanwha Chemical actively interacts with local communities and contributes to improve the welfare of the underprivileged. For example, the Company assists in their development. The Company provides free meals, kimchi-making event, vocational training for the disabled. At the main office and plants, the Company house repairs, and coal briquettes for the elderly and children near its plants, conducts soccer classes for students twice a month, and a youth soccer including the head office, Yeosu Plant, Ulsan Plant, and Daejeon R&D Center. It championship each year to nurture athletic talent in future generations. During also supports families with multicultural backgrounds. the winter, ,employee volunteers deliver coal briquettes to socially-marginalized neighborhoods at risk of exposure to the cold. 2 Culture and Arts Patronage 4 Education for Future Leaders To further enrich people’s lives, Hanwha Chemical continues to expand its Since 2013, Hanwha Chemical has conducted the Energy Class for Tomorrow, a patronage programs for culture and the arts. The Company sponsors an annual volunteer program that provides an opportunity for employees to help Symphony Festival at the Seoul Arts Center and conducts concert tours, helping elementary students in communities near its plants. The program consists of to develop an audience for classical music. Since 2006, its national Pottery interesting lectures for children and offers hands-on experience in difficult Contest for the Physically disabled has encouraged them to participate in science topics. In the program, Company researches, engineers and other creative leisure and cultural activities. During the third traditional arts festival volunteers visit schools and deliver lectures on energy issues, renewable energy from 2015 to 2017, the Company is promoting traditional culture in five areas of sources, and solar cells. The outcome for the children is to assemble and run a education and hands-on experience; activities include a traditional percussion race with solar-power cars for a hands-on understanding of renewable energy. 14 quartet, drama, calligraphy, and folklore. Nurturing Human Resources (cont.) Hanwha Chemical understands the importance of its people as it enhances global presence and diversifies its business portfolio. To this end, it conducts a range of training programs and continually innovates its systems for human resources. The Core Values for Hanwha Chemical Hanwha Chemical has grown based on trust and loyalty the trust that allows it to build trustworthiness and the loyalty enables it to make a relationship last in any situation. The Company fosters talented individuals with its core values in mind, including a pioneering spirit, dedication, and integrity. 15 Nurturing Human Resources Hanwha Chemical promotes employee engagement and satisfaction of partners through fair performance-based assessment and compensation. Recruitment and Development Hanwha Chemical looks for individuals with a high potential in global business and understand its future growth drivers. In addition to periodic recruitment twice a year, the Company hires talent on a rolling basis as needed in each function and business. It recruits and nurtures promising young talent through its close relationship with academia. The Company provides prospective recruits with a variety of information through online and overseas job fairs. Welfare and Benefits Hanwha Chemical provides a variety of welfare programs that place great value on the personal lives of employees. In one example. The Company offers a personal leave program called Refresh, which provides all employees with vacations lasting ten or fewer days-time that they can use for self-development. The Company contributes to the well-being of employees by providing an in-house cafeteria, medical expenses for employees and their families, stipends of congratulations and condolence, and commuter bus services. In addition, employee clubs receive support, and the company provides an online library, welfare points, family days, invitation events for parent, and a variety of sports events. 16 Building Strong Partnership Hanwha Chemical supervises and monitors all procedures in purchasing and selects suppliers according to well-defined evaluation guidelines. Through its partner relations, the Company contributes to the health of the market and helps suppliers develop their businesses, contributing in turn to its own reputation for trustworthiness. 17 End of Document 18
