Sustainability Report 2016-2017 “We are all immersed in our daily lives that we hardly stop and think how our work, our attitudes and actions affect our surrounding environment. It is therefore necessary to remind ourselves that we are ‘doers’ and not just ‘victims’ to climate change or any other natural calamity. In this annual sustainability report Metito gets to share with its stakeholders the company’s latest achievements, best practices and initiatives as we report our community, environmental and educational initiatives, alongside our latest business wins in an attempt to lead our industry by example and inspire others to follow suit.” Mutaz Ghandour Metito Chairman and CEO Table of Contents Table of Contents LOCAL PRESENCE... GLOBAL KNOWHOW 06 OUR COMMITMENT 08 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 04 LEADING BY EXAMPLE 10 Our People -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------21 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------29 03 Message From The CEO “The best way to predict the As an example of Metito’s holistic approach, over the last 12 months, we have spent considerable effort raising awareness about water recycling future is to create it.” and re-use in the communities where we operate, especially in parts of the world where natural water resources are scarce or challenged. We have targeted people of all ages using a number of innovative platforms to show Abraham Lincoln the long-term health and economic benefits of water recycling and re-use. The world is undergoing huge and unprecedented changes, from the exponential rate of technological advancement to the mounting pressure Clean and sustainable water supplies are also a crucial element in the fight on our fragile natural ecosystems. We are navigating new territory. Whilst against malnutrition, as such I have accepted an appointment to become a it may seem daunting, I firmly believe that it is within our ability create a Goodwill Ambassador for The United Nations Economic and Social Council better, more sustainable future. But this also means taking responsibility for Observer (UNESCO); The Intergovernmental Institution for the use of our actions and managing the scarce resources we have more effectively. Micro-Algae Spirulina Against Malnutrition. The objective of this institution Across the spectrum, governments and corporations need to make is to eradicate malnutrition in Africa by 2030 in support of the United responsible, long term, sustainable investments and policy decisions; Nations Sustainable Development Goals. and individuals need to learn how everyday behaviour can contribute to safeguarding our future. Spirulina is one of the richest whole-food sources available in nature and The United Nations has recognised its potential as an answer to While most people take it for granted – water is a scarce resource with world hunger declaring it as “the best food for the future”. The institution only 1% of earth’s water is suitable for drinking. Massive global population advocates this idea and adopts it through the production of Micro-Algae growth, rapid industrialisation, increasing pollution levels and climate Spirulina in various communities where malnutrition remains to be a change have put this already fragile global water supply under significant continuous, sometimes life threatening challenge. Spirulina is a digestible pressure. These macro factors are increasing the gap between the demand source of natural antioxidants, vitamins, minerals, carotenoids and protein. for water, which is at an all-time high, and the declining quality of existing Just one gram of Spirulina a day is sufficient to bring a child who is severely supply resources. Thus the need to properly and responsibly manage, malnourished to health in a matter of weeks. To produce Micro-Algae recycle and re-use water effectively has now become a pressing global Spirulina, significantly less land is required compared to that required to issue, no longer confined to particular countries or regions. produce the same amount of protein through livestock and other crops. The development of Micro-Algae Spirulina also requires a reliable source of water so in that respect Metito is also ideally placed to provide guidance Because it is so integral to all life, the question of water supply is highly and share practical knowledge to facilitate and streamline this requirement. complex and any solution needs to balance political, social, economic and environmental issues. Water-poor communities are typically economically poor and their residents trapped in an ongoing cycle of poverty and As I have already mentioned securing a sustainable water supply needs insufficiency. Indeed, it has been shown time and again that lack of access a holistic approach, thus we must look at the entire water cycle and the to clean water and malnutrition leads to rampant illnesses, and challenging associated supply chain; from financing to physical infrastructure and living conditions that significantly hinders social and economic development. its efficient management, creating awareness, sharing knowledge and In arid countries where access to clean water and nutrition is a problem as educating communities and consumers about the need to preserve water. children become sick and miss school, communities ultimately suffer as a lack of education becomes a hurdle to development. Even the issue of One of our greatest strengths as a company has always been our ability access itself can also become a barrier to economic development when the to create long-term, shared value by collaborating with our stakeholders, process of acquiring clean water and basic foods is hugely time-consuming. using new and innovative business models and technologies to localise It’s a cycle that we must break, by creating greater awareness and by finding and customise our solutions. Particularly in drought prone parts of Africa, sustainable solutions to address current shortcomings. mainstream water solutions are critical and regional governments must carefully manage their water resources for their cities and towns to survive. Because of its universal impact on the overall health and development of any Whilst a large, robust, technologically advanced, water project can address community, the creation of sustainable water supply needs a holistic and many of those issues it is then a question of whether the public or private collaborative approach to the water cycle from education, water resource sectors can secure the financing needed to make such a project reality. management through to funding and always with wellbeing of people and the environment at its heart. Crucially, there needs to be a shift in attitudes In emerging markets, the need for foreign investment in water infrastructure towards water both within the industry and the supply chain through to is more acute. We have found that project finance allows us to bring together consumers. Fundamentally, if we are to see a bright future for our planet, more effectively all parties involved with a project; lenders, investors, and water needs to be treated as a scarce resource to be used responsibly others to share the benefits, risks, and the cost of new investments in a way and that recycling and re-use are essential to safeguarding human life, that is more economically viable. Project finance allows the private sector particularly in water scarce areas. 04 Message From The CEO to step in and be part of the solution not the problem, and for consortiums between the success and failure of a project. Metito has long been known to undertake infrastructure projects that would otherwise be too large for for some speciality proprietary chemicals that are known and trusted individual investors or Governments to underwrite, ultimately allowing worldwide. This year Metito took a step further by taking this strategic step more potentially life-saving projects to be constructed. towards securing a healthy growth trajectory in this sector by bringing our world leading and state-of-the-art environmental technology to the people of Thailand through an established and respected local trading company. Metito takes a holistic approach to the projects we develop. Once a project is secured, the next step is to ensure the optimisation of supply throughout supply chain then becomes our main priority. This year we acquired a Thailand has a great potential to be a core market for our Group and we specialised water management company, Douro ECI that uses advanced see great synergies between Metito and Clear Chemicals. While our local cloud-based technologies to optimise downstream water systems; creating partner brings the important local market know-how and an established efficient and safe methods for water use and recycle. In addition to the business, we bring our global experience and management expertise obvious benefits, this acquisition allows us to offer a significantly enhanced backed by our reputed shareholders. We look forward to seeing this integrated solution within our service offering which focuses on the partnership grow in multi-folds, allowing us to generate shared value to our management of downstream assets. shareholders and larger group of stakeholders including the communities we work with in Thailand. Also, this year we partnered with Optiqua Technologies to introduce smart water monitoring solutions, Eventlab and Minilab, to the GCC and other At Metito our growth strategy is also embodied in our pursuit of efficiency key markets in Asia and Africa. Using refractive index measurements, and optimization at all levels of our business cycle and operations. I am very Optiqua’s unique solutions, allow utilities to accurately identify all pollutants proud of the work we have done, both as individuals and collectively as a in downstream infrastructure in real time and then perform qualitative and company to improve communities in developing countries. I very much quantitative laboratory analysis on-site. Having real-time monitoring with look forward to what we will achieve over the next year – creating tangible the precision of Eventlab is crucial to any utilities provider because it will results that have a significant impact on the lives of many. Our company will enable simple, and efficient on-site identification of the entire spectrum of continue leading this industry by example and we will never compromise pollutants. The safety, security and financial returns from such an innovative the quality of our services and solutions as we continue to meet and exceed and cost efficient solution are monumental. the expectations of our employees, our clients, and the communities we so humbly serve. We pride ourselves for being agile and attentive to macro and micro market conditions and to responding promptly and strategically to the changing Sincerely, needs in the markets where we operate. A good example would be Metito’s latest acquisition of a leading chemical company in Thailand, Clear Chemicals. This agreement means we can now explore more markets and facilitate operations in South East Asia and the surrounding countries, thus spreading our reach even further. The right chemicals can be the difference Mutaz Ghandour The world is undergoing huge and unprecedented changes, from the exponential rate of technological advancement to the mounting pressure on our fragile natural ecosystems. We are navigating new territory.Ó 05 Local Presence... Global Knowhow with capacity 2x65 MW on Kalimantan Island. PTMI Metito Indonesia at a Glance has been operating and maintaining the plant for 13 years, after completing the development, supply and PT Metito Indonesia (PTMI), a wholly owned company commissioning of the plant in 2004. by Metito Group, was established in 1996. The company has continued to grow throughout the years and today PTMI is currently producing and selling approximately PTMI has established headquarters in Ampera Raya, 1.4 Million m3 of water per year from three of its running Jakarta and has site offices in Tanjung Priok, Belwan, concessions. Dumai, Banjarmasin in Java Island, Sumatra Island and Kalimantan Island respectively. The Outlook PTMI covers the full spectrum of the water and wastewater treatment requirements including; Design Engineering, Indonesia President Pak Joko Widodo, has ambitious Procurement and Commissioning type projects, plans for Indonesia and the development of the Operation and Maintenance, Supply of Spare Parts and water and wastewater sector is a part of this wholesome Chemicals. PTMI also specialises in concession based approach to progress. With the economic and political projects with an exemplar portfolio of Sea Water Reverse stability the country is experiencing, it is expected that Osmosis Treatment Plants under BOT business model this will reflect positively o n t h e g o ve r n m en t l e d serving; Tanjung Priok port, Dumai port and Belawan infrastructure plans and projects. port. These projects at provide clean/drinking water for the ports and the ships docking or stopping over. There, Metito has already invested in excess of 10M USD in Indonesia, and the Group is committed to continue PTMI has successfully developed more than 50 EPC playing an active role in developing the water and projects across different locations in Indonesia, including; wastewater sector through PTMI with the development Java, Sumatra, Kalimantan, Sulawesi and Papua islands. of more sustainable projects able to serve and benefit These projects covered the Oil and Gas, Petrochemicals, the communities where Metito operates. Power, Palm Oil, Fertilizer and Hotel sectors. One of these projects is considered iconic for PTMI’s EPC PTMI will continue focusing on its local presence, and portfolio, this is the PLN’s Asam Asam Power Plant its ability to bring world class quality know-how in ways 06 Local Presence...Global Knowhow that are fitting with the requirements of Indonesia, its prospects, challenges and water needs. Metito’s Center of Engineering Excellence in Pune, India, will continue Metito Indonesia Team at Pangalengan, West Java, Indonesia supporting the group and the Indonesian operation with expert support and execution capabilities implemented What advice would you give your team to maintain locally through the Jakarta office. PTMIÕs journey of success to ensure continues grow and develop as an industry leader? PTMI will also continue advocating and promoting water Together We Can and Together We Will. Keep recycling and re-use and through Metito Group will be learning, stay committed and exert sincere efforts. introducing some of the latest technologies and smart Each and every one of them must ensure that there is systems able to deliver sustainable solutions for a variety continuous return on investment for individual within of applications. an organization where they are committed. Where do you see PTMI in 10-5 years? The Team I see PTMI growing its pool of talents, its business and marking new exemplary projects in Indonesia. I am PTMI has over 200 talents across its operations in confident PTMI will have stronger presence and play Indonesia. The team is bound by a strong team spirit a more active role in the market in the years to come. and a common commitment to add shared value to the country through their hard work and dedication. What is your personal take on working for Metito To continue building on this strong foundation and and managing the business in PTMI? synergy, PTMI periodically conducts team building Serving Metito and reaching where I am today means activities such as Table Tennis competitions within and a lot to me. Working with Metito has always been a across the offices, mountain trekking, Staff and family pleasure and has had a positive impact on my personal, gatherings. social and professional life. Metito’s management style is built around trust, support and delegation and these are key factors any Manager will look for to stay There is a Bahasa phrase that we often use, “BERSAMA in a company, stay motivated and be result driven. KITA BISA”, which can be translated to “TOGETHER WE CAN”. This has become our team ethos. On managing PTMI, I have to say that with a great team working with me it would be hard not to Leading the succeed. I give most credit to the dedicated and Team to Success highly professional PTMI Board of Directors who is loyal and committed to Metito. They are trustworthy, What do you think is dependable and reliable, and I would not wish for a better team to lead this business to success matching the main factor behind that of Metito Group’s quality and expectations. PTMIÕs success? Deepak Nyayadishi President Director of PT Metito Indonesia What one word does PTMI want to own in the Without a doubt, it’s the Team behind the company. Their spirit and their drive minds of its clients, employees, and partners? alongside a healthy working environment that is able to Reliable. nurture both, is what makes PTMI successful. 07 Our Commitment... Our Mission Metito commits to a sustainable environment through providing effective water management and treatment systems that can reconcile the ever growing demand for water and its dwindling natural resources. 08 Our Commitment...Our Values Our Values Customer Focus Every employee is customer satisfaction driven. We commit to provide our clients with value-added products and services and to achieve high returns on investments for our shareholders; we further strive to exceed their expectations and keep them continuously informed through personable, honest and open communications. People Focus Our employees are our most valuable asset; we recognise their needs and professional aspirations and make every effort to provide them with relevant training and opportunities to empower them to achieve their goals, and in turn support our mission by their high quality performance and refined service. The health and safety of our employees is also paramount to our organisation and we commit to continually improve their standards. Leadership We lead with integrity, refined expertise Quality and creativity, both as individuals within an organisation and as an organisation operating in We commit to deliver quality services and products that are in local and global markets. Our proven leadership line with our customers’ needs, and to maintain World Class approach demands leading by example and performance in all our business undertakings. This is founded influencing others to do likewise and with on the highest standards of customer service, uncompromised this, accountability becomes a guaranteed ethics and environmental consciousness. Our quality systems bi-product. ensure that we do this right the first time, every time. Collaboration, Team Work & Passion Sustainability We believe in, and encourage teamwork, as it Metito is a responsible corporate citizen that aims to creates a sustainable flow of information and implement sustainable practices throughout its businesses. knowledge sharing that helps benchmark our Our commitment to sustain the environment is achieved work, enables us to better our performance fundamentally through being an integral player in an industry and leverage our collective know-how and with a mission to meet the world’s water demands and to refined skills. Our passion and belief in what preserve its resources. Stemming from our People Focus, we we do, complement this spirit and take us that also aim to invest in and develop human elements to help extra mile that helps Metito stand out, further, provide a sustainable pool of talents to the communities we from its competitors. work with. 09 Leading By Example 10 Leading By Example A Case Study Wastewater Recycling and Treated Sewage Effluent Plant, Emaar Properties Downtown Dubai, UAE The plant employs a treatment process that makes it Location D  owntown Dubai, UAE possible to recycle and reuse wastewater on-site, thereby Key Data Plant Type Wastewater Recycling and efficiently developing a sustainable and readily available Treated Sewage Effluent Plant water resource serving the feed water requirements of Capacity 20,000m3/day the cooling plants. Prior to feeding the district cooling Use Recycle wastewater to reuse needs, all Treated Sewage Effluent (TSE) goes through a as feed water for district polishing process that utilizes the Reverse Osmosis (RO) cooling purposes technology. Client Emaar Properties End User Emaar Properties Contract Type Design and Build including Compared to otherwise disposing wastewater and 5 years Operations incurring higher costs for bringing in costly, fresh/ desalinated water, the plant represents a long-term cost saving solution and higher economic and environmental returns to the whole project and the community. To put Introduction this into perspective; the cost Emaar now incurs to supply water needed for district cooling is almost a quarter of Emaar Properties is one of the world’s most valuable and the cost of desalinating fresh water for the same use. admired real estate development companies. With proven competencies in property development, shopping malls, With a challenging deadline of only six months from retail, hospitality and leisure, Emaar shapes new lifestyles design to operation, Metito was able to retrofit a state with a focus on design excellence, build quality and of the art recycling and polishing plant at the existing timely delivery. Their flagship development, Downtown district cooling plant DCP3. This is the largest among Dubai is the world’s most visited lifestyle destination and the three district cooling towers serving the Downtown home to the iconic Burj Khalifa, The Dubai Mall and The Dubai district that includes; residential areas, Dubai Mall, Dubai Fountain. shops, and the larger community. Developing world class projects and fostering strategic Retrofitting was essential as the land value at this particular partnerships, Emaar strives to preserve the environment high end district is one of the most expensive square through reducing the eco-footprint of its developments. foots in the UAE, so building the plant within an existing Sharing a commitment to a more sustainable environment space compared to the traditional solution of building a and with 15 years of successful collaboration paving standalone plant enabled Emaar to save valuable space way, Emaar awarded Metito the project to develop a and significant cost. wastewater recycling and treated sewage effluent plant, with the capacity of 20,000m3/day. The project aims to This unique project is considered the biggest of its kind secure the feed water needed for district cooling plants in the UAE and possibly in the GCC. DCP1, DCP2 and DCP3 at Mohammed Bin Rashid Boulevard, all of which serve the Downtown Dubai area. 11 • Fully automated plant with Program Logic Controller (PLC) Scope of Work • Reduction of the carbon footprint in excess of 36.85 The scope of work included complete design, engineering, tons of CO2/day as opposed to using desalinated manufacturing, supply, inspection and testing, installation, seawater for the same application commissioning and performance testing of the TSE polishing plant. Metito also supplied the following: • Turning waste to wealth by recycling wastewater and reusing it efficiently as a readily available • Ultra-filtration unit consisting of 8 streams water resource rather than disposing of it and producing net filtered water of 26,880m3/d. The desalinating, precious and costly, fresh water Ultra filtration system removes suspended solids and reduces COD level before feeding the RO units • Saving on the cost of land that would have been required to build a standalone plant • Two Stage RO system with 75% recovery rate. The RO system includes four working trains producing • The cost of securing makeup water to feed the cooling 20,000m3/day of TSE polished water to supply three towers is reduced to almost one fourth (1/4) as different district cooling plants, located at distinct compared to desalinating fresh water for the same locations application • Clean-in-place for ultra-filtration and RO unit 12 Leading By Example Industry Recognition And Engagement Industry Recognition Metito Ranks 8th in the Global Water Intelligence list of the Largest Portfolio of Privately Financed Water/Wastewater Treatment Plants around the world GWI published a list of companies with the most interest in municipal build-operate-transfer and buildown-operate water and wastewater treatment plants, in which Metito ranked 8th internationally. Left to right: Davis Brandon, Jacobs’ Procurement Manager; Simon Tremblay, Jacobs’ Project Director; Ammar Smaili, Project Engineer The list is based on equity ownership of total capacity (i.e. the total capacity of projects in which a company September 2016 and since then the plant has been has an equity interest, multiplied by the percentage running a continuous and seamless operation. This share of the project company that they own in each achievement was well-received by Ma’aden who case). It is a rough measure, and in Metito’s case very awarded Metito for reaching 20 million man-hours conservative, but GWI clearly states that it is the best without Lost Time due to Injury. they can do with the data available. Looking at active non-Chinese developers only, the Ma’aden is a complex and demanding project in a remote leader board shows the following ranking: 1) Suez; area in KSA. Despite this, and with a truly inspiring team 2) Veolia; 3) Tedagua; 4) Engie; 5) Acciona; 6) Biwater; determination, the project was completed on time, 7) Hyflux; 8) Metito; 9) Mitsui; 10) Sembcorp. This within budget and to the full satisfaction of our client. achievement is a clear indicator of the efforts This is a true reflection of Metito's customer-centric being made by the Metito team on a global level. business and service model. Metito Saudi Receives ÔBusiness Partner Metito Receives Business Excellence Award AwardÕ From MaÕaden from Dubai Silicon Oasis Authority Metito Saudi recently received the ‘Business Partner Dubai Silicon Oasis Authority has rated Metito Overseas Award’ from Ma’aden, a world-class diversified Limited as an “Excellent” supplier for 2015, and mining and minerals company formed by The Royal held an award ceremony to recognise, and enhance Decree to facilitate the development of Saudi Arabia's relationships with, select suppliers. Metito was mineral resources. Following this milestone, Metito awarded for its outstanding performance in the completed all the site construction activities by management, operation and maintenance of the sewage August 2016, and started the pre-commissioning and commissioning activities to successfully exceed treatment plant. the client’s expectations, by producing demineralised water 125 m3/hr well ahead of the scheduled Tarek Elmenshawy, Metito Senior Projects and O&M date which was set for 30 October, 2016. Manager, attended the ceremony and received the certificate of appreciation on behalf of Metito in The water treatment package was commissioned in recognition for its continuous support to Dubai Silicon 13 Oasis Authority. Ghanim Al Falasi, DSOA, Senior Vice them with necessary onsite facilities. It also monitors President, People Happiness, Innovation & Supply compliance in implementing the summer ban and Management; and Abdulbaset Bastaki, DSOA Vice provides workers with relevant training and awareness President-Supply Management presented the award to programmes to empower them in their jobs. Metito. El Sayed Nasr, Metito Abu Dhabi Senior Project Metito Abu Dhabi Receives Manager, received the four-star grade certificate from a ÔCertificate of RecognitionÕ Mubarak Al Zahrey, ADSSC Deputy Management Director; and Abu Haris, HSE, ADSSC Projects Division. from Abu Dhabi Sewerage Services Company Business Application IT & Digital Transformation Team Wins CIO 100 At the ADSSC Health, Safety and Environment Forum Left to right: Abhinav Sharma, BI and Consolidation Analyst; Mohammed Derar Al Shraideh, Enterprise Solution Developer; Arnab Debroy, IT Manager; Akram Daoud, Metito Abu Dhabi received a ‘Certificate of Recognition’ Regional Financial Controller; Shamoon Ali, Enterprise Business Analyst from Abu Dhabi Sewerage Services Company (ADSSC) at the Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Metito was recognised at the Computer News Middle Forum, it organised earlier this year, in recognition East’s (CNME) CIO 100 Awards & Forum 2017, for its of its effective implementation of site welfare innovative Information Technology (IT) management facilities at Tarif and Bida Al Mutawa in Abu Dhabi. among other leading organisations including ADNEC, Abu Dhabi Police, Al Safeer, Al Zahra Hospital, Metito completed the construction of the integrated Aldar Properties, First Gulf Bank, Gulf Capital, 8,000 m3/d Mirfa STP and 800m3/d STP for Bida earlier Jumbo, Lamprell, Mashreq Bank, Lulu Group this year. International, Masdar, McDonald’s, Nakheel, National Metito Abu Dhabi achieved the highest project Bank of Fujairah, Philips, RAK Bank, Siemens, among assessment score compared to those received by others. Celebrating the innovation, intelligence and 36 other companies. Metito also earned a fourintuition demonstrated by organisations over the past star grade certificate, making it the first company 12 months, this prestigious award was presented to to receive this coveted award. The new assessment Metito for the innovative Float Control System with and evaluation requirement by ADSSC helps the Mobile enhancement and the Tag reporting automation company monitor its contractor’s commitment and project at CNME’s annual awards ceremony that responsibility to workers welfare after providing took place at the Ritz Carlton Hotel in Dubai, UAE. 14 Leading By Example American University in Dubai Appreciation Industry Engagement Award Introducing Real-time Drinking Water Quality Monitoring Technology Metito has collaborated with Optiqua Technologies to bring intelligent water quality monitoring solutions, Eventlab and Minilab, to the GCC and other key markets in Asia and Africa. This cutting-edge, sensor technology is based on refractive index measurements, and provides realtime water quality monitoring for the full spectrum of chemical contaminants with a single sensor, designed for both standalone and networked infrastructures. Moataz El Hammamy recieving the AUD Appreciation Award Having real-time monitoring at the precision of Eventlab is crucial to any utilities provider because it enables simple and efficient on-site identification and prompt The American University in Dubai awarded Metito an responses to unexpected and sometimes unknown Appreciation Award for its long standing support to pollutants – and performs qualitative and quantitative the university. Moataz El Hammamy, Metito General laboratory analysis of the pollutants with speed. The Manager – Operations, received the award on behalf safety, security and financial returns from such an of Metito. innovative and cost-efficient solution are monumental, and we are pleased to be able to offer technologies like these to our clients. Left to right: Dr Joep van den Broeke, Optiqua Senior Project Manager; Melchior van Wijlen, Optiqua Managing Director; Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director; Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chairman and CEO; Hisham Fadda, Metito Group Human Capital Director; Wafic Ghanem, Metito Chief Financial Officer 15 HSBC Interviews Rami Ghandour Metito’s Chinese portfolio has come a long way since Metito set up a Chinese joint venture (JV) with Berlinwasser in 2008. At that time, the portfolio included just two municipal BOT projects with a combined capacity of 620,000m3/d. By 2011, when Metito bought Berlinwasser’s remaining 49% stake in the JV, there were five assets with a combined treatment capacity of 1.1 million m3/d. According to Ghandour, 2011 was the turning point for Metito as the company increased its efforts to develop the industrial business. The portfolio now encompasses eight concession/ BOT projects and three O&M contracts, covering 1.3 million m3/d of aggregate capacity. “We’ve won three O&Ms this year, and the last three BOTs were industrial wastewater projects,” Ghandour explained. Metito Acquires Portuguese Engineering Company Douro Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director Metito has a long-standing relationship with HSBC internationally, which has grown even stronger in the Metito acquired Douro ECI, a specialized engineering last few years. firm headquartered in Portugal, which provides engineering and consulting innovative services and The global financial institution conducted an informal systems. video interview with Managing Director, Rami Duoro focuses on making projects and treatment Ghandour, about Metito’s expectations from its banking solutions more efficient through managing non-revenue providers, both now and in the future. water, infiltration and inflows, asset management planning and operational strategy, business intelligence, Global Water Intelligence Interviews Rami systems optimization, among others. Ghandour The company excels in developing integral visions for Global Water Intelligence (GWI) processes, especially those most commonly taken interviewed Rami Ghandour, for granted in the water cycle and beyond. With new Managing Director, about the technologies focused on water engineering, water Chinese market. In his interview, supply, methodologies and technological solutions Ghandour stated that Metito has “never looked at and the aquisition of Duoro, Metito aims to further exiting the Chinese market”, despite competition from guarantee efficient, cost effective, and more sustainable Chinese firms and aggressive consolidation activity. water utilities across all the markets where it operates. 16 Leading By Example Metito Takes Part in the G20 Africa stability and investment opportunities in Africa. At the core of the conference were efforts to improve Partnership Conference the framework conditions for private investment in African countries including through the G20 initiative “Compact with Africa”. The G20 initiative aims to support a reliable financial framework in order to increase investment opportunities, push for a more sustainable infrastructure as well as create jobs and employment in African countries and thereby contribute to the AU Agenda 2063. Karim Madwar, Managing Director Metito Africa To renew efforts of cooperation and enhance represented Metito at the event, during which he also sustainable economic development the German Presidency has launched the G20 Africa Partnership. held high level meetings with various stakeholders. In June 2017 the German Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Al Ittihad Interviews Fady Juez Development and the Deutsche Bundesbank hosted the International Conference “G20 Africa PartnershipFady Juez, Metito Managing Investing in a Common Future”. The conference gave Director, was interviewed by opportunities to strengthen high-level dialogues leading Arabic publication, Al between G20 and African decision-makers, to identify Ittihad about Metito’s history common areas of interests and further needs for and successful operations in the action with regards to sustainable economic growth, UAE. Juez expressed his optimism about the economic Karim Madwar, Metito Managing Director-Africa Fady Juez, Metito Managing Director 17 situation in the UAE, highlighting the growth of the The panel of high level speakers included; Dzung Tran infrastructure sector and the encouragement this Viet, Head of PPP Office, Public Procurement Agency provides to international companies to enter the local (PPA), Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI), market. This positive investor sentiment is further Vietnam; Benson Ajisegiri, Head of Water Reform bolstered by Abu Dhabi’s increased focus on economic and Public Private Partnership, Federal Ministry of diversification. Water Resources, Nigeria; Emma Sri Martini, President Director, PT Sara Multi Infrastruktur (Persero), Metito currently operates about 20 projects in the UAE: Indonesia; Atter Hannoura, Director, Public Private four in Abu Dhabi, five in Dubai and three in Sharjah, Partnership, Central Unit, Egypt Ministry of Finance; with the rest spread across the other emirates. Over Hisaka Kimura, Head, Private Sector Infrastructure the past years, Metito has implemented several projects Finance, East Asia Unit, Asian Development Bank; across the UAE, Juez said. These projects have largely Sylvester Hsu, Senior Investment Operations Specialist, been focused on drinking water desalination, waste AIIB; Yamileth Astorga, M.Sc., Presidenta Ejecutiva, water treatment and factory waste.” Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados, Metito’s work began in the Middle East in the 1960s and Costa Rica; Sonia Attia, Director General of the has included the development of many of the region’s, Concessions Monitoring Committee, Office of the if not the world’s, most iconic water projects, such as President, Republic of Tunisia. The Palm Jumeirah, Dubai Parks and Emaar Downtown Plant – providing landmark areas with district cooling Metito Attends the Tokyo International water needs. Conference on African Development (TICAD) Fady Juez Chairs a Session at GWI Global Water Summit in Madrid Fady Juez, Metito Managing Director, chaired the session titled ‘Bridging the Bankability Gap: Emerging Models for PPPs’, at the Global Water Intelligence (GWI) Global Water Summit that was held in Madrid, Spain. Funding resources at federal, state, and local governments are becoming scarcer and the solution without a doubt involves private money and private Metito and Mitsubishi Corporation team at Tokyo International Conference on sector engagement. There are significant reserves African Development of private capital available that can be used for longterm yield investments especially in emerging markets Metito joined Mitsubishi Corporation (MC) but despite the existing demand for private money at The Sixth Tokyo International Conference and readiness of private sector to get involved, there on African Development (TICAD VI) Summit still remain challenges in putting together viable which took place at Kenyatta International water projects following the evolving PPP models. In Convention Center in Nairobi, Kenya last month. the session Fady chaired the discussion was about reasons behind the current mismatch, the challenges, Representing MC at the event were; Haruki HAYASHI, opportunities and solutions that can close this Regional CEO, Europe & Africa (Concurrently) Managing bankability gap and make water projects more viable. Director, Mitsubishi Corporation International (Europe) 18 Leading By Example His Royal Highness Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa, Prime Minister of the and Yasuhiro Tokunaga, Assistant Manager, Overseas Kingdom of Bahrain with team Metito Platforms Management Team Water Business Dept. Infrastructure Business Division Mitsubishi Corporation. Metito Joins WSTA 12th Gulf Water Conference Ahmed Zaky, Metito Africa Business Development in Bahrain Manager, joined the MC team, representing Metito at the event. Through addressing the topic of sustainable water The team then held a high-level introductory meeting management in the GCC countries, the WSTA 12th Gulf Water Conference focused on the formulation of with His Excellency Macky Sall, President of the Republic integrated, comprehensive water strategies. Moreover, of Senegal. the conference addressed the relevant approaches and instruments used in the various water-consuming Wafic Ghanem Discusses Islamic Finance; sectors for enhancing the level of water security and The African Experience sustainability. Metito joined the conference as an exhibitor and Khalil Dahouk, Metito Qatar Senior Sales Engineer; Ayman Kamel, Metito Bahrain Site Supervisor represented the company at the event. The conference, held under the Patronage of His Royal Highness Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Bahrain, presented the experiences and best practices from different countries in improving water sustainability and overcoming the water challenges in the arid GCC and Arab countries. From Lubango to Dubai Wafic Ghanem, Metito Chief Financial Officer Wafic Ghanem, Metito Chief Financial Officer, was interviewed by financial publications, Islamic Business & Finance and Banker Africa about Metito’s Islamic Banking experience. In these conversations, he shared his insights on supporting the promotion and successful issuance of a Sukuk. Left to right: Lutero Campos, Director da Agricultura (Governo Provincial da Huíla); Orlando Braz, Director Financeiro da Empresas de Água (Governo Provincial da Huíla); Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chairman and CEO; Dr. Abel Costa, Director Empresas de Água (Governo Provincial da Huíla) 19 Mutaz Ghandour, CEO; Rami Ghandour, MD; and Team Water Business Dept. Infrastructure Business Tamer Fouad, Finance Manager UAE and Rwanda, Division Mitsubishi Corporation. Ahmed Zaky, Metito recently visited the Metito Lubango office, situated Africa Business Development Manager, joined the in the capital city of the province of Huíla in Angola. MC team and was representing Metito at the event. They were warmly welcomed by the Metito Angola team, led by Marina Ladeiras, Lubango Project Team The team then held a high-level introductory meeting Leader; Rogerio Gerheim, Commercial Management with His Excellency Macky Sall, President of the Specialist; Claudio Moreira, Manager of Operation and Republic of Senegal. Engineering; and Joaquim Sereno, Maintenance Expert. Metito Angola has built a strong relationship A Greener Lobango with the Government of Huíla, and with Dr. Abel Costa, Director of Water. Following the Metito Metito team at Lubango Angola, led by Marina team’s visit to Angola, members from the Huíla Ladeiras, Metito Contract Team Leader, joined National Government were invited to Metito’s office in Dubai Water Director, Lucrécio Costa, members from the for a special delegation visit. Dr. Abel Costa was World Bank and PDISA in a meeting to verify the status joined by Lutero Campos, Director of Agriculture of the ongoing works to supply water to the population and Orlando Braz, Director of Water Companies. of Lubango and the communication companies like Metito need to maintain with the local communities. Representing MC at the event were; Haruki HAYASHI, Regional CEO, Europe & Africa (Concurrently) Metito presented its work progress so far, in both Managing Director, Mitsubishi Corporation English and Portuguese. The presentation was then International (Europe) and Yasuhiro Tokunaga, followed by a celebration during which trees were Assistant Manager, Overseas Platforms Management planted in commemoration of this special day. Left to right: Rogerio Gerheim ,Commercial Management Specialist; Tamer Fouad, Finance Manager UAE and Rwanda; Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chairman and CEO; Marina Ladeiras, Lobango Project Team Leader; Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director; Claudio Moreira, Manager of Operation and Engineering; and Joaquim Sereno, Maintenance Expert. 20 Our People Our People Safety Before Business Metito Chairman and CEO Mutaz Ghandour has made it his personal mission this year to prioritise and further advocate the critical message of Safety Before Business. ÒOur people are our most valuable asset. Nothing comes before their safety and wellbeing, to which we are 100% committed. Today, with over 2,600 employees globally located, we cannot stress enough the importance of their safety, and the dedicated efforts Metito is making in this regard”, reinstated Mutaz Ghandour. Metito takes health and safety very seriously and our This year Mutaz Ghandour has also shared an updated exemplary track record of safety across our offices, version of the QHSE policy to remind employees in worldwide locations, undoubtedly reflects this. that safety is a shared responsibility and that only through working together we can better our habits, both as individuals and as members of larger teams. A proactive approach and a process-based system are key to ensure that the health and operational safety ÒI ask my employees to never compromise on their of Metito’s employees are well looked after, while health and safety or that of their peers. We have simultaneously delivering world-class quality services devoted ourselves to creating a habit of excellence and and products, guaranteeing a safe environment for all safety is a critical habit that will remain our top priority as employees. a business”, commented Mutaz Ghandour. 21 Maintaining a cultural perspective improves the planning Employees by Nationality of a project, and aids in creating a tailor-made approach for each environment. Therefore, we made the decision 63% to invest in local professionals, bringing with them a 60% wealth of experience in the industry and environment 50% of our locations, and are excited for what we will achieve 40% 37% together. 30% 20% 10% 0.25% 0.53% We continuously strive to ensure that our current 0% employees can develop and enhance their skillsets A an As n M frica A pe ia C me through training initiatives within all our offices. These id n dl a e nd Ea Au ana rica ro Eu ste str dia n/ programmes are designed to transform each job into a rn ali n/ an career, providing the skills required to achieve success. We want our employees to feel like an integral part of the business and realise the impact their contributions have on the overall bottom-line. Training Statistics Although technology and innovation in water and wastewater management is our service, it is undeniably No. of Employees Trained 704 our people that contribute to Metito’s success. Our No. of Training Hours 10,097 collaborative approach to business and employment is a key factor behind driving future success, creating tangible and long-lasting results. 28% Training Type Employees by Length of Service Technical Training Non-Technical 1% 72% 31% < 5 years 5-10 years 51% 10-15 years QHSE Statistics 15-20 years 5% > 20 years 2,296,811 13% No. of Safe Man-Hours since June, 2016 until May, 2017 in the UAE 0 LTI Frequency Rate since June, 2016 until May, 2017 in the UAE 22 Team Building Initiatives Team Building Initiatives through the collaboration with Thumbay Hospital, which Metito Wellness Day celebrated by also provided complimentary dental check-ups. Employees across the UAE In addition to physical health assessments, Metito For the second consecutive year, Metito hosted its recognises the importance of a stress-free environment, much-anticipated ‘Wellness Day’ at three locations and introduce the ‘Workplace Yogi’ at Wellness Day. across the UAE: Dubai, Sharjah, and the plant site at This initiative provided staff with a complimentary Dubai Investment Park. yoga session, introducing them to work-friendly, simple exercises that can be carried out while in the Metito’s UAE Wellness Day, which has now been taking office, to relieve stress for a healthy body and mind. place for many years, encourages employees to adopt a healthier lifestyle to help prevent the onset or worsening of an illness or disease. Wellness Day activities this year highlighted the importance of consistent education and accountability, which is key to achieving and sustaining a healthy way of life. The initiative, organised by the Metito Human Capital team in conjunction with Amity, Metito’s health insurance partner, offered employees complimentary comprehensive health risk tests to assess blood pressure levels, blood sugar, cholesterol and body mass index. Conducting these tests on-site was made possible Metito Dubai Wellness Day Metito Qatar Wellness Day 23 Metito Utilities China Team Building Activity Staying true to its mission to raise happiness levels amongst staff, Metito Utilities China (MUC) organised an internal badminton competition to provide the team with opportunities to network outside of working hours. Colleagues from different departments participated in the competition, which was held at the Yueda badminton stadium on 15th April 2017. The initiative offered the team the opportunity to get to know each other better Metito China Team building activity and exchange skills and knowledge about the game, while simultaneously encouraging an active lifestyle. In It To Win It! Metito Basketball team aimed and encouraging sports as healthy lifestyles among employees working for companies in the same area. Metito Basketball team participates the CMP Sports Management and Dubai Investment Park (DIP) Corporate Sports held in Dubai, UAE. Metito Basketball Team did it again and again for 4 season straight championship. Metito basketball team champions at the CMP Sports Basketball Tournament Season 3, Dubai, UAE There were different types of sports that the organisations Billiards, Bowling, Indoor Cricket, Indoor Soccer, can get involved, it includes indoor and outdoor events Outdoor Soccer, Karting, Indoor Volleyball, Carom, in different disciplines including: Badminton, Basketball, Chess, Swimming and Table Tennis. Metito basketball team champions at the CMP Style MNL 3.0 2-Day Basketball League, Rashidiya, Dubai, UAE 24 Team Building Initiatives Metito India Team building activity Metito India Team Building Activity As part of Metito India annual activity plan for employees, the Metito Pune Health Committee organised a team building weekend off-site at the serene Surya Shibir Resort, providing the team with the opportunity to unwind and connect with nature, while participating in various collaborative activities. Colleagues shared their professional experiences, engaged in productive discussions and reinforced positivity and teamwork at this eco-friendly resort located near the stunning mountains by Panshet Dam. Metito Sharjah Team building activity Metito Sharjah Team Building Activity To celebrate the spirit of Ramadan, Metito Sharjah others Ali Ladan, Metito Senior Administration Manager, organised a social gathering and Iftar for 145 team organised the event, which was also attended by the senior members at the Ajman Saray Hotel. Hisham Fadda, Metito management team including Mohamed AbuSinn, Metito Group Human Capital Director, made the event more Group Legal Advisor; Motaz Hammamy, Metito General memorable by presenting past and present employees Manager; Ahmed Hayajneh, Metito Regional Sales with Service Awards, to mark their contribution to the Manager, Dubai Northern Emirates, Oman and Pakistan; business. Colleagues awarded include Vilas Eakle, Metito Osama Hayajneh, Metito Senior Projects Manager; Senior Project Manager who has been with Metito for 20 Wahid Rahmeh, Metito Senior Contracts and Commercial years; Altaf Farouqi, Metito Field Services Manager who Manager; Emad Hilal, Metito General Manager, Technical; completed 15 years of service at the company, among and Samir Gad, Metito Regional Proposals Manager. 25 Metito Indonesia Team Building at Pangalengan, West Java, Indonesia Metito Indonesia Team Building Activity Metito Indonesia hosted a team building session at Pangalengan, West Java, at a tea plantation between Mount Wayang and Mount Windu. This team building activity aimed to upskill staff in relevant areas and to provide the right environment for the team to bond on a professional and personal level. At the event, colleagues had the opportunity to learn how to: manage difficult people, lead organisation change, discover result-oriented training techniques, become a highMetito Indonesia Team building activity performance team, resolve conflicts and set goals. Metito Qatar Team Building Activity Qatar’s office and site staff came together for the ‘Camp Staff Gathering Day’ at the Metito Residents Camp, demonstrating true team spirit and a collaborative work environment. The team building activity has been made possible thanks to a motivating leadership and human resources team, which continues to play an important role in uniting the Metito family in Qatar to achieve greater heights. Metito Qatar Team building activity 26 Team Building Initiatives Metito Utilities (MUL) Team Building Activity To celebrate recent achievements and successes, MUL organised a team gathering at Qasr AlSultan Resort in Dubai Parks and Resorts. Dubai Parks and Resorts Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director and Walid Madwar, MUL V.P. Business Development, hosted the gathering which was attended by Sulaiman Hallal, V.P executive delegation visit to the Dubai Parks and Resorts, Business Operations; Seiichi Yasuda, Senior Manager to inspect the site and congratulate the team on the Business Development; Tamer Fouad, Finance Manager successful completion of project. UAE and Rwanda; Sonia Ovenden, Senior Manager Meraas Holding awarded Metito the Dubai Parks and Human Capital; Mohamed Hamdy, Manager SPC; Resorts project, the first integrated resort destination Mohamed Sakaya and Sandra Arizi, Business Analysts; in the region and home to theme parks such as Reem Saleh, Senior Corporate Communications LEGOLAND. The scope of work included the design Manager; Bridgette David, Executive Assistant to the and construction of a state-of-the art Treated Sewage Board; and Riva Claur, Document Controller. Effluent (TSE) Polishing Plant. Metito utilised its innovative technologies, including MBBR, ultra-filtration, Executive delegation visit to Dubai Parks reverse osmosis, multimedia filtration and an integrated and Resorts Project chemicals dosing system. Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chairman and CEO, led an Left to right: Reynaldo Dizon, Commissioning Supervisor; Fady Juez, Managing Director; Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chairman & CEO; Patricio Gonzales, Senior Mechanical Supervisor; Rami Ghandour, Managing Director; Moataz Hammamy, Operations General Manager; Osama Hayajneh, Senior Projects Manager; AhmadGawish, Field Service Manager 27 Left to right: Ahmed Hayajneh, Sales Manager; Fady Juez, Managing Director; Reem Saleh, Senior Manager Corporate Communications; Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chairman & CEO; Rami Ghandour, Managing Director; Osama Hayajneh, Senior Projects Manager; Moataz Hammamy, Operations General Manager; Tarek Majzoub, Senior Project Engineer; Ahmad Gawish, Field Service Manager; Reynaldo Dizon, Commissioning Supervisor TSE is delivered to the plant to be further purified and polished, resulting in the production of approximately 1,200 m3/day of water, which satisfies the requirements for Dubai Parks and Resorts’ lagoons. The lagoon water is then aerated and circulated through separate stations dedicated to these functions; this not only optimises the use of existing water, but also ensures a sustainable supply. As a result of this integrated cycle, water loss from evaporation is compensated and the water level is maintained within the lagoons by continuously introducing the exact quantity required through the TSE Polishing Plant. The operation of these packages is fully automated and controlled by PLC and SCADA systems, which have been designed, installed and integrated by Metito. The key challenge faced during this project was to Ahmed Hayajneh Regional Sales Manager Dubai, integrate the different elements within the design and Northern Emirates, Oman & Pakistan; Osama Hayajnehoperational requirements. Metito also delivered the Senior Projects Manager; Moataz Hammamy General project to high standards within the tight schedule Manager Operations; Tarek Elmenshawy Senior O&M provided. Projects Manager; Ahmed Raafat, Project Site Engineer. Mutaz Ghandour was accompanied by Rami Ghandour, Managing Director; Fady Juez, Managing Director; 28 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity 29 Community Initiatives Al Noor Center For Special Needs Pool Therapy and Mobility Exercise Session Supporting Children with Special Needs in Dubai Not only is water essential for sustaining life, it also provides numerous far-reaching benefits to the body and mind. The soothing properties of water can benefit people with disabilities, as water eliminates the effects of gravity on the body, greatly reducing pain and stress on muscles and joints. Water therapy programmes consist of a combination of treatments and exercises conducted 34th blood donation drive organised by PT Metito Indonesia in a swimming pool, and these programmes have been implemented at the Al Noor Training Centre for Children with Special Needs in Dubai. Children at the Centre can not only improve their mobility in the water, but also take time, to offer free medical check-ups for vertigo, fever, what they've learned and practice it on land, while having vitamin deficiency and breathing difficulty, providing fun at the same time. medical services to nearly 100 people. PT Metito Indonesia Organises its 34th Providing Water Relief Blood Donation Drive In a continued effort to provide water relief and provide PT Metito Indonesia organised its 34th blood donation the most vulnerable with access to water, Metito has drive in cooperation with 8EH Radio Bekasi in Jakarta, renewed its partnership with Human Appeal International and welcomed over 150 volunteers. The drive was an to develop two major projects in Senegal and Indonesia. outstanding success with over 38.85 litres of blood Given the arid environments, these are some of the collected. most challenging areas to support when it comes to the provision of clean, potable water. In pursuit of a common goal, PT Metito Indonesia also supported Radio 8EH Social Generation, for the first In Senegal, Metito will be developing 15m surface 30 There is a growing need for water wells across remote areas in Africa , including the Senegal. water well and an agricultural project next to it for the benefit of the surrounding community which is facing increased levels of malnutrition, lack of rain water and a steep increase in the prices of basic foods and commodities. The objectives behind this project are to: provide access to safe and clean water and to save the women commuting in harsh conditions to deliver water to their families; improve health, sanitary conditions and aid the fight against waterborne diseases; improve living Panel discussion with Amal Koshak, DEWA Senior Manager of Marketing Communications; conditions; and to encourage farming and agricultural Dr. Asad Sarwar Qureshi, UAE Ministry of Energy Senior Scientist – Irrigation and Water activities in the surrounding area to secure basic food Management; and Stuart Mee, Interserve Sustainability Manager supply – in an attempt to eradicate malnutrition. In Indonesia, Metito will be developing a 20m surface The Fairmont Palm Hotel & Resort, Dubai. water well in a community that is in dire need of secure Rajendra Dayma, Metito Process Design Manager, access to clean drinking water. With a sustainable source presented an overview of the water situation in the for drinking water, more stability and better health and GCC region and renewable water resources worldwide. living conditions become inevitable. Dayma’s presentation entitled “Advanced Wastewater Reuse Incorporating Innovative Solutions” showcased ÒResponsible Consumption a variety of sustainable water recycling and reuse solutions, together with examples of a few successful and Production of WaterÓ projects delivered by Metito. Emirates Environmental Group Panel Discussion A line-up of industry experts, including Amal Koshak, DEWA Senior Manager of Marketing Communications; Emirates Environmental Group and Dr. Asad Sarwar Qureshi, UAE Ministry of Energy Senior Arabia CSR Network invited Metito Scientist – Irrigation and Water Management; and Stuart to join a panel discussion entitled Mee, Interserve Sustainability Manager, also spoke at ‘Responsible Consumption and Production of Water’, at the event. 31 Knowledge Sharing and Educational Initiatives Metito Welcomes a Student Delegation From the Hartland International School At Dubai Investment Park Metito hosted a delegation of 25 students and teachers from the Hartland International School, Dubai at the Dubai Investment Park (DIP) project site to discuss wastewater recycling and reuse and showcase a practical example of how this works in real life. The visit included an introductory presentation and a tour of the facilities, in order to provide students with information on the challenges faced and how these can be overcome. The presentation covered the latest trends The Hartland International Students and Teachers awareness and statistics on fresh water availability, water scarcity tour at Metito DIP Wastewater Project. and water demand and discussed how this gap can be closed through water recycling and reuse. Students were accompanied by Alina Zambarakji The tour of the facilities included an explanation of the and other teachers from the Hartland School, and step-by-step procedure to produce high quality water were welcomed by Mohamed Hamdy, Metito SPC output using environmentally friendly processes and Manager and Reem Saleh, Senior Manager Corporate technology. Communications. The Hartland International Students and Teachers awareness tour at Metito DIP Wastewater Project. 32 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity Nord Anglia School Science and Technology Week Metito Hosts Multiple Workshops at the Nord Anglia School Science and Technology Week The Nord Anglia School in Dubai invited Metito to join their Science and Technology Week, in Term 3 of the school year. This important event aims to consolidate and discuss key concepts covered in the Science and Technology curriculum, with a focus on sustainability and innovation. Metito set up a booth and hosted multiple workshops, engaging with 250 students from Grade 8 through to Grade 10. The Metito workshops were divided into three parts: 1) Situation analysis: Discuss the latest trends and Enes Kutluca, Biopipe Inventor, explaining the system to the students statistics on water availability and scarcity around the world with a special emphasis on the region; 2) Highlighting the need for water recycling and reuse: Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, and Enes Provide an introduction to Biopipe, the world’s first Kutluca, Biopipe Inventor, led the workshops and biological wastewater treatment pipe and its benefits; concluded the sessions by presenting the students and 3) Brain teasers: Engage students with a series of with the ‘Ultimate Challenge’. Students were asked if fun challenges and a Kahoot quiz. they would accept drinking fully treated and recycled 33 Metito Utilities China celebrates World Water Day 2017 with a site tour to over 100 students wastewater as a way to break cultural barriers Metito Celebrates World Water Day in China pertaining to the quality of treated wastewater, similar to the successful Singaporean NewWater initiative. To celebrate World Water It was a pleasant surprise that an unexpectedly large Day, on 16 March 2017, Metito Utilities China number of students were ready and happy to take this welcomed a delegation of challenge and to embrace and drink treated wastewater 100 students to the Hefei after understanding the treatment process for it to be project in China. The considered safe for drinking. students witnessed firstDaniel O’ Hara, Nord Anglia School MIT/STEAM hand the process of wastewater transformation from Coordinator and Science Teacher, was the main catalyst raw sewage to treated clear water. behind Metito’s involvement with Nord Anglia Science The students were also given a tour of the wastewater Week, successfully organising this significant event. treatment plant and engaged in open discussions The only other entity present at the event, engaging about the treatment process at the plant and how with students of a similar age, and with relevant sector Metito optimises the use of wastewater. experience, was Dubai Expo2020. An example of water reuse was displayed on site, Reem Saleh, Senior Manager Metito Corporate in the form of a water fountain close to the plant’s Communications; Gems Evardo, Metito Corporate entrance. The fountain uses treated wastewater as a Communications Coordinator; and AbuBakr Hussain, sustainable solution for landscaping and irrigation. Metito Factory member, assisted in the organisation of this activity and were also in attendance. 34 This report remains to be a measure of choice that demonstrates Metito’s willingness and efforts to track the effectiveness of its community engagement and a testament of our pledge to encourage others to follow suit. The report is uploaded annually/simultaneously on Metito’s official website, portal and on the United Nations Global Compact* as a continued support for this important initiative. 35 metito.com Design and Build l Utilities l Chemicals Intelligent Water Management
