CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Message from the President Practicing CSR in our Core Business At Tamron, through our core business of making lenses as the“New Eyes for Industry,”we strive to be a company that creates joy and excitement, and which contributes to society and the environment. In addition to our core products such as interchangeable photographic lenses and surveillance camera lenses, we also embrace a dogged pursuit of quality through our focus on new fields such as automotive, ultra-compact camera modules and products for mounting on drones. To respond quickly to cutting-edge technologies and engage in development with a long-term approach to new fields and environmental friendliness, we have established a new research and development center. We have long positioned our three plants in Aomori as our mother plants, and together with plants in China and Vietnam forming a three-point production system, Tamron is able to swiftly respond to customer needs and provide products that deliver excitement, peace of mind and safety. Unfortunately, we have failed to meet our company-wide environmental goals on CO2 emission reductions. This is due to factors including the full-scale launch of the Vietnam plant in FY2016, which added to power consumption in a way we had not envisioned during the 2012 benchmark year. We will revise our goals to better reflect circumstances, and working from FY2016 as a new benchmark year, work towards cutting CO2 emissions by 16.55% (on a unit sales basis) by the year 2030, starting with a reduction of approximately 1.3% in FY2017. On the topic of corporate governance, to further enhance independence and objectivity in areas such as the new appointment of directors and determining of their compensation, Tamron has established an arbitrary committee chaired by an outside director to reinforce its systems. Moving forward, we will strive to engage in fair and transparent management as we endeavor to raise Tamron’ s corporate value. To coincide with the recent widespread adoption of international CSR procurement efforts, Tamron has established the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct, which complies with the EICC Code of Conduct*, and works to promote CSR procurement. Together with our suppliers, we will strive to develop supply chain management that is mindful of labor, human rights, the environment and ethics on a global scale. Human Resources Development and Working Styles that Support CSR Management (Embracing ATM in Work!) At Tamron, the concepts of“Team Tamron,” “Daily Innovation”and“ATM”(Akaruku – bright, Tanoshiku – fun and Maemuki – positive) serve as guiding principles. While it is important to President & CEO approach work in a proactive manner with the overall optimization of the Tamron Group in mind, we recognized that work is not everything there is to life. It is equally important that Tamron Co., Ltd. employees strike a healthy work-life balance. Continually thinking of work ways to work more efficiently while treating the absence of overtime as completely normal encourages Shiro Ajisaka flexible thinking and promotes a“virtuous circle”in the workplace. We also believe part of employees’ time outside working hours should ideally be devoted to individual skill development. Creating a pleasant working environment for female employees is another priority. At Tamron’ s head office, the Tamron Kids Day-care Center has been established, and we encourage employees to take childcare leave, which has led to a higher percentage of female employees in management positions. Through these initiatives, we cultivate professionally-minded“self-disciplined”employees, and believe this better equips Tamron to fulfill customer needs and make active contributions to society. Supporting the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Tamron continues to be an active supporter of the 10 principles laid out in the U.N. Global Compact as part of its global expansion. We recognize that these 10 principles represent guidelines that truly multinational corporations must put into practice, and as such, we have reflected these principles in our Action Declarations and Compliance Action Guidelines and thoroughly educate our employees on the principles, including those in our overseas sites. We have compiled this CSR report with a focus on engagement with stakeholders, and as a tool for disclosing non-financial information, which is encouraged by Japan’ s Corporate Governance Code. We would greatly appreciate your comments and suggestions for how we can further improve. * See 2. EICC Code of Conduct on Page 8 for more information. 1 Tamron CSR Report 2017 Corporate Philosophy With its firm commitment to developing high-quality, innovative and technologically advanced products that satisfy customer needs, Tamron is securing a leading position in the worldwide optical industry. Our primary objective is to sustain strong corporate growth based on a high level of customer satisfaction achieved by providing superior products at the right price, thus also contributing to the prosperity of our shareholders and employees. Brand Message New Eyes for Industry Company Profile Outline of Business Operations Trade name Tamron Co., Ltd. Commercial/ 17.9% Head office 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, Saitama-shi, Saitama, Japan industrial-use optics Tel. +81-48-684-9111 Founded November 1, 1950 Incorporated October 27, 1952 Optical 4.0% Capital 6.923 billion yen Percentage components of sales President & CEO Shiro Ajisaka by business segment Employees 4,728 (consolidated; excluding 935 temporary employees) (FY2016, consolidated) Net sales 59.903 billion yen (consolidated; as of December 31, 2016) Listed First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Domestic plants One each in Hirosaki, Namioka and Owani in Aomori Overseas plants Foshan, China and Hanoi, Vietnam Photographic 78.1% Consolidated subsidiaries Products United States, Germany, France, Hong Kong, China (Shanghai), Russia, and India [Employees] [Net Sales for the Previous Five Years] (person) Consolidated (regular employees) Consolidated (temporary employees) Notes: 1. “Temporary employees (Billion yen) 8,000 Consolidated 1,814 （Notes:1） etc . (Consolidated)” 800 73.6 71.9 7,000 4,090 3,985 shows the average 700 68.4 3,843 number of temporary 64.3 6,000 935 59.9 employees. 600 5,000 5,829 Notes: 2. T h e i n c re a s e i n t h e 500 4,000 4,728 number of regular 400 3,000 employees in 2015 was 300 2,694 mainly due to a change 2,000 2,295 2,545 in the employment 200 1,000 status of workers at 100 0 Tamron Optical (Foshan) 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FY C o . , L t d . ( Ta m r o n ’s 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FY （Notes:2） manufacturing subsidiary in China). Contents ● Message from the President… ………………………… 1 ● Corporate Philosophy / Company Profile / Table of Contents…… 2 ●Tamron’ s CSR Management……………………………… 3 Editorial Policy ＊This report was issued to keep stakeholders, including customers, employees, ● Participation in the UN Global Compact… ………… 4 shareholders, investors, business partners, local communities, public institutions, NGOs and NPOs, abreast of Tamron’ s activities for protecting the ● Special Feature: Work-Life Balance… ………………… 5 environment and carrying out its social responsibilities. ＊‌This report covers activities across the entire Tamron Group, including Tamron ● Relationship with Shareholders and Investors……… 7 Co., Ltd., Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd., Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Co.,Ltd. and overseas sales subsidiaries, excluding certain environmental data and ● Relationship with Business Partners…………………… 8 other information. ● Relationship with Customers… ………………………… 9 ＊Guidelines mainly referenced in compiling this report: ・E nvironmental Report Guidelines (Ministry of the Environment) (FY2012 ● Management System…………………………………… 13 version) ・Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & Reporting Manual Version 4.2 ● Relationship with the Environment… ……………… 15 ・Environmental Accounting Guidelines (Ministry of the Environment) (FY2005 version) ● Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved… … 16 ＊T he GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and ISO 26000:2010 Manual ● Reducing CO2 Emissions and Electricity Consumption…… 17 on Business Entities’Social Responsibility were also referenced to identify important information that should be disclosed to stakeholders. ● Reducing Waste and Water Consumption… …… 18 ＊We made efforts to disclose information based on stakeholder perspectives, by referencing the warranty processes in the AA1000 Warranty Standard. ● Relationship with Society……………………………… 19 ＊The cover design was selected to express our stance toward contributing to the environment and achieving harmony with all stakeholders through our ● Activities at Tamron’ s Overseas Subsidiaries……… 21 lenses. ● Independent Third-Party Opinion…………………… 22 Tamron CSR Report 2017 2 Tamron’s CSR Management Enhancing Corporate Value Twelve Themes for Enhancing CSR Tamron’ s CSR management is conducted under our corporate Management (Identification of Key Issues) philosophy of contributing to the economy, societ y and Tamron has been working to identify and analyze the key issues environment as eyes for industry. Tamron also pursues CSR that it needs to focus on, taking into account the expectations of management through stakeholder engagement based on the shareholders and the changes taking place in society and in the Action Declarations, which define the stance the company economy. Targets have been set for 12 key themes, including should take toward stakeholders divided into the five categories themes relating to important issues of general concern such as of “customers,”“employees,”“shareholders,”“business “Environment”and“Quality and Safety,”as well as themes partners,”and“ society,”and the Action Codes, which show how relating more specifically to the foundations of the company’ s all Tamron employees should conduct themselves. operations. By addressing these 12 themes, while paying attention to the needs of the environment, society and the economy, Tamron is aiming to make itself a company that has Tamron’ s Action Declarations the power to be selected by customers.1 1. T  his is one of our corporate objectives, showing that we have the power to ●From the customer perspective be selected and supported by customers. Recognizing that customer satisfaction is of the highest importance, Tamron will contribute to society by supplying safe, high-quality original products and services. Twelve Themes Association table ●From the employee perspective Twelve Themes Relevant page ・In order to become self-reliant, each employee at Tamron works with a challenge-ready spirit, maintains good communications with fellow workers to create a lively work Compliance P7、14 environment, and strives to yield the best possible results at Corporate Governance P7 all times while observing laws and regulations. ・Each and every employee at Tamron respects human rights to Risk Management P13 support society as a good corporate citizen. Environment P8、12、15 〜 18 ●From the shareholders/investor perspective Everyone working at Tamron strives to enhance corporate Disclosure P7 value through faithful management, to proactively engage stakeholders, and to enhance stakeholder conﬁdence in Quality and Safety P9 〜 12 Tamron as a company worthy of long-term investment. Occupational Safety & Health P5 〜 6、14 ●From the business partner perspective By respecting human rights, complying with laws and carrying Employment and Human Resources P5 〜 6 out fair and transparent business transactions, Tamron will Human Rights P5 〜 6、8 ensure that it can build relationships with its business partners so that they deliver quality materials and services, achieve Social Contributions P19 〜 21 mutual growth and contribute to society. Information Security P7 ●From the society perspective ・Maintaining good communications with local communities, Privacy Protection P7 Tamron will strive to contribute to their growth while upholding their traditions and culture as a good corporate citizen. ・Tamron will observe laws and regulations, aiming to earn conﬁdence from society as a good corporate citizen. ・Tamron takes a resolute stance against all anti-social forces The Power to be and organizations that pose threats to the public order and Corporate Value safety of our civil society. Selected ・Tamron will work hard in NGO and NPO projects to help Responsibility to Contribute to establish a good society. Discl osure Social Environment Contributions Communicating for CSR Promotion Quality and Safety Ta m r o n ’s C S R C o m m i t t e e m e e t s m o n t h l y t o c l o s e l y Employment and Social and Environmental Issues Human Resources monitor the progress of CSR activities. The committee is an Occupational Safety & Health organization under the direct control of the President and CEO. Information Security Representatives from all divisions at the head office and plants in Privacy Protection Japan and overseas meet through videoconferencing. Human Rights R i s k M a n ag e m e n t We are pleased to announce that our CSR Compliance report for 2016 was recognized with an award Society Environment o f excelle n ce at t h e 20 t h Envi ro n m e nt al Corporate Governance Communication Awards sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment and the Global Environmental E con omy Forum, marking the three consecutive year that Tamron has won this award. Twelve Themes for Enhancing CSR Management 3 Tamron CSR Report 2017 ISO26000-4.7 Respect for international norms of behavior Participation in the UN Global Compact In August 2007, Tamron began par ticipation in the The SDGs aim for every country and region to achieve United Nations Global Compact in an effort to establish 17 goals and 169 targets in the areas of poverty and the foundations for its CSR initiatives. Advocated by inequalit y, education and the environment. Tamron the United Nations , the UN Global Compac t is an has verified how these goals relate to its own business international initiative supporting ten universal principles activities, and will proceed by taking into account the related to human rights, labor, the environment and antigoals set forth in the SDGs as part of its efforts. corruption. Tamron has adhered to the Ten GC Principles and continued to engage in corporate activities that fulfill its social responsibilities. In FY2016 Tamron conducted training on the UN Global Compact, targeting the employees of Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd., Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Co., Ltd., and Tamron’ s other overseas subsidiaries, as part of efforts to foster a strong recognition of the principles. At the United Nations General Assembly in 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted. For further details about the GC, please visit the United Nations website at: WEB http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ COP Report (Communication on Progress) The following table describes Tamron’s accomplishments and efforts during FY2016 in line with the Ten Principles. Relevant Principles Tamron’ s Policies Results for FY2016 Page 1 ‌Business should support and respect ・‌We support basic human rights in our the protection of internationally ・C arried out operations based on P3 Human Rights Action Declarations. proclaimed human rights. the Human Rights Protection & L a b o u r Sta n da rd M a na ge m e nt ・‌We declare respect for human rights and elimination of Regulations. discrimination in our Compliance Regulations. ・C larified management items for P5 〜 2 ‌Business should make sure that P6 ・‌We clarify management items for operations and strengthen o p e ra t i o n s a n d s t re n g t h e n e d they are not complicit in human checks and balances (established the Human Rights checks and balances (Japan and rights abuses. Protection & Labour Standard Management Regulations for Tamron Optical Foshan). P8 Japan and Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd.). ・E stablished opportunities for periodic consultation between management and 3 ‌B usi n ess sh o uld u p h o ld t h e ・‌We declare respect for the right of our workers (including the Labour-Management P5 〜 freedom of association and the employees to organize in our Labour Council, Annual Business Plan Presentation effective recognition of the right P6 Organization Memorandum. Meeting, etc.) (at Tamron’s head office). to collective bargaining. ・Improve working conditions through labor union activities. ・‌We stipulate the importance of complying ・Full-scale operation of the“Tamron P5 〜 4 ‌B usi n ess sh o uld u p h o ld t h e with labour-related laws and regulations and Kids Day-care Center” elimination of all forms of forced P6 Labour maintaining a proper work environment for our ・Making every day a“no overtime” and compulsory labour. P14 employees in our Compliance Regulations. day (Tamron head office) 5 ‌B usi n ess sh o uld u p h o ld t h e We vow not to use child labour. We do not ・‌Implemented CSR・E stablished a manual to check the age of e f f e c t i v e a b o l i t i o n o f c h i l d employ workers under the age of 15, which related e-learning, applicants at the time of hiring (Tamron P7 labour. is stipulated in our employment rules. with content Optical Foshan and Tamron Optical Vietnam). including the UN ・Ratio of females promoted to management 6 ‌B usi n ess sh o uld u p h o ld t h e ・‌We have targets for employing persons Global Compact; positions: 11% (domestic) elimination of discrimination with disabilities and a policy to increase e-learning was ・Ratio of eligible employees taking parental P5 〜 in respect of employment and the ratio of female managers in order to undergone by a total leave: 100% (domestic) P6 occupation. realize a diversified work place. of 1,489 employees. ・Ratio of hiring of persons with disabilities: 2.15% (domestic) ・‌We have a provision in our consolidated management policy to prevent environmental deterioration through P8 ・N um b er of incid ent s involving efforts such as the following: 7 ‌Business should support a l e a k a g e o f h a r m f u l c h e m i c a l P12 (1) Reducing CO2 emissions; precautionary approach to substances: None (2) Reducing industrial waste; environmental challenges. ・Support for ecosystem protection P14〜 Environment (3) ‌Finding alternatives to harmful chemical substances; (Tamron head office) and reducing the use of harmful chemical substances P20 (4) Conserving biodiversity ・R ate o f d e crea s e i n c a rb o n d i oxi d e 8 ‌Business should undertake initiatives ・‌We have a policy to clearly establish environmental emissions: 17% increase (compared to to promote greater environmental objectives and targets for the following: FY2012, on a unit sales basis) P12 responsibility. (1) Reducing CO2 emissions; ・Waste reduction target not achieved 9 ‌B u si n e s s s h o u l d e n co u ra ge t h e (2) Reducing ‌ industrial waste emissions to ・Efforts to reduce product weight and size: P14〜 development and diffusion of ultimately achieve zero emissions; and not achieved P18 environmentally friendly technologies. (3) Promoting ‌ environmentally-friendly designs. ・A chieve d co mpliance with l aws an d regulations concerning chemical substances ・‌We have a policy to regulate acts of endowment ・T h e C o m p l i a n c e P r o m o t i o n Anti-Corruption 10 ‌Business should work against and political donations and terminate ties with Commit tee held workshops for co rru p t i o n i n a l l i t s fo rm s , anti-social forces in our Compliance Regulations e m p l oye es to l ea rn m o re a b o u t P7 including extortion and bribery. and Action Declarations. compliance. Tamron CSR Report 2017 4 Special Feature Work-Life Balance A diverse range of human resources work at Tamron’ s domestic and overseas To ensure the success of the employees supporting Tamron, we strive to evaluations and compensation, and mutual understanding. Initiatives Aimed at Work-Life Balance Tamron pursues a number of initiatives aimed at promoting harmony interviews with HR staff. Additionally, we have made efforts to develop between work and home life. Regarding overtime, in 2015 we introduced a workplace conductive to striking the right balance between home a system where employees must obtain approval from their department life and work. For instance, we have introduced a system that allows general manager and officer in charge in advance and wear a permit employees to use annual paid leave in hourly increments. in order to work overtime. In the interests of managing employees’ health and improving work efficiency at the head office, we recommend 《Change in average monthly overtime hours per employee》(Domestic) early morning work hours and have all but eliminated overtime after scheduled hours. After regular working hours, we patrol the office to （％） 100 make sure no employees other than those who have applied remain at work. By leaving work early, we expect employees to enjoy the company of their families as a source of vitality for the next day, and to make use of the extra time for personal skill improvement. Under the revised Industrial Safety and Health Act, companies have 50 26% reduction been required to conduct stress checks since the end of 2015. Tamron compared with FY2010 levels has been conducting twice-yearly stress checks since 2008, the results of which are reported at Health and Safety Committee meetings and used to make improvements to the workplace environment. We also 0 2010 2016 FY endeavor to prevent mental illness by providing health consultations in coordination with industrial physicians and conducting employee Promoting Diversity Tamron believes in the importance of utilizing a diverse range of human We are also actively hiring local people at our overseas plants and resources and values in order to create new value, and aims to improve sales subsidiaries. With the exception of the Vietnam plant, which the percentage of female employees in management positions as a only recently began full-scale operation, the presidents of all Tamron’s part of its diversity management1 efforts. In FY2016, female employees overseas subsidiaries are appointed from the local workforce, and the accounted for around 11% of employees in management positions companies are primarily run by local staff. These companies make use of (domestic). Saitama Prefecture, where our head office is located, has the characteristics of the local communities as they go about their work. been promoting the Saitama Prefecture Womenomics Project, which Japan requires companies to maintain a 2% hiring ratio for people with is designed to invigorate the prefectural economy through the power disabilities. Tamron has exceeded this ratio for the past six years. In of women. As a part of this project, Tamron has been certified as a FY2016, the ratio was 2.15%. “Diversified Workstyle Promoting Enterprise.”In recognition of systems 1. T  his refers to efforts to accept diversity including gender and racial differences and people of that allow women to keep working after giving birth, such as the different ages, characters, academic backgrounds and values, and to make broad use of human childcare support system that we will describe later, Tamron has been resources to improve productivity. 2. D esignated a“Platinum Company”under the“Diversified Workstyle Promoting Enterprise” designated as a“Platinum”company, the highest designation under the program of Saitama Prefecture. scheme.2 Human Resource Development Systems Tamron seeks to cultivate ambitious and self-disciplined employees. feedback from participants along the lines of“the workshop eliminated Our human resource development efforts are based on a three-pronged some doubts I’ ve had on a daily basis and will serve as a useful reference training system. We periodically provide rank-based training programs in my work from here on out.”Moving forward, Tamron will continue to to help employees acquire the specific skills needed to do their jobs conduct effective training to improve the skills of its employees. after joining the company, offer occupation-based training programs that teach the required competencies to engineers, sales staff and administrative staff, and run company-wide training programs that seek Training System Diagram to improve individual skills. Rank-based training Occupation-based training Company-wide training programs programs programs In FY2016, we gave questionnaires to employees before they underwent occupation-based training. We compiled information on trainees’ concerns and the topics they wished to touch on in training and provided Training for sales Manager training this feedback to instructors, allowing them to develop more effective Training for On-the-job E-learning and administrative Training for mid-career curricula. As part of technical training, we ran a workshop on software engineers training hires staff technologies related to the autofocus systems and actuator controls Training for new of interchangeable lenses. The workshop proved popular and elicited graduate hires 5 Tamron CSR Report 2017 ISO26000-6.3 Human Rights / 6.4 Labour practices 〜Seeking a Healthy Mix between Work and Personal Life〜 sites to deliver products and services that satisfy its customers. be a good company to work at and endeavor to create a fulfilling workplace based on fair Helping Employees Balance Childcare and Work Tamron helps both male and female employees balance their work with their childcare responsibilities. For instance, the Tamron Kids Day-Care Center was opened at the head office. The center employs permanent nurses and also offers care for sick children to ensure peace of mind. In 2016, the center was certified as a“small-scale enterprise daycare center.”Moreover, use of the center is not limited to just Tamron employees. Tamron set up slots for use by local residents and has accepted five such children. On Sundays, the center’s garden is also opened up to local residents. Tamron Kids Day-Care Center also won an award as part of the Kids Design Award 20163 in recognition for a design that encourages children’ s creativity and opens the way to the future. Tamron reviews its main welfare systems concerning child and family Tamron Kids Daycare as needed. In FY2016, the application period for the shortcare Center term parental leave system available to male and female employees was extended from“within three months of childbirth”to“within six months.”One hundred percent of female Tamron employees in Japan who have had a child have made use of leave before and after childbirth Awarded Kids Design Award 2016 and the parental leave systems and subsequently returned to work. Children during mealtime Through these initiatives, Tamron has met the standards set forth in the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-generation Main Benefits Programs for Childcare and Nursing Care (Japan) Children, and had also been awarded the“Kurumin Mark,”which is given to companies that promote a childcare-friendly Program Term Overview workplace. 3. A n award organized by the Kids Design Association that selects and Until the child turns 1 Parental An employee can take leave to broadly disseminates throughout society exceptional products and (Extendable up to 14 months of leave care for a child. spatial services that “allow children to lead safe lives,”“cultivate age) children’s sensibilities and creativity”and“create a society conducive to childbirth and childcare.” Up to the day a child turns 18 An employee can take leave if Extended months of age, or April 15 of the certain circumstances apply, parental year after the child turns one, such as being unable to find a leave whichever is longer place at a day-care center. Number of Female Employees Taking Paid Parental Leave4 （employees） Until the child begins elementary 250 school An employee can take paid leave Child care Japan Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd. (China) Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. (Up to 5 days per year) for a child care, vaccinations or leave (10 days if the employee has health checkup for a child. 200 128 two or more children) 111 150 59 For an employee looking after 100 a child in the fourth grade in An employee can shorten their 65 Reduced elementary school or younger, 76 working day by up to two hours 50 3 46 53 working up until April 30 of the school as long as they work at least six 30 hours year in which the child becomes 10 8 24 25 28 hours. a fourth grader in elementary 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FY school. 4. T he name of the parental leave system varies from country to country. Employees at Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd. in China are entitled to 178 days leave after childbirth (98 statutory + 80 recommended). Employees An employee can take leave Nursing care Up to a maximum of 93 day to provide nursing care to an at Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. can take up to six months’leave before and after childbirth. In Japan, leave elderly family member in need. male employees who have just become a father can take parental leave of up to one month. A total of 7 male employees took advantage of the system in FY2014, followed by 13 in FY2015 and 17 in FY2016. v o i c e I am responsible for performing strength and drop analyses on products. My wife, who works Interview with a Male at another company, completed her parental leave at the end of February 2015 and needed Parental Leave User to return to work, but we weren’ t able to get our child into a day-care center until April. I therefore decided to look after our child during that time and took one month of parental leave. The people in my department were very understanding regarding my taking the leave. My supervisor is also part of a family in which both parents work, and the process for taking the leave went smoothly. It was good to spend all that time together with my child during the leave period, and it provided insight into how hard it can be to raise a child that I could not have gained through simply helping out with household chores. My wife was also glad for me to learn the challenges of childcare , so I am glad I was able to take this leave. I hope society starts to regard male employees taking parental leave as something that is perfectly normal. Development Section #2 , Dept. #3, Integrated Core Technology R & D Unit Kiyohisa Nakajima Tamron CSR Report 2017 6 ISO26000-6-2 Organizational Governance Relationship with Shareholders and Investors We are committed to fair and transparent management practices as well as enhancing corporate value, which is achieved by strengthening corporate governance to build up trust with shareholders and investors. Corporate Governance Basic Policy Corporate Governance Structure Ever since the company was first established, we at Tamron have consistently pursued fair and transparent management practices in line General Meeting of Shareholders with our management philosophy, respecting the rights and equality of Election/ Election/ dismissal Election/dismissal dismissal our shareholders, and adopting an approach to corporate governance Board of Auditors that emphasizes the maintenance of a good relationship with all (Corporate Auditors and Independent Auditors) Coordination Accounting Auditor stakeholders. Audit Coordination Audit Coordination Corporate Governance System Overview Board of Directors (Directors and External Directors) Tamron has employed the Executive Officer System to speed up decision making and improve efficiencies, which has enabled it to establish Nominating Committee Compensation Committee a management structure capable of making accurate and strategic President & CEO Internal Audit & Supervision Board decisions. External Directors with expertise in their respective fields CSR Committee carefully monitor and advise the company regarding its execution of Management Meeting (MAC) Internal Audit operations from an independent and fair standpoint. At the same time, Compliance Committee Executive Oﬃcers Independent Auditors with expert knowledge of finance, accounting and legal affairs as well as Corporate Auditors well versed in Tamron’ s Each department/subsidiary operations work together with the Accounting Auditor and Internal Audit & Supervision Board to carry out rigorous audit programs. Tamron appoints 15 Directors, of which 2 are External Directors, and 4 Corporate Auditors, of which 3 are Independent Auditors. Tamron respects the principles of the Corporate Governance Code which came into effect in Shareholder and Investor Engagement June 2015, and is working to achieve a further strengthening of corporate In FY2016, Tamron held two earnings presentations, as well as hosting governance, along with continued growth and the enhancement of meetings and plant tours for institutional investors and securities corporate value over the medium and long term. analysts. In addition, Tamron continues to participate in conferences for domestic and international investors organized by securities companies. （1) Board of Directors We are committed to actively Meetings of the Board of Directors are held twice a month, in principle, engaging our shareholders attended by all Directors and Corporate Auditors, for reviewing the and investors through execution of duties by the Directors and deciding on important issues dynamic IR1 activities. as set forth in the basic policy of the company and related laws and regulations. (2) Board of Auditors The Board of Auditors audits the processes of decision making by the An earnings presentation in progress Board of Directors and the execution of duties of Directors by attending 1. IR stands for“investor relations,”and means the implementing of activities the Board of Director meetings and checking approval documents. The to provide shareholders and investors with the information they need to Board of Auditors meets monthly, in principle. make investing decisions. (3) Nominating Committee and Compensation Committee To enhance the independence and objectivity of Board of Directors Compliance functions concerning director appointment, dismissal and compensation, Tamron has established a Nominating Committee and Compensation To promote compliance, Tamron has established the Compliance Committee. Each committee is chaired by an outside director, with a Committee, which is chaired by the Representative Director and majority of its members outside officers (outside directors and outside deliberates on basic items for the promotion of compliance, and the auditors). Compliance Promotion Committee, which comprises members selected (4) Executive Officer System from each business division and provides training and education on legal Tamron has employed the Executive Officer System to ensure separation compliance. between management and the execution of operations. Executive In FY2016, the committee conducted training on themes such as the Officers carry out their duties and responsibilities following the basic protection of intellectual property rights necessary for engaging in a policy determined by the Board of Directors. manufacturing business, and essential regulations concerning bribery of foreign government officials for global business activities. In addition, (5) Internal Control through Committee Meetings the committee periodically provides overseas subsidiaries with global We regularly hold monthly management (MAC) meetings attended by all legal information related to the Tamron Group’ s business activities, and Directors, full-time Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers to discuss discusses or supports response measures for legislation on privacy management issues and respond to the fast-changing management protection. Thanks to these company-wide initiatives, zero legal environment. violations were reported in FY2016. (6) Accounting Auditor Note that of the twelve themes of Tamron’s CSR activities, information Tamron has concluded an auditing agreement with Wako Audit security and privacy protection are managed appropriate based on Corporation and receives audit from this firm in its capacity as internal regulations. accounting auditor. 7 Tamron CSR Report 2017 ISO26000 6.6 Fair Operating Practices Relationship with Business Partners Tamron respects human rights, ensures compliance with laws and regulations, and establishes good relationships with business partners to grow and contribute to society together. Summary of Activities in FY2016 Tasks for FY2017 ● Reform of chemical substance management systems ● Launch chemSHERPA scheme ● Continued investigations in relation to conflict minerals ● Further reinforce CSR procurement with business partners Business Partner Accreditation Program CSR Efforts in the Supply Chain for CSR Procurement Working Together with Business Partners to In order to contribute to society in accordance with its CSR policy and Manage Chemical Substances Action Declarations, Tamron works together with its business partners to comply with laws and regulations, and continually aspires to serve as Tamron maintains a policy of avoiding the use of harmful chemical a partner that delivers high quality products and services. For product substances in the materials used to make its products. We ask business and environmental quality1, we conduct surveys to check the status of partners to manage chemical substances based on the standards in our suppliers through on-site or paper-based audits in accordance with Tamron’s environmental quality assurance system and confirm that our assessment standards. suppliers meet these standards based on the environmental data3 they In 2008, we commenced CSR procurement and requested suppliers to provide to us. comply with the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct, which incorporates In FY2016, we decided to introduce chemSHERPA4, a new scheme that elements concerning labor, health and safety, the environment, ethics facilitates sharing information on the chemical substances contained in and management systems based on the EICC Code of Conduct 2, to products. During FY2017 we will brief all of our business partners on the ensure we do business only with companies that act in accordance with scheme and commence its operation. The introduction of chemSHERPA these standards. Going forward, we will continue to strengthen our CSR is expected to reduce the workload associated with chemical substance procurement activities and re-examine initiatives for compliance with the management, including the collection of environmental data from help of suppliers. suppliers and verification activities performed by Tamron. Tamron also implements internal analysis work using equipment including 1. E  nvironmental quality” means regulating the use of harmful chemical substances in products our suppliers deliver to us to ensure they fall below Inductively Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission Spectrometry (ICP-AES) and the threshold level stated in our standards. Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS) to ensure only the 2. T h e EI CC C o d e o f C o n d u c t s e t s o u t s t a n d a rd s f o r e nv i ro n m e n t a l responsibility and ethical business practices in the electronic equipment safest and most secure products are delivered to customers. industr y supply chain, requiring safe working environment s and the In July 2019, the scope of application of RoHS is being expanded from treatment of workers with dignity and respect. the original six substances – Cadmium, Lead, Hexavalent chromium, Procedures for Selecting Suppliers Mercury, Polybrominated biphenyls (PBB), and Polybrominated diphenyl Request the supplier to make eﬀorts in CSR, covering ether (PBDE) – to include four additional substances, all of which are aspects including labour, health and safety, environmental types of phthalates: Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), Benzyl butyl protection, management and operational mechanisms and ethical management, in addition to promoting environmental phthalate (BBP), Dibutyl phthalate (DBP), and Diisobutyl phthalate (DIBP). and quality assurance To ensure conformity with the expanded scope of RoHS, Tamron has Check whether the supplier complies with the put in place new analysis methods. Tamron is also establishing the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct. frameworks and systems needed to ensure compliance with other new regulations relating to the control of harmful chemical substances that Periodical evaluation may be established in different countries around the world in the future. Carry out quality audits, environmental No, quality audits, process audits and paperrequires improve3. Such data and documents as the certificate of non-use of harmful chemical based audits ment substances, ICP analysis data and MSDS. 4. chemSHERPA is a new scheme for sharing information about the chemical Yes, conforms to standards substances in products in the supply chain. Through widespread adoption the scheme aims to reduce the burden on those providing and receiving Accreditation as business partner information. CSR management implemented by business Response to Conflict Minerals partners following the Tamron Supplier Codes of Conduct A portion of the minerals (tantalite, tin, gold and tungsten) produced in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries of Africa are being used to fund armed militants that violate human History of Our Activities rights and cause environmental destruction. These minerals are now 2008 Requested all business partners to comply with the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct collectively referred to as conflict minerals and are regulated. 2009 R e q u e s t e d re s p e c t i v e b u s i n e s s p a r t n e r s t o p e r f o r m Tamron has declared a policy of not using illegal conflict minerals selfevaluations(questionnaire) 2010 Introduced case examples on particularly important aspects related to the violation of human rights or environmental destruction in such as“occupational health and safety”and“human rights order to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities within its procurement protection” activities5. In FY2016, Tamron asked 258 of the company’s suppliers 2011 Held CSR Procurement Workshops for all business partners in Japan and abroad to complete surveys relating to conflict minerals. All of the suppliers 2012 C ontinued to work on improving methods for checking responded, submitting completed questionnaires in relation to a total business partner compliance with the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct of 7,006 component items. The survey results show no evidence that Held internal training sessions and in-house hearings Tamron makes use of conflict minerals that are used to fund armed 2013 P repared questionnaire (draft) 2014 Revised questionnaire (draft) and examined ways of using the militants. questionnaire 5. Please see our corporate website to view our policy on conflict minerals. 2015 A dministered questionnaire (targeting those suppliers that were not covered by the 2009 questionnaire) WEB http://www.tamron.com/csr/procurement.html 2016 Q uestionnaire Collection and Evaluation Tamron CSR Report 2017 8 Relationship with Customers Tamron is committed to contributing to society by supplying customers with safe, unique and quality products and services, putting the highest priority on satisfying customers, dealers and OEM customers. Summary of Activities in FY2016 Tasks for FY2017 ● Created unique products that customers appreciate ● Create products with their own unique character ● Promoted environmentally conscious design, e.g. ● Promote environmentally conscious design, e.g. through the use of recycled materials introducing the mass production of recycled materials Tamron Products Familiar to All Photographic We leverage our optical technologies and imaging to create many“eyes of industry.” culture Contributing to the propagation and development of photographic culture and imaging technologies Daily life ・Lenses for DSLR cameras Manufacturing ・Lens units for video cameras ・Lens units for compact digital cameras Contributing to safety and Supporting factory automation Contributing to our economy, society and security in everyday life and quality enhancement environment with eyes for industry ・Lens units for security cameras (including infrared) ・Industrial lenses ・Security cameras ・Lenses for automotive applications Developing Unique Photographic Lenses Appraisals of Tamron’ s Products The SP 150-600mm F/5-6.3 Di VC USD G2 (Model A022) The SP 85mm F/1.8 Di VC USD (Model F016) released in March relea s e d i n S e pte m b e r 2016 o f fe re d i m p rove d o pti c al 2016 was the world’ s first large-aperture f/1.8 medium-telephoto performance, close-up shooting capabilities, AF speed and lens to feature a vibration compensation (VC) mechanism.1 precision and vibration compensation (VC)1 as the successor to The Model F016 uses LD (Low Dispersion)4 and XLD (Extra the highly-regarded Model A011. The ultra-telephoto zoom lens Low Dispersion)5 glass elements to boost optical performance, also represents a significant step forward as a next-generation p ro d u cin g th e id eal b al a n ce of a SP lens with the addition sharp image at the point of focus and of several new features soft, natural background effects. This including a FLEX ZOOM outstanding performance won the lens LOCK mechanism 2 and a prestigious EISA Award in Europe. fluorine coating3. Model F016 Model A022 Lens Awards Category Model Award Awarding O rg aniz ation Imaging EISA Award F016 European Imaging and Sound Association (Europe) (Photographic lens) European DSLR Lens 2016-20176 1. V  C stands for Vibration Compensation, which helps prevent blurry images. Tamron lenses for Sony cameras do not offer Tamron’s VC mechanism because Sony includes an imagine stabilizing mechanism in the body of its DSLR cameras. 2. The FLEX ZOOM LOCK mechanism quickly locks or unlocks the zoom at any position simply by sliding the zoom ring back or forth. This improves shooting convenience by preventing the lens barrel from moving unintentionally under its own weight. 3. The fluorine coating is a coating with excellent water and oil-repelling properties applied to the front surface of the lens element. The coating makes the lens surface easier to wipe clean and offers excellent durability. 4. A low dispersion (LD) lens reduces chromatic aberration for improved sharpness. It does this thanks to its extremely low dispersion index, which reduces the tendency to separate (diffract) a ray of light into a rainbow of colors. The lens also uses glass elements with a low refractive index. This type of lens elements reduces axial chromatic aberration that is particularly problematic at the telephoto end, and lateral chromatic aberration, which poses issues at the wide-angle end. 5. An Extra Low Dispersion (XLD) lens element corrects chromatic aberration to more sophisticated and thorough degree, producing sharp image quality with high contrast. 6. Tamron lenses have received an EISA award for eleven consecutive years since 2006. EISA is an acronym for European Imaging and Sound Association. This organization sponsors the EISA Awards along with editors and senior engineers from related media including photography, video, sound, and mobile electronics. Every year the awards recognize leading products in the fields of photography and audio visual media. 9 Tamron CSR Report 2017 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment / 6.7 Consumer Issues Lenses Underpinning Safety and Security Lenses for Automobiles As an important pillar of its businesses, Tamron manufactures and markets lens units (including infrared models) for indoor and Camera lenses for detecting pedestrians at night Lenses for sensor cameras (including infrared camera lenses) outdoor security cameras, in order to contribute to the safety (lane-keeping assist systems, etc.) and security of society. In recent years we have also focused on the development of lenses for automobiles. Broadly speaking, there are two categories of automotive lenses. First is automotive camera lenses installed on vehicles. The other is lenses used in traffic monitoring systems installed at points above roads. In the area of automotive camera lenses, Tamron develops lenses for rear-view cameras and birds-eye cameras and so on used for visual confirmation, as well as sensingHeadlight lenses Lenses for surrounding vicinity surveillance monitors (light dispersal) (for rear, side and bird’s eye views) type lenses for use in emergency brake assist systems and lane keeping assist systems. As regards traffic monitoring lenses, Tamron has developed a zoom lens that can be equipped with autofocus and remote operation capabilities, making it possible to flexibly monitor different types of road at different distances, and which incorporates image processing technologies so that users can extract the information they need for specific applications. In June 2016, partial revisions were made to road vehicle safety standards, and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism began to allow the use of camera monitoring systems (CMS)1 in place of components such as rearview mirrors. Progress is also being made in the development of self-driving systems, leading to a growing demand for high-performance lenses. Tamron will continue to support the safety of vehicles by creating high quality, high performance lenses tailored to each individual application. 1. A ccording to the new standards, the camera monitoring system must provide an equivalent field of view to rearview mirrors that are currently required to be installed. Monitoring and Security Camera Lenses Tamron’ s New Challenges As the security camera market has grown in recent years, the competition to develop ever more advanced technology has Ultra-Compact Camera Module with Optical grown steadily more intense, and many manufacturers are now Vibration Compensation developing cameras equipped with high-pixel-count image sensors. Developed to meet the needs of customers, the To date, Tamron has developed lenses for a wide range of wide-angle 4K 2 zoom lens (Model DE011) for use in cameras markets, including photographic lenses, video camera lenses with built-in lenses is a new-generation zoom lens designed and surveillance lenses. Utilizing the technology and expertise to accommodate high pixel count 4K images. The lens also of a manufacturer engaged in the development of lenses with supports the near-infrared region, and the higher resolution that various applications and properties, in February 2016 Tamron this model provides means that the physical characteristics of released a compact camera module (Model MP1010M-VC) people and objects can be captured in more detail, and sharp equipped with an industry-first3 optical vibration compensation images that suit on-site investigations can be achieved even (VC) mechanism. Despite the built-in VC unit that suppresses when covering a large area. vibrations during shooting, the modules achieves a small size 2.“4K”is a general term for imaging systems with resolution in the region of (total length of 58.4mm) and light weight (77g). As this is a high4,000 (horizontal) by 2,000 (vertical) pixels; this is four times the pixel count resolution camera module with a 10x optical zoom and support of Full HD, the current mainstream specification. for full HD video output (1080 @ 60p), it can be used in a wide range of applications including drones that require vibration compensation, compact size and light weight. 3. A m o ng mass p ro d u ce d co m pac t camera modules suppor ting 10x optical zoom A s of December 2016, based on Tamron research. Wide-angle 4K zoom lens (Model DE011) for use in cameras with built-in lenses Model MP1010M-VC Tamron CSR Report 2017 10 Evaluation by Distributors and OEM Customers Enhancing our Technological Development Capabilities Each year, we ask our OEM customers and Tamron brand Maintaining high-performance anti-reflective distributors to complete a customer satisfaction survey. In properties through fluorine coating (Japan) FY2016, the overall score received was 5.0 points (up 0.1 from Tamron has developed a technology that maintains highthe previous year), meeting our target. While the“Cost”and performance anti-reflective properties and makes it easier to “Development capability”items recorded slight decreases (0.1 wipe off attached dirt from the lens, by applying a fluorine points down) compared with the previous year, Tamron was coating to the front surface of the lens element. The coating was rated at the same or higher (up between 0.2 and 0.6 points) on first used on the Model A012. all other items. Looking ahead, Tamron will devote all its strength Conventional antidust coatings sometimes experienced to responding to the needs of its customers. degraded performance through exposure to harsh conditions, making them less effective. To address this, Tamron introduced new film forming equipment and Results of Customer Satisfaction Survey in 2016 revised film forming techniques (OEM Customers and Distributors) and conditions. This optimization The survey was conducted at 17 companies. allowed Tamron to devise a coating that will not degrade even under Delivery FY2016 6.0 harsh conditions. The technology FY2015 has now been deployed to Tamron’ s Handling of 5.0 Cost production sites, including overseas, repairs 4.0 to establish a new level of quality. Effects of Fluorine Coating 3.0 2.0 Initiatives to Enhance Productivity (Overseas) 1.0 Shortening lead times and reducing costs at Tamron Response to Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd. 0.0 Communications complaints To respond to the rapid development of lens manufacturers in China and harsh competitive environment for security camera lenses, Tamron Optical Foshan established a product development team (Product Development Department). At first, engineers were selected from among those at the Foshan plant and dispatched to the Industrial Optics Business Unit at Quality Development capability Tamron’ s head office, where they received training on optical, mechanism and electronics design. With these human resources playing a core role, Tamron is seeking to establish a development framework encompassing everything from Technical capability design to mass production with shorter lead times and low costs, while also 1.Very dissatisfied 2.Dissatisfied 3.Slightly dissatisfied recruiting new human 4.Slighly satisfied 5.Satisfied 6.Very satisfied resources. Tamron will Development Technical Response to Handling endeavor to develop Delivery Cost Communications capability capability Quality complaints of repairs Overall products that satisfy FY2015 4.8 4.4 4.8 4.7 5.0 4.8 5.2 5.1 4.9 its customers while FY2016 5.2 4.3 5.4 4.6 5.2 4.8 5.4 5.1 5.0 addresses quality, Gap ＋0.4 －0.1 ＋0.6 －0.1 ＋0.2 0 +0.2 0 ＋0.1 price and changing market conditions. Tamron Optical Foshan Product Development Team (Product Development Department) Introducing Automation Equipment at Tamron Expanding After-sales Services Globally Optical (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. This year marks six years since Tamron started its“worldwide Tamron’s production site in Vietnam is a new plant that began operating in 2013. 3-day repair turnaround program,”where it returns repaired The products currently being produced at the plant have been transferred from the products within three days of receipt. Tamron has also continued Tamron Optical Foshan plant, and with the aim of stabilizing quality and streamlining with activities aimed at improving repair service satisfaction production, task automation equipment levels at each repair center. In Japan, Tamron has developed a and automated inspection equipment from system allowing it to reflect feedback from customers. Inquiries the Foshan plant have also been installed. and requests regularly fielded from customers through each From FY2016, new equipment that performs point of contact, such as the repair acceptance desk in Ueno, two tasks (automated adhesive coating and Tokyo or the Tamron Lens Customer Service Desk telephone hardening treatment) with a single unit was service, are shared internally. installed, resulting in a significant boost to In addition, The Tamron Lens Life Members program, which productivity. Efforts to improve productivity allows members to receive the latest information and take are also being made elsewhere, such as the advantage of various services, has proven exceptionally popular adoption of appearance testing equipment that with customers. Tamron will continue to promote improvements automatically determines print omissions and to its global service structure to deliver high quality after-sales misalignments on the external components of services that offer even greater satisfaction to customers. products. Adhesive automated coating and hardening equipment 11 Tamron CSR Report 2017 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment / 6.7 Consumer Issues Relationship with Customers Environmentally Friendly Design Tamron performs product assessments starting from the design Lens Assessment Item Table stage, to ensure that we deliver products that are environmentally Evaluation Items friendly. Of the various product assessment items, particular emphasis has been placed on effective management of the light １. Extended usage of lens ７. R  educed use of packaging materials weight design and reduced volume items. Environmentally friendly ８. Use of recycled materials for ２. Light weight design packaging materials design results with respect to new models released in FY2016 included a 1.6% increase in light weight design and a 0.6% increase ３. Reduced volume ９. Product labeling requirements in volume.1 The major factor in these results is accommodating ４. Energy efficiency during usage 10. Packaging labeling requirements changes to the design concept for interchangeable photography 11. Proper management of controlled ５. Use of recycled materials environmental substances lenses. Moreover, in the interest of people’ s health and to reduce the impact its products have on the environment, Tamron ６. Ease of disassembly practices the appropriate management of chemical substances １. Calculated using production volume from FY2016 comparing conventional models. based on its internal Environment-related Substance Management 2. For more information about Tamron Eco Label certified products, please visit the Regulations, which reflect the requirements of the RoHS directive Tamron website: WEB http://www.tamron.com/csr/environmental_activities.html and the REACH regulation. Tamron products that feature environmentally friendly design bear the Tamron Eco Label.2 3. Waste material that occurs when pouring plastic resin during the production process. In FY2016, Tamron examined the sharing of different production line equipment for photographic and industrial optics-related businesses, and commenced operation on lines for some new products. Doing so reduces the types of equipment used, and Component Recycling leads to a lower environmental impact in terms of resource and In order to further reduce the generation of waste, Tamron has energy consumption during production. Tamron will continue to been implementing activities that emphasize“3R”(Reduce, pursue equipment standardization on its production lines moving Reuse, Recycle). In particular, we have been focusing on reducing forward. the amount of plastic waste generated, which amounted to over I n o rd e r to re d u ce t h e a m o u n t o f w a s te d e ri v i n g f ro m 150 tons per year. Targeting the effective utilization of plastic manufacturing processes, the rear caps for Tamron’ s DSLR camera runner material3, Tamron has held Integrated Design, Production lenses are made using 100% recycled plastic runner materials. 3 Technology and Production Sub-committee meetings at which From FY2010 to FY2016, we used a cumulative total of 130 tons new recycling methods were considered. As a means of reducing of recycled material (in 5.88 million rear caps). waste while maintaining quality standards and ensuring that Tamron Eco Label product functionality is not affected, Tamron adopted“PreThe label was designed to resemble consumer Closed Recycling.”Starting in FY2017, Tamron plans an eye gently looking at our economy, to use recycled materials in the mass production of filter screw society and environment. The eyebrow symbolizes a flowing stream of air and rings, one of the components of lenses for interchangeable lens water, the pupil represents the green cameras. Tamron will continue to expand the introduction of in the earth, and the tree in the pupil recycled materials in components, examine new areas to target stands for our work for the three Rs of and promote waste reducing and recycling. “reduce,” “reuse”and“recycle” . The Process of Pre-consumer Closed Recycling 5 4 3 2 Packaging Inspe Pulveri ction zation Molding 1 Virgin Materials 6 Delivery Transportation “Pre-consumer Closed Recycling”involves the use of recycled material made from waste and surplus material from the production process to create the same type of material (or product). 12 7 8 9 10 11 Delivery Acceptance Acceptance Handled by Re-pellet Shipping Packaging Business Partner Inspection Manufacturing Inspection Handled by Virgin Materials + Pulverized Materials Tamron Tamron CSR Report 2017 12 Management Systems At Tamron, we strive to enhance our product and service quality while reducing environmental impacts through our integrated management system. Additionally, we ensure the continuity of our business by avoiding various management risks using our risk management system. Integrated Management System Integrated Management Policy Tamron has been awarded blanket ISO 9001 (quality) and ISO 14001 (environment) certification applicable to the entire Tamron As a member of the international optical industry, we will continue Group’ s integrated management system, including Tamron’ s head to manufacture products that deliver customer satisfaction and help achieve our goal of Contributing to Society by Creating Eyes office, its domestic sites including the Hirosaki, Namioka and Owani for Industry, while being considerate of environmental plants, as well as overseas production sites including Tamron conservation. Optical (Foshan) in China. Tamron has also completed its migration 1. We will supply our customers with high quality and reliable to the new ISO 9001, 14001-2015 edition of the standards. Tamron’ s products by using our originality, ingenuity and technology, plant in Vietnam is also operating after obtaining blanked ISO pursuing sustainable development with profits arising out of 9001 and 14001 certification. Under this integrated management customer delight and satisfaction. policy, Tamron aims to achieve the development of high-quality 2. We will keep abreast of both internal and external issues products that are used safely and securely by customers and affecting the company, as well as the needs of employees, provide satisfaction, while also taking environmental considerations shareholders, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders, so into account. Since FY2016, Tamron has also integrated its risk as to maintain an accurate awareness of risks and opportunities. management system (which in the past was based on ISO 31000), 3. In running our business, we will comply with all related laws, standards and treaties at home and abroad, respecting the facilitating the smoother implementation of its business processes. requests and demands made by our customers and the local community. Audit System and Identifying Problems 4. We will work on preventing environmental contamination, reducing CO2 emissions, as well as reducing waste emissions Tamron regularly performs internal quality and environmental audits and the use of harmful chemicals, while seeking alternatives and covering the head office and three Aomori plants. In addition to contributing to the safeguarding of biodiversity. the internal audit, the head office and three Aomori plants audit 5. We will continue to work on improving the effectiveness of our integrated management system. each other to check their systems and manufacturing processes. 6. To achieve this management policy, we will establish specific We periodically arrange to receive audits from external audit objectives and targets, periodically evaluating our progress. organizations to maintain certifications while continually improving 7. To enhance recognition of our integrated management, we the integrated management system. As a result of external audits will maintain good communications while providing sufficient implemented in FY2016, the effectiveness of the policy and education and training to all people working for Tamron. management processes adopted at our sites was assessed at level 8. We will closely cooperate with society in all countries and 3 on a scale of one to five. We quickly develop improvements to regions where we operate and disclose information to address in the areas identified in these three audits, disseminate stakeholders as necessary on our quality assurance and the improvements throughout the Tamron Group, and endeavor to environment conservation efforts. continually improve in our activities. 9. To ensure the company’s smooth operation, without the occurrence of negative impacts on the economy, society or the environment, we will implement preventative actions to the Risk Management maximum extent possible in line with the company’ s Integrated Management System; in the event that a negative impact does In the past, Tamron has used a risk management system based on occur, we will fulfill our responsibility to society by taking the ISO 31000 standard and identification of risks and opportunities prompt action to mitigate the damage and support recovery efforts, and will also take steps to prevent reoccurrence. through SWOT analysis to build consensus in the management March 30, 2016 review process. In FY2016, to coincide with the revision of the ISO Integrated Management System Representative 9001 and 14001 standards, we identified both external and internal issues, determined priority risks in terms of risk and opportunity, and translated this into action. In terms of business continuity planning (BCP), we have completed development at Tamron’ s plant Integrated Management System Implementation System in Foshan, China in addition to the head office and three plants in Aomori Prefecture, and the necessary systems have already Representative (President) been put in place. Tamron is also working to strengthen its crisis Quality/Environmental/ management systems so as to be prepared in the event that a Risk Committee Consolidated / major natural disaster does occur in the future. Risk Management Oﬃcer Main Secretarial Oﬃce (CSR Implementation & Administration Board) Responding to Emergencies As part of their risk management initiatives, Tamron’ s head office Omiya Consolidated Aomori Consolidated Administration Manager Tamron Optical (Foshan) Administration Manager Consolidated Administration Manager and three plants in Aomori Prefecture, as well as Tamron Optical Hirosaki, Namioka, and Owani Manager Foshan, hold firefighting drills led by employees, while departments Secretarial Oﬃce Secretarial Oﬃce Secretarial Oﬃce that handle chemicals carry out emergency response drills for (ISO Promotion Oﬃce) (Operation Promotion Section） (ISO Information Management Oﬃce) chemical spills. Additionally, Tamron’ s head office stepped up its Sub-committees (Waste Reduction, Eco-friendly Design, CSR Procurement) initial response capabilities, by implementing training on how to start back-up power generators in case of a blackout in accordance Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical with the BCP and by making changes to its emergency contact Head Oﬃce Plant Plant Plant (Foshan) Co., Ltd. system. 13 Tamron CSR Report 2017 ISO26000-6.2 Organizational Governance / 6.5 The Environment / 6.7 Consumer Issues Creating Safe and Comfortable Workplace Environments Compliance with Laws and Regulations To protect the safety of its employees, Tamron aims to maintain and In FY2016, Tamron ensured an adequate response to the stress improve mental and physical health, and create a safe, healthy and check system and other requirements under revised Industrial Safety comfortable workplace environment. To ensure appropriate health and and Health Law. The PCB Special Measures Law also underwent safety, we have set out Occupational Health and Safety Regulations revision. In compliance with the law, Tamron engages in the proper and established an Occupational Health and Safety Committee, with storage and disposal of PCB . With regard to Tamron’s Foshan Plant 1 patrols being carried out by health and safety administrators to prevent in China, environmental regulations concerning water quality were occupational accidents, etc. revised, and the amount of sludge generated increased due to efforts In FY2016, there were 16 occupational accidents (11 of which occurred to accommodate the new regulations. We will undertake thorough in Japan and five of which occurred in Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China, management efforts to ensure that sludge and effluent are disposed of with none occurring at Tamron Optical (Vietnam) and six commutingand treated appropriately. (See Page 18 of this report for information related accidents (all of which occurred in Japan). Most of the about the change in waste production). In addition, in compliance with commuting-related accidents occurred while employees were commuting a Guangdong Province clean production review request issued to key by bicycle. While the occupational accidents most commonly involved businesses, an on-site review was conducted by clean production review injuries sustained while falling at production sites, one female employee experts representing the Foshan Environmental Protection Bureau in at Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China passed away due to acute brain August 2016. hemorrhaging. The employee had previously appeared sick but upon Similarly, our plant in Vietnam was free of regulatory violations. On examination no abnormalities were discovered and she continued to another front, in regard to the REACH regulations (the scope of which work. To prevent a reoccurrence, training efforts were stepped up, and has been expanded to cover additional substances), Tamron has taken all employees at Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China were encouraged steps to verify the content levels of Substances of Very High Concern to seek examination at a hospital if feeling unwell, instead of putting (SVHC). As a result, Tamron had no incidents relating to compliance themselves under unnecessary strain. In the future, we will analyze with environmental laws and regulations in FY2016, reflecting our the causes of individual cases and thoroughly implement measures to commitment to abiding by the requirements of the law. prevent recurrences. The state of compliance with major laws and regulations including those Regarding commuting-related accidents, we hold traffic safety seminars described above are presented in the following table. to boost awareness and are making efforts to prevent accidents, 1. P CB is an abbreviation of Poly Chlorinated Biphenyl. While PCB has generally including the recurrence of similar accidents. In addition, to prepare for been used as an insulating oil for electrical equipment and as a heating medium for heat exchangers, adverse health effects due to the gradual serious accidents, each year we hold regular first-aid training sessions accumulating of PCB following chronic ingestion have been reported. covering topics such as CPR, and take measures to minimize injuries. Regarding mental health issues, mental health checks are held twice Compliance at Respective Sites a year. In-house seminars are also held in relation to self-care and ◎：Compliance ○：Exceeded statutory requirement temporarily caring for one’ s direct subordinates; in FY2016, a total of 70 employees △：Request for improvement made by local government ×：Administrative action as a result of violation of law/regulation participated in these seminars. Tamron also provides services such as health consultations as part of its efforts to create a safe and health Head office Aomori plants Foshan Vietnam workplace environment. Energy saving (Energy Saving Act) ◎ ◎ ― ― CO₂ reduction (Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures) ◎ ◎ ― ― Chemical substance management2 ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Environmental Accounting (Japan) Air ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Water quality ◎3 ◎ ◎ ◎ In FY2016, total environmental accounting in Japan amounted to Soil ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ investments of 6.13 million yen and costs of 256.69 million yen. (Check Noise ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ the Tamron website to see the environmental accounting spreadsheet Vibration ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ for FY2016). The changes in investments and costs related to reducing Odor ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ CO2 emissions (i.e. global environment conservation costs), which is a Occupational health & safety ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ particularly important item, are shown in the graph below. In FY2016, a 2. L aws related to managing and investigating chemical substances apply to total of 28.28 million yen was spent on investments and costs associated domestic sites; international directives including RoHS and REACH apply to with reducing CO2 emissions. the entire group. 3. Values for groundwater temporarily exceeded certain standards, but our treatment measures prevented contamination from spreading outside our <Change in Global Environment Conservation Costs> facilities. (Thousands of yen) t-CO2 /non-consolidated sales(Millions of yen) 350,000 322,997 0.25 Global 300,000 environment 0.20 conservation 250,000 0.20 costs Costs 0.20 200,000 0.17 0.17 0.15 Global 0.16 environment 150,000 0.10 conservation costs Investments 100,000 *Please see past CSR reports for costs prior to FY2015. 73,256 63,195 CO2 47,366 0.05 *T he greenhouse gas coefficient from the Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & 50,000 28,283 Basic unit Reporting Manual Version 4.2 is used for managing medium-term targets with a of sales 0 0.00 (Japan) benchmark year of FY2012. For consistency purposes, this same coefficient has been 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FY used to re-calculate basic unit of CO2 emissions from FY2011 to FY2016. Tamron CSR Report 2017 14 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment Relationship with the Environment Tamron is considerate of the environment in all aspects of its business operations and constantly works to be in harmony with the environment. Summary of Activities in FY2016 Tasks for FY2017 ● Implemented measures to reduce CO2 emissions ● Examine ways to reduce CO2 emissions further ● Implemented environmental management systems ● Ensure implementation of environmental management systems Environmental Impacts In Japan, Tamron carries out design work, creates prototypes lenses, and these processes produce runner materials1 and and fabricates metal molds at its head office plant located other waste. Air cargo, marine shipping, and trucks are used in Saitama Prefecture, while the Namioka Plant manufactures to transport components and products between plants, which lenses, the Owani Plant molds plastic components, and the results in CO2 emissions from the burning of fuel. (Please see Hirosaki Plant assembles products. Tamron manufactures parts p. 17 of this report for more data on“reducing CO2 emissions and assembles products at Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China and electricity consumption,”and p. 18 for details on“reducing and at Tamron Optical(Vietnam). waste and water consumption.) These sites use electricity, heavy oil, kerosene and other energy 1. W  aste material that occurs when pouring plastic resin during the production sources for developing, designing and manufacturing, which process. produce CO2. Our plants in Namioka, Foshan and Vietnam also use water for polishing and cleaning lens elements. The Owani Plant and Tamron Optical (Foshan) manufacture plastic components used to make peripheral components for I n p u t s（2016） Sites covered Energy Water Transportation energy2 Head oﬃce (including Tokyo Sales Oﬃce and Osaka Sales Oﬃce), the three plants Electric power 76,095,000kWh Clean water 609,000㎥ Diesel 152kℓ in Aomori Prefecture, Tamron Optical Heavy oil 210kℓ Groundwater 180,000㎥ Gasoline 46kℓ (Foshan) and Tamron Optical (Vietnam). Kerosene 10kℓ 2.Data during transportation covers energy used to Total 789,000㎥ Total 198kℓ Diesel 16kℓ transport parts and ﬁnished products by ground and Gasoline 1kℓ Raw/auxiliary materials commercial vehicles connecting Tamron’s ﬁve satellite oﬃces in Japan and Tamron Optical (Vietnam). Tamron LPG 5,000㎥ Metal (brass and aluminum) Optical (Foshan) data covers company-owned vehicles Natural gas 100,000㎥ only. Gasoline consumption for FY2015 was incorrectly Glass Total 699,000GJ reported as 38kℓ. The correct ﬁgure is 51kℓ. Similarly, Plastic the correct total is 237kℓ. Chemicals (drugs, solvents, and cleaners） Paper Gas (nitrogen, oxygen, and argon) Site coverage: 95% Head oﬃce (including the Tokyo Sales Copy paper 22t Electrical components Oﬃce and Osaka Sales Oﬃce), Tamron’ s Cardboard three plants in Aomori Prefecture, Japan, the Tamron Optical (Foshan) plant in China, and Tamron Optical (Vietnam). Transportation between Manufacturing of raw materials/ Development, design and components at suppliers production at Tamron factories and distributors Use by customers (logistics/commercial vehicles) O u t p u t s（2016） Reference guideline: CO2 Recycling CO2 emissions during transport2 Manual for Calculating and Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions Ver. 4.2 Electric power 41,541t-CO2 Plastic4 173t Diesel 397t-CO2 Heavy oil 570t-CO2 Cardboard 284t Gasoline 107t-CO2 3.Industrial waste includes 1.2 tons of Pollutant Released & Transfer Kerosene 25t-CO2 General waste (thermal recycling) 160t Total 504t-CO2 Registered (PRTR) substances. 0.3 Diesel 42t-CO2 Waste liquid 118t ton of a PRTR substance (xylene) Gasoline 3t-CO2 Waste oil 78t was also released into the LPG 30t-CO2 Metal 145t atmosphere. Natural gas 221t-CO2 Paper 32t 4.The amount of plastics recycled Polishing sludge 12t Total 42,432t-CO2 represented 57t of thermal energy Other 14t and 116t of material. Waste contracted for intermediate processing Total 1,016t Industrial waste3 1,238t General waste 696t Products Total 1,934t Total for products 1,404t 15 Tamron CSR Report 2017 ISO26000-6.5 The Environment Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved While we worked toward achieving medium-term environmental objectives and targets for the fourth year of the program, we failed to meet the CO2 emissions reduction target. Achievement of Environmental Objectives and Targets in FY2016 The Tamron Group has established a target to reduce its CO2 reduction of the amount of waste plastic generated by the Mold emissions compared to its benchmark year of FY2012 by 1% & Tooling Technology Center at Tamron’ s head office; this target per year on average in terms of basic unit per sales1 and also a was not achieved due to a 1.15-fold increase in the quantity of medium-term environmental target to reduce emissions by 7.7% by plastic formed resulting from a change in operational utilization. FY2020. In FY2016, while the target was to achieve a 4% reduction The second target was for a reduction in the amount of industrial in CO2 emissions, emissions actually rose by 17%, missing the waste generated at the Tamron Optical (Foshan) plant in China; target. This is primarily due to the fact that electricity consumption in regard to this target, there was an increase in the amount of not envisioned during the benchmark year of FY2012 was added recovered sludge so as to reduce the chemical oxygen demand to our operations. For this reasons, we have reconsidered our (COD) value, and an increase in the amount of waste liquid CO2 emissions reduction target. In light of the Paris Agreement2 processed due to changes to cleaning processes. and JEITA3, Tamron’ s medium-term environmental target has been In FY2017, Tamron’ s Waste Reduction Sub-committee will handle revised to a 16.55% reduction from FY2016 levels by FY2030. In matters related to the reduction of industrial waste, while the keeping with this new target, we will endeavor to reduce CO2 Integrated Design, Production Technology and Production Subemissions at a rate of approximately 1.3% per year in FY2017 committee will address the promotion of environmentally friendly compared with FY2016 levels on a basic unit per sales basis. products4. These sub-committees manage horizontal targets and As regards environmental impacts other than CO2 emissions, carry out their activities through the manufacturing process. each Tamron site has set individual targets, because each site The organizational chart for each sub-committee is provided manufactures a different category of products. In FY2016 we were in the Integrated Management System Implementation System unable to meet two targets. The first of these was a target for diagram on page 13 of this report. FY2016 to FY2030 Mid-Term Environmental Targets5 Progress in FY2013 to FY2016 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Reduction rate of 16.55％ CO2 reduction CO₂reduction target 2% reduction 3% reduction 4% reduction emissions 1% reduction per basic Average annual reduction of 1.3% （versus FY2012 basic unit of sales; cumulative annual average） (approx.) (approx.) (approx.) unit of sales Results 3.6% reduction 0.3% reduction 5.6% increase 17% increase 2016 2030 (benchmark year) (mid-term target year) Status ○ × × × Environmental Targets Achieved in FY2016 Environmental targets FY2016 targets FY2016 results Status Head Office  aste plastics volume 3% reduction W 10% increase × (Mold & Tooling vs. 2015 (basic unit of sales) Technology Material recycling6 rate for waste Center) 64.5％ ○ plastics 40% Reduce industrial Material recycling rate for waste plastics Hirosaki Plant : 52.4% ○ waste Hirosaki Plant : 50% 3 Aomori plants Namioka Plant : 25% Namioka Plant : 25.8% ○ Owani Plant : 6% Owani Plant : 6.1% ○ Tamron Optical Industrial Waste Reduced by 2% compared 22% increase × (Foshan) to 2015 (basic unit of sales) Promote ・Promoted environmentally-friendly ・Promoted environmentally-friendly designs Lightweight: 1.6% environmentallydesigns increase, Compact: 0.6% increase (compared to conventionAll sites △ ・Incidents of environmental nonal models; calculated based on 2016 production volume) friendly design conformity: 0 ・Incidents of environmental non-conformity: 0 Environmental Targets for FY2017 Environmental targets FY2017 targets Reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 1.3% compared 1. Basic unit per sales： CO2reduction target All sites to FY2016 (basic unit of sales; cumulative annual average) Total CO₂ emissions (t-CO₂) Head Office (Mold & Waste plastics volume 3% reduction vs. FY2016 (basic unit of sales) Consolidated sales (million yen) Tooling Technology Center) Material recycling rate for waste plastics 50％ 2. A multilateral international agreement to curb Reduce industrial Material recycling rate for waste plastics Hirosaki Plant :50% climate change adopted on December 12, waste 3 Aomori Plants  Namioka Plant :25% 2015 in Paris, where the 2015 United Nationals Climate Change Conference (COP21) was held,  Owani Plant :6% and went into effect on November 4, 2016. Tamron Optical (Foshan) Industrial Waste Reduce by 2% compared to FY2016 (basic unit of sales) The agreement set forth overall targets such as limiting the average rise in global temperatures Promote environmentally・Promote environmentally-friendly designs to under 2° C compared with pre-industrial levAll sites friendly products ・Incidents of environmental non-conformity: 0 els. 3. The Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) is an industrial group representing companies in the fields of IT and electronics that seeks to contribute to the comprehensive development of the electronics and information technology industry as well as facilitate the development of the Japanese economy and cultural prosperity by promoting the sound production, trade and consumption of electronic equipment and components. 4. Promoting lightweight, compact designs and the use of recycled materials in line with our product assessment regulations 5. The greenhouse gas coefficient from the Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & Reporting Manual Version 4.2 is used for managing medium-term targets with a benchmark year of FY2016. 6. Material recycling refers to the collection and utilization of used products and waste generated from production processes as raw materials to make new products. Tamron recycles runner materials as waste plastics and prioritizes material recycling over thermal recycling so that recycled materials can be reused offsite. The material recycling ratio of waste plastics indicates the percentage for which material recycling was carried out compared to the total amount of waste plastics. Tamron CSR Report 2017 16 ISO26000-6.5 The Environment Reducing CO2 Emissions and Electricity Consumption Tamron strives to reduce CO2 emissions and electricity consumption at the company’ s plants using its integrated management system. Breakdown of CO2 emissions Measures to Reduce CO2 Emissions As regards the sources of CO2 emissions (excluding distribution In FY2016, Tamron implemented activities through the CO2 and logistics) from Tamron’ s head office, the three plants in Emissions Reduction Committee, which is focused mainly on Aomori Prefecture, Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China and Tamron Tamron’ s head office and the three plants in Aomori Prefecture, Optical (Vietnam), electricity usage accounts for 97.9%, followed and used streamlined electric power management sensors by heavy oil at 1.3%. Given this mix, our energy saving activities to identify excess power usage. When excess power was focus on reducing electricity consumption. discovered, the committee examined whether reductions could be made. When possible, reduction measures including operational improvements were implemented and the effects Electricity Heavy oil Natural gas and others verified. At Tamron Optical (Foshan), 6,200 lights were switched to LED, and improvements were also made to the compressor cooling system. At Tamron Optical (Vietnam), fluorescent lighting was reduced in areas that do not require as much light, such as warehouses, hallways and stairwells. Electricity usage was also Natural gas reduced by adjusting air conditioning equipment to produce Heavy oil and others 1.3% 0.8% appropriate temperatures for each season. Tamron will continue to work on further CO2 reductions by sharing information and taking a long-term approach in considering the introduction of energy-saving equipment. Electricity The measures taken to reduce CO2 emissions in FY2016 are 97.9% outlined below. Trends in CO2 Emissions Since FY2011, CO2 emissions from Tamron’ s head office, the three plans in Aomori Prefecture, Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China and Tamron Optical (Vietnam) have been on the rise, but in FY2016, overall CO2 emissions fell 7.4% compared to FY2015 levels. Viewed by geographic location, our sites in Japan saw a 3% decrease, while Tamron Optical (Foshan) saw a 7.9% decrease and Tamron Optical (Vietnam), which began operations in 2013, reduced emissions by 12%. In FY2017, we will begin introducing solar power generation at Tamron Optical (Foshan), and continue to examine ways to make energy saving improvements at the three plants in Streamlined electric power management sensor (being used to measure the electric power consumption of an Aomori Prefecture through the use of electricity consumption NC lathe machine at the Hirosaki Plant) “visualization”and other methods. The basic unit of sales for overall CO2 emissions increased 17% Main CO2 Emissions Reduction Measures Implemented in FY2016 compared with FY2012 level. Reduction Site Name Measure Effects (t-CO2) Head office Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical (Foshan) Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Basic Replacing mercury lamps with LED equipment 45,814 unit1 Head (Mold & Tooling Technology Center) 8 45,000（t-CO₂) 44,281 42,432 t-CO / Office Improving compressor operation (Mold & 39,744 5,848 7,084 2 net sales Tooling Technology Center) 4 40,000 38,826 6,224 (Millions 2,504 of yen) Hirosaki Plant Improving operation of alumite machine 1 35,000 0.70 0.708 Namioka Improving operation of φ950 continuous 30,000 0.60 Plant evaporation machine 13 0.637 0.603 0.601 0.581 Owani Im p rovin g o p e ratio n of co olin g wate r 25,000 0.50 Plant circulation pump and AC-2 air conditioning unit 45 20,000 0.40 Tamron Improvements to Plant No. 1 compressor 27,492 27,545 28,229 27,826 25,630 11 Optical cooling system 15,000 0.30 (Foshan) 727 (in China) Switching over to LED lights (6,200 lights) 37 10,000 671 640 636 483 0.20 6,478 Reducing the number of fluorescent light 5,149 5,384 5,965 6,043 Tamron ― 5,000 0.10 in shared spaces 1,207 1,143 1,200 1,238 1,028 Optical 2,922 2,732 2,980 3,065 3,024 (Vietnam) Revising temperature settings for air 0 conditioning equipment ― 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FY 1. T he greenhouse gas coefficient from the Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & Reporting Manual Version 4.2 is used for managing medium-term targets with a benchmark year of FY2012. For consistency purposes, this same coefficient has been used for this report to re-calculate basic unit of CO2 emissions from FY2010 onward. 17 Tamron CSR Report 2017 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment Reducing Waste and Water Consumption Tamron is working to reduce waste and water consumption by improving the way in which business division operates. Waste Reduction Initiatives Trends in Water Consumption The total amount of waste generated in FY2016 by the Tamron The total water consumption of the Tamron Group as a whole in Group as a whole, including Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China and FY2016 decreased by 7% compared with FY2015. At Tamron Optical Tamron Optical (Vietnam) decreased by 7% compared with FY2015. (Foshan) in China, initiatives including the recovery and re-use of At Tamron Optical (Foshan), improvements were made by abolishing wastewater from pure water cleaning resulted in a reduction of the process of soaking polished and processed soft glass materials around 17%. At Tamron Optical (Vietnam), initiatives were started in methanol and placing the materials immediately into cleaning by displaying the“Water Conservation”catch-phrase. The increase equipment, resulting in an approximate 84 kℓ reduction in the in consumption at the Namioka Plant is due to the introduction of amount of waste generated for the year. In addition, improvements new equipment. A new cooling tower was installed in an effort to to cleaning methods in optical manufacturing reduced the amount circulate cooling water and reduce the amount of water used. The of cleaning fluids used by around 8 tons. sharp increase in water consumption at the Owani Plant is due to In FY2017, the Waste Reduction Sub-committee and the Integrated malfunctioning equipment, and consumption has now been restored Design, Production Technology and Production Sub-committee will to normal levels. Moving forward, Tamron will continue with efforts be working to reduce the amount of waste generated. to reduce water consumption. Head oﬃce Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical (Foshan) Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Basic unit Head office Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical (Foshan) Tamron Optical (Vietnam) (1,000㎥) Recycling ratio of industrial waste (Japan) （ t） （%） 1,000 969 2,200 98.6 1 98.6 100 Thousand 99.9 99.9 2,080 900 ㎥ / sales 2,000 99.7 161 1,934 831 849 (billion yen) 95 1,800 203 800 769 66 789 16 1,800 90 39 78 1,600 1,516 1,569 700 15.1 14 98 85 1,400 600 13.2 12 80 12.1 1,200 500 11.8 10 75 1,316 1,045 999 1,417 1,283 10.4 1,000 70 400 789 650 533 566 471 8 800 65 300 6 600 57 61 41 0.5 4.1 89 49 60 200 4 400 202 0.8 0.5 0.6 206 247 263 226 200 97 123 90 93 99 55 100 162 162 179 199 220 2 92 89 86 85 82 0 50 0 7 10 7 11 7 10 8 9.9 7 8.9 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FY 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FY 1. T  he FY2015 industrial waste recycling rate (domestic) was revised from 99.9% to 98.6%. Environmental Education Initiatives Improvements to Logistics Tamron regularly holds environment-related training. In FY2016, we Economic development tends to be associated with increased provided training for 47 members of the Integrated Management CO2 emissions, which contribute to global warming. Over Promotion Committee, focusing in international trends and legislation the past several years, Tamron has been working to improve in relation to global warming. We also offer training on subjects such international logistics to reduce the CO2 emissions in the as the United Nations Global Compact and a summary of the 2016 logistics process. Tamron has worked on reducing CO2 emissions CSR Report in an e-learning format. 1,489 employees across Tamron for transport to Narita Airport for shipments from overseas including our domestic sites, Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China and production plants to other countries. These improvements have Tamron Optical (Vietnam) have undergone this training. had the effect of reducing CO2 emissions by 244t-CO2 in FY2016. In addition, the third Friday of every month has been designated We also plan to relocate our domestic distribution base from as No My Car Day, and certain days in the summer and winter Aomori Prefecture to Saitama Prefecture. This should reduce the are designated as Eco Life Days (an initiative launched by Saitama air transportation in product shipments from our warehouses to Prefectural Government), as part of the company’ s efforts to raise customers, and allow us to switch to truck-based transportation. environmental awareness among all of the executive officers and M ov i n g fo r wa rd , we w il l co n t i n u e to wo rk o n m a ki n g employees at the head office. In FY2016, Tamron received praise improvements to logistics. from Saitama City Government for the second year running for the positive contributions made by the company’ s restrictions on commuting by car. CO 2 emissions were reduced by a total of 13.6t-CO2 through Tamron’ s implementation of the No My Car Day and Eco Life Day programs in 2016. Tamron was a recipient of the Smart Mobility award Tamron CSR Report 2017 18 Relationship with Society Tamron supports activities that contribute to the development of photographic and imaging culture, while striving to be a company that fosters future generations, takes part in local communities and is beloved by society. Contributions to Photographic Culture The 9th Railroad Scenery Photo Contest Tamron sponsors the Railway Scenery Photo Contest in order to promote train culture and local revitalization in Omiya, known as an important railroad town in Japan and also site of our head office. As part of this contest, a photo exhibition is held at the Omiya Sogo Department Store showcasing the 87 winning entries. This local event is made possible with the much-appreciated support of the City of Saitama, the Saitama Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Saitama City Board of Education. The 9th Railroad Scenery Photo Contest received strong support from a host of different individuals, including amateur photographers and railway fans. A total of 7,098 submissions were received for the general and student divisions combined, marking the highest number of entries to date. General Division Grand Prize (Saitama City Mayor’ s Prize) Mr. Takahiro Araki “A Chance Encounter on a Snowy Day” “Nagahama, Shiga Prefecture – On a clear day with freshly fallen snow, the miracle when a white-colored train encounters a brisk world of white. The dazzling reflection looked divine.” Student Division Grand Prize (Saitama City Board of Education Superintendent’ s Award) Mr. Hogara Kurihara “Safety First! A Scene of Summer” “Haga District, Tochigi Prefecture – A peaceful shot of summer as elementary school students traverse a level crossing with their hands raised.” Humorous Photo Contest Award (Saitama City Chamber of Commerce and Industry President’ s Award) Mr. Noriyuki Sugiyama “Dig in” “Hamamatsu, Shizuoka Prefecture – At H a m a n a ko -S a ku m e St a t i o n a l o n g t h e Tenryu Hamanako Railroad. Black-headed gulls landed on my head.” 13th Macro Lens Photo Contest This photo contest accepts entries shot from any macro lens, regardless of manufacturer. For the 13th contest a total of 4,796 entries were received. The contest has two categories: the Nature Division for nature enthusiasts that enjoy taking pictures of plants and insects and the Genre-Free Division for amateur photographers using DSLR cameras to take pictures of food, their children or pets. Many of the entries featured beautiful, warm natural scenes captured delicately in only ways a macro lens can. 13th Macro Lens Photo Contest Grand Prize Mr. Masaki Yamada“Lake Biwa Fireworks Festival” 19 Tamron CSR Report 2017 ISO26000 6.8 Community Involvement and Development Growing Together with Local Communities Supporting Adaptive Athletes Supporting Nature Restoration Tamron has provided support to adaptive athletes to spread Tamron’ s Omiya head office continues to support the nature recognition of adaptive sports through the power of sports restoration project carried out by the Ecosystem Conservation photography. In September 2016, three athletes supported by Society Saitama together with local citizen groups at the Tamron took part in the Summer Paralympics in Rio de Janeiro Shibakawa Daiichi Flood Control Reservoir and surrounding and made an excellent showing. New preparations are already areas. Many years ago the underway with sights set on the Tokyo Paralympics to be held M inu ma Ta m b o a rea of in 2020. Tamron will continue to support these athletes as they the reservoir area was an train day-in, day-out to attain their goals. ab u n dant wetl an d with white herons. Today the reservoir continues to see a number of wildfowl such WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/en/special/athlete/ as swans and even shorttoed eagles visit the area to feed. Shibakawa Daiichi Flood Control Reservoir Contributions to the Local Community Made by the Three Tamron Plants in Aomori Prefecture The three Tamron plants in Aomori Prefecture run bottle top and pull-tab collection activities, with the proceeds being donated to charity. In FY2016, 104 kg of pull-tabs were collected, with the proceeds donated to the Hirosaki Social Welfare Council. The plants also contributed to their local communities by sponsoring local festivals (including the Historic City of Hirosaki Fireworks Festival and the Owani Hot Springs Summer Ms. Tsuchida Ms. Takakuwa Festival). In addition, each of the plants takes part in monthly clean-up activities (except during the winter months from December through to March) of the surrounding area, while volunteer Tamron employees also take part in river clean-up activities held twice a year in Hirosaki City. Going forward, the three plants will continue to make a concerted effort to contribute to their local communities. Cer tificate of app reciation received for the pull-tab donation Science Classes for Children Mr. Hokinoue Tamron has organized science classes for children at local Accepting Company Tours public halls and elementary schools in Saitama City since As part of efforts to cultivate future generations, Tamron welcomed 2008 to spur interest in the the students of Namerikawa High School from Toyama Prefecture sciences. In FY2016, we held a for a company tour. At Tamron’ s head office, the students toured total of 9 classes, with a total of the Mold Techno Center (mold manufacturing and processing), the 256 people participating. CSR analysis lab, electrical equipment monitoring room, Tamron Touring class“Milk carton camera” Kids Day-care Center, rooftop greening area and other locations. The students showed an interest in the CSR analysis lab, which analyzes the chemical substances contained in Tamron products, Supporting the Cookie Project our initiatives aimed at Tamron provided advertising product quality control suppor t and donations to and energy conservation, Cookie Bazaar 2016 held in along with the Tamron Saitama City in March 2016 and Kids Day-care Center. organized by the Cookie Project. We endeavor to contribute This organization works to help even in a small way to the disabled live independently stu dent s develo ping in the community. an idea of their future professions. Scene from a Company Tour (Mold Processing) Cookie bazaar 2016 Tamron CSR Report 2017 20 ISO26000 6.8 Community Involvement and Development Activities at Tamron’s Overseas Subsidiaries Tamron’ s subsidiaries outside Japan continue to strengthen their relationship with local communities. Tamron Europe GmbH Six years have passed since, as part of the expansion of the company’ s premises, Tamron Europe installed 344 photovoltaic (PV) panels on its roof to generate its own power and reduce CO 2 emissions . In FY2016, due to unfavorable weather conditions, the amount of power generated by these PV panels decreased by 4% to 62,000 kWh from the previous year, equivalent to a reduction in CO2 emissions of 44t-CO2. To date, the system has produced a total of 378,000 kWh of electric power and reduced CO2 emissions by approximately 270 tons. As part of its CSR activities begun in 2009, Tamron Europe also continues to provide donations of 10,000 Euros to an organization in Cologne (Koln) that provides support for children with cancer. The group has undertaken wide-ranging activities such as newly establishing and renovating hospital wings within university hospitals, constructing and operating lodgings where Rooftop PV panels as Tamron Europe GmbH family members accompanying patients undergoing treatment can stay, providing financial assistance for families of patients, and promoting research into new treatments. Moving forward, Tamron will continue to support the cause as much as possible. Tamron Optical Shanghai Since 2014, Tamron Optical Shanghai has been implementing a scholarship program called“Tamron – Stars of Tomorrow”at Sichuan University of Media and Communication, China’ s secondlargest media-focused university. Under this program, every year students with the highest grades are awarded a scholarship in order to help realize the dreams of the young people who will be playing key roles in the fields of photography and the media in the future. As a related project, Tamron is holding photography seminars at Sichuan University of Media and Communication, taught by leading Chinese photographers, to give students the opportunity to experience taking photos with Tamron’ s lenses. In FY2016, two of these photography seminars were held. Tamron also donated two cardboard boxes worth of clothing (around 80 Photography class at Sichuan University of Media and Communication items of clothing) to Bao Bei Ai Qing Kong, which runs the collection event twice a year. The donated clothing is distributed through the charity organization to disaster affected areas and districts suffering from poverty. Tamron USA Tamron USA took part in the Dress a Girl for her Prom project which donates dresses and accessories that are no longer used so that more female students can attend their schools’proms, traditionally held around the time of high school graduation in the United States, without suffering an economic burden. In a continuation of its support from the previous year, Tamron once again took part in the Food Drive project that delivers food supplies to people that need them, and the Toys for Tots project that delivers Christmas presents to children staying in facilities or Dress a Girl for her Prom project otherwise disadvantaged. As an independent initiative, Tamron USA also ran a Youth Summer program, where it invited the children of employees for work experience during the summer holidays. By showing children who will lead the future the sight of their parents working and giving them hands-on experience with the work, WEB Dress a Girl for her Prom https://www.jlli.org/ Tamron hopes to instill the necessary attitude for when the Food drives https://www.licares.org/ Toys for Tots http://www.toysfortots.org/ children take up jobs for themselves in the future. 21 Tamron CSR Report 2017 ISO26000 7.5 Communication on Social Responsibility Independent Third-Party Opinion [Current Title] [External Activities]  rofessor, International College of Arts P Director, CSR Center, Yokohama City University Chairman, Yokohama Green Purchasing and Sciences, Yokohama City University Network Advisor, Alterna Research Institute [Career History] Advisor, JES 1989 Graduate School of Commerce, Waseda University Completed doctoral program [Works Authored] Appointed Full-time Lecturer at the Department of Commerce, Yokohama City University Why do the Companies Employing the 1990 Appointed Assistant Professor at the Department Handicapped Continue Getting Good Business of Commerce, Yokohama City University Results? (Chuohoki Publishing Co., Ltd.) 2001 A ppointed Professor at the Department of How Regional CSR Can Save Japan (Keibundo) Commerce, Yokohama City University The Economics of the Global Economy and 2005 Appointed Professor at the International College of Human Lifestyles (Keibundo) Arts and Sciences, Yokohama City University The CSR Management Revolution (co-author) (Chuokeizai-sha Inc.) Yokohama’ s Industry and Urban Development Professor [Areas of Specialization] (co-author) (Gakubunsha) Economic theory, economic systems theory, and regional Makoya Kageyama CSR theory etc. Further Enhancement through Coordination with the Outside and Self-recognition In the manufacturing industry, quality initiatives focused on photographing and disseminating scenes of their successful improving product quality have become increasingly important in activities is another good example. As a manufacturer of camera the production of products that customers can see with their own lenses, social contributions that involve photography offer a storyeyes. Tamron deserves recognition for not only working to improve telling element that has allowed Tamron to convey its sentiments lens precision, operability and design, but also for continuing towards different causes. to focus on supply chain management, enhancing resilience to That said, even when a company itself disseminates its social vibrations and dropping, conducting inspections for harmful contributions, sometimes those efforts fail to reach stakeholders, substances using in-house equipment, evaluating its business or the sentiment behind them may not be fully communicated. As partners and exhibiting a thorough commitment to quality. such, it will be necessary to strengthen coordination with adaptive Environmental initiatives are an essential part of this“quality”in sport support groups, NPOs and other organizations to ensure the every industry today, but manufacturing tends to have a large message reaches people more effectively. environmental impact, requiring manufacturers to step up their The employees implementing Tamron’ s CSR initiatives on the efforts in this regard. ground provide the support for these efforts, and moving forward Tamron, which has placed a priority on reducing CO2 emissions it will be necessary to foster the development of highly motivated and industrial waste while developing environmentally friendly employees who understand their own roles. Tamron Kids, the inproducts, has failed to meet its CO2 reduction targets. Nonetheless, house day-care facility, is one initiative that ensures a comfortable as well as ascertaining the causes and tackling improvements, environment for employees and strengthens Tamron’ s unifying Tamron’ s corporate attitude of disclosing this information in its CSR force as an organization. What’ s more, the day-care center is open report is worth of praise. to the local community, making it an excellent example of local Corporate attitude, which is linked to the quality of management, contribution. carries particular importance in today’ s world, where the role of To further enhance its CSR activities in the future, Tamron will need branding has continued to change. For instance, carefully crafted to evaluate each initiative from the perspective of management social contributions have become an effective part of management strategy. While sales serve as an indicator by which to evaluate strategy in recent years. products, social contributions and environmental initiatives also In terms of well thought-out social contributions on the part of need to be assessed. Further, if Tamron can gain an understanding Tamron, it has contributed to the development of photographic of the internal elements and structural links that enhance culture by holding railroad landscape photo and macro lens employee motivation and its ability to put CSR into practice, it contests. Its efforts to support three adaptive athletes by should be able to enhance its CSR efforts on a practical level. Editorial Team’ s Postscript This report contains non-financial information on Tamron’s annual activities as a way to facilitate engagement with our many stakeholders. The special feature section of the 2017 report focuses on initiatives related to work-life balance, support for parents trying to juggle childrearing with work, and efforts towards achieving diversity. Universal design (UD) fonts have been used for the Japanese version of this report to make sure that the content of the report can be read Head office Tamron Optical (Foshan) by as many people as possible. We sincerely hope that this report, and the way it has been presented, will help readers to learn more about Tamron. We will be responding to the views expressed in the independent third-party opinion by working to promote creativity and self-direction among our employees, and we will also be striving to develop global CSR management. We encourage readers to share their frank comments and requests, so that we can use them to improve next year’ s report. The three Aomori plants Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Tamron CSR Report 2017 22 Tamron Co., Ltd. CSR Implementation & Administration Board 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, Saitama-city, Saitama 337-8556 Japan Tel. +81-48-684-9190 Fax. +81-48-677-6653 E-mail: e-report@tamron.co.jp Website: http://www.tamron.com/ Published March 2017
