2017 Communication on Progress (COP) Communication on Progress (COP) 2017 Table of Contents Letter From Our CEO. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Communication on Progress. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Progress Highlights by the Numbers. . . . . . . . . . . 9 Human Rights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Labor Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Environmental . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Anti-Corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 1 Communication on Progress (COP) 2017 Letter from our CEO We are delighted to present our 2017 we celebrated our 11TH PENTA Leadership competition. We continued our team Lunch Communication on Progress (COP) to the Scholarship recipient, providing a scholarship and Learn Series, offered our team numerous United Nations Global Compact. We continue to one college-bound high school student complimentary meals throughout the year, our steadfast commitment to honoring the who met our criteria for this prestigious and debuted a four month “Football Friday” values of the Ten Principles through our award. We continued to offer internships, program, offering free lunches from the actions within our organization and for the shadow days, and work study opportunities area’s best restaurants, ice cream sundae betterment of the community. We dedicated for college students as well. bars, snacks, and more, as we prepared countless hours to regional initiatives and each week for the New England Patriots to Other community initiatives included nonprofit organizations to help strengthen and win and eventually break numerous records orchestrating an Evening of Art & Music, promote their missions. Our commitment to with their historic triumph in Super Bowl LI. bringing together leadership from the world education, economic development, human We are proud of our team culture, and the renowned Worcester Art Museum, touting services organizations, and strengthening our manner in which we work hard to celebrate PENTA its “Embassy of the East” as we team of talented professionals resulted in a together with our special team-centric events provided a forum for the museum to educate positive and meaningful impact. throughout the year. numerous members and leaders about the This is our fourth Communication on institution’s vision, goals, and most esteemed We hosted our 3rd Annual Flag Raising Progress as a member of the United Nations collection of art. Boston’s leading Jazz Ceremony honoring Veterans and members Global Compact (UNGC) in the United States musicians performed for guests during the of our community engaged in the United of America. Our objective in this report is reception, helping to set the tone, enriching States Armed Forces. Joining us was Joe to share our progress as it relates to the Ten the experience for all. This event was part of Truschelli, Director of Communications, from Principles during the period of April 2016 our mission to bring world class culture to the the Office of Francisco A. Ureña, Secretary of through March 2017. region. the Department of Veterans’ Services of the Over the past 12 months, we illuminated Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Senator Our Leadership Team continued volunteer our core values through the integration Michael Moore, State Representatives board service for numerous organizations, of community partnerships, charitable Carolyn Dykema (D) and Hannah Kane including the Corridor Nine Area Chamber of contributions, employee engagement, and a (R), and Adam Costello, Director, Central Commerce, the Worcester Regional Research sustainability strategy in alignment with the Massachusetts Veterans’ Services District Bureau and its Executive Committee, the Ten Principles. We had numerous highlights also took part in this commemorative event. Westborough Economic Development from the past year, many of which we will The Westborough High School Symphonic Committee, the Central Massachusetts share in this report. Band played patriotic songs, as distinguished Workforce Investment Board, the Worcester celebrated local veterans raised the PENTA’s Marketing Mentorship Scholar Club, and continued service as Corporators American Flag in our historic courtyard ProgramTM was a huge success with our for the Worcester Art Museum, Seven Hills with our team, notable guests and special first group of college-bound high school Foundation, Greater Worcester Community veterans. Massachusetts Governor Charlie students emerging better equipped to Foundation, and others. I was pleased to Baker recognized PENTA Communications, pursue the future as they embark on their continue leadership as Chairman of the Inc. for its ongoing commitment to raising collegiate careers. This program convenes Board for the Westborough Economic awareness for veterans with a Memorial Day top-achieving high school business students Development Committee and Chairman of Citation. This was presented by Joe Truschelli seeking to experience and explore the the YWCA’s Katharine Forbes Erskine Tribute on behalf of the Governor with over 140 management facets of real world companies. to Women Event Committee, both for the people taking part in the celebration. Our multi-faceted program focuses on third consecutive year. topics ranging from personal branding In our work with clients, we continued to We continued supporting women’s to interpersonal communications and strive for an even greater level of concierge initiatives, including our sponsorship of the presentation skills, confidence building, service, the addition of more innovative and YWCA Katharine F. Erskine Awards, and our leadership, learning government’s role in comprehensive digital services, and the team serves as mentors for numerous female business, relating to C-level executives, and continued pursuit of excellence bringing students in both high school, college, and understanding vertical markets. Through every program to a higher level of success. career women. a series of monthly sessions, students As always, we are excited that the seeds we In honor of Earth Day, we revitalized and learn, engage, and are challenged to think planted will come to fruition during the next beautified the YWCA Playground, installing differently about business and its myriad COP period. This will include our first ever numerous flower planters, and dedicating challenges. In addition to their on-site Marketing Innovation & Customer Insights the time and positive energy of our team training at PENTA, we brought students Conference, which will unite marketing joining together to plant perennials. This was to other corporations for site visits and and academic leaders for a power-packed a wonderful experience creating something “meet and greets” with business leaders to day of education for our clients and the special and lasting for the betterment of expand the depth of their knowledge. We business community. We are looking forward young children, and one of which we are also brought together the Lt. Governor, a to gathering as a team to continue our very proud as it made a difference for all State Senator and State Representatives community efforts and for the excitement of of the children and their families in the to share their personal journeys, and how new endeavors designed to positively impact community of our corporate headquarters. they interact with the business community our community and our planet one project, This playground development was part in their roles. This initiative fosters strength one initiative at a time. of our 25th gift back to the community in in education and helps better prepare our celebration of our 25th Anniversary in 2013. youth for success as future leaders. Deborah Penta Our Team Clubhouse, which is an open We also provided funding for mini-grants to Founder & CEO space with table tennis, a pool table, and area teachers and to the School/Business PENTA Communications, Inc. air hockey was in regular use for members Partnership Committee of the Corridor of our Company to enjoy, providing a place Nine Chamber of Commerce. In addition, to unwind, combat stress, and enjoy healthy 3 Communication on Progress (COP) 2017 How PENTA Implemented the Ten Global Principles in 2016 Principle Highlights on Progress Human 1. Businesses •• PENTA’s engagement continued with regional nonprofit organizations that support and Rights should support respect human rights by helping individuals and families work towards economic selfand respect the sufficiency through education and assistance programs; protection of •• PENTA’s leadership continued its volunteer board service to a myriad of community internationally organizations that support the UN Human Rights Principle, including the Central proclaimed human Massachusetts Workforce Investment Board and Corridor Nine Chamber of Commerce; rights; •• PENTA’s leadership served as a Corporator for the human rights nonprofit organizations 2. And make sure they Seven Hills Foundation and Big Brothers Big Sisters; are not complicit •• PENTA assisted numerous nonprofit human rights related organizations over the past year in human rights with its marketing and communications efforts including Big Brothers Big Sisters, Worcester abuses. Community Action Council, Pernet Family Health Service, Veterans Inc., and Abby’s House; •• PENTA sponsored the YWCA Katharine Forbes Erskine Awards in 2016, supporting the recognition of notable female leaders who honor and foster equality and empowerment of all women; •• In May 2016, PENTA hosted its third annual Flag Raising Ceremony in Celebration of National Military Appreciation Month and in honor of distinguished American Veterans from our region. The Company also made a donation to benefit its local Veterans of Foreign Wars organization and received a Memorial Day Proclamation from the Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; and •• PENTA was a top drop-off site for the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve Toys for Tots Program again in 2016, collecting more than 300 toys to benefit local children in need, exceeding our previous results. Labor 3. Businesses •• PENTA continued developing its project to partner with local establishments in the Standards should uphold development of a discount program to benefit its employees, which it will launch in 2017; the freedom of •• PENTA completed a “new hire” onboarding package; association and the effective •• PENTA’s Lunch and Learn Series continued during the COP Period and was enhanced with a recognition of the Football Friday Luncheon Series, providing our team with free lunches from the area’s best right to collective lunch spots. We also had a special off-site Holiday Luncheon, which was fun for all, and hosted bargaining; other events throughout the year for our team; •• The PENTA Team enjoyed its Team Clubhouse and furnished its Game Room with a pool 4. the elimination table, table tennis, and air hockey; of all forms of compulsory labor; •• PENTA continued celebrating team member anniversaries with cards and gift cards; •• PENTA’s CEO continued to serve on the Board of the Central Massachusetts Workforce 5. the effective Investment Board and also served as Chairman of the Westborough Economic Development abolition of child Committee, which works to bring and grow job opportunities to the region. She also served labor; on Personnel Committees for two Boards during the COP year; 6. and the elimination •• PENTA continued its Marketing Mentorship Scholar ProgramTM fostering high-level marketing of discrimination experiences to high-achieving college-bound students, encouraging stronger job placement in respect of opportunities; and employment and •• The PENTA Female Leadership Scholarship celebrated its 11th year. occupation. 5 Communication on Progress (COP) 2017 How PENTA Implemented the Ten Global Principles in 2016 Continued Principle Highlights on Progress Environment 7. Businesses •• PENTA continued its recycling efforts of paper, plastic products, and printer should support cartridges. With the investment of a full-service networked printer, server and a precautionary other equipment, we’ve streamlined production of printed paper to conserve on approach to ink and paper usage; environmental •• PENTA continued offering clients a green line of services and made challenges; recommendations with respect to how its clients could execute green marketing strategies within their businesses; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater •• PENTA continued to source 95% of its products and services locally; environmental •• PENTA employs 100% of its building and maintenance contractors from within a responsibility; 20-mile radius; 9. and encourage •• PENTA spearheaded the concept for a beautification project to benefit the the development Westborough YWCA, improving its playground; and diffusion of •• PENTA made every effort to conserve energy through the effective monitoring of environmentally electricity usage and other utilities at its corporate office. friendly technologies. Anti10. Businesses should •• PENTA maintains the highest ethical standards in all of its business operations Corruption work against and relationships. The firm seeks vendors that are in alignment with our corruption in all of core values ensuring high integrity. In addition, we maintain high levels of its forms, including transparency in our client relationships and will not tolerate any level of extortion and unethical behavior on any level. bribery. 7 Communication on Progress (COP) 2017 Progress by the Numbers 27 Years PENTA celebrated 27 years of providing the highest caliber integrated marketing services to its clients. 95% Percentage of PENTA suppliers that are local to the region. $200,000 Provided to nonprofit organizations in pro bono services during the COP Period including those that support human rights, economic development, and arts and culture. 100% Percentage of building contractors within a 20-mile radius that PENTA utilizes to support its corporate office/facility. 13 Number of high-achieving college-bound seniors selected to participate in the Company’s elite Marketing Mentorship Scholar ProgramTM during the COP Period. 9 Communication on Progress (COP) 2017 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle Highlights on Progress Human Rights 1. Businesses should •• PENTA’s engagement continued with regional nonprofit organizations that support and respect support and respect human rights by helping individuals and families work the protection towards economic self-sufficiency through education and assistance programs; of internationally •• PENTA’s leadership continued its volunteer board service to a myriad of proclaimed human community organizations that support the UN Human Rights Principle, including rights; the Central Massachusetts Workforce Investment Board and Corridor Nine Chamber of Commerce; 2. And make sure they are not complicit in human •• PENTA’s leadership served as a Corporator for the human rights nonprofit rights abuses. organizations Seven Hills Foundation and Big Brothers Big Sisters; •• PENTA assisted numerous nonprofit human rights related organizations over the past year with its marketing and communications efforts including Big Brothers Big Sisters, Worcester Community Action Council, Pernet Family Health Service, Veterans Inc., and Abby’s House; •• PENTA sponsored the YWCA Katharine Forbes Erskine Awards in 2016, supporting the recognition of notable female leaders who honor and foster equality and empowerment of all women; •• In May 2016, PENTA hosted its third annual Flag Raising Ceremony in Celebration of National Military Appreciation Month and in honor of distinguished American Veterans from our region. The Company also made a donation to benefit its local Veterans of Foreign Wars organization and received a Memorial Day Proclamation from the Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; and •• PENTA was a top drop-off site for the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve Toys for Tots Program again in 2016, collecting more than 300 toys to benefit local children in need, exceeding our previous results. 11 Communication on Progress (COP) 2017 United Nations Global Compact Labor Standard Principles Principle Highlights on Progress Labor 3. Businesses should •• PENTA continued developing its project to partner with local establishments in the Standards uphold the freedom development of a discount program to benefit its employees, which it will launch in of association and the 2017; effective recognition •• PENTA completed a “new hire” onboarding package; of the right to collective bargaining; •• PENTA’s Lunch and Learn Series continued during the COP Period and was enhanced with a Football Friday Luncheon Series, providing our team with free 4. the elimination of all lunches from the area’s best lunch spots. We also had a special off-site Holiday forms of compulsory Luncheon, which was fun for all, and hosted other events throughout the year for our labor; team; •• The PENTA Team enjoyed its Team Clubhouse and furnished its Game Room with a 5. the effective abolition pool table, table tennis, and air hockey; of child labor; •• PENTA continued celebrating team member anniversaries with cards and gift cards; 6. and the elimination •• PENTA’s CEO continued to serve on the Board of the Central Massachusetts of discrimination Workforce Investment Board and also served as Chairman of the Westborough in respect of Economic Development Committee, which works to bring and grow job employment and opportunities to the region. She also served on Personnel Committees for two occupation. Boards during the COP year; •• PENTA continued its Marketing Mentorship Scholar ProgramTM fostering high-level marketing experiences to high-achieving college-bound students, encouraging stronger job placement opportunities; and •• The PENTA Female Leadership Scholarship celebrated its 11th year. 13 Communication on Progress (COP) 2017 United Nations Global Compact Environmental Principles Principle Highlights on Progress Environment 7. Businesses •• PENTA continued its recycling efforts of paper, plastic products, and printer should support cartridges. With the investment of a full-service networked printer, server and a precautionary other equipment, we’ve streamlined production of printed paper to conserve on approach to ink and paper usage; environmental •• PENTA continued offering clients a green line of services and made challenges; recommendations with respect to how its clients could execute green marketing strategies within their businesses; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater •• PENTA continued to source 95% of its products and services locally; environmental •• PENTA employs 100% of its building and maintenance contractors from within a responsibility; 20-mile radius; 9. and encourage •• PENTA spearheaded the concept for a beautification project to benefit the the development Westborough YWCA, improving its playground; and diffusion of •• PENTA made every effort to conserve energy through the effective monitoring of environmentally electricity usage and other utilities at its corporate office. friendly technologies. 15 Communication on Progress (COP) 2017 United Nations Global Compact Anti-Corruption Principle Highlights on Progress Anti10. Businesses should •• PENTA maintains the highest ethical standards in all of its business operations Corruption work against and relationships. The firm seeks vendors that are in alignment with our corruption in all of core values ensuring high integrity. In addition, we maintain high levels of its forms, including transparency in our client relationships and will not tolerate any level of unethical extortion and bribery. behavior on any level. 17 Communication on Progress (COP) 2017 António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 United States of America Dear Mr. Secretary-General: On behalf of PENTA Communications, Inc., I am delighted to reconfirm our company’s commitment to supporting the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. During our fourth year as a Global Company signatory, we made great progress in moving several initiatives forward and in both building and planting seeds for the future. As we look forward to our next COP period, we are both excited and energized to raise the bar with our efforts in marrying our community engagement to the Ten Principles, and, in addition, to strategically develop and implement ways that our organization can emerge to the next level in all areas for a stronger future. Every day, we seek to make a difference in our work for the betterment of our world around us. We believe that by doing our part locally and regionally that we are, indeed, part of a movement that inspires a better global economy promoting a positive universal outlook for the future of our industry and the communities served by our work. PENTA looks forward to continuing to make its mark by its acts of kindness, support, and engagement to foster lasting and meaningful progress for a better tomorrow. We look forward to presenting our fifth Communication on Progress in the spring of 2018 and wish you the best of success in your new role as Secretary-General. We are looking forward to your positive leadership of the United Nations, especially during this time in our world’s history. All the best, Deborah Penta Chief Executive Officer PENTA Communications, Inc. 508.616.9900 The PENTA Building www.pentamarketing.com 208 Turnpike Road Westborough, MA 01581 USA
