Setting Standards … Through Transparency NATPET Sustainability Report (Communication on Progress COP) Year 2017 NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Page Page S. No. Description S. No. Description S. No. Description No. No. No. NATPET’S HISTORY AND A BRIEF 1.0 NATPET’S VISION AND MISSION 03 2.4.5.3 Harassment and Abuse Policy 07 3.0 11 BACKGROUND 2.0 NATPET COMMITMENT 03 2.4.5.4 Grievance Policy 07 3.1 NATPET in Brief 11 President & COO Declaration to Support 10 Policy on Dealing with Harassment 2.1 Principles of UNITED NATION GLOBAL 03 2.4.5.5 08 3.2 Corporate Strategy 12 Complaints COMPACT-UNGC The Ten Principles of the United Nations 2.4.5.6 Disciplinary Policy 08 3.3 An Organization with Solid Policies 12 2.2 04 Global Compact Support to Responsible Care® Global 2.4.5.7 Whistleblowing Policy 08 4.0 RECOGNITIONS 13 2.3 04 Charter INSPIRE STAKEHOLDER 2.4.5.8 Anti-Bribery Policy 09 5.0 14 2.4 NATPET Policies 05 CONFIDENCE 2.4.5.9 Employee of the Month Policy 09 5.1 Press Release 15 2.4.1 QEHSS/Responsible Care Policy 05 CORPORATE SOCIAL 2.4.5.10 Office Environment Policy 09 6.0 16 2.4.2 Product Stewardship Policy 05 RESPONSIBILITIES 2.4.5.11 Equal Opportunities Policy 10 7.0 NATPET SUSTAINABILITY 18 2.4.3 Community Awareness & Education Policy 06 2.4.5.12 Equal Pay Policy 10 7.1 Environmental Sustainability 18 2.4.4 NATPET Sustainability Policy 06 Equal Opportunities relating to Disability 2.4.5.13 10 7.2 Social Sustainability 19 2.4.5 Social Compliance Policies 07 Policy 2.4.5.14 Environmental Policy 11 7.3 Economic Sustainability 22 2.4.5.1 No Discrimination Policy 07 2.4.5.15 Maternity Policy 11 2.4.5.2 Punishments and Appeal Policy 07 NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 2 1.0 NATPET’S VISION AND MISSION: 2.0 NATPET COMMITMENT: 2.1 President & COO Declaration to Support 10 Principles of UNITED NATION GLOBAL COMPACT-UNGC: NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 3 2.2 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact: 2.3 Support for the Responsible Care® Global Charter: The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption: Principal: Human rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights 2 abuses Principle: Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and 3 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory 4 labour; 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 6 and occupation Principle: Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 8 responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of 9 environmentally friendly technologies Principle: Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 4 2.4 NATPET Policies: 2.4.1 QEHSS/Responsible Care Policy 2.4.2 Product Stewardship Policy NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 5 2.4.3 Community Awareness & Education Policy 2.4.4 NATPET Sustainability Policy NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 6 2.4.5 Social Compliance Policies 2.4.5.3 Harassment and Abuse Policy: 2.4.5.1 No Discrimination Policy: NATPET shall not engage, support or allow any form of harassment or abuse in the workplace. At NATPET, we shall not discriminate with regards to workers based on race, religion, beliefs, gender, marital Clarifications: or maternal status, age, political affiliation, national origin, disability, sexual orientation or any other basis. Harassment can be any offensive act, comment or display that humiliates, insults or causes Clarifications: embarrassment, or any act of intimidation or threat. As a policy, our decision based for hiring, salary, fringe This includes but is not limited to: Serious or repeated benefits, promotion, termination on the workers rude, degrading or offensive remarks, Displaying sexist, individual skills and ability to do the job. racist or other offensive pictures, posters, threats, intimidation or retaliation. 2.4.5.2 Punishments and Appeal Policy: 2.4.5.4 Grievance Policy: NATPET shall not engage in or support the use of corporal punishment, threats of violence or other forms The NATPET believe that all employees should be of mental or physical coercion and shall not make use treated fairly and with respect. All employee have rights of public warning and punishment systems. to raise a formal grievance that should be concerned with the way in which an employee have been treated Clarifications: by the organization or managers acting on its behalf. Reprimands for breach of duty or misconduct shall be a Clarifications: private matter between the employer and the employee and/or his/her representative. The employees have Grievances may be concerned with a wide range of rights to appeal reprimands/disciplinary issues, including the allocation of work, working actions/dismissal. environment or conditions, the opportunities that employee have been given for career development or the way in which he/she have been managed. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 7 2.4.5.5 Policy on Dealing with Harassment taking into account the alleged misconduct of an Complaints: employee. The NATPET is committed to ensure equal Matters that the NATPET view as amounting to opportunities and fair treatment in the workplace for all disciplinary offences include but not limited to: its employees. NATPET ensure that no employee or other worker within the organization is subjected to any  persistent bad timekeeping; form of harassment or bullying. The NATPET shall  unauthorized absence; treat all complaints of harassment seriously and  minor damage to the NATPET’s property; investigate them promptly, efficiently and in  failure to observe the organization’s procedures; confidence. The NATPET provide a framework for  abusive behavior; resolving complaints of harassment or bullying and for  unreasonable refusal to follow an instruction issued stopping any behavior, which is causing offence or by a manager or supervisor; distress.  poor attendance; and  smoking in non-designated areas of the Head Office Clarifications: and plant's premises. The aims is to enable the organization to provide a Clarifications: working environment in which all staff feel comfortable and in which everyone is treated with respect and Employees have the right to be accompanied at a formal dignity, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, disciplinary hearing by colleague or Human Resource transgender status, marital or family status, color, race, of their choice. nationality, ethnic or national origins, creed, culture, religion or belief, age, disability or any other personal 2.4.5.7 Whistleblowing Policy: factor or quality. The NATPET encourages all employees to raise their 2.4.5.6 Disciplinary Policy: concerns under this policy in the first instance that they may have about the conduct of others in the business or NATPET employees shall not ordinarily be dismissed the way in which the business is run. This policy is for for a first disciplinary offence. The NATPET reserve disclosures about matters and sets out the way in which the right to implement the policy at any stage as set out individuals may raise any concerns that they have and how those concerns will be dealt with. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 8 Clarifications: encourage innovation, promote high levels of customer service and celebrate success. All employees of the NATPET including other individuals performing functions in relation to the Clarifications: NATPET are encouraged to use it wrongdoing within the organization (for example, financial irregularities or The determination of the employee of the month is health and safety concerns). based on a variety of factors, Such as: 2.4.5.8 Anti-Bribery Policy:  Productivity: exceeding output expectations.  Customer Service: going the extra mile for a NATPET shall not tolerate any form of bribery by, or customer. of, its employees, contractor’s workers, agents or  Exceptional Effort: giving an exceptional level of consultants or any person or body acting on its behalf. support to the organization. Senior management is committed to implement  Creativity: being particularly innovative. effective measures to prevent, monitor and eliminate  Being Proactive: taking charge of a situation or bribery. solving a difficult problem. Clarifications: 2.4.5.10 Office Environment Policy: Any breach of this policy is likely to constitute a serious The NATPET shall ensure that significant risks to the disciplinary, contractual and criminal matter for the environment associated with office-based activities are individual concerned and may cause serious damage to assessed and minimized. The NATPET provide suitable the reputation and standing of the NATPET. and sufficient information, instruction, training and supervision to employees regarding impacts on the 2.4.5.9 Employee of the Month Policy: environment and to ensure that control measures are The objective of the employee of the month scheme is properly used. NATPET ensures that adequate to give recognition to employees who have performed arrangements are in place to deal with accidents, particularly well each month. The scheme is an essential incidents and emergencies related to contamination, part of the reward strategy of the organization. It aims spillages or other adverse environmental effects. to motivate employees to achieve high standards, NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 9 Clarifications:  work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation study; or This policy outlines the company's commitment to  work of equal value. minimize the environmental impact of office-based activities. Clarifications: 2.4.5.11 Equal Opportunities Policy: Equal pay means all forms of contractual remuneration (including contractual bonus payments, overtime rates, The NATPET is committed to provide equal end term benefits and holiday pay) and non-cash opportunities and to avoid unlawful discrimination in contractual benefits such as company car, mobile employment. Striving to ensure that the work phone, etc. environment is free of harassment and bullying and that everyone is treated with dignity and respect, which is an 2.4.5.13 Equal Opportunities relating to Disability important aspect of ensuring equal opportunities in Policy: employment. NATPET is committed to an active equal opportunities Clarifications: policy from recruitment and selection, through training, development, appraisal and promotion to retirement for It is unlawful to discriminate directly or indirectly in all employees including those with a disability. recruitment or employment because of age, disability, NATPET shall recruit solely on the basis of work sex, gender reassignment, pregnancy, maternity, race, criteria and the applicant's abilities and individual merit. sexual orientation, religion or belief, or because A disability will not of itself justify the non-recruitment someone is married or in a civil partnership. of an applicant. 2.4.5.12 Equal Pay Policy: Clarifications: The NATPET is committed to the principle of equal Disabled employees have equal access to all benefits opportunities for all employees and intended to set out and facilities of employment. how the NATPET will demonstrate its commitment to equal pay. NATPET believe that its male and female employees should receive equal pay for:  the same or similar work; NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 10 2.4.5.14 Environmental Policy: 3.0 NATPET’S HISTORY AND A BRIEF BACKGROUND: The NATPET is committed and accepted its 3.1 NATPET in Brief environmental responsibilities and recognize its obligation to reduce the impact of business activities on National Petrochemical Industrial Co. (NATPET) is a Joint the environment. The NATPET achieve this through a Saudi Joint Stock Company, established in 1999 and producer policy of continual improvement in environmental of 400,000 MT/year propylene/polypropylene located at Yanbu performance. Industrial City (Madinat Yanbu Alsenae’a), on the west coast of Saudi Arabia. This Plant is producing a wide range of Clarifications: polypropylene product mix of (Homopolymers, Random & Heterophasic Copolymers) that is suitable for a wide variety of Each employee is responsible for his/her adherence to applications. Alujain, Xenel and GOSI are the major the principles of the Environmental policy. stockholders. 2.4.5.15 Maternity Policy: NATPET PP plant is using the state-of-the-art LyondellBasell licensed Spheripol technology producing a market-defined NATPET is firmly committed to protecting the rights of range of distinguished quality of PP resins. The plant is expectant mothers. This policy is to treat women enjoying the sustainable advantage of producing its own high affected by pregnancy, childbirth or related medical quality main raw material, Propylene, through an integrated conditions in the same manner as other employees Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) plant. unable to work because of their physical condition in all employment aspects, including recruitment, hiring, NATPET’s PP products, with the brand name Teldene®, are training, promotion and benefits. sold in more than 70 countries covering all the major regions around the world. The sales are carried out through NATPET’s Clarifications: competent Marketing and Sales division and off-takers with defined territories. NATPET is considered to be an aggressive When the employee returns to work, she is entitled to market competitor aiming to achieve the highest profitability return to the same or equivalent job with no loss of with the highest quality product in the market. service or other rights or privileges. NATPET in a short period of its existence has received outstanding acclamation from its customers for its sustainable product quality and after sales support. Accordingly, NATPET NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 11 puts extra emphasis to keep its goodwill in the downstream 3.3.1 Reduced cost of waste management through savings in market afloat through constant improvement of its operations. consumption of energy and materials 3.2 Corporate Strategy 3.3.2 Lower distribution costs Focus is the pillar of development at NATPET; this is precisely 3.3.3 Improved corporate image among regulators, customers what drives it towards success. Quality products, customer care, and the public maintenance and promulgation of ethical conduct in the industry, development of sustainable processes, respect for not 3.3.4 Define, establish, and maintain an effective quality just the employees but tireless efforts for the well-being of the assurance system for manufacturing and service community as well – NATPET focuses in the growth of industries. multiple areas to stand out from the crowd and has received due acknowledgment through various accolades. These have been 3.3.5 An effective safety management system which can be achieved in a very short span as NATPET started its integrated with other management systems and help commercial production in 2010 and now has gone in to achieve organizations achieve better occupational health, safety the status of an outstanding provider of sustainable product performance and economic objectives. quality and after sales support. The organization has warm-heartedly entered into a joint 3.3 An Organization with Solid Policies venture with a British company called Low & Bonar to produce geotextile materials made from polypropylene. The For NATPET, to be recognized as an astute business Bonar/NATPET joint venture intends to produce geotextile worldwide, formulation and implementation of best practices in products for the fast-growing civil engineering markets in the accordance with policies has been the core to its functioning. Middle East and the Indian subcontinent. NATPET has acquired certifications for Responsible Care/RC 14001:2013, ISO 9001:2015 Quality, ISO 14001:2015 NATPET-Schulman Engineering Plastic Compounds is a joint Environment, ISO 22000:2005 Product Safety, OHSAS venture. This has build an efficient, cost-effective and state-of1800:2007Occupational health and safety and ISO the-art manufacturing facility to produce and globally sell 17025:2005 – laboratory test reliability and calibration. polypropylene compounds for durable goods & automotive Through such accreditations, the organization has kept itself industry since 2016. abreast in the following areas: NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 12 4.0 RECOGNITIONS: 4.1 NATPET Stood 1st Position in King Khalid Award RCI 2014 4.2 NATPETWon Arabia CSR Award -2014 4.3 Amongst top in GPCA Responsible Care Award – 2015 The GPCA Responsible Care® Awards have been developed to recognize and share the experiences of the companies and individuals that have exemplified leadership and outstanding performance based on the implementation and execution of the Responsible Care program. NATPET has been nominated for the following Categories: 4.3.1 “Best Responsible Care® Champion” 4.3.2 “Best Responsible Care® Project” 4.4 EBA Best Enterprise Award 2014 4.5 The BIZZ Award 2014 4.6 CFI-UK Oil & Gas Award 2014 4.7 Value Chain Leadership Award – 2013 4.8 Marafiq Sustainability Award 2012 4.9 Best Saudi Company to work for 2012 NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 13 5.0 INSPIRE STAKEHOLDER CONFIDENCE: NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 14 5.1 PRESS RELEASE National Petrochemical Industrial Company Achieves First with RC 14001:2015 Certification http://www.abs-group.com/News-and-Events/Press-Releases/National-Petrochemical-Industrial-Company-Achieves-First-with-RC-140012015-Certification/ ABS Quality Evaluations, Inc. issues first certificate globally for RC 14001:2015. (Houston) ABS Quality Evaluations, Inc. (ABS QE), a subsidiary of ABS Group, has awarded the National Petrochemical Industrial Company (NATPET) of Saudi Arabia the first issued RC 14001:2015 certificate globally . The RC14001® Technical Specification (2015 edition) combines elements of the American Chemistry Council's (ACC) Responsible Care® initiative with those of the ISO Environmental Management Systems Standard, ISO 14001:2015). This Technical Specification was recently revised in 2015 and enables a company to obtain, through an application and audit process, a certification that its management system conforms to both the ISO 14001 and RC14001 requirements. This recognition is a significant achievement for NATPET and further strengthens our commitments and promise for a better future through an improved organization, says Jamal J. Malaikah, President and COO of NATPET. This requires us to continually increase our competitiveness, assure operations with the least possible impacts on the environment and enhance efficiency and effectiveness in our business to promote the safety and wellbeing of our employees, community and business partners.” We are pleased to issue the first certificate globally for RC 14001:2015, which is a milestone for both ABS QE and our client, says Dominic Townsend, Vice President of ABS QE. We are committed to helping our clients gain a thorough understanding of the latest management systems standards to drive performance improvements and quality assurance in the oil, gas and chemical value chain and life cycle.” NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 15 6.0 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES: 6.1 Waste Free Environment Day 2017 6.1.1 WFE activities was initiated at school level an run almost a month the closing ceremony on 2nd March 2017. 6.1.1.1 The core of WFE is to promote recycling and to raise awareness on responsible litter disposal. The campaign focuses on changing people’s attitude toward litter disposal and raises the need for communities to respond to environmental issues. 6.1.2 KPI’s for 2017 6.1.2.1 Regional KPI’s to increase participation by 10% 6.1.2.2 To focus on educational component of campaign 6.1.2.3 To extend to more locations and cities (in the case of NATPET, Jeddah will be a new city) 6.1.2.4 To extend the campaign to 1 new international location through affiliate offices 6.1.2.5 Join hands with recycling partners and NGO’s 6.1.2.6 Each city/campaign to develop competitions. WFE focuses on the 3 R’s: Reduce, Reuse and Recycle. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 16 6.2 GUINNESS WORLD RECORD 6.2.1 The largest flag unfurled underwater was achieved by ARC Ataa Alresalah in association with Coach Rebhi Skaik in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia on 29th September, 2017. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 17 7.0 NATPET SUSTAINABILITY 7.1.4.1 NATPET Environment section organizes environmental awareness and excellence  Environmental Sustainability competition in primary schools of RC, Yanbu  Social Sustainability in collaboration with the local environmental  Economic Sustainability regulatory authority, Royal Commission Environment Control Department at Yanbu 7.1 Environmental Sustainability and RC primary education department. 7.1.1 NATPET pollution reduction programs help in 7.1.4.2 NATPET had recently received and granted a managing environmental responsibilities, comply with prestigious 2013 GOLD AWARD in the applicable local/ Royal Commission, improved Occupational Health and Safety from The material utilization and reduced wastes and releases. Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents The engineering and technical experts of the NATPET (RoSPA). This shows that we had been contribute in the way of proposing new materials, demonstrating a socially responsible attitude equipment modification, recycle/reuse of waste. among our employees which leads to developing a strong safety culture and 7.1.2 NATPET has initiated major project on converting a enhanced safety performance in the entire Hazardous industrial waste as raw material to other plant. industries e.g., research on transforming NaHS a hazardous waste to become an active agent for the 7.1.5 Environmental Major Milestones leather industry, previously the company was investing SR 1 Kg to environment friendly disposition now as a  Zero violation of local & national Environmental saleable product. Regulation.  100% compliance to set parameter for wastewater 7.1.3 NATPET took an effective role with the environmental discharge to MARAFIQ IWTP. authorities to educate mass media through various  No Groundwater contamination as per programs and seminars on environmental and social groundwater sampling report. challenges and sponsorship a CD called Two Drops  Continuous Emission Monitoring of stack an initiative supported by GPCA. Emissions.  NOx and SOx emissions from stacks far less than 7.1.4 Primary School Level RC limit.  No incident of leakage for radioactive sources. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 18  RC 14001:2015 valid certification and accredited Through the Accelerate! program, NATPET is with ANAB by ABS-QE, USA. addressing structural change, focusing on  ISO 14001:2015 valid certification and recognition execution, reducing overhead costs, investing for RCMS by GPCA in growth – and adopting a new company  Zero Fatality on occupational health & safety culture. This cultural shift is being driven by a incident. new set of behaviors designed to help us  No Major Fire incident or explosion. unlock our full potential – Eager to win, Take  Member of ROSPA (Royal Society of Prevention ownership and Team up to excel. of Accident) 7.2.1.2 Community Engagement  Member of Responsible Care  NFPA (National Fire Protection Association) In parallel to our daily business focus on membership customers and markets, we also continue to  ASSE (American Society of Safety Engineers) encourage our people to engage with their membership immediate wider community. As part of our commitment to sustainability, NATPET 7.2 Social Sustainability supports volunteer activities as a way of giving back to our communities. Employee 7.2.1 Social sustainability is the idea that future generations volunteering embraces NATPET’ mission to should have the same or greater access to social improve people’s lives not only through our resources as the current generation (“inter-generational philanthropic activities, but also through our equity”), while there should also be equal access to employees and our shared belief that each of us social resources within the current generation (“intracan touch the lives of those around us, making generational equity”). our world a better place. 7.2.1.1 Our People – Making a Difference A key initiative in this respect is our Schools NATPET employees are the key enabler for program. NATPET employees (Jeddah making a difference, both within the company Proactive team) have volunteered to upgrade and to the lives of people, we touch with our lighting in local schools and educate the meaningful initiatives and community children on energy efﬁciency and best use of programs. environment, but the program goes much further. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 19 The Human Capital (HC) Plan establishes a 7.2.1.3 Donation framework of policies and practices that will guide our efforts in meeting these workforce At NATPET our responsibility never needs. It contains interdependent completed until we assure the donations and improvement goals and action strategies that charities are utilized effectively, our will transform how we assess, plan for, and philosophy to invest in the community either respond proactively to our human capital donation or sponsorship. Contribution to challenges and needs. NATPET invests in School skills to prepare economies and labor markets for the demands and changes of increased global competition. Year Funds Allocated NATPET also offers training opportunities 2013 SAR 2.0 Million and create learning potential and became learning organization in which workers have 2014 SAR 2.2 Million the opportunity to develop professional and social competences through peer learning. 2015 SAR 2.4 Million NATPET is working to develop locals and 2016 SAR 2.5 Million releasing them in local market as talented workforce, for this reason around 150 students 2017 SAR 2.5 Million were selected form Yanbu industrial college they were provided two years OJT and these 2018 Budgeted SAR 2.7 Million workforce were available for local/international market so helping government to provide their customers/people respectful job and social challenges of 7.2.1.4 CSR – Al Nabta’s & NATPET joint work employment. Project with Al Nabta, local NGO for spreading Environmental awareness in community schools at Jeddah. “Story of Waste” designed to spread awareness among NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 20 students on how and why they should recycle  11PDP engineers’ (Saudi) are progressing and safe the environment. This program in their development program. Fresh targets intermediate and secondary school Recruitment is on the go students (both genders).Total 04 schools were selected in 2013 for awareness and this project Phase 3 (2015 to 2017): will be continued in 2017.  Total 50 OJTs 20 PDPs recruitment 7.2.1.5 Training and Career Development proposed from 2015 to 2016. To backup manpower turnover/succession & increase national workforce. A Six year Strategic Succession Plan (2010 to 2016): Phase 1 (2010 to 2012):  80 Ex. On-Job-Trainees (Maintenance/Lab. Tech and Operators) are now full charge in their respective departments cost centers.  21 PDP engineers’ (Saudi) have successfully completed training & working in their respective departments for more responsibilities 7.2.1.6 The Official ICC CEO G20 Advisory Group Phase 2 (2013 & 2014): NATPET President Mr. Jamal J. Malaikah is the member of ICC G20 CEO Advisory Group  51 scholars are being trained at YTI,will http://www.iccwbo.org/globalbe available in 2016 as OJT influence/g20/advisory-group/g20-ceo 10 OJT (B) Saudis are progressing in their advisory-group-members/ training development Program. Fresh Recruitment is on the go. We identity the Socio-Economic, environmental and political national and NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 21 international trends which could impact on safety and health is one of the most important business performance. These are being objectives of NATPET. The purpose of monitored through ICCG20 Advisory, B20, program is to promote a culture of safety in the OECD, PMC. workplace. 7.2.1.8 Academia Collaboration with KFUPM In continuation to our activities of academia collaboration, NATPET has close coordination with Center of Excellence in Petroleum Refining and Petrochemicals (CRP), KFUPM. 7.2.1.9 Support for the healthy activity “Engagement of football stadium for employees recreation” for the whole year. 7.2.1.10 Sponsoring best students from top universities in international forums “GPCA – Responsible NATPET is also the active member of GPCA Care Conformance, UAE”. International Trade committee. One of the purpose of the committee is to: “To facilitate 7.3 Economic Sustainability co-operation relating to international trade in petrochemical and chemical products within At NATPET, we utilize existing resources optimally so that a the GCC region”. responsible and beneficial balance can be achieved by using the assorted assets of the company efficiently to allow it to continue 7.2.1.7 World Day for Occupational Safety and functioning profitability over time. Health 7.3.1 Steam Re-mapping – Energy Recovery NATPET ISD Department in collaboration with the Royal Commission (Yanbu) 7.3.1.1 PDH-REC Turbine Power Enhancement celebrated the World Day for Occupational Safety and Health. Awareness on occupational 7.3.2 Propylene recovery – PP project NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 22 7.3.3 Eco-profiles for Polyolefins in the GCC angle of energy management and to take direct and indirect economic benefits into consideration. The study was performed within the years 2015 and 2016 aiming at the compilation of an Eco-profile for PP produced by 7.3.5 Biodiversity NATPET. Eco-profiles assess the environmental impacts along the production chain from cradle-to-gate . This means that all 7.3.5.1 NATPET policy continues to focus on: relevant processes for polyolefin production from oil and gas extraction and processing, steam cracking, and polymerisation  Continuing to reduce the impact of our operations are included in this analysis. Furthermore, generation of electric through our Green Manufacturing 2016 program, and thermal energy as well as the supply of auxiliary materials focusing on CO2 emissions, water, waste and and transport processes were considered. restricted and hazardous substances  Continuing our EcoDesign activities, resulting in As one of the goals of this study was to compare the results to Green Products Eco-Profiles published by the European Association of Plastics Manufacturers (Plastics Europe), care was taken to use the same  NATPET Lab Participated in ASTM-PTP(2015methods and the same assumptions, where applicable. As a 2016) Lab Got 20 Excellent (< 1 σ) and 6 Very Good result, we can consider the results highly comparable with (< 2 σ). European Eco-profiles. The present study was conducted according the ISO 14044:2006 standard for life cycle 7.3.6 Corporate Governance assessment (LCA). NATPET believes that good corporate governance is a 7.3.4 Reduction in Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Balderrie critical factor in achieving business success. The Energies, GMBH ﬁndings of internal and external audits are reported to and discussed by the Audit Committee. Internal auditors The project was performed by Balderrie Energies GmbH monitor the quality of the business controls through targeted the potential to reduce greenhouse gases at NATPET risk-based operational audits. and for establishing an internationally recognized project that would have multiple benefits besides CO2 reduction. As part of the Business Control Frame work, NATPET with other MNCs have implemented set of standards for The study was targeted to be also an exercise for NATPET internal controls. management and engineers to see their operations from the NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2017 23
