2016 Sustain ABILITY report 1 Intro 2 Statement from the President/CEO 3 Get to know UNFCU 4 About this report 5 Investing in the local & global communities 6 Environmental performance & sustainability 10 Equitable & inclusive workplace 11 Member relations 12 Contact us sustainability... ...is fundamental to how we do business at the United Nations Federal Credit Union (UNFCU). As an organization with the mission to serve the people who serve the world , UNFCU is committed to making a positive impact on the environment and our community as part of our service to our members. UNFCU achieved carbon neutrality We are among the first credit We promote green, energy in 2016. Only one other credit union unions to publicly share a efficient buildings. 78% of in the US with assets of more than sustainability report. This our office space is LEED $4 billion has achieved this status. first report initiates our Certified. Our headquarters annual commitment to such building is LEED Gold, and We were recognized by the EPA’s transparency. our Washington, DC branch is Green Power Partnership program LEED Silver. for our commitment to supporting clean, renewable energy. We have active membership We embrace employee We are a member-owned status in the United Nations diversity, and actively engage cooperative, contributing Global Compact. our employees to deepen our directly to the financial wellunderstanding of what makes being of our members and the an inclusive workplace. communities in which they live. 2 | 2016 UNFCU Sustainability Report Statement of Support for Sustainability A message from William Predmore President/CEO of United Nations Federal Credit Union At the United Nations Federal Credit Union (UNFCU), sustainability is one of our core values. As part of our goal to conduct business as a good Over the past year, we upgraded to more energy efficient corporate citizen of the world, our focus is on increasing data centers, installed LED lighting, and reduced our print UNFCU’s positive impact on environmental preservation communications. The US Green Building Council (USGBC) and resource conservation. awarded LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Gold and Silver certifications to UNFCU This is evidenced by our affiliation with UN Greening headquarters in Long Island City, and to our branch in the Blue, a network of United Nations entities Washington, DC, respectively. implementing best practices in sustainability globally. Our UN community not only values our approach to ‘Go The introduction of Sustainable Travel Guidelines for Green’ with financial management tools, participation in employees, and the implementation of sustainability sustainability events, and adoption of best practices, but it questions as criteria for selecting new vendors represent also values the voice we have lent to this important cause. ways UNFCU is inspiring sustainable decision-making We have facilitated this effort through the growth of our and awareness among broader publics. As identified by UNFCU Global Sustainability Program. the UN Global Compact, UNFCU is one of the few credit unions with active status that has a focus on sustainability As a credit union with the mission to serve the people development. who serve the world, we have had a positive economic impact on our community through the provision of ongoing Sharing our first annual sustainability report with our financial education and financial services. We also embrace members, partners, and the public serves to increase our employee diversity and inclusion across our organization. transparency and validate our sustainability commitments. Most importantly, our work is aligned with the United As we begin our 70th year in the service of our UN Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which community and its sustainable aims, UNFCU firmly are designed to contribute to a sustainable future. commits to advancing responsible business actions. With input from our sponsor, the United Nations, and with guidance from an expert sustainability consultant, we developed a 5-year sustainability plan with established targets based on 2015 baselines. These include: 7% Reducing our use of paper Reducing energy use Sustaining carbon neutrality, by 25% while ensuring that 70% of by 7% in locations where we which we achieved in 2016. the paper we use is certified for being have operational control. sustainably sourced. 3 | 2016 UNFCU Sustainability Report Get to know UNFCU Founded in 1947 by 13 UN staff members in New York, UNFCU now serves the financial needs of almost 125,000 members within the UN community worldwide. As a member-owned cooperative, UNFCU puts our commitment to corporate social responsibility front and center. We support philanthropy, environmental stewardship, good corporate governance, and ethics among our employees. Our Core Values ▪▪ Provide the highest quality service to our ▪▪ Practice sustainability. global membership. ▪▪ Encourage employees to reach their highest ▪▪ Operate with honesty and integrity. potential through learning and development. ▪▪ Embrace diversity. ▪▪ Achieve success together through teamwork. Today, UNFCU is one of the largest UNFCU provides a full suite of banking credit unions in the United States. products and services designed for the mobile We are headquartered in New York City lifestyle of the global UN community. with over 500 employees globally. UNFCU has representative offices in In 2015, UNFCU launched the UNFCU Austria, Italy, Kenya, and Switzerland. Foundation, a New York-based non-profit In addition, UNFCU has corporate offices organization. The mission of the Foundation in Washington, DC, Northern Virginia, and is to sustain the path out of poverty through a back office facility in New Jersey. education and healthcare for women and children in developing countries and disadvantaged areas of New York City. 4 | 2016 UNFCU Sustainability Report About This Report Be Transparent and Inspire Others Our first annual sustainability report is a key accomplishment in helping us increase the social responsibility commitment of the business community. We are pleased to be among a select group of credit unions to publically discuss our strategy and metrics on our sustainablilty journey. We hope to encourage other businesses to join us on the journey and contribute to an even greater global positive impact. How Did We Develop This Report? UNFCU incorporated best practices from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to guide our approach. We drew from guidelines on identifying core sustainability topics and engaging stakeholders to develop our sustainability report. We Listened to Our Stakeholders We invited our employees, members, and partners to rank the sustainability topics they want UNFCU to address. Our interviews revealed that our current programs cover top stakeholder priorities. In addition, most want to see a public sustainability report. We Took a Comprehensive View Our report covers 1 January to 31 December 2016. It addresses all activities within UNFCU’s operational control across all global operations, including our wholly-owned subsidiary, Industrial Coverage. By working with our qualified sustainability consultant, we gained third-party review of our practices and data management procedures. We Identified Key Sustainability Opportunities Through quantitative and qualitative analysis, we determined which sustainability topics have the greatest impact on our business, the environment, and the communities we serve. In each section of the report, we list and share information on those opportunities. 5 | 2016 UNFCU Sustainability Report Investing in the Local & Global Communities Our engagement with sustainability principles United Nations extends well beyond the walls of our organization. Sustainable Development Goals Global Partnerships and Engagement The Sustainable Development UN Foundation links the UN’s work with others around the world, mobilizing the Goals (SDGs) set out a framework energy and expertise of business and non-governmental organizations to help of 17 goals to tackle the world’s the UN tackle issues including climate change, global health, peace and security, most pressing social, economic, and women’s empowerment, poverty eradication, energy access, and US-UN relations. environmental challenges by 2030. Kilimanjaro Initiative USA is a Greening the Blue is a network of Governments as well as the private New York-based non-profit whose UN agencies, funds, and programmes sector, civil society, and academics objectives are aligned with UNFCU’s that is collaborating to create a more are asked to achieve the SDGs. commitment to social responsibility. sustainable UN and to reduce its Active engagement from the private environmental impacts globally. sector, including UNFCU and our partners, is critical to success. United Nations Association of the UNFCU Foundation is an UNFCU supports the sustainable United States of America (UNA-USA) independent, non-profit organization development agenda through the is the largest UN advocacy organization based in New York City with a mission UNFCU Foundation and our Global in the United States, which is open to to sustain a path out of poverty Sustainability Program. any US citizen or permanent resident through education and healthcare for who is committed to the purposes of women and children. the Association. Responsible Banking in Service to the Community Many members choose UNFCU cooperatives provide to members and UNFCU continuously explores new because they value the peace of mind communities. Our membership in credit ways to reward sustainable initiatives that comes from joining a mission union-focused organizations includes: by our members. We are currently driven member-owned cooperative considering discounted loans for ▪▪ Credit Union Association of with a solid financial performance. sustainable purchases or energy New York UNFCU embraces shared efficient home upgrades. In fact, ▪▪ Credit Union Executives Society credit union values of member creating these products is one of the participation, education, cooperation ▪▪ Credit Union National Association goals outlined in our Sustainability in and contribution to the credit union (CUNA) Action Plan. community. ▪▪ Filene Research Institute ▪▪ National Association of Federal We partner with credit unions to Credit Unions raise awareness, learn, and advance ▪▪ World Council of Credit Unions the economic sustainability that 6 | 2016 UNFCU Sustainability Report Environmental Performance & Sustainability Key Sustainability Opportunities: Carbon Energy Paper use Business Sustainable neutrality efficiency reduction travel purchasing UNFCU strives to increase our positive impact on environmental preservation and resource conservation, as part of our goal to conduct business as a good corporate citizen of the world. Our team is energized by the sustainability strategy and goals in our 5-year Sustainability Plan. Developed in 2015 by our Global Sustainability Program (GSP) team and an executive advisory committee, with the assistance of an experienced sustainability consultant, the plan guides environmental performance improvements we can make by 2020 while serving an ever growing membership base. Our 2020 Sustainability Goals Act as a Good Corporate Have a Positive Demonstrate Citizen of the World. Impact on Resource Sustainable Business Incorporate sustainability Conservation. Practices. in strategic planning process and core values. Achieve and Implement sustain carbon sustainable travel neutrality in 2016 guidelines. and beyond. & Reduce energy Develop and use by 7% in launch green Be Transparent and operationally products. Inspire Others. controlled buildings.* Produce annual sustainability Reduce paper use by Develop report starting in 2017. 25%*. Ensure 70% sustainable of paper is certified purchasing policy. sustainable. *Relative to the 2015 baseline year. 7 | 2016 UNFCU Sustainability Report Act as a Good Corporate Citizen of the World ‘Practice sustainability’ is the most recent addition to our organizational core values, approved by the UNFCU Board of Directors in 2016. Building from our core values, sustainability will now be incorporated in our strategic planning process. Have a Positive Impact on Resource Conservation While growing our global membership, we will continue to manage our carbon footprint. 124,395 116,716 2016 6.6% 2015 38 employee-volunteers Member in the Global Sustainability Program dedicated to reducing our member growth overall environmental impact while global membership is growing We are Carbon Neutral UNFCU achieved carbon neutrality in 2016. Only one other credit union in the US with assets of more than $4 billion has achieved this status. 100% 0 75% 418 2.1% GHG MtCo2e GHG MtCo2e GHG 100% GHG 0 MtCo2e 2016 75%GHG 418 MtCO2e 2.1% organic emissions offset GHG emissions emissions 2015 baseline reduction in GHG in 2016, making us offset in 2015. GHG emissions emissions from 100% carbon neutral. 2015 to 2016. UNFCU achieved 100% carbon neutrality across its operations in 2016 by first becoming more energy efficient, then purchasing Green-e certified Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) from US-based wind power production, along with verified carbon offsets, to mitigate all greenhouse gas emissions from energy use and business travel. We hold ourselves to a high standard for measuring and mitigating our carbon emissions. We conduct an annual inventory based on the internationally-recognized Greenhouse Gas Protocol standards. We voluntarily include business travel in our inventory, which is optional under the protocol. 8 | 2016 UNFCU Sustainability Report Energy Efficiency Not only is UNFCU on track to meet our goal to reduce overall electricity use by 7%, we are doing it while serving an ever increasing number of members across the world, and with a growing staff. Substantial upgrades to our data centers drive our energy efficiency improvements, along with a major project to upgrade the lighting in our offices to energy efficient LED options. From 2015 to 2016: 3,381,086 kWh 3,270,278 kWh 2015 3.28% 9.25% Baseline 2016 reduction in reduction in electricity usage. electricity Electricity Usage usage/member. Our electricity baseline and reduction goal cover the three facilities in which we have direct control over energy use: our headquarters facility in Long Island City, our back office facility in New Jersey, and our Washington, DC branch. Branches and offices in leased spaces where UNFCU does not control energy use are not included in the baseline. Reducing Paper Use 61% 65,132 lbs 80,320 lbs vs 18.9% 12.2% Total paper usage Total paper usage across UNFCU in 2016. across UNFCU in 2015. 61% of the paper reduction in paper reduction in paper used is from use between 2015 usage/member certified sustainable and 2016. since 2015. sources. Across the financial services sector, regulatory requirements To manage the environmental impact of the paper we drive substantial documentation and printing needs. buy, we strive to have 70% of our paper certified by Despite the challenges, UNFCU is making excellent progress the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or Sustainable toward reducing our paper use by 25% by 2020. Thanks Forestry Initiative (SFI). We are working toward this goal by to investments in electronic document delivery that offer developing purchasing guidelines. member convenience while substantially reducing printing, we are able to serve more members with less paper. In addition, our marketing team is moving toward more paperless communications. 9 | 2016 UNFCU Sustainability Report Awards and Recognitions 78% 78% of our office space is LEED The Environmental Protection Certified (by square footage). Agency (EPA) recognized UNFCU as Our headquarters building is LEED a Green Power Partner in 2016, due Gold, and our Washington, DC branch is to our commitment to balancing 100% LEED Silver. LEED is a global standard of our grid electricity usage with clean, for green building and energy efficiency. renewable wind power via RECs. Demonstrate Sustainable Business Practices Sustainable Business Travel Our carbon neutrality approach includes finding ways to manage the environmental impact of business travel, which accounts for 14% of our GHG emissions before RECs and offsets are applied. In 2016, we developed Sustainable Travel Guidelines to assist travelers in selecting lower impact modes of transportation and greener hotels. Green Products In 2016–2017, UNFCU is exploring new product offerings that create an even greater positive impact, such as discounted loans for sustainable purchases or energy efficient home upgrades. We look forward to sharing more as the program unfolds in 2017 and beyond. Sustainable Purchasing As a credit union, we know that it matters where we put our money. That is why we are committed to develop a sustainable procurement policy by the end of 2017. We include environmental sustainability questions in vendor selections that go through the proposal process for major purchases. Like other credit unions, our major areas of spend include services such as consulting, financial transaction processing, facilities, training, and IT. In the coming year, we will consider how to efficiently and cost-effectively find opportunities to support sustainability throughout our existing vendor relationships in addition to our requests for proposal. 10 | 2016 UNFCU Sustainability Report Equitable & Inclusive Workplace Key Sustainability Opportunities: Fair pay and Employee Diversity workplace training and and practices development Inclusion Social Impact Matters Serving people is core to UNFCU’s mission and culture. Within our own organization, we are dedicated to creating a workplace that is welcoming, equitable and supports employees to be their best. In our most recent stakeholder engagement survey in early 2017, our members and partners told us that diversity and inclusion ranked as a top priority. Creating a Thriving and Equitable Workplace Fair pay, competitive benefits, and careful compliance with applicable labor laws all contribute to an equitable workplace. As an organization with a majority of female employees (60%), maternity leave upon birth of a child is valued for supporting work-life integration, with the majority of new mothers in 2016 (70%) choosing to return to work at UNFCU. Our credit union also adheres to policies on Family Medical Leave for non-biological and adoptive parents. Employee Learning and Development UNFCU is dedicated to providing learning growth opportunities for all employees. In fact, embracing learning and development is one of our core values. Starting in 2017, we rolled out an initiative to incorporate regular coaching for all employees as part of our performance management program. Embracing Diversity Diversity and inclusion (D&I) has enabled UNFCU to truly thrive as an organization dedicated to ‘serving the people who serve the world ®. ’ Historically, our employees have always represented a wide range of demographics and this extends to our current Board of Directors, the majority of whom are women. Recognizing the value this brings, we identified ‘embracing diversity’ as one of our core values several years ago. In early 2016, UNFCU kicked off a multiyear initiative to deepen our D&I commitment in order to strengthen our workplace culture. We conducted an organization-wide review of D&I practices, engaged an expert D&I consultant for assistance, and shared the findings with our employees. 11 | 2016 UNFCU Sustainability Report Member Relations Key Sustainability Opportunities: Member service Privacy Member and satisfaction and security financial literacy Providing the highest quality service to our members is a core value. In surveys and interviews, we heard that our community values regular feedback channels, information security and privacy, and support for the unique banking needs of UN civil servants. Member Satisfaction Listening to our members and productively responding to feedback are central to our service-oriented mission. Through online surveys we deploy each year, members are invited to provide us with their candid feedback. We also host regular roundtable discussions with members, resulting in meaningful conversations about their needs. Our members are encouraged to reach out any time to provide input on new products and services via our email online form. Protecting Our Members’ Security and Trust We know that information security and privacy protection rank high on our members’ priority list. We safeguard our members’ privacy by proactively deploying industry leading practices to prevent data breaches, coupled with an information security team of experts prepared to respond in the event of a breach. Along with cyber security, we follow industry best practices to ensure our members’ and employees’ safety in our facilities, providing routine safety training to our employees. Member Financial Literacy Member education is a hallmark of credit unions. UNFCU conducts ongoing educational events to help members make savvy financial decisions. Recognizing our members’ different learning needs and schedules, UNFCU provides education both in-person and online, including webinars, financial fairs, workshops, online resources, and more. As a US-based institution serving members from across the globe, we offer special financial literacy options that address the needs of non-US citizens who are often unfamiliar with US banking and for whom English is not their first language. In support of our global membership, UNFCU employees speak more than 30 languages. 12 | 2016 UNFCU Sustainability Report Contact us We welcome your feedback and ongoing engagement in our sustainability journey. For more information, contact: Elisabeth Philippe UNFCU Senior Manager of Community and Media Relations Email: ephilippe@unfcu.com Call: +1 347-686-6776 Photo credits cover images – center, right: Life of Hilly Women, Bandarban Hill District, Bangladesh by Dr. U Aye Maung Bariloche, South of Argentina in Lake Nahuel Huapi by Jose Lolich
