Currie Communication on Progress 28 September 2017 Statement of support by Managing Director In 2016 Currie became a participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and a member of the associated Global Compact Australia Network. In doing so, we made a public statement of our support for the 10 principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption and our intent to implement these principles, and support the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Currie remains fully-committed to the 10 UNGC principles and we plan to strengthen our commitment to them in 2017-18 and beyond. Susan McNair Managing Director Currie Communications Pty Ltd ABN 82 050 913 909 Level 9, 190 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000 T. +61 3 9670 6599 www.curriecommunications.com.au Human rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights issues Currie supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Our commitment to these rights is encapsulated in our Code of Conduct that explicitly promotes human rights in the workplace. We promote human rights internally through our Flexible Working Policy and Leave Policy which ensures those that work at Currie can balance their individual circumstances and needs. Our OH&S officer and OH&S policy contribute to build a balanced and safe workplace. What we’ve done These policies have been implemented through our activities in 2016-17 in three key areas – Supporting non-profit partners • Reached our target of 5% pro-bono work to social, environmental and non-profit partners that include the Banksia Foundation and the Asylum Seeker’s Resource Centre (ASRC). • Donated $1,736 to various causes that support refugees and farmer health Advocating for human rights • Supported sustainable development and human rights, including the SDGs, through social media and blogs Improving the wellbeing of our staff • Developed a suite of policies and code of conduct that promote human rights in the workplace • Introduced sit-stand desks to improve the health and wellbeing of employees • Promoted the education of our staff by spending 3% of our fee turnover on staff training • Established a workplace with no OH&S incidents Plans for the future Looking ahead, we hope to continue these activities and successes. In the next reporting period, we plan to expand our commitment to human rights through: • Reviewing relationships with suppliers, clients and associates and building an approach that will encourage best human rights practice • Improving our system of assessment and measurement in this area © Currie Communications Page 2 Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation We value our workers as the backbone of our business. We aim to provide a safe, fair and welcoming workplace. Our Code of Conduct sets out our expectation for a positive work environment. Currie’s HR Manual articulates guidelines and processes for the exercise of labour rights including leave, flexible working arrangements, performance review, pay adjustment and disputes. Currie supports the International Labour Organisation’s core conventions through strict adherence to Australia’s labour laws. What we’ve done These policies have been implemented through our activities in 2016-17 in three key areas – Compensating employees fairly • Paid employees above Award rates • Increased employee salaries higher than CPI increases each year • Distributed monthly 10% bonuses to employees who met productivity targets Eliminating all forms of discrimination • Promoted gender diversity by supporting working women with 75% of executives being female • Bridging socio-economic divisions by hiring a refugee intern as part of our partnership with ASRC Mentoring program • Establishing a workplace that caters to individual circumstances through open flexible working arrangements Maintaining a positive work environment • Developed a Code of Conduct and suite of HR policies to promote respectful and positive workplace relationships • Supported the mental health and wellbeing of employees by providing access to an employee assistance program – Converge International. The program is made available in response to traumatic and confronting incidents, and saw use in 2016-17 through one-on-one sessions and a critical response to a traumatic event in an employee’s personal life. • Held monthly one-on-one meetings between employees and the CEO – a platform to discuss and address any concerns. • Ensured the workplace had no OH&S incidents during 2016-17 through the implementation of our OH&S policy © Currie Communications Page 3 Plans for the future While we are pleased with the successes of 2016-17 we look forward to progressing our support for our employees and labour rights. In the next reporting period we plan to: • Improve our system of assessment of measurement in this area, in particular by conducting staff surveys • Broaden the opportunity for employees to raise concerns through introducing structured 360 feedback sessions with the CEO • Review relationships with suppliers, clients and associates and build an approach that will encourage best practice around forced and child labour © Currie Communications Page 4 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 0 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies We implement an Environmental Policy Statement which helps guide sustainable decision-making and activities and directs Currie to minimise its environmental footprint through: • Use of materials and resources including energy, waste and water • Purchase of products and resources including energy supply • Decisions to support and accept suppliers and clients including pro-bono work As a knowledge provider, we understand that we are in a position to encourage external stakeholders to adopt sustainable practice. To reflect this our environmental policy challenges our business to take proactive steps to support sustainable development – including customers, suppliers and associates. What we’ve done We have taken action in three key areas in 2016-17 – Minimising carbon emissions While we do not work in an energy-intensive industry, we look to minimise our emissions and play our part in sustainable energy usage. Our office is supplied by 100% renewable energy sources stemming from hydropower. This commitment to renewable energy significantly reduces our carbon emissions. We offset 100% of our carbon emissions generated through energy, waste and travel. About 60% of our emissions are offset through carbon offset payments made to airlines. The remaining 40% is offset through an ongoing relationship with Greenfleet. During 2016-17, this relationship saw 98 native trees planted. Reducing waste to landfill In 2016-17 we implemented an initiative to reduce waste in the office. All paper sourced is now 100% recycled, as part of this initiative. Clear recycling bin labelling and information tips were accessibly displayed to promote best recycling practice throughout the office. KeepCups were purchased for all staff to minimise waste from coffee cups. Promoting sustainable development outside the business Outside the business, we actively promote and encourage environmentally sustainable practice through social media, blogs and pro-bono work with environmentally-focused organisations including the Banksia Foundation and Greenfleet. © Currie Communications Page 5 Plan for the future Operating in an environmentally sustainable way is an important part of Currie’s day-to-day philosophy. In the next reporting period we will continue on our environmental journey by: • Supporting the precautionary principle across our environmental policies • Implementing environmental assessments of purchased products, new technology and client work (particularly around flights). • Reviewing supplier, client and associate agreements and build an approach that will encourage environmental best practice • Improving our system of measures © Currie Communications Page 6 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption 0 in all forms, including extortion and bribery Joining as a participant of the UNGC in 2017 we have continued to take action against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Integrity is a part of Currie’s core values. It guides our day-today practice. This value is embodied in our code of conduct which explicitly sets out our anti-corruption policy: • Act and maintain a high standard of integrity and professionalism • Avoid apparent conflicts of interest • Business transactions may not be influenced by offering or accepting gifts • Under no circumstances may employees offer or accept money. What we’ve done In 2016-17 we have continued to show our commitment through full compliance with Australian anticorruption law. We participated in a voluntary anti-corruption initiative (BCorp) and have achieved no corruption complaints, formal or informal, during the reporting period. Plans for the future We want increase our progress in the area of anti-corruption in the next reporting period. We will look to: • Build anti-corruption assessments for relationships with clients, suppliers and associates • Implement our anti-corruption policy through agreements with clients, suppliers and associates • Improve our system of measures in relation to anti-corruption • Investigate opportunities to support the UN Convention against Corruption © Currie Communications Page 7
