Rotoplas. In_ ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 2 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Content Main figures 3 Grupo Rotoplas at a glance (profile) 4 Message from the CEO 8 Relevant events of the year 10 Intelligent investment. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE. 11 Relevant financial data 12 Economic value distribution 14 Innovation & strategy. CREATION OF VALUE 16 Context of access to water and sanitation 17 Business model and corporate strategy 20 Relation with stakeholders 23 Sustainability model 26 Innovation 30 Involvement in development. VALUE TRANSFER 32 Quality 33 Water culture 36 Operational efficiency 38 Inclusion of talent. OUR TEAM 41 Description of employee workforce; 42 Training and development 47 Integrity & leadership. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 49 Structure 50 Ethics 52 Risk management 54 Inspiration for progress. FUTURE PERSPECTIVE 56 Future perspective 57 Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals 58 About this report 62 Audited Financial Statements Management comments on the 2016 fiscal year. Content index of the GRI 66 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 3 Main figures (102-7) 2,829 13 18 21 EMPLOYEES COUNTRIES IN SOLUTION LINES PRODUCTION OPERATION PLANTS1 4 6,330 +23,000 $5,353 DISTRIBUTION DIRECT CUSTOMERS SALE POINTS MILLION MEXICAN CENTERS PESOS INCOME $77.7 $449 15.6 +83% MILLION MEXICAN MILLION MEXICAN AVERAGE HOURS OF OF SATISFIED CUSTOMERS PESOS INVESTED PESOS OF NET PROFIT TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE IN ALL OUR MARKETS IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D) 1 21 Rotoplas´ plants also operate as distribution centers. 4 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Grupo Rotoplas (102-2, 102-4, 102-6, 102-16) In Grupo Rotoplas we have almost 40 years of experience offering individual and integrated solutions for storage, flow and improvement of water. We have operations in 13 American countries, being pioneers and leaders in the development and distribution of water and sanitation solutions that allow to improve the quality of people´s life, the quantity and quality of the resource, and contribute to economic development. Our mission: Our values: “For people to have more and better water” Collaboration: We demonstrate a committed and participative attitude that allows us to align our efforts Our vision: and work with joint responsibility to achieve a common goal. “To be a global company that is a point of reference for individual Service Attitude: We identify our clients’ internal and external needs and focus our efforts on meeting and and integrated water solutions exceeding the level of service they expect. whose success is founded on the Rotoplas Way” Social and Environmental Responsibility: We are committed to generating actions that promote wellness, quality of life, and care for the environment in all the communities where we have a presence. Humility: We show an attitude that allows other points of view to be taken on board, valuing the contributions of others and promoting constructive feedback. Passion for Business: We have the conviction, enthusiasm, and commitment to give our very best and make things happen Integrity: We act with honesty, fairness, and ethics, being consistent with what we think, say and do. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 5 U.S.A. Mexico Belize Guatemala Honduras El Salvador Nicaragua Costa Rica Ecuador Peru Brazil Argentina Chile 6 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. We provide solutions attached to the highest quality standards, focused on innovation in the redesign and development of our portfolio, which we are also reinforcing with an increasing service offer. Individual Solutions Our individual solutions facilitate the storage, flow and improvement of water quality in urban and rural areas, without requiring additional services to operate. Major customers are home improvement stores, as well as building materials & supply stores, government entities and civil society organizations. STORAGE FLOW PURIFICATION FILTRATION TREATMENT HEATERS Cistern Hydraulic pipe Tuboplus On-sink water purifier Standard filter Self-cleaning Biodigester Thermo tanks (Argentina) Water tank Hydropneumatic systems Under sink water purifier Jumbo filter Thermos (Peru) Tanks for water and Centrifugal pump Reverse osmosis purifier Refrigerator water filter chemicals Peripheral pump Tap water filter Hoppers Submersible pump Jar with integrated filter Horizontal tanks Circulating pump Feeders ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 7 Integrated Solutions Our integrated solutions are those meant to cover more complex and/ or larger needs, which may include individual solutions as well as added value services such as engineering, installation, site development and maintenance. They are intended for government entities and civil society organizations that develop water and sanitation projects, with whom we work under B2B or B2C models2, as well as to industries looking for a more efficient management of water for their operations. Grupo Rotoplas offers solutions and services for different needs that arise throughout the water cycle: before, during and after its use. SELF-SUSTAINING WITH MAINTENANCE Rain water harvesting system Drinking water fountains in schools Outdoor sustainable Bathroom (sanitation system) Water purifying plants Wastewater treatment plants Drinking water service 2 B2B: working directly with the customer (Government Entity, NGO and/or company), B2C: working with the end user. 8 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Message from the CEO (102-14, 102-15) Dear stakeholders, It has been a year of very important changes for Even though the accumulated sales decreased by 6.1%, to $5,353 million of Mexican pesos, despite the difficult environment above Grupo Rotoplas, in which we have focused on the mentioned, consolidated sales of our individual solutions increased by realignment of our business portfolio, concentrating 10.9%. However, integrated solutions, dependent on public investment, our efforts on solutions with higher profitability and decreased by 68.4% for the lower demand from government programs in Brazil and the delay in the implementation of government initiatives consistent growth. We have embraced this approach in Mexico. Additionally, and to achieve greater stability in our results, by optimizing our existing solution portfolio, as well we are reducing sales to the government channel, that has gone from as performing strategic acquisitions to reinforce it. 21% approximately of our total revenue in 2015 to less than 5% in 2016. Also, with the incorporation of Sytesa, we added integrated solutions As a sign of our financial strength, we incorporated Talsar in Argentina and services with wide growth potential to our portfolio. Therefore, in and Sytesa in Mexico, with their portfolio of solutions regarding water terms of results, we reached an EBITDA margin of 30 points higher than heating, and wastewater treatment and water recycling, respectively. the margin in 2015, and a growth in the net profit of 11.6%, reaching the Also, confirming our commitment with innovation, we acquired a sum of $449 million Mexican pesos. participation in the Advanced Innovation Center (AIC), a research center in Chile which focuses especially in the development of a We continue building a solid company, which allows us to consistently plasma technology for water treatment: Plasma Water Sanitation create value for our different stakeholders. We constantly monitor System (PWSS), unique in the world. The above, has allowed us to water and sanitation needs to develop solutions that effectively address minimize the impact of an economically complex environment in our them; based on guidelines focused on high operational efficiency major markets, Mexico and Brazil. initiatives, through a work methodology based on processes and our employee’s training. This way, we reinforce the company’s ability to We are living a strategic transition from a position of a company achieve our mission: “For people to have more and better water”. that provides products and water solutions, towards a company that offers services as well. This transition is being obtained through the Being aware of the importance of a sustainability approach, during development of integrated solutions with maintenance, for which the year 2016, we decided to develop our sustainability model. we are intensifying our activities in the targeted segments, as well This reflects how we create value for our different stakeholders and as considering new sales channels. In addition, we are developing prioritize initiatives to be focused in the coming years. Our operations new business models, with special emphasis in Rotoplas Labs. This and solutions are intrinsically linked to sustainable development since is our platform regarding innovation, whose purpose is to connect they improve people’s access to water and sanitation, contributing to capabilities and technologies with communities that need water and the socio-economic development. It should be also pointed out that we sanitation solutions. formalized our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and to move forward in the implementation of the 10 Principles promoted by this initiative, covering aspects of Human Rights, Labor, Environmental and Anti-corruption matters. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 9 Talent is the force that moves us and we are committed to its development, so we promote communication with our employees, collaboration and teamwork. We ended the year with a community of 2,829 employees, adding new members to a diverse team. We understand our performance always attached to common values and to an organizational culture that we accomplish through the Rotoplas Way. We are pursuing that this shared understanding of who we are and how we work, is present in the company, to which we have carried out many awareness-raising activities, which are continuously enriched with the employees´ feedback. Water is a source of life and well-being, a resource that flows creating development and opportunities. Through initiatives such as “Fan del agua” (Water Fan) in Mexico, among others, we want to sensitize society to practice and strengthen a culture of responsible use of water in children, adolescents and adults. In addition, through our operations We appreciate our employees´ passion and commitment in the we are participating in different stages of the water cycle, especially performance of their functions, we thank our customers and suppliers, through the reinforcement of our contribution in the treatment process shareholders and communities for their continuous trust in Grupo for reintegration to the environment and/or re-utilization, thanks to the Rotoplas, and we reaffirm our commitment to face together future acquisition of Sytesa and its treatment plants, in this year. challenges. We maintain our commitment with innovation and quality of our solutions, with a team which is proud of contributing to a better social and economic scenario, a context of water security, resilience to Sincerely, climate change, and improvement in the health of population, among other impacts. It has been a year in which we have consolidated the sustainability approach as part of our corporate strategy towards Carlos Rojas Mota Velasco 2019, taking advantage of the potential of new business models that CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors. make emphasis on collaboration and on the user, as a part of the cocreation process facilitated by technological development. 10 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Relevant events of the year January March The acquisition of all shares of the Argentinian Company Talsar S.A., for a price of $642 million MXN has been completed. 2016 April May Payment of a dividend in cash of $0.25 MXN for each outstanding share. Jun August Closing of the acquisition of a minority stake of Advanced Innovation Center (AIC) in Chile. September December The acquisition of a majority stake of Soluciones y Tratamiento Ecológico S.A. (SYTESA), a company in Mexico that operates water treatment plants is completed. The tender award, within the Programa Nacional de Bebederos (PNB) (National Drinking Water Fountains Program), to install, operate and provide maintenance to 866 solutions, in the 5th region in which the country has been divided; this adds to previous tenders awarded through the year, committing ourselves to install 3,193 drinking water fountains in 4 of 5 regions. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 11 Rotoplas. Intelligent investment ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 12 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Economic performance Relevant financial data In Grupo Rotoplas, we have been focused on a realignment of our portfolio in order to enhance solutions with increased profitability and growth, as well as lower vulnerability segments, making a balance between our different distribution channels. In addition, we have made strategic acquisitions, with own funds. Through the incorporation of Talsar and Sytesa, we reinforced our portfolio with solutions which have accelerated growth potential, and our commitment to innovation through the AIC. With all this, we have been able to minimize the complex economic In this context, despite the expense related to the growth of our situation in some of the markets in which we operate, such as Brazil and operations in the U.S.A. and manufacturing costs in Brazil and Argentina, Mexico, with particularly successful results through the year. Thus, the the EBITDA margin only decreased by 30 basis points, thanks to the reduction of sales has been only of 6.1% compared to 2015, especially addition of sales in Talsar in Argentina and Sytesa in Mexico. due to the lower demand of integrated solutions. As a result of our optimal expenditure guidelines, especially with regard On the other hand, the growth of our gross profit margin by 180 basis to non-operational resources, we were able to increase our net profit points stands out this year; due to best prices of our portfolio and a by 11.6%, to 449 million pesos, and its margin by 130 basis points. composition of sales by higher-margin solutions. The operating profit margin decreased by 80 basis points, as a result of the decrease in sales among which fixed expenses are divided. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 13 Main Economic Figures (in millions of Mexican pesos) 2014 2015 2016 ∆ 16-15 (%) Net sales 6,552 5,700 5,353 -6.1 Cost 4,037 3,397 3,097 -8.8 Gross profit 2,514 2,304 2,257 2.0 Gross Profit Margin (%) 38.4% 40.4% 42.2% 180 pb Expenses 1,816 1,641 1,677 2.2 Operating Profit 698 662 580 -12.4 Operating Profit Margin 10.7% 11.6% 10.8% -80 pb EBITDA 860 771 738 -4.3 EBITDA Margin (%) 13.1% 13.5% 13.8% 30 pb Net Profit 417 402 449 11.6 Net Profit Margin (%) 6.4% 7.1% 8.4% 130 pb Profit Per Share (in Mexican pesos) 0.86 0.83 0.92 11.6 Number of Outstanding shares (in millions) 486 486 486 0.0 Capitalization (in millions of Mexican pesos) 2015 2016 ∆ 16-15 (%) Total Debt 1,217 1,243 2.1 Total of Stockholders' Equity 6,053 7,221 19.3 Total Capitalization 7,270 8,464 16.4 14 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Economic value distribution (201-1, 201-4) In Grupo Rotoplas we generate economic income through the design, distribution of water solutions and the provision of related services, which we transform into economic value for our different stakeholders. This occurs through items as employees´ wages and other benefits, the purchase of products in the supply chain, paying taxes to public administrations and the delivery of dividends to shareholders, among others. The entirety corresponds to the distributed economic value which, after being deducted from income, reflects the amount that the company keeps as cash flow year after year. Generated and distributed economic value (GEV & DEV) (millions of Mexican pesos) 2015 2016 ∆ 16-15 (%) Income (Generated Economic Value, GEV) 5,700 5,353 -6.1 Expenses (Distributed Economic Value, DEV) 5,038 4,775 -5.2 Operating expenses (includes spending on suppliers) 1,281 1,236 -3.5 Salaries and benefits (to employees) 795 770 -3.1 Payment to capital providers 282 405 43.3 Governmental taxes 174 196 13.0 Investment in Research & Development (R&D) 74 78 5.1 Acquisitions (Sytesa, Talsar, AIC) 2,205 Investment in Infrastructure (new plants) 328 371 13.0 Donations (communities) 3.6 3.8 5.7 Retained (GEV-DEV) 662 578 -12.7 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 15 Within the socio-economic context of the Latin American region, our To comply with the obligations incurred for the financing of our income decreased by 6.1% compared to 2015, whereas the amount operations, we delivered this year $404.5 million Mexican pesos, with a we distributed among our stakeholders decreased slightly below, by remarkable increase of 43.3% compared to 2015. It is worth mentioning 5.2%. Despite this scenario, we remain firmly committed to innovation, that we received a $6.3 million pesos grant from the National Council with an increase of 5.1% in the budget for Research and Development on Science and Technology (CONACYT) as support to innovation. (R&D), reaching $77.7 million pesos. Regarding investment in operating infrastructure, the increase was 13.0%, constituting an item In addition, we contributed to enable the availability of our solutions of $370.8 million Mexican pesos. This is consistent with our goal of in underserved rural communities through joint investment schemes further increasing sales and, accordingly, the ability to produce a wider with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), to double the impact portfolio. of their efforts and social work. Furthermore, specific donations were provided to address other social initiatives. Together, we donated a In Grupo Rotoplas we are committed to the development of solutions, total of $3.8 million Mexican pesos in 2016, a 5.7% more than in the combined with the incorporation of technologies and products that we previous year. think can add value to our portfolio, customers and users. This year, we had an especial inorganic growth from the acquisition of Talsar in Argentina, AIC in Chile and Sytesa in Mexico, for which we altogether invested $2,205 million Mexican pesos. 16 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Rotoplas. Innovation & strategy CREATION OF VALUE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 17 Creation of value Access to water and sanitation context (102-12, 201-2, 203-2) Latin America and the Caribbean have one-third of the planet’s water resources. In the region, water availability exceeds 22 million liters per capita a year, a figure that nearly quadruples the world average (ECLAC, 2016). However, there is a heterogeneous distribution of the resource and large populated areas in regions with low availability or high water stress. 70% of water is used for agriculture, while domestic use occupies the second place of greater intensity, which demands 19% of it (ECLAC, 2016). This scenario suggests the need to prioritize efficiency in agriculture and ensure water supply to households. 11% 32 40% 80% OF THE WORLD’S MILLION PEOPLE DO OF THE WORLD’S OF GLOBAL DISEASES POPULATION DO NOT NOT HAVE ACCESS TO POPULATION DO NOT ARE RELATED TO HAVE ACCESS TO DRINKING WATER IN HAVE BASIC SANITATION POLLUTED WATER. DRINKING WATER. LATIN AMERICA. FACILITIES. Source: Panorama del agua en el mundo, Consejo Consultivo del Agua. 18 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. In this regard, the concept of water security stands out, which means to ensure the availability of safe water to be supplied to the population In Mexico, 10% of the population lacks for subsistence uses, among other aspects. Access to appropriate access to drinking water and 43% do not have drinking water levels and sanitation, availability of the resource to ensure a sustainable productive development and to reduce associated minimum sanitation facilities.* conflicts, the conservation of water bodies in a condition compatible with human health and environment protection, as well as the reduction As for Mexico, programs and social initiatives of different government of risks connected with climate change (which leads to situations of departments have included Grupo Rotoplas´ solutions, such as water deficit or excess) are priority areas that must be addressed in the rainwater harvesting systems, outdoor sustainable bathrooms and water region. (ECLAC, 2016). Grupo Rotoplas is aware of these priorities and purifying systems, which help reduce gastrointestinal, respiratory, and addresses them by providing solutions for storage, flow, purification, infectious diseases as well as school and work absenteeism (GESOC filtration and treatment. A.C., 2015). The most vulnerable population regarding access to water and During the year, an important event was the implementation of the sanitation usually lives in less-favored areas of large cities and in rural Programa Nacional de Bebederos in public preschool, primary and regions, where coverages for this and other basic services are less secondary schools, promoted by the National Education Infrastructure efficient. This goes against the declaration of the United Nations that Institute (INIFED from its Spanish) and its representatives at State level. refers to water and sanitation as essential to the realization of all human The program aims to increase pure water consumption, promoting a rights, as well as their inclusion in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable change towards healthy nutrition habits that foster a multidimensional Development. approach against childhood obesity, in which Mexico ranks first globally. After public tenders were carried out, we were awarded the installation Mexico has 9 million people without access to piped water, and 50% of 3,193 drinking water fountains and our solutions are now part of the of wastewater does not have an appropriate treatment (CONAGUA, PNB in 4 of the 5 regions in which the country has been divided for the 2015). The magnitude of these figures in the country and in the region, initiative. forces governments to the development of programs to reverse such situation. It is the case of Brazil with the “Agua para Todos” (Water for We have been able to provide our experience in previous projects of All) initiative, in which we participated between 2013 and 2014 with drinking water fountains in Mexico City, Coahuila, Nuevo León and the provision of rainwater harvesting systems for the semiarid region. Yucatán. Specialized institutions have carried out studies on the impact We evaluated the impacts generated, identifying an improvement in of Rotoplas´ drinking water fountains in habits of school children, the hygiene and health conditions of communities, an increase in food particularly in Coahuila. As a result, we identified a decrease by 34% in intake, and in the use of water for cooking, as well as an increase in the amount of consumption of soft drinks at school, which decreases school attendance. (Vox Populi Institute, 2014). from 55% to 36% when drinking water fountains are available to students; other effects such as the reduction of plastic bottles and savings for the families were also found. Once we have achieved these results, we work on redesigning the drinking water fountains taking advantage of the experience of such programs, with an approach based on continuous improvement. *Source: Panorama del agua en el mundo, Consejo Consultivo del Agua. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 19 In Grupo Rotoplas we also develop pilot programs with some integrated solutions in Guatemala, Mexico and Peru, which will be expanded to other countries in the region; we contribute as well with in-kind support to different NGOs’ initiatives, that benefit rural communities through joint working models. COLLABOTATION AGREEMENTS WITH NGOs FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION PROJECTS • Fondo para la Paz • Fundación del Empresariado Chihuahuense • Fundación Haciendas del Mundo Maya • Fundación Patrimonio Indígena • Hábitat para la Humanidad Internacional We are contributing to improve the conditions of water supply and sanitation in different rural communities through our solutions, reaffirming that our portfolio of products is a win-win option for the population and the company, a business proposal that helps social development. With a history that demonstrates this contribution, the acquisition of Sytesa puts us a step forward participating in the wastewater treatment process, with which we completed our presence in the whole water cycle. References: Peña, H. (2016). Challenges of water security in Latin America and the Caribbean, ECLAC. National Water Commission. (2015) Situation of Drinking Water, Drainage and Sanitation Sub-sector. 20 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Business model and corporate strategy (102-16) In Grupo Rotoplas we seek to offer high quality innovative products in order that people will have more and better water, and we have a large portfolio that includes individual and integrated solutions. Our design and innovation team leads the development of products Our products reach the market and consumers through a large network that offer differentiated value considering users´ needs; these needs of distributors, including home improvement and construction are frequently evaluated by our team on-site. This is how ideas become material stores, and other specialized stores. With NGOs, we establish solutions, for which we consider materials from a sustainability direct relations, either through donations, 1:1 contributions or other approach, such as polyethylene and polypropylene, both of less collaboration models. On the other hand, we have a team of experts environmental impact than other alternative plastics. These materials who are responsible for advising Governments to identify needs and are prepared in company´s plants, and then distributed to the injection possible solutions. and rotomolding plants. In the case of large projects including Grupo Rotopla´s solutions, we In the case of solutions with greater diversity of components, we also provide training in situ to users, in order that they can take full have specialized assembly plants. In order to ensure our high-quality advantage of our products. standards, we maintain strict quality standards on parts produced by third parties. It is important to highlight the active role that we are playing to participate in international tenders, as providers of water solution and It is worth mentioning that together with the development of high in alliance with different entities. quality solutions, we pay attention to technologies and new solutions arising from the market that may complement our portfolio. An example is the line of water heaters, which we are selling from the incorporation of Talsar, a leading company in that industry in Argentina. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 21 In Grupo Rotoplas we are convinced of the potential of collaboration and we want to trigger the development of technologies that improve the population’s access to water and sanitation, contributing to the construction of a community focused on it. This is the purpose of Rotoplas Labs, our innovation platform for the future, in which disruptive ideas are conceived to develop new solutions that, based on the users’ experience and needs, will build innovative business models. Also, we are focusing our efforts to provide value-added services, as those provided by the newly acquired Sytesa, which in addition to the construction of wastewater treatment plants, is a specialist on their operation and maintenance. Based on our corporate strategy, we have worked in the excellence of our teams and the transformation provided by our solutions, which contribute to economic and social development. 22 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. The 4 pillars of Rotoplas Way, are reflected in our Manifesto, with The Rotoplas Way identifies us as confluent purposes in our Mission and Vision. A monitoring committee creators of a collaborative culture, evaluates progress weekly. This committee includes members from with people committed, innovative different areas of the company, which are responsible of suggesting and aligned to processes. It and follows up on initiatives to expand our work style across the Company. After its launch, this year we put emphasis on training and constitutes our collective internal communication in this regard, through initiatives such as the understanding of how to do things Mes del Estilo Rotoplas (Rotoplas Way Month), including activities in and facilitates interaction among all our workplaces. Our Rotoplas Way, increasingly present in our daily work life, stands out for the dynamism that is acquiring, evolving with multidisciplinary teams. the employees´ contributions. Strategy Culture Our business growth is based on three We are committed to improve the peoples’ pillars: strengthening capacities in our quality of life, through a culture of teams, positioning as leaders in innovation innovation and living our values. and excellence, and the enrichment of our solution portfolio, together with the existing needs regarding water supply and sanitation. Estilo Rotoplas Processes Corporate Governance With a continuous improvement approach, With honesty and respect, ethics is part of we are committed to a solid process our decisions; it is the common language of architecture, which contributes to reducing our way of doing things, together with our costs, increasing efficiency and permanent policies and procedures, according to high collaboration, reflected in a higher international standards. profitability and loyalty of our customers. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 23 With a historically recognized trademark as a synonym of quality brand, we have expanded our diversity of solutions, attached to an innovation with purpose, seeking from the beginning to transcend as an agent of change for a society that requires “more and better water”. Relation with stakeholders (102-13, 102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44) Grupo Rotoplas trajectory, performance and perspectives, are the and Government Relations, based on the company´s impacts, which result of a strong network of relationships and collaborative efforts we strengthened through consultations with key partners within the with our different stakeholders. We understand the actively and company. multidirectional interaction, with an approach to maximize the created value. Along with our web site and the publication of our integrated report, we also have channels, platforms and other tools to interact with each This collaboration was also present during the identification of our group of stakeholders. stakeholders. The diagnosis was made by teams of Investor Relations Stakeholders Communication channels Relevant topics Customers Distributors • Satisfaction survey • Quality of Products • CSC (customer service • Advertising and promotion of products center) Complaint means Government entities (by telephone and web • Access to water and sanitation site) • Users´ training on solutions, for a better acceptance End user • Quality of products and services Employees Part-time: professionals in • Organizational climate • Ethics and anti-corruption practices development and alumni survey • Training and career development opportunities • Corporate social network: • Safety and health in the work environment R-Connect • Processes and improvement initiatives Full time: workers, including union • Complaint means (by members telephone and web site, intranet) • Company´s quarterly results 24 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Stakeholders Communication channels Relevant topics Suppliers Raw materials and service • Annual assessment • Agility and efficiency regarding the company suppliers • External surveys • Ethics and anti-corruption practices • Complaint means (by telephone and web site) Board of Directors Board of Directors • Meetings (monthly or • Strategy, growth and consolidation plan and its internal bodies quarterly, as appropriate) • Innovation model Audit Committee • Risk assessment, audits and compliance Corporate Practices Committee • Compliance with guidelines provided for a public company Compensation Committee • Employees´ attraction, training and retention Sustainability Committee • Approaching and monitoring of sustainability initiatives Financial community Investors • Quarterly meetings • Economic performance • Telephone conferences • Operating results • Annual and quarterly • Organic and inorganic growth reports Banks incurred debt • Economic results • Risk management $ Rating agencies • Financial performance Authorities and Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) • Annual and quarterly • Economic results regulatory bodies and National Banking and reports (BMV and CNBV) • Risk management Securities Commission (CNBV); • Monthly tax statements (tax authorities) Tax authorities of each country • Compliance of the tax obligations Secretary of Labor and Social • Management of labor obligations and compliance Welfare status ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 25 Stakeholders Communication channels Relevant topics Community Non-governmental organizations • Forums in which Rotoplas As customers: participates • Quality of Products • Fan del agua • Users´ training on solutions, for a better digital platform acceptance www.fandelagua.com • Impacts of the solutions on beneficiaries • Social media (household economics, health, and education) • Collaboration schemes Universities • Collaboration schemes • Company´s innovation approach and investment thereon. General community • Access to water and sanitation, and impact of solutions • Practices for rational water use and impact Communication media • Business performance and evolution (including new solutions, acquisition of companies, collaborative efforts) • Impact of the solutions in the socio-economic development Chambers and associations • Collaboration schemes • Impact of solutions in the socio-economic development We also collaborate with sectoral associations, contributing to the analysis of the common challenges and proposing solutions. Associations in which Grupo Rotoplas is involved Confederación Patronal de la República Mexicana (COPARMEX) Consejo Consultivo del Agua (CCA) Associação Brasileira dos Fabricantes de Materiais para Saneamento (ASFAMAS) (Brasil) Instituto Trata Brasil (ITB) Cámara Guatemalteca de la Construcción (CGC) Aquafondo – Fondo de agua para Lima y Callao (Perú) Foro Argentino del Agua (FAdA) 26 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Sustainability model (102-13, 102-16, 102-18, 102-26, 102-43, 102-46, 102-47) In addition to incorporate sustainability into our goals, we have In Grupo Rotoplas we consider sustainability integrated this approach in our operating model, being a principle of as a crossed drive to our corporate strategy the Rotoplas Way. and our relation with stakeholders. Under the In order to focus our efforts on the most significant issues from our stakeholders´ perspective and from the Company’s strategy, this phrase “For people to have more and better year, we carried out a materiality analysis, through a 4-stage process: water”, we want to generate a positive impact identification, prioritization, validation and review, whose main activities are below. that will transcend our operations and will contribute to promote a more sustainable society, from the social, environmental and economic perspectives. Review and identification Grupo Rotoplas’ Approach • Analysis of corporate documents, including our Code of Ethics and Conduct and some major policies. • Interviews were made to prominent executives of the Company, who raised many topics. Our stakeholders´ overview • Analysis of the results obtained from the different interaction channels with our stakeholders, including ”Great Place to Work” survey and supplier satisfaction survey, along with the main information requirements by investors and the press appearances. • Also, we carried out an analysis of the main issues reflected by the industry, according to publications as Sustainability Topics for Sectors of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the annual analysis of RobecoSAM (Sustainability Yearbook) as well as the materiality provided by the Sustainability Accounting Standard Board (SASB). ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 27 After having created the list of potentially relevant topics, we proceeded with their prioritization and afterwards we determined the material issues. Though the process we considered both the company´s strategic overview and the stakeholders´ approach, drawn up by: Prioritization and validation Grupo Rotoplas’ Approach • Executive in-depth interviews. Our stakeholders´ overview • Direct consulting through interviews with strategic clients (including NGOs and Government entities) and a survey to employees. In addition, consultations were conducted to raise the overview of government customers and distributors through interviews with the teams in charge of the relations with them. As a result, we obtained the following material issues: Materiality Matrix 5.0 A Economic development B Operational efficiency Access to water C and sanitation Impact of Stakeholders A 4.5 B D Innovation Strategy, business model F E and trademark C F Employees’ development G G Employees’ attraction 4.0 and retention D H A Relationship with client Culture of water, I H Risk management I A J Quality J E 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 Influence on Company´s strategy 28 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. These topics served as the basis for our Sustainability Model, that we Four large focal points in which we prioritize our actions arise from defined during 2016 and which will be released in the following year. our understanding of value generation: Corporate Sustainability This Model is also based on the Corporate Strategy 2014-2019 and our Governance, Collaborative innovation with purpose, Driving understanding of the way in which Grupo Rotoplas creates value. With economic and social development, and Safeguarding water as a the support of external specialists, we obtained a flow originated from resource for the future. Each focal point comprises a series of lines of innovation that our team materializes through the different business action, which set the guidelines of our performance and the creation models that we are developing, our operations aligned to processes of the Model Implementation Plan, for the next 3 years which we are and the solutions that we make available to our customers and users. currently developing. Our new business models, highly linked to collaborative economy and It is worth mentioning that the Model seeks to show mainstreaming other disruptive trends, are based on work with third parties, through of operations and impacts of Grupo Rotoplas, and its implementation partnerships for the creation or strengthening of existing platforms, is responsibility of every single person who participates in this with a prominent role in our Rotoplas Labs initiative. company. It is also achieved through a close cooperation with our stakeholders, especially customers, users and partners in innovation. To guarantee a continuous innovation in our solutions, we evaluate The Sustainability Committee, approved the Model which is being customer’s and users´ needs, approaching to co-creation thanks to our communicated to the different teams. teams´ performance in the field and studies carried out. We contribute to address primary needs through the provision of water and sanitation, The Sustainability Committee of Grupo Rotoplas has played, since its for which, a close relation with the beneficiaries is a key factor. creation, an active role in the follow-up of environmental, social and corporate governance issues. It is multi-disciplinary composed by Our processes are the channels through which we articulate the power Strategy, Human Resources, Institutional and Government Relations, of innovation and the employees´ commitment; a working method that Legal, Investor Relations, Quality, Marketing and Innovation areas. It is closely associated with the Rotoplas Way and with an approach of is in charge of implementing, coordinating and monitoring different continuous improvement to guarantee efficiency and excellence. initiatives related to sustainability and reporting to the Board of Directors. Because of the innovation that we are implementing and accelerating, we are responsible for a series of impacts in the three sustainability aspects: economic, social and environmental, including water supply and sanitation, the promotion of water awareness in society and contribution to ensure the availability of water. In this last aspect, our contribution has increased from the integration of wastewater treatment solutions provided by Sytesa. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 29 Sustainability model D AN HA VE RE Focal point 1: Focal point 2: MO TO Corporate Sustainability Collaborative innovation Governance with purpose PE OP ER LE TT BE D D AN HA AN HA VE VE RE RE MO MO TO TO FO INNOVATION PE ER PE OP ER OP ER TT TT R LE LE BE BE AT FO INNOVATION FO ER ER INNOVATION R R AT AT W W W Strategy Culture Strategy Culture solutions models solutions team Strategy Culture models Corporate Processes Governance Corporate Processes Governance operations operations Alliance Customers Customers Alliance economic economic Protection of Access to Protection of Access to the hydric water and the hydric water and resource sanitation resource sanitation IMPACTS solutions models team environmental social environmental social Co Promotion of c e Co Promotion of ce rpo Water culture an rpo Water culture an rate ern rate ern Sustainability Gov Sustainability Gov Corporate Processes Governance Focal point 3: Focal point 4: operations Driving economic and Safeguarding water as a social development resource for the future Alliance Customers TE SY TE SY NG A MÁ NG MÁ A GE R R JO GE JO NT E ME NT ME E LA UA LA UA AG AG economic QUE INNOVATION QUE INNOVATION Protection of Access to Strategy Culture Strategy Culture the hydric water and resource sanitation models team solutions models team solutions Corporate Processes Corporate Processes Governance Governance IMPACTS operations operations Alliance Customers Customers Alliance economic economic Protection of Access to Protection of Access to the hydric water and the hydric water and resource sanitation resource sanitation environmental social IMPACTS IMPACTS environmental social environmental social Co ce Co Promotion of ce Co Promotion of ce rpo Water culture an rpo Water culture an Promotion of rate Sustainability Gov ern rate ern an Sustainability Gov rpo Water culture rate ern Sustainability Gov For more information, please visit our website. 30 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. In Grupo Rotoplas we also support important international initiatives Since its launch this year, we also participated in the Alianza por la in which we seek to contribute through our knowledge of the water Sostenibilidad (Alliance for Sustainability), a platform for business and sanitation sector, the impacts of water supply and the sustainable collaboration with the Mexican Government to jointly develop management of our operations. It is the case of the United Nations projects aimed to the fulfilment of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Global Compact, which we joined and are working in the implementation Development. of the 10 principles, which cover Human Rights aspects, Labor Matters, Environmental and Anti-corruption issues. In regards to the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) we are working in order to strengthen our contribution and to identify new win-win business opportunities that boost socioeconomic development3. Innovation (102-12, 201-1, 203-1) In Grupo Rotoplas we are characterized for being a company in constant growth, whose passion is to innovate and develop new technologies allowing to expand our portfolio and find new solutions to address the global challenges of water, while retaining a highquality approach and best guarantee to end users. 3 More information about Grupo Rotoplas contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) in specific section. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 31 Last year, after having created the Innovation Office, in charge of Agreements with universities and research centres the internal development of products and process as well as new relations with universities and research centers, in 2016, we focused Columbia Water Center Columbia University, (EE.UU.) on the wastewater treatment and water purification lines. We invested University of Utah, (EE.UU.) $77.7 million pesos, a 5.1% increase over the previous year for all our Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, (México) innovation projects. Centro de Investigaciones en Óptica Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología, (CONACyT, México) Our understanding of innovation goes far beyond its role as the company´s intellectual asset, we believe that it is the collective An outstanding part of our progresses during the year, is the launch strength of a community in which we want to be part and facilitators of Rotoplas Labs, a platform with which we are looking to create for its development. an innovation community, providing capacities and technologies to communities that need water solutions. The emphasis on creating We identify innovative technologies, integrating them to our platform projects through Rotoplas Labs also extends to our portfolio, an in order that they can reach their full potential and contribute to supply example is our new offer of water purifiers through monthly lease more and better water to all. In 2016, we invested in the Advanced schemes, as a solution for homes and workplaces. It is a business model Innovation Center of Chile (AIC), a leading research center with whom aligned with the new trends of the economy, that are moving towards we shared the innovation with propose approach. The resources offering services rather than products; it also helps to reduce the use of provided are intended to promote the development of Plasma Water plastic bottles and provides quality water, completely safe for human Sanitation System (PWSS) technology, created and patented by AIC, consumption. With all this, we contribute to return the citizens the right which allows to purify water contaminated by organic matter in a 100%. to use water. Already recognized internationally, PWSS is being applied in 13 pilot projects in communities in Chile and has a huge potential impact on The nature of Rotoplas Labs offers a unique opportunity for exponential global public health. growth, which could allow to decrease the gap between people with access to water and sanitation and people without them. In addition to our participation at AIC, we executed agreements with different universities and research centers, to contribute to the development of technologies and water and sanitation solutions. We hope to add new agreements soon, which we are working with institutions in Mexico and United States, to our current initiatives. 32 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Rotoplas. Involvement in development VALUE TRANSFER ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 33 Quality (102-9, 102-43, 203-2, 204-1, 301-2, 416-1, 417-1) Grupo Rotoplas is committed with the quality of its products and services, in order to achieve full customer´s and user´s satisfaction. We work according to our Quality Policy, providing a portfolio of best guarantee which also complies with several standards and certifications of the countries in which we operate. Our plants have quality management systems designed in accordance The Rotoplas trademark is historically known because of its quality with ISO 9001 standard, those located in Mexico, Guatemala, and and trustworthiness, result of our continuous efforts. We truly inform Peru are certified; however, our plants in Argentina and Brazil operate product specifications to our customers in order that they can make according to ISO 9001 standard requirements. In addition, our products their best decision. In addition, we have guidelines in regarding meet certain standards, considering also particular requirements that marketing, ensuring that messages are clear and relevant to the needs customers may have, following the proper tests and specifications. of the segment to which they are addressed. For the monitoring of compliance with our policies and guidelines, The Company cares about the customers´ and users´ satisfaction of as well as of the requirements of the rules and standards applied to our solutions, which we monitor twice a year via survey. Our Customer management and products, we carried out internal audits coordinated Assistance Center (CAC) is responsible for its application in order by the Quality Department, as well as other external audits by thirdto monitor satisfaction of the products or services provided, their parties. recommendation and the repurchase probability. The satisfaction of our products is above 83% in all markets in which we operate, and the recommendation exceeds 95%. CUSTOMERS´ SATISFACTION – 20164 98.5% OF RECOMMENDATION IN MEXICO Mexico 93.5% Argentina 89.5% Brazil 87.5% Central America 85.0% Peru 83.5% 96.0% OF RECOMMENDATION IN BRAZIL 4 Customer´s satisfaction is assessed on a scale of 1 to 10, in which 1 is the minimum score and 10 the highest. The percentage of satisfied customers ranges from 7 to 10 for both semesters of 2016. 34 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. The emphasis on quality that we put into our products is extended In 2016, we assigned $3,371.9 million pesos to suppliers, a 6.5% less than also to our supply chain, as it is related with the characteristics of raw the previous year, due to the variation in volumes and composition of materials that we use. We mainly use resins, but also other materials on our portfolio sales, which conditioned manufacturing through demand a smaller scale. In the case of some solutions we are also incorporating planning and inventory management. already-made components, in which there is a strict quality control. This evaluation and monitoring is also present in the provision of 51% of the supply expenditure was focused on the following main services, when we involve third parties, for example, in the installation categories of materials and services. and/or maintenance of our solutions. Expense in main suppliers 2016 Materials 66.9% Services 26.7% Equipment 3.9% Other 2.5% ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 35 We are committed to local supply, which is completed with a business We work closely with our suppliers to promote innovation that model that encourages manufacturing near target markets, in order to characterizes our solutions, both in terms of materials and components. reduce the transportation due to the volume occupied by many of our We therefore contribute to their development through commercial solutions. 68.7% of expenditure was for local suppliers, aligned with relations and innovations they incorporate in their production. 2015. In addition, we develop training programs particularly for suppliers In addition to our emphasis on quality, we are looking to work with that provide installation and maintenance services. It is the case of our alternative materials with lower impact on the environment. In Plumbers’ program that trains and certificates them in the installation this regard, it is worth mentioning that most of the resins used are of hydraulic solutions, supporting professionalization and gender polyethylene and polypropylene, less polluting than other plastics in equity in the sector. We also have the Promoting a Profession initiative their manufacturing process. In the case of polyethylene terephthalate that trains college students and students from technical careers in the (PET) used in biodigesters, it is 100% recycled. installation, management and operation of our solutions. We reuse the plastic waste from our rotomolding processes, which is incorporated back into the process guaranteeing the safety and quality of the final product; these plastics constitute 30% of the material of the intermediate layer of the three-layer storage tanks. 36 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Water culture (102-12) Recognized since 2010 by the United Nations as a human right, access reach, the “Água cuido porque amo” (I care for water because love it) to drinking water and sanitation should also be continuous and and “Fan del agua”5 (Water Fan) campaigns, turned into permanent sufficient for personal and domestic use, according to provisions of platforms for the community, whose content is reinforced and have the multilateral organization. The World Health Organization (WHO) a life of their own through all those who participate in them. On the estimates that between 50 and 100 liters of water per person per day other hand, this year we launched the initiative “La canción más are necessary to cover basic needs and prevent major health threats. larga” (The longest song) in Mexico, with the purpose of saving water In Latin America, we face a complex hydrological reality due to the during shower time, and we deliver this water volume to a vulnerable degradation and over-exploitation of water sources and the increasing community. The success of participants allowed the donation of 30,000 incidence of climate change effects, which makes the supply of quality liters of water to the Miravalle community, in Mexico City, accompanied water, in sufficient amounts, a challenge. by sessions and workshops on how to use water in a responsible way. On the occasion of the World Water Day, in which we take part every There is also little valuing of water as a public resource, a responsible year in 2016, we created the “Movimiento In” (In movement) in Mexico, use and no preservation of its quality, which drives the need for a which is an initiative that takes action around 3 topics regarding the collective culture in this regard, in which appropriate governmental importance of water and its rational use: development and screening of institutions, the private sector and the civil society are involved. In a documentary, a survey to citizens about their habits of consumption, Grupo Rotoplas we pursue to promote different awareness activities, production and delivery of training materials. acknowledging our responsibility to do so and according to the transformation approach which we also show in our products and services. Due to our strong presence in Mexico and Brazil, these countries have been benefited with the development of initiatives to raise awareness 5 www.fandelagua.com www.acqualimp.com/agua-cuido-porque-amo/ about responsible use of water. For their success and incredible ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 37 Being aware that the change in culture comes with the new generations, we established an alliance with the Papalote Museo del Niño (Children’s Museum) in Mexico City, to develop an interactive exhibition of the water cycle, which will invite visitors to purify, deliver, store and reuse water, and will continue to be available in 2017. We also worked with elementary school students in order to raise awareness about the use of water through the “Cuidado del Agua” (Water Care) program as well as in Universities, giving conferences about the global water situation, water awareness and new technologies. In this regard, we gave continuity to the MER (Meyer-Edify-Rotoplas) contest, in which future generations of architects of the UNAM must reflect and propose their projects on topics that promote innovation in terms of water and sustainable housing. We also took part of collective initiatives that create a new water culture, as the Water advisory council6, in which we chair the Committee on Fan del agua (Water fan) Culture and Sustainable Water Use. +50,000 VISITS PER YEAR COMMUNITY OF FOLLOWERS ON FACEBOOK AND TWITTER. We share tips and educational content for water care, and promote the involvement of users by encouraging them to calculate their water footprint and start saving it. 6 An NGO that pursues to create bounds between the spheres of public administrations, enterprises and other organizations, and promote best practices in the management and use of water. 38 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Operational efficiency (102-9, 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 303-1, 303-3, 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-5, 306-2) In Grupo Rotoplas we perform in accordance with processes, through a We pursue to be efficient in the use of resources, including energy, working methodology that starts from their identification and mapping, as well as to reduce emissions and waste generation, adopting reuse to their subsequently promotion to be adopted by the employees. schemes through the different stages. Regarding production, we Their implementation facilitates coordination in the development of monitor our different plants to identify good practices and replicate activities, greater operational efficiency and reducing costs, looking them all. for a continuous improvement. It is part of the Rotoplas Way, which also constitutes the way in which we understand how to implement the It is worth mentioning that we have an environmental management organizational culture. systems according to ISO 14001 in four of our plants in Mexico and Peru7, although the others operate according to the standard´s guidelines. With this approach, the operational flow to produce the products in We plan to continue certifying the other plants until we complete all our portfolio proceeds, from the selection and supply of raw materials, our operation sites in the coming years. to the commercialization of the resulting solution. Regarding our energy consumption, it is mainly concentrated in the The proper demand planning is essential; the sale estimates for the extrusion and milling, injection and rotomolding processes. We require following months and our capabilities in terms of machinery and input electricity, as well as liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and natural gas, are considered. The next step is the preparation of a production plan, in looking for a more efficient consumption, for its lower emissions related order to assign the activities between the different plants and set terms to Greenhouse Gases (GHG). and timings. As the products are being released, their distribution is being coordinated, according to the customers’ requirements and onhand inventory, coordinating their transport by third parties. Energy consumption 2016Main processes Process Source Consumption (kWh) Extrusion and milling Electricity 32,200,953 Injection Rotomolding Natural gas 113,228,799 LPG Electricity 7 We have environmental management systems certified according to ISO 14001 in our plants in Lerma, State of Mexico, León, Guanajuato, and Lima (Peru). ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 39 86% We are working on the implementation of measures that will allow us to have a more efficient energy consumption, especially in the redesign of gas-burner systems for our rotomolding machines, which allow us a reduction of 5% in energy demand and 12% in the generation of OF TOTAL ELECTRICITY USED Greenhouse Gases (GHGs). With all this, the energy intensity in the FOR PRODUCTION COMES FROM RENEWABLE WIND ENERGY. manufacturing processes was of 2,159 kWh per ton of processed plastic material8. In addition, we are committed to the use of renewable GHGs emissions related to the Company’s operations are mainly due resources and our energy supply comes from wind energy for extrusion, to the energy we need. Whereas the consumption of electricity, natural milling and injection processes, which represents the 86.0% of total gas and LPG, the figure is 36,371 tons of CO2e, that in terms of intensity electricity used for production9. compared to production is 0.52 tons of CO2e per ton of processed plastic material. Energy consumption 2016 Main processes GHGs Emissions 201610 (tons of CO2e) Natural gas 61.2% Consumption of fuels (natural gas and LPG) 21,954 (Scope 1) Electricity 24.9% Electricity consumption (Scope 2) 14,417 LPG 14.0% Energy consumption 2016 Main processes Source Annual Consumption (kWh) Electricity 37,447,647 Natural gas 92,142,125 LPG 21,086,673 8 Contemplate the energy consumption of extrusion and milling, injection and rotomolding processes. 9 Total of electricity consumption related to more demanding processes: extrusion and milling, injection and rotomolding processes. 10 Contemplate only the energy consumption of extrusion and milling, injection and rotomolding processes. 40 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Waste 2016 Category Quantity (kg) Hazardous 48,697 Hazardous and of special handling 147,000 Urban solid 251,000 Non-hazardous 411,127 We separate the waste in our plants, complying with their storage conditions, all according to our internal management procedures of hazardous chemical substances, segregation, and other which constitute the environmental management system. Subsequently, they are delivered to companies authorized to transport and treat them. Thus, hazardous wastes are deposited in regulated safe landfills. We seek for reutilization opportunities for non-hazardous wastes by giving them to companies who are responsible for recycling. We are a company focused on water, in the provision of solutions to facilitate its access and quality. Although we don’t have highly water In addition, we work with our transport suppliers for greater efficiency demanding processes, we work to optimize our use, as part of the in the process, especially in the redesign of the cages to be able to commitment of a culture of rational use of water. In 2016, we used increase the number of products in each transport unit and, thus, 75,538,000 liters, of which we then reuse the 26.7%. In order to increase reduce the GHG emissions related to the distribution of our solutions. this percentage, we worked during the year in the development of a recirculation system for the rotomolding process that allows us to We apply our approach on operational efficiency also to the use of reuse the remaining water (not evaporated) after the cooling phase of materials and waste generation. We reuse plastics resulting in obsoletes the product in the mold. This system will start to operate in some of and scraps from the manufacturing processes. However, we generate our plants in 2017. another series of waste, as non-hazardous waste. WE REUSE THE 26.7% OF THE WATER FROM OUR PRODUCTION PROCESS. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 41 Rotoplas. Inclusion of talent OUR TEAM 42 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Rotoplas Team Description of employee workforce (102-8, 102-36, 102-37, 102-41, 201-3, 401-1, 401-2, 403-2, 405-1) We added new forces during the year, with the incorporation of Sytesa Grupo Rotoplas is committed to talent and to in Mexico, Talsar in Argentina and AIC in Chile. Their incorporation promote a pleasant environment for operation, strengthens our commitment to provide innovative solutions for water supply and sanitation. Thus, our employee workforce reached 2,829, promoting the empowerment of our teams and 24.5% more than the previous year. creating spaces to enable communication. Employee workforce in 2016 GRUPO ROTOPLAS SYTESA TALSAR AIC 2,088 + 569 + 153 + 19 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 43 Along with job creation, we promoted stability through personal and professional development opportunities. In this regard, 71.8% of our employees have permanent contracts and only 0.7% of the cases have part-time jobs. Likewise, we firmly believe in the value of diversity, enabling equal opportunities for women in industrial activities where they have traditionally been less present. Currently, they represent 25.8% of the workforce, being the 17.2% in executive positions. We work for their progressive incorporation in management positions, related to generational replacement that will occur gradually. With a workforce consisting of different generations, young people under 30 years old represent the 28.2% of the total and 8.1% of the middle manager providing new performance approaches to the experience of our most veteran employees. On the other hand, our regional presence allows us to create employment opportunities in the different countries in which we operate, especially in those where we have production plants. We respect the right of association of our employees, the 52.1% of the workforce is unionized and there are nine organizations that represent them, considering all countries in which we operate. Labor demographics Grupo Rotoplas11 2016 N° of employees 2,241 % of permanent contracts 71.8% % of women 25.8% 11 Labor demographics data displayed including employees into different variables, correspond to Grupo Rotoplas´s and Talsar´s operations, excluding Sytesa´s and AIC´s operations, which are included into the next year’s report. 44 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Employees by country 2015 2016 Mexico 1,684 1,643 Brazil 214 94 Argentina 106 253 Central America 102 89 Peru 117 116 US 49 46 Employees by sex and age group 2016 Men Women Total Under 30 years old 477 154 631 Between 30 and 50 years old 1,041 383 1,424 Over 50 years old 144 42 186 Total 1,662 579 2,241 Employees by professional category, sex and age group 2016 Professional category N° employees (%) Women (%) Under (%)Between (%) Over 30 years old 30 and 50 years old 50 years old Executives 58 17.2% 0.0% 81.0% 19.0% Middle managers 285 22.1% 8.1% 82.1% 9.8% Individual contributor 755 26.8% 26.9% 64.2% 8.9% Operational staff 1,143 26.6% 35.4% 57.6% 7.0% Total 2,241 25.8% 28.2% 65.5% 8.3% ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 45 In 2016, we continued strengthening our strategy for the attraction and Likewise, we are committed to safety, so we have management systems retention of talent, by reinforcing internal communications, leadership, in our plants according to OHSAS 18001 standard, five of them already training, and positioning of Grupo Rotoplas as an attractive company certified hoping to include the others13. We are implementing a strategy for performance and professional growth. Also, we gave continuity to with the goal of zero accidents and incidents, with an emphasis on the Sustainable Successions initiative, with which we identify existing prevention. To do this, we train our employees, as well as we carry strategic talent inside the team and promote the development and out awareness raising campaigns. In addition, we include measures exchange of knowledge, of the future leaders of the company. to reduce the risks in the use of machinery and monitor processes. These efforts allowed us to achieve promising results, with a decrease The difficult economic environment of the region, including different of 23.9% in the number of minor injuries compared to the previous year countries in which we operate, allowed us to have a 36.4% less and of 23.0% in terms of the number of days lost for that reason. hiring than the previous year, although we will continue generating opportunities. In this regard, we hired 803 employees form which 179 have permanent contracts, during the year. It is worth mentioning Indicators of health and safety that we increased 8.9% of young talent recruitment (under 30 years old) and 19% of women recruitment. In addition, we integrated the 2015 2016 workforces of Talsar, Sytesa and AIC. N° of minor injuries 92 70 N° of occupational illnesses 0 6 The workforce rotation was 9.9%, showing an increase of 2.2 percentage points from 201512, which encourages us to continue implementing N° of casualties 0 0 initiatives to retain our employees. N° of days lost due to injury 1,298 999 Accident rate14 6.69 6.72 In order to contribute to the well-being of our employees, we offer more benefits than the mandatory obligations of each country in which we operate, and which include: life insurance, savings fund, annual bonus, vacation bonus and extended parental leave. We determine our workforce´s compensations based on the rate, considering the situation of the sector, in order to be competitive. It is worth mentioning that the 55.8% of our employees has a variable portion in their compensation, subject to monthly goals. This practice applies to areas related to commercial activities and strategic decision-making (quality, logistics, administration and finance, and new business). 12 We determined the rotation as: Voluntary layoffs and indefinite contract / turnover rate in the year. 13 Plants of Lerma, State of Mexico, León, Guanajuato, and Lima (Peru) are already OHSAS 18001 certified. 14 Accident index = (total disability accidents reported in the year / average number of employees in the year) X 100. 46 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. The internal communication is a key factor for the company´s success, Every two years, we apply the Great Place to Work (GPTW) survey to by its effect in the work environment and our employees´ satisfaction. know the status of the work environment, our employees´ overview We make them feel part of a team, committed to common objectives and meet their expectations and concerns. Its scope has been and that they collaborate in the Company´s performance, according to progressively extended, and this year we participated in 15 working the Rotoplas Way. We work to promote an environment that facilitates centers in Mexico, Central America, Peru, Argentina and Brazil15. With the exchange of ideas with a fluid communication in the different a satisfaction of 66% in the results of this year, we had an increase of teams and departments through platforms such as our business social 7 percentage points regarding 2014. It is significant to note the pride network R-Conecta. that our employees feel of their work, as well as of the teams in which they participate and of being part of Grupo Rotoplas. On the other hand, we have opportunities to improve the way we communicate equity principles, which are not appreciated in all their dimensions. The company considers the work environment measurement as an important issue, so we will apply the survey each year starting from 2017. 15 The GPTW survey was implemented in 11 plants in Mexico, as head quarters in Mexico City, Lerma and León (Customer Service). ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 47 Training and development (102-35, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3) Internal talent is one of our greatest strengths, a key to generate innovative solutions according to our customers´ and users’ needs, as well as their attention and the efficient performance of processes. We are committed to training and providing an environment of personal and professional development for our employees, according to the position and the different knowledges and skills required. We have defined a system of abilities promoted among the workforce, We are working to strengthen the training and career development required to accomplish our corporate strategy. On the one hand, there programs, with additions that we presented to our employees during are enabling capabilities as empowerment and strategy adherence, the Development Month, in which we communicate about the training among others. On the other hand, we have our differentiating strategy, learning models, as well as the key processes for the talent capabilities, which contribute to make the company stand out in the management, performance and skills, during a period of 5 weeks. market, for example, the innovation in our solutions to increase the In addition, with the launch of our Learning Solutions platform, we value received by our customers. provided access to different training materials. The Rotoplas Way, which constitutes our modus operandi, has undergone specific training. In this regard, we gave continuity to the Strategic Adherence Initiative, started in 2015, and we launched the Rotoplas Way Month16. 16 More information regarding Rotoplas’ Way in the chapter “Creation of value”. 48 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. All our employees receive training on common matters such as the Rotoplas Way, the Code of In 2016, we provided a total of 35,015.5 hours Ethics and management through Balanced Scorecard. Additionally, we implemented specific of both face-to-face and online training, which programs by position, such as leadership for middle and upper managers, and the Sales Academy for the staff in charge of the commercialization of our solutions. represents a total of 15.6 average hours of training per employee. Training by professional category 2016 Total hours of Average hours training of training per employee Administrative Executives 253.1 4.4 staff Middle managers 5,292.2 18.6 Individual contributors 14,559.2 19.3 Operational staff 14,911.1 13.0 Total 35,015.5 15.6 Together with the commitment to our employees´ development, we monitored their performance with an annual assessment, considered for internal promotions. It is an automated process in our SAP Success Factors platform, which consists in three stages: to set objectives, mid-year review and the final evaluation. For all administrative employees, the assessment is according to the achivements of the company´s and employees´ objectives which are set in the Individual Development Plans (IDP´s); also management objectives for executives and middle managers are set in every department, which determine their variable compensation. Of the total administrative staff, 89.8% was assessed during 2016, which represents all employees required to be assessed due to their seniority, type of contract and duty conditions. On the other hand, in the case of the operational staff, assessment variables are considered in the collective agreement, and they include productivity and adherence to safety rules, among others, applied to all employees with these functions. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 49 Rotoplas. Integrity & leadership CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 50 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Corporate governance Structure (102-5, 102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-27, 102-28, 102-33, 102-35, 102-36, 102-37, 405-1) In Grupo Rotoplas we are committed to generate value for our stakeholders according to our values and to the Rotoplas Way. On this basis, we follow the highest standards of corporate governance, strengthening due diligence in the decision-making process. All Grupo Rotoplas´ capital stock are listed in the Mexican Stock The directors are appointed in the Assembly upon shareholders´ Exchange (BMV), and 35.8% of them is distributed among a group of proposal, and their appointment is renewable yearly. They must prove major shareholders. The share capitalization value in the year was of their experience, at the moment of being proposed, as well as they $12,948 million Mexican pesos. have the competencies and abilities required to comply with their responsibilities and fiduciary duties. As of the date of this report, the The General Shareholders’ Assembly is responsible for appointing Board is chaired by Mr. Carlos Rojas Mota Velasco, appointed by the members of the Board of Directors, upon shareholders´ proposal; the members, who is co-founder of the Company and CEO. Mr. Carlos financial statements and accounts of the company are also approved Rojas as well as the other members, have extensive knowledge of the every year therein. company and of the industry sector. The Directors have an average seniority of 9 years in office. The Board of Directors consists of 15 members, 7 of which are independent members, representing 47% of members which means Grupo Rotoplas makes sure that all directors comply with their loyalty, 22 percentage points over the requirements of the Securities Market diligence and informed judgment duties, through the implementation Act17. of an induction and update process on the Company´s internal policies, the Code of Ethics and Conduct, as well as the description of their main duties and responsibilities. Similarly, they are periodically surveyed to evaluate efficiency of the meetings in which they participate and the level of information provided, as well as to consider possible improvement opportunities. 17 The Securities Market Act provides that at least 25% of members that constitute the Company´s Board of Directors must be independent individuals. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 51 Grupo Rotoplas has three committees that assist the Board of Directors in the performance LIST OF BOARD MEMBERS LINK of its duties: Committee Duties Meetings of the Board of Directors are quarterly. However, their duties Audit • To inform the Board of Directors about the irregularities found are defined in Grupo Rotoplas´ bylaws including: (i) to establish in the audit process, to monitor the employees´ activities, as the Company´s strategy, (ii) to monitor the management of the well as the independent auditors´ work; to analyze the opinion, executive team and results, (iii) to approve internal control and audit comments, reports or statements prepared and signed by the independent auditor as well as audit reports prepared by guidelines, (iv) to appoint the CEO and his/her compensation and (v) company´s accountants. to approve compensation policies of Directors. Some of the duties are jointly performed under prior review and approval of the appropriate • To inform the Board of Directors the status of the internal control system and any irregularity. Committee, pursuant to bylaws. • To monitor transactions with related parties, The Board of Directors has also the authority to convene The General • To monitor the board members´ activities. Shareholders’ Assembly, overseeing the implementation of resolutions; Corporate • To provide collegiate opinions to the Board of Directors regarding it also has the obligation to review the CEO’s annual report, gives its Practices administrative practices and actions. opinion thereof and, subsequently, submit it for approval at the Annual • To request and obtain opinions of independent experts. General Shareholders’ Assembly. • To provide assistance to the Board in the preparation of annual reports. Compensations • To support the Board of Directors in the review of organizational structures of the Company and its affiliates for appropriate compliance with the company´s vision and strategy, including compensation guidelines. • To review the corporate values established in the institutional philosophy and ethics in relations between all employees, the company´s beliefs and values as a guideline. • To propose actions to improve the work environment and to lead organizational development processes. • To propose fixed compensation and benefits of Board members and Director, as well as job titles and salary policies to the Board of Directors. • To propose and monitor performance evaluation systems. • To recommend training and development programs. 52 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. In order to have an excellent operation, Grupo Rotoplas has a management team comprised of four Vice-Presidencies and ten FLOW CHART OF DIRECTORS LINK Directions, which are led by people with the highest standards of honesty, technical quality and professional experience in their subject, being responsible for carrying out the daily operations. Their Directors participate monthly in the Strategic Review Meeting (SRM), compensation includes, in addition to the fixed portion, an Executive in which strategic issues of the company are followed-up. The objective Stock Option Plan and an Allocation Plan of Unit Reference Value is to promote team work and decision making based on corporate (URV). responsibility, transparency and accountability principles. In addition to the SRM, the follow up of all strategic projects are weekly reviewed in the Project Management Office (PMO) meetings. Ethics (102-16, 102-17, 102-25, 102-26, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 406-1, 412-2, 415-1) We have a Code of Ethics and Conduct, which was approved by the In Grupo Rotoplas we promote the Board of Directors; such Code is reviewed and updated annually, and performance and execution of tasks according includes the general rules of conduct and specific community rules for relations among employees and with other stakeholders. Compliance to our values, which include integrity shown with the Code of Ethics and Conduct is mandatory for employees, directors and shareholders of Grupo Rotoplas and its subsidiaries. as honesty, justice, and ethics, among others, when operating. Prohibitions for the execution of acts involving any form of corrupt practices, including extortion and bribery, as well as conflicts of interest requirements are the most important topics specified in our Code of Ethics and Conduct, among others. It is significant to note that the company does not perform political contributions. When joining Grupo Rotoplas, we give the Code of Ethics and Conduct to our new employees and they are trained to comply with it and they commit to implement it and respect it. The document is available on our internal network R-Conecta, as well as on our website for the rest of our stakeholders. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 53 Our Code of Ethics and Conduct is to be implemented, is the essential instrument for the daily performance. Periodically, we perform campaigns to remind featured contents of the We offer our employees the Confía Rotoplas (Trust Rotoplas) service, Code of Ethics and Conduct; we also have online training in this regard which includes a telephone line and a specific website to report any and implement talks in our plants. During 2016, 2,180 employees spent breaches of the Code of Ethics and Conduct and the company’s 1 hour in these trainings. values. The complaints are submitted anonymously, the system is managed externally, and by a third party and all complaints received We also developed specific training in terms of corruption prevention are submitted to the Ethics and Conduct Committee. It is responsible for executives, middle managers and employees of our administrative for establishing appropriate measures, including penalties, if any, as and support teams, with a participation of 64.0%. well as to inform the Board of Directors. The Code of Ethics and Conduct represents our commitment to equal Compliance with the Code of Ethics and Conduct is evaluated in opportunities and fair treatment principles, which are also included in internal audit processes, in addition to monitoring carried out by the the talent attraction policy and that we promote among our employees. Ethics and Conduct Committee. All this, together with the proactive In this regard, it is worth noting the absence of discrimination cases in diffusion of our values and code of conduct, and the employees´ 2016. commitment, results in the company´s performance according to these guidelines. As an example of the foregoing, it should be We believe in the power of acting with integrity and we put special noted that, in 2016, we detected two cases of conflicts of interest attention in human rights, including non-discrimination. among Company´s employees and suppliers, which resulted in the implementation of disciplinary measures, including one employee dismissal and a contract recession with one supplier. 54 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Risk management (102-11, 102-15, 102-29, 102-30, 102-31, 206-1, 307-1, 416-2, 417-2, 417-3, 419-1) Our performance considers a proactive risk management, under a precaution approach, in order to be prepared before those internal and external circumstances that could cause situations thereon. We have a risk map that we regularly update and it is the basis on which we implement measures to maintain or mitigate them, which are monitored by our internal control system. Internal audit processes are complemented with third-party assessments. The Audit Committee analyzes the results of the different evaluations and reports to the Board of Directors quarterly. The following are our main risks: Category Risk Detail Market Increase in the price of raw materials. • The main raw materials that we use are derived from oil. The prices fluctuate according to market conditions, especially the prices of these materials. Changes in income and consumers´ • We are exposed to customers’ income, especially Government entities, preferences. due to the economic conditions of each country. • In a changing environment, consumers can consider their reliance to the brand affected and modify their preferences for one or another type of solution, especially facing a global competition. Macroeconomic conditions affecting • The demand for our solutions in sectors like construction, or agriculture, sectors constituting market. is heavily influenced by their conditions as well as short and mediumterm perspectives. Decrease in the return on investment • The business of water solutions requires a significant investment in the for the increase and improvement of design and construction of plants near sale and distribution points. production capacity, by changes in the • This increases exposure to local sales and, therefore, to the economic economic environment. conditions of the country in which it is operating, making compensation difficult through the sale of such production in other markets showing better trends. Difficulties for entry and successful • We continuously analyze and explore the possibility of expanding our expansion of operations into new operations into new markets. Although decision-making in this regard markets. is supported by business plans as a result of an in-depth analysis, there are factors, specific to each market, that are beyond our control. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 55 Category Risk Detail Regulatory Affecting the limits of foreign trade • There is the possibility that the countries where we obtain raw framework operations. materials, those in which we operate plants and the recipients of our solutions, implement disruptive measures in relation to import and export. Unanticipated costs to comply with • We are subject to different environmental, labor and security laws environmental, labor and safety laws. and regulations, which can be modified and provide new conditions, which compliance generates us additional costs, as well as those that would arise from penalties for breaches if these amendments are not observed. Operational Operations affected by extreme weather • Extreme weather events and/or related natural disasters could difficult framework conditions and/or natural disasters. our operations, damage infrastructure or adversely affect production plants and distribution centers. Stoppage and temporary closure of • Substantial interruption in production plants, supply chain, distribution plants and/or distribution centers. centers or distribution network for reasons beyond our control. Inability to develop products and • Our trademark´s strength is due to the quality of the solutions, as well solutions of high quality and innovation. as the ability to meet the consumers´ needs. • Innovation is an essential part of the Company, it allows the diversification of our portfolio and the development of new business models. High rotation of workforce, as well as • Employees participate and develop the Company´s know-how, as well the rotation and talent attraction for as we invest in their training. In addition, there are certain strategic certain key positions. positions by technical expertise and/or executive responsibility involved. Financial Inability to effectively manage the • To effectively manage the business and Company´s growth it is framework Company´s growth. required to continue improving processes, controls, systems and operational, financial and administrative procedures. • In order to achieve it, it is essential to make own resources available, as well as having possible access to third parties funding in appropriate conditions. Grupo Rotoplas operates according to its values, and pursuant the law and our internal guidelines in terms of ethics, compliance with procedures and rules provided for the different operation processes, with constant monitoring and evaluation by audits. However, there is a potential risk related to Company´s factors or external factors, considering the scope of our operations throughout the continent. All the foregoing resulted in 33 monetary penalties in the year, with a total value of $742,182 pesos, with 6 non-monetary penalties and 56 arbitration processes initiated, without specific causes. 56 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Rotoplas. Inspiration for progress FUTURE PERSPECTIVE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 57 Future perspective (102-15) Grupo Rotoplas bets on innovation as its differentiator, providing appropriate solutions for water supply and sanitation, contributing to social development. In a context of economic slowdown in Latin America, the need for identification of opportunities for which our solutions can improve the this kind of solutions is fostered by the population growth and the population´s quality of life. increasing impact of climate change, which compromise water security as extreme phenomena of drought and rainfall intensify. Being aware of the need to preserve water resources, we are focusing also on solutions to reuse and recycle water after its use. The We are diversifying our portfolio, with individual and integrated acquisition of Sytesa will permit us to fully participate in the water cycle solutions also implementing the provision of value-added services and contribute to sustainability in terms of the availability of water in as installation and maintenance. In this regard, from being a company the environment. entirely focused on products, we are becoming a service company, adapting to new consumption habits. Along with innovation in products Being a solid team, we can face future challenges. With the wealth of and processes, we are innovating through the development of new the diversity in the countries in which we operate and new companies business models, such as the delivery of decentralized water services, that we are incorporating, we work towards operational efficiency, where the user pays a monthly lease that includes the equipment and collaboration and living the Rotoplas Way. its maintenance, without an initial investment to acquire the solution. Convinced of the collaboration potential, we work to detonate the development of new technologies in Rotoplas Labs, our innovation platform. Together with research centers, universities and startups, we create a community of water and sanitation, by joining efforts. In addition, we are incorporating disruptive technologies, which we believe would shape the future already from the present, as the Plasma Water Sanitation System (PWSS) from the AIC, to scale and develop them to a commercial level. We also work with clients in the 58 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (102-12) We are committed to sustainability in a strategic way, as a feature of our portfolio and operation, given the contribution to the socio-economic development provided by our solutions and operational efficiency with which we work to reduce our negative impact, for example, on environmental matters. Through our innovation approach, we pursue to develop win-win solutions that contribute to improve access to water and sanitation, the quality of the available resource and its reintegration to the environment after its use. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 59 In order to determine our sustainability model, we consider the major Water is the essence of our company, access, use, and availability are international initiatives that relate to the impacts and risks of our the purpose of our solutions and services. Facing the negative impact operations. As part of this, we contribute to development through on populations’ development due to water shortage, its poor quality our solutions portfolio, as well as by aligning our operations to the and sanitation deficiencies, a sixth SDG specific to water and sanitation 2030 Agenda approved by the United Nations. It is a framework was stated, which we are contributing as part of our business model that promotes economic growth, social inclusion and environment and the new opportunities we are working in. Our commitment to protection, through the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). innovation also allows us to contribute to the achievement of the ninth Collaboration between public administrations, companies and civil SDG, including the construction of resilient infrastructure to climate society is required for its achievement. change effects. In an indirect way, consequently, and considering the need of working together with third parties, we contribute to the health and welfare, education, and gender equality SDGs. 60 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Below, we show how our operations, solutions and services contribute to the achievement of these SDGs and their respective goals. SDG Description of SDG Contribution Ensure access to water and sanitation We develop Rainwater harvesting, storage, purification and treatment solutions, for all including Drinking water fountains in schools and Outdoor sustainable bathroom. We contribute to improve the conditions of vulnerable communities through government programs which include our solutions. Also, our pilot programs and initiatives with NGOs, under schemes of social investment where we provide our solutions. Furthermore, we organize different initiatives in order to promote a responsible use of water, as our World Water Day campaign and the digital platform: Fan del Agua. Build resilient infrastructure, promote Innovation is a permanent force in Grupo Rotoplas, causing the development of sustainable industrialization and foster new solutions, process improvement and approaching of new business models. innovation. We intend it to be collaborative, creating partnerships to provide water solutions, by an approach that connects “needs with appropriate water solutions”. We support the creation of an innovation ecosystem around water, such as our participation in the AIC Research Center in Chile, for the development of pioneering technologies. In addition, needs expressed by users are considered for our designs, in order to provide appropriate solutions. On the other hand, our solutions contribute to water security before extreme events caused by climate change, contributing to the resilience of communities and industries. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 61 SDG Description of SDG Contribution Ensure a healthy life and to promote Our Government projects, finance, and implementation of pilot programs and the well-being for all at all ages. contribution to NGOs initiatives, improve the conditions in terms of water supply and sanitation. By gaining access to such basic needs, impacts like the reduction of gastrointestinal infectious diseases and the greater availability of time as there is no need of carrying water, are achieved. Furthermore, there is lower labor and school absenteeism and women are empowered to develop outside their home. Ensure inclusive and quality education These impacts rely on different variables, which in addition to the availability for all and promote lifelong learning. of water and sanitation, electrification, commodities and telecommunications, among others, result from the operations of companies from different industries, as well as Governments and NGOs contributions. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. 62 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. About this report (102-10, 102-32, 102-45, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54, 102-56) Grupo Rotoplas believes in the significance of its operations, products and services, through the creation of value for our different stakeholders, accounting for our initiatives as a result of our transparency approach. Under this perspective, we present our second Annual Integrated Report This report focuses on the topics identified as material issues from the including the Company´s financial and non-financial performance Company´s strategic overview and from the stakeholders´ overview during the year 2016 in the countries in which we operate18, which has which is also included in our sustainability model19. According to the been prepared in accordance with the Exhaustive Compliance approach identification process of impacts and risks, the limits of material issues to the GRI Standards. This is the latest version of the international were defined, considering our different subsidiaries (internal limits), as reference methodology, developed by Global Reporting Initiative well as the entities of our value chain (external limits). (GRI) for the communication of social, environmental, and economic performance together with the corporate governance practices. The list of material issues and limits approved by the Sustainability Committee is provided below. We continue working on our information management processes, focusing on continuous improvement to strengthen a solid relationship with our stakeholders, in order that the GRI Standards contents we report will be submitted to external verification in the future. It is worth to note that this report does not include information restatements with respect to the included in the precedent report, i.e. the 2015 data. 18 The subsidiaries of Grupo Rotoplas can be found in the financial statements. This report includes, for the first time, the results of Talsar and Sytesa, companies that were incorporated as subsidiaries in 2016. 19 More information about the process followed for the determination of material issues is in the subchapter of Sustainability Model (value creation chapter). ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 63 LIMITS (Coverage) Material Issue Internal External (GRI Standard 102-47) (GRI Standard 103-1) (GRI Standard 103-1) Access to water and sanitation Grupo Rotoplas • Distributors • Government & NGOs clients Employees’ attraction and retention • N/A Quality • Raw material suppliers Water Awareness • Authorities • Government & NGOs clients Employees’ development • Training providers Economic performance • Investors and other capital suppliers • Raw material suppliers • Distributors Operational efficiency • Suppliers • Distributors • Government & NGOs clients Strategy, business model and trademark • Investors and other capital suppliers • Distributors • Government & NGOs clients Risk management • Investors and other capital suppliers • Suppliers • Government & NGOs clients Innovation • Investors and other capital suppliers • Raw material suppliers • Distributors • Government & NGOs clients • Universities • Strategic partners • Authorities & Regulatory Bodies Relationship with clients • Distributors • Government & NGOs clients N/A Does Not Apply 64 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Audited financial statements Management comments on the 2016 fiscal year. In 2016, Rotoplas has been on the market for two years as a public company; and in the challenging context which prevailed in the markets where we participate, we focused on the reconfiguration of our portfolio toward higher growth solutions, in order to reduce environmental negative impacts and to maintain profitability. The above allowed us to absorb the net sales decrease to some extent, with a decrease by 6.1% in comparison to 2015. Sales in Mexico were affected by a lower demand for integrated Furthermore, Brazil continued with a difficult political and economic solutions, mainly due to budget cuts that postponed government environment, reducing considerably the demand for integrated programs for this kind of solutions. On the other hand, individual solutions for access water and sanitation. As a result, necessary solutions had a positive performance, resulting from increased demand measures were implemented during the year to adjust operations by the traditional channel. Hence, the annual sales in Mexico decreased to current sale levels to reduce fixed costs to minimize the negative by 4.7% and representing 64.7% of the Company´s total revenue, while impact. Therefore, sales registered a decrease of 63.8%, contributing in 2015 they accounted for 63.7%. only 7.6% of the Company´s total revenues, while in 2015 it represented 19.6%. It is important to mention that during 2016, income from the sale of integrated solutions with maintenance started to be recorded, both Other Countries20 division, which includes our operations in the rest within the Programa Nacional de Bebederos (PNB) initiative in Mexico, of Latin America, grew its sales 56.2%, thanks to increased demand and the commercialization of wastewater treatment plants, resulting for individual solutions, as well as the addition of sales from Talsar from the incorporation of Sytesa, in September. in Argentina from May, and the U.S.A. market penetration strategy. This segment contributed the 27.7% of total revenue in 2016, while it represented 16.7% in 2015. 20 It includes Grupo Rotopla’s operations in Argentina, Belize, Chile, Costa Rica, El Salvador, United States, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Peru, ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 65 In the 2014 to 2016 period, growth greater than 11% of organic revenue As a result of the foregoing, EBITDA margins decreased by 21.5% was achieved, excluding sales to the Government channel and and (32.5%), in Mexico and Brazil, respectively. On the other hand, acquisitions; this shows the stability and profitability of the business the profitability of the section of Other Countries increased 210 basis core of the Company in the retail channel and sale of integrated points up to 8.3%. An increase by 30 basis points up to a margin of solutions with maintenance for the private-commercial sector. 13.8% was obtained at a consolidated level. Regarding our portfolio, individual solutions represented the 92.8% of In terms of solutions, the EBITDA margin of individual solutions sales and increased by 10.9% compared to 2015, supported by higher decreased by 120 basis points due to a reduced ability to absorb sales in Mexico in the traditional channel and the section of Other fixed costs and expenses derived from a smaller volume of sales by Countries, by the acquisition of Talsar in Argentina. the Company, as well as higher raw material costs resulting from the depreciation of the Mexican peso against the US dollar. On the other Integrated solutions represented 7.2% of the total sales and decreased hand, the profitability of integrated solutions significantly increased by 68.4% compared to 2015, primarily due to the difficult environment by 26.0% from 11.9% a year before, due mainly to the incorporation of in Mexico and Brazil described above, which was partially balanced by integrated solutions with maintenance. higher sales of integrated solutions with maintenance in Mexico. It is important to note that net profit increased by 11.6% and its margin Gross profit margin increased by 180 basis points, due to better prices expanded by 130 basis points compared to the previous year. This is throughout the year, as well as a sales mix with higher-margin solutions. due to the efficient management of the Company´s non-operational resources together with the long-term purpose of value creation. Operating profit margin decreased by 80 basis points, as a result of the decrease in sales, resulting in low fixed-cost absorption, in addition to one timers 16 million Mexican pesos by operations adjustment during the year in Argentina and Brazil. 66 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. Content index of the GRI (102-55) GRI 102 Standard: General Disclosure 2016 UN Global Compact Content Page/pages Omission Principles Company’s Profile 102-1 72 102-2 4 102-3 72 102-4 4 102-5 50, 72 102-6 4 Principle 6 102-7 3 102-8 42 102-9 33, 38 102-10 62 102-11 54 102-12 17, 30, 36, 58 102-13 23, 26 Strategy 102-14 8 102-15 8, 54, 57 Ethics and integrity 102-16 4, 20, 26, 52 Principle 10 102-17 52 Principle 10 Governance 102-18 26, 50 102-19 50 102-20 50 102-21 23 102-22 50 102-23 50 102-24 50 102-25 52 102-26 26, 52 102-27 50 102-28 50 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 67 UN Global Compact Content Page/pages Omission Principles 102-29 54 102-30 54 102-31 54 102-32 62 102-33 50 Classified due to Company’s 102-34 internal policies. 102-35 47, 50 102-36 42, 50 102-37 42, 50 Classified due to Company’s 102-38 internal policies. Classified due to Company’s 102-39 internal policies. Stakeholders´ participation 102-40 23 102-41 42 Principle 3 102-42 23 102-43 23, 26, 33 102-44 23 Report practices 102-45 62 102-46 26, 62 102-47 26, 62 102-48 62 102-49 62 102-50 62 102-51 62 102-52 62 102-53 72 102-54 62 102-55 66 102-56 62 68 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. UN Global Compact Material issues GRI Standard Content Page/link Omission Principles 103-1 72 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 17 Access to water and 103-3 17 sanitation 203-1 30 GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 203-2 17, 43 103-1 72 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 42 103-3 42 Employees’ attraction and 401-1 42 Principle 6 retention 401-2 42 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-3 Not apply, because the company Principle 6 does not have significant impacts in gender equality 103-1 72 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 33 Quality 103-3 33 GRI 416: Costumer health and safety 416-1 33 2016 416-2 54 103-1 72 Water awareness GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 36 103-3 36 103-1 72 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 47 103-3 47 404-1 47 Principle 6 Employees’ GRI 404: Training and education 2016 404-2 47 development 404-3 47 Principle 6 405-1 42, 50 Principle 6 GRI 405: Diversity and equal 405-2 Not apply, because the company Principle 6 opportunity 2016 does not have significant impacts in gender equality ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 69 UN Global Compact Material issues GRI Standard Content Page/link Omission Principles 103-1 72 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 12 103-3 12 Economic 201-1 14, 30 performance 201-2 17 Principle 7 GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 201-3 42 201-4 14 103-1 72 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 33, 38 103-3 33, 38 GRI 204: Procurement practices 2016 204-1 33 301-1 Classified due to Company’s Principle 7 y 8 internal policies. 301-2 33 Principle 8 301-3 Not apply, because the durability Principle 8 GRI 301: Materials 2016 of the company’s products, their useful life extends over such long periods of time that the use at the Operational en of the latter does not generate efficiency a significant impact. 302-1 38 Principle 7 y 8 302-2 Not apply, because the Principle 8 Company’s products do not require energy consumptions for their use, or it is not significant. GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 38 Principle 8 302-4 38 Principle 8 y 9 302-5 Not apply, because the Principle 8 y 9 Company’s products do not require energy consumptions for their use, or it is not significant. 70 GRUPO ROTOPLAS S.A.B. DE C.V. UN Global Compact Material issues GRI Standard Content Page/link Omission Principles 303-1 38 Principle 7 y 8 303-2 Not apply, the significance of the impact on the water requirement GRI 303: Water 2016 for the company’s operations is in the quantity, not in the source of origin. 303-3 38 Principle 8 305-1 38 Principle 7 y 8 305-2 38 305-3 Not available, we will work in the value chain to have the information in the next report. 305-4 38 Principle 7 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-5 38 Principle 8 y 9 305-6 Not available, we will work in the value chain to have the information in the next report. Operational 305-7 Not available, we will work in Principle 7 y 8 efficiency the value chain to have the information in the next report. 306-1 Not apply, the Company’s Principle 8 manufacturing processes do not generate significant spills to the water. 306-2 38 Principle 8 306-3 Not apply, manufacturing Principle 8 processes and materials handled, do not lead to significant risks and/or impacts associated with GRI 306: Effluents and waste 2016 spills. 306-4 Not available, we will work in Principle 8 the value chain to have the information in the next report. 306-5 Not apply, manufacturing Principle 8 processes and materials handled, do not lead to significant risks and/or impacts associated with spills. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 | Rotoplas. In_ 71 UN Global Compact Material issues GRI Standard Content Page/link Omission Principles 103-1 72 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 20, 33 103-3 20, 33 GRI 206: Anti-competitive 206-1 54 Strategy, business behavior 2016 model and trademark GRI 307: Environmental compliance 307-1 54 2016 GRI 415: Public policy 2016 415-1 52 Principle 10 GRI 419: Socioeconomic 419-1 54 compliance 2016 103-1 72 Principle 4 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 54 Principle 5 103-3 54 201-2 17 Principle 7 307-1 54 Principle 8 Risk management 205-1 52 Principle 10 205-2 52 Principle 10 205-3 52 Principle 10 403-2 42 406-1 52 Principle 6 412-2 52 Principle 1 y 2 103-1 72 Innovation GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 30 103-3 30 103-1 72 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 20, 33 Relationship with 103-3 20, 33 clients 417-1 33 GRI 417: Marketing and labeling 2016 417-2 54 417-3 54 Contact (102-1, 102-3, 102-5, 102-53) Investor Relations Esaú Gallegos Public Affairs Abraham Pineda agua@rotoplas.com Grupo Rotoplas, S.A.B. de C.V. and subsidiaries Head Quarters Calle Pedregal No. 24 piso 19. Col. Molino del Rey. Del. Miguel Hidalgo. C.P 11040. México D.F. Tel. (+52 55) 52 01 50 00 Ticker: AGUA AGUA www.rotoplas.com This annual report contains forward-looking statements and information subject to risk and uncertainties, which are based on current expectations and projections of future events and trends which may affect the Company’s business. Such statements were made based on current assumptions and knowledge. By their very nature, forward looking statements involve assumptions, expectations and opportunities, both general and specific. Several factors could cause results, performance or future events to differ materially from those in such statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. Therefore, no undue reliance should be placed upon such forward-looking statements. The Company has not registered (and has no intention to register) its securities under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”) or any state or transparency regulations and the Company is not registered under the United States Investment Act of 1940, as amended. The securities of the Company may not be offered or sold in the United States or to US persons, unless registered under the Securities Act and other applicable securities state regulations or exempted from such registration.
