2016 Sustainability Report &217(176 $ERXWWKH*URXS *RYHUQDQFH &RUSRUDWH3URILOH  %DVLF$SSURDFKWR&RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFH  /LVWRI*URXS&RPSDQLHV-DSDQ  &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFH6WUXFWXUH  /LVWRI*URXS&RPSDQLHV1RUWK$PHULFD  ,QIRUPDWLRQ'LVFORVXUH  /LVWRI*URXS&RPSDQLHV$VLD3DFLILF  (TXLW\KROGLQJVRWKHUWKDQWKRVHKHOG  /LVWRI*URXS&RPSDQLHV(XURSH  VROHO\IRUWKHSXUSRVHRILQYHVWPHQW ,QWHUQDO&RQWURO  &RPSOLDQFH  0HVVDJHIURPWKH3UHVLGHQW 5LVN0DQDJHPHQW  0HVVDJHIURPWKH3UHVLGHQW  (QVXULQJ$SSURSULDWH2SHUDWLRQVDW*URXS  &RPSDQLHV *URXS0LVVLRQDQG'650DQDJHPHQW ,QWHUQDO&RQWURORYHU)LQDQFLDO5HSRUWLQJ  ,QIRUPDWLRQ3URSHUW\3URWHFWLRQ  *URXS0LVVLRQ9LVLRQDQG9DOXHV  +DQGOLQJRI$QWLVRFLDO)RUFHV  '650DQDJHPHQW  ,QWHUQDO$XGLW  +XPDQ5LJKWV$ZDUHQHVV  *URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG 0DWHULDO,VVXHV 6WDNHKROGHU&RPPXQLFDWLRQ *URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\$SSURDFK  6WDNHKROGHU&RPPXQLFDWLRQ  6WUXFWXUH  6WDNHKROGHU'LDORJXH  0DWHULDO,VVXHV  &XVWRPHUV  3URFHVVIRU,GHQWLI\LQJ0DWHULDO,VVXHV  &RPPXQLW\DQG6RFLHW\  ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU&XVWRPHUV  6KDUHKROGHUVDQG,QYHVWRUV  ,QLWLDWLYHVIRUDQ$FFRPPRGDWLQJ:RUN  %XVLQHVV3DUWQHUV  (QYLURPHQW (PSOR\HHV  ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU6RFLHW\DQG(QYLURQPHQW  6RFLHW\ ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU6RFLHW\DQG(QYLURQPHQW  5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV (QYLURQPHQW ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU+HDOWK  *5,*XLGHOLQHV9HUVLRQ  5HFRJQLWLRQIURP6RFLHW\  ,62  3DUWLFLSDWLRQLQ([WHUQDO,QLWLDWLYHV  6XVWDLQDELOLW\'DWD  &RUSRUDWH3URILOHٜ$ERXWWKH*URXS Corporate Profile (As of October 1, 2016) Trade Name Dai-ichi Life Holdings, Inc. Head Office 13-1, Yurakucho 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8411, Japan TEL 03-3216-1222 Map Date of Establishment September 15, 1902 Main Business The purpose of the Company shall be to engage in the following businesses: (1) Business administration of life insurance companies, non-life insurance companies, and other companies operating as the Company's subsidiaries pursuant to the provisions of the Insurance Business Act, and (2) Other business activities incidental to the business listed in the preceding item. Chairman of the Board Katsutoshi Saito President Koichiro Watanabe Capital Stock 343 billion yen Code 8750 Stock Listing Tokyo Stock Exchange Number of Issued Shares 1,198,023,000 (Common stock)(As of March 31,2016) Total Assets 49,924 billion yen (As of March 31,2016) 㻝 /LVWRI*URXS&RPSDQLHVٜ$ERXWWKH*URXS List of Group Companies: Japan Japan North America Asia Pacific Europe (As of October 1, 2016) Insurance Business / Insurance-related Business The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited Life insurance business in Japan Address 13-1, Yurakucho 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8411, Japan Tel 81-3-3216-1211 Home Page http://www.dai-ichi-life.co.jp/english/index.html Date of Establishment September 15, 1902 Capital JPY 60 billion Investment ratio of Dai-ichi Life 100.0% Holdings Investment ratio of the Dai-ichi Life 0.0% Group, etc. 㻞 /LVWRI*URXS&RPSDQLHVٜ$ERXWWKH*URXS The Dai-ichi Frontier Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Life insurance business in Japan Address Osaki Wiz Tower, 17th Floor, 11-1, Osaki 2-Chome, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 141-0032, Japan Tel 81-3-6685-6500 Home Page http://www.d-frontier-life.co.jp/english/index.html Date of Establishment December 1, 2006 Capital JPY 185 billion (including capital reserves of JPY 67.5 billion) Investment ratio of Dai-ichi Life 100.0% Holdings Investment ratio of the Dai-ichi Life 0.0% Group, etc. The Neo First Life Insurance Company, Limited Life insurance business in Japan Address Osaki Wiz Tower, 11-1, Osaki 2-Chome, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 141-0032, Japan Tel 81-3-5434-7031 Home Page http://neofirst.co.jp/index.html (Japanese) Date of Establishment April 23, 1999 Capital JPY 25.1 billion Investment ratio of Dai-ichi Life 100.0% Holdings Investment ratio of the Dai-ichi Life 0.0% Group, etc. 3 㻟 /LVWRI*URXS&RPSDQLHVٜ$ERXWWKH*URXS Asset Management Business / Asset Management-related Business Asset Management One Co., Ltd. Investment management services, investment advisory services Address 1-8-2 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0005, Japan Home Page http://www.am-one.co.jp/english/ Date of Establishment October 1, 2016 Capital JPY 2 billion Investment ratio of Dai-ichi Life 49.0% Holdings Investment ratio of the Dai-ichi Life 0.0% Group, etc. Other Business (Research etc.) The Dai-ichi Life Research Institute INC Research, etc. concerning domestic and overseas economies, finance, industry, society, culture and life Address 13-1, Yurakucho 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0006, Japan Tel 81-3-5221-4505 Home Page http://group.dai-ichi-life.co.jp/dlri/english/index.html Date of Establishment April 1, 1997 Capital JPY 100 million Investment ratio of Dai-ichi Life 42.9% Holdings Investment ratio of the Dai-ichi Life 57.1% Group, etc. 㻠 /LVWRI*URXS&RPSDQLHVٜ$ERXWWKH*URXS List of Group Companies: North America Japan North America Asia Pacific Europe (As of October 1, 2016) Insurance Business / Insurance-related Business Protective Life Corporation Life insurance business in the US*1 Address 2801 Highway 280 South, Birmingham, Alabama 35223, USA Tel 1-205-268-1000 Home Page http://www.protective.com/ Date of Establishment July 24, 1907 Capital USD 10 Investment ratio of Dai-ichi Life 100.0% Holdings Investment ratio of the Dai-ichi Life 0.0% Group, etc. *1 Protective Life Corporation is the holding company of Protective group which includes the company operating life insurance business. 㻡 /LVWRI*URXS&RPSDQLHVٜ$ERXWWKH*URXS DLI NORTH AMERICA INC.*1 Management of group companies in North America Address 400 Park Avenue, 4th Floor, New York, NY, 10022 USA Tel 1-212-350-7600 Date of Establishment October 1, 1997 Capital USD 24 million Investment ratio of Dai-ichi Life 100.0% Holdings Investment ratio of the Dai-ichi Life 0.0% Group, etc. *1 DLI NORTH AMERICA INC. changed its name from Dai-ichi Life International (U.S.A.), Inc. on February 1, 2015. Asset Management Business / Asset Management-related Business Janus Capital Group Inc. Investment management services, investment advisory services Address 151 Detroit Street, Denver, Colorado 80206, USA Tel 1-303-333-3863 Home Page https://www.janus.com/ Date of Establishment January 23, 1998 Capital USD 1.8 million Investment ratio of Dai-ichi Life 19.8% Holdings Investment ratio of the Dai-ichi Life 0.0% Group, etc. *1 Janus Capital Group Inc. is a holding company with 23 consolidated subsidiaries (fall under Dai-ichi Life's affiliates accounted for by the equity method, the number of companies is as of the end of March 2016). *2 The business of Janus Capital Group Inc. includes the business of its consolidated subsidiaries. *3 The figures for capital and investment ratio are as of the end of March 2016. 㻢 /LVWRI*URXS&RPSDQLHVٜ$ERXWWKH*URXS List of Group Companies: Asia Pacific Japan North America Asia Pacific Europe (As of October 1, 2016) Insurance Business / Insurance-related Business TAL <TAL Dai-ichi Life Australia Pty Ltd> Life insurance business in Australia*1 Address Level 16, 363 George Street, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia Tel 61-2-9448-9000 Home Page http://www.tal.com.au/ Date of Establishment March 25, 2011*2 Capital AUD 1.63 billion Investment ratio of Dai-ichi Life 100.0% Holdings Investment ratio of the Dai-ichi Life 0.0% Group, etc. *1 TAL Dai-ichi Life Australia Pty Ltd is the holding company of TAL group which includes the company operating life insurance business. *2 TAL group origins started from 1987. 㻣 /LVWRI*URXS&RPSDQLHVٜ$ERXWWKH*URXS Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company of Vietnam, Limited Life insurance business in Vietnam Address 149-151 Nguyen Van Troi Street, Ward 11, District Phu Nhuan, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Tel 84-8-3810-0888 Home Page http://www.dai-ichi-life.com.vn/ (Vietnamese) Date of Establishment January 18, 2007 Capital VND 1,767 billion Investment ratio of Dai-ichi Life 100.0% Holdings Investment ratio of the Dai-ichi Life 0.0% Group, etc. PT Panin Dai-ichi Life Life insurance business in Indonesia Address Panin Dai-ichi Life Center, Jalan Letjend. S. Parman Kav. 91, Jakarta 11420 Tel 62-21-255-66-888 Home Page https://www.panindai-ichilife.co.id/en/home Date of Establishment July 19, 1974 Capital IDR 1,067.3 billion Investment ratio of Dai-ichi Life 5.0% Holdings Investment ratio of the Dai-ichi Life 95.0% Group, etc. 㻤 /LVWRI*URXS&RPSDQLHVٜ$ERXWWKH*URXS Star Union Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company Limited Life insurance business in India Address 11th Floor, Vishwaroop IT park, Sector 30 A, Opp. Vashi Railway Station, Vashi, Navi Mumbai 400703 Tel 91-22-3954-6300 Home Page https://www.sudlife.in/ Date of Establishment September 25, 2007 Capital INR 2.5 billion Investment ratio of Dai-ichi Life 44.0% Holdings Investment ratio of the Dai-ichi Life 0.0% Group, etc. OCEAN LIFE INSURANCE PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Life insurance business in Thailand Address 170 / 74 83 Ocean Tower 1 Bldg., Rachadapisek Rd.,Klongtoey, Bangkok, Thailand Tel 66(0)-2261-2300 Home Page https://www.ocean.co.th/en Date of Establishment January 11, 1949 Capital THB 2.36 billion Investment ratio of Dai-ichi Life 24.0% Holdings Investment ratio of the Dai-ichi Life 0.0% Group, etc. 㻥 /LVWRI*URXS&RPSDQLHVٜ$ERXWWKH*URXS DLI ASIA PACIFIC PTE. LTD. Management of group companies in the Asia Pacific Address 12 Marina View, #24-03/04, Asia Square Tower 2, Singapore Tel 65-6805-0550 Date of Establishment October 20, 2014 Capital SGD 11 million Investment ratio of Dai-ichi Life 100.0% Holdings Investment ratio of the Dai-ichi Life 0.0% Group, etc. 㻝㻜 /LVWRI*URXS&RPSDQLHVٜ$ERXWWKH*URXS List of Group Companies: Europe Japan North America Asia Pacific Europe (As of October 1, 2016) Insurance Business / Insurance-related Business Dai-ichi Life International (Europe) Limited Research in Europe Address 6th Floor, 6 Gracechurch Street, London EC3V 0AT, U.K. Tel 44-20-7220-1770 Date of Establishment September 4, 1985 Capital GBP 10 million Investment ratio of Dai-ichi Life 100.0% Holdings Investment ratio of the Dai-ichi Life 0.0% Group, etc. 㻝㻝 0HVVDJHIURPWKH3UHVLGHQW Koichiro Watanabe President and Representative Director Dai-ichi Life Holdings, Inc. Thank you for your continued patronage of the Dai-ichi Life Group. With the birth of Dai-ichi Life Holdings, Inc. on October 1, 2016, the Dai-ichi Life Group shifted to a holding company structure. Following our New Foundation via demutualization and listing on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in April 2010, we have named this shift to a holding company structure the second stage of our New Foundation, as our entire group pulls together to gain even faster growth. We will continue our philosophy of Customer First that we have had since the founding of Dai-ichi Life in 1902, and continue to be By your side, for life for each of our customers, no matter how the times may change. To ensure this, we must continue to engage in greater innovation, to contribute to community development and to greater peace of mind and better lives for people in various different regions, by achieving sustainable growth and value creation at each of our group companies. We look forward to your continued support of the Dai-ichi Life Group in the future. Meaning of continuing to stand By your side, for life Continuing to stand By your side, for life. It means that we will continue to change ceaselessly, with the aim of becoming the best for customers and society. Looking back on our history of more than a century, we have continued to grow, while creating value, by walking the best path, always thinking of customers first. This policy of the Dai-ichi Life Group, to pursue our business and in so doing to create value for our customers and society, is expressed by us as DSR, which stands for Dai-ichi's Social Responsibility. Taking the initial D from Dai-ichi we wish to express our distinct concept, which goes far beyond the usual framework of corporate social responsibility (CSR). Today, we need to respond to sweeping changes more agilely than ever before, since we are doing business in the modern age when the environment is evolving with unprecedented speed. We will continue to make innovative changes endlessly by polishing our own strengths through the practice of DSR Management. 㻝㻞 0HVVDJHIURPWKH3UHVLGHQW D-Ambitious , the medium-term management plan the Group is proceeding with Based on this DSR management, the Dai-ichi Life Group is engaged in realizing sustained value creation with the Group's Medium-term Management Plan D-Ambitious covering fiscal years 2015 to 2017. Our focus will be on our three growth engines, namely the domestic life insurance business, the overseas life insurance business and the asset management business, to extend our advantages in every business field, aiming at further growth and breakthroughs. Our recent transition to a holding company structure underpins the expansion and diversification of our business at the global level, while seeking to optimize our group growth strategy and strengthening our governance. Four Ds of the Basic Strategy * ERM (Enterprise Risk Management) is an effort to increase capital efficiency and corporate value by formulating strategies according to profits, capital and risks, taking into account the types and characteristics of the risks. 㻝㻟 0HVVDJHIURPWKH3UHVLGHQW Medium-term management plan: Initiatives for fiscal year 2016 and after Currently the financial and economic environments in Japan and overseas are undergoing sweeping change, including slower economic growth in emerging countries and the introduction of the negative interest rate policy in Japan. However, the growth strategies of the Dai-ichi Life Group are evolving without interruption. In the domestic life insurance business, we are leveraging our group synergy on an even higher level through our three domestic life insurance company structure, which consists of Dai-ichi Life, Dai-ichi Frontier Life, and Neo First Life, to provide the optimum products and services to meet diverse customer needs through the most suitable channels. In the overseas life insurance business, our aim is sustained growth utilizing the specific strengths of our companies in North America and the Asia-Pacific region. Furthermore, as initiatives to make the three growth engines stronger and more flexible, we will strengthen alliances, undertake new strategies to actively utilize innovation, and create more growth opportunities. Through our comprehensive business alliance with Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd., we expect the respective strengths of our vast range of businesses to complement and combine with each other to contribute to the development of local communities in Japan by improving the quality of products and services, and to contribute to the development of the communities and economies of overseas countries through the penetration and spread of our high-quality life insurance. In the Asset Management business, in October 2016, one of our Group companies integrated its strengths and resources with the Mizuho Financial Group to make a new start as Asset Management One Co., Ltd. The Asset Management One, one of the largest asset management companies in Japan, aims to become the number one asset management company in Asia, ranking with leading global asset management companies by strengthening its investment capability, product competitiveness and sales capability, while taking in funds around the world by drawing on all of their networks. 㻝㻠 0HVVDJHIURPWKH3UHVLGHQW In addition, we will make a Group-wide effort on the highest priority strategic issue with so-called InsTech, our initiative to create innovations unique to the life insurance business in terms of both the insurance business and technology for the sake of the future insurance business. In each domain of healthcare, underwriting and marketing, we will be engaged in the creation of newly added value utilizing the latest technologies. Lastly Setting a new mediumto long-term vision of “Peace of mind. In communities and around the world” as an objective for 2020, the Group aims to become an insurance group that continues to be selected by people around the world. To realize this mediumto long-term vision, the Group will unite in its determination to continue to innovate, by refining its own strengths through the practice of DSR Management, while maintaining what we have preserved since our founding. President and Representative Director Dai-ichi Life Holdings, Inc. 㻝㻡 *URXS0LVVLRQ9LVLRQDQG9DOXHVٜ*URXS0LVVLRQDQG'650DQDJHPHQW Group Mission, Vision and Values The Group companies will contribute to comfortable lives with peace of mind and the development of local communities in their respective regions and countries, providing life insurance and related services by sharing the Group’s principles (Mission, Vision and Values). We will strive to maximize the value of the Group and aim for sustainable growth by sharing the Group’s strategies with each company, moving forward together in the same direction. Group Mission, Vision and Values (1min.46sec. (22,241KB)) Mission:Our purpose By your side, for life Since our foundation in 1902, the Dai-ichi Life Group has worked to contribute to local communities by providing life insurance and related services based on our basic management principle of always putting the customer first. All companies of the Dai-ichi Life Group will continue contributing to more affluent lives with peace of mind and the development of local communities in their respective regions by standing by the side of our customers and their loved ones, for life. History 㻝㻢 *URXS0LVVLRQ9LVLRQDQG9DOXHVٜ'650DQDJHPHQW Vision: Mid-term vision Thinking People First We will aim to become a company that thinks of people first, more than anyone else, from the following four perspectives, aspiring to become the most highly regarded life insurance company by customers. First in Quality First in Productivity First in Vital and Energetic Employees First in Growth Potential Values: What we value the most The Dai-ichi Life Group will help build a sustainable society by adopting its corporate action principles DSR Charter so it can continue to meet the expectations of customers, society, shareholders, investors, and employees. DSR stands for Dai-ichi's Social Responsibility, a unique framework for using the PDCA cycle company-wide to continually improve management quality and satisfy our social responsibilities to all stakeholders, while at the same time increasing the corporate value of the Dai-ichi Life Group. Customer satisfaction We provide high-quality products and services with the intention of standing by the side of our customers for life. Everything we do is designed to exceed our customer's needs and deliver customer satisfaction. Communication We hold ourselves accountable to our stakeholders and sincerely accept their opinions, reflecting them in our corporate management. Compliance We set the bar high for ethical standards and maintain full compliance in all our business activities. We respect privacy and fully enforce the protection and management of personal information. Respect to human rights We respect the culture and customs of every country and region, always operating in a way that contributes to local development. We also respect human rights and proactively operate in a way that reflects this. Diversity & Inclusion We actively cultivate human resources by ensuring a rewarding work environment in which diversified human resources can play an active role. Environmental protection We actively engage in environmental protection on a daily basis, recognizing that preserving the global environment is our social responsibility. 㻝㻣 *URXS0LVVLRQ9LVLRQDQG9DOXHVٜ'650DQDJHPHQW Social contribution We head social action programs, growing together with communities as an active corporate citizen. Promoting health We manage the Company to help improve the health of the people in our local communities. We also promote the mental and physical health of our employees. Creating sustainable corporate value Based on the eight principles above, we are working to create sustainable corporate value by effectively using our management resources, improving the productivity of our business, and maintaining and strengthening our financial base. For sustainability and sustainable evolution of society Explanation of the Group Logo The logo depicts the form of a shield used in ancient times on which a design expressing earth is featured. This is an expression of the commitment of the Dai-ichi Life Group's companies to protecting customers from disasters through concerted efforts in their global operations. In addition, the upward curving latitudinal line of the earth expresses the bright future of our customers and the Dai-ichi Life Group's determination to grow in order to continue standing by the side of our customers for life. Going forward, we will continue to stand by the side of our customers and their loved ones, for life, and make concerted efforts to deliver Peace of mind. In communities and around the world. 㻝㻤 '650DQDJHPHQWٜ*URXS0LVVLRQDQG'650DQDJHPHQW DSR Management In 1998 we launched Business Quality Improvement Activities that were expected to enhance the quality of operations from customers' diverse points of view and in 2001 became the first financial institution to receive the Japan Quality Award. After winning the award, we worked on consistently improving management quality even in the event of replacement of top management by shifting from CSR management to DSR management, which focuses on leveraging our unique capabilities, on occasion of our IPO, in part to evolve our efforts. As a result of continuing such activities, the organization has now become a place where each employee can think “outside the box” and make steadfast efforts to improve with an eye to what is best for customers. In addition, sharing favorable examples of DSR management and utilizing them have led to efficient problem solving and have accelerated recent growth of the Dai-ichi Life Group. We will create value continuously while evolving DSR management in the future. Changes in Business Quality Improvement Activities Each employee supports DSR management Share and recognize favorable examples of DSR (DSR Convention) 㻝㻥 *URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\$SSURDFKٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Values (Dai-ichi's Social Responsibility Charter) The Dai-ichi Life Group has defined a DSR Charter, stating its corporate action principles for responding to the expectations of customers, society, shareholders, investors, and employees, and contributing to the creation of a sustainable society. DSR stands for Dai-ichi’s Social Responsibility, a unique framework for using the PDCA cycle company-wide to continually improve management quality and satisfy our social responsibilities to all stakeholders, while at the same time increasing the corporate value of the Dai-ichi Life Group. Customer satisfaction We provide high-quality products and services with the intention of standing by the side of our customers for life. Everything we do is designed to exceed our customer's needs and deliver customer satisfaction. Communication We hold ourselves accountable to our stakeholders and sincerely accept their opinions, reflecting them in our corporate management. Compliance We set the bar high for ethical standards and maintain full compliance in all our business activities. We respect privacy and fully enforce the protection and management of personal information. Respect to human rights We respect the culture and customs of every country and region, always operating in a way that contributes to local development. We also respect human rights and proactively operate in a way that reflects this. Diversity & Inclusion We actively cultivate human resources by ensuring a rewarding work environment in which diversified human resources can play an active role. Environmental protection We actively engage in environmental protection on a daily basis, recognizing that preserving the global environment is our social responsibility. Social contribution We head social action programs, growing together with communities as an active corporate citizen. 㻞㻜 *URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\$SSURDFKٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Promoting health We manage the Company to help improve the health of the people in our local communities. We also promote the mental and physical health of our employees. Creating sustainable corporate value Based on the eight principles above, we are working to create sustainable corporate value by effectively using our management resources, improving the productivity of our business, and maintaining and strengthening our financial base. The Dai-ichi Life Group's Vision The Dai-ichi Life Group wishes to continue standing by the side of our customers at all times under our group mission “By Your Side, For Life”. To this end, we aim to create sustainable value and achieve growth for the Dai-ichi Life Group by seeking to achieve the Group vision “Thinking People First” and to be an entity that will continue to be selected by customers. In addition, we will contribute to the sustainable development of the community and society by fulfilling our social responsibilities through the life insurance business, while making maximum use of the Dai-ichi Life Group's management resources. Group Mission, Vision and Values DSR Management 㻞㻝 6WUXFWXUHٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV regarding matters discussed at the Committee, a reporting and instruction coordination system is established between the Board of Directors and the Executive Management Board as required. Under the Committee's umbrella, special committees are established to address each of the four challenges deemed important to the Dai-chi Life Group to increase the effectiveness of each initiative. By sharing and standardizing examples of initiatives among Group companies, we are aiming to further step up activities by demonstrating the synergistic effects of the Group. 㻞㻞 6WUXFWXUHٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Roles of the Special Committees Special committees are established to address each of the four challenges deemed important to the Dai-chi Life Group to increase the effectiveness of each initiative. Please confirm the specific initiatives for each challenge at each link. Quality Assurance Promotion Special Committee Initiatives for Customers Special Committee for Employee Satisfaction and Diversity & Inclusion Promotion Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Enviroment Special Committee for Social Contribution and Environmental Activities Promotion Initiatives for Society and Environment Health Promotion Special Committee Initiatives for Health 㻞㻟 0DWHULDO,VVXHVٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV business-environmental changes. To meet these expectations and demands, we have now identified four material issues through intensive dialogues with stakeholders, keeping the Group's growth strategy and business activities, and management resources for supporting such strategy and resources, and the relationships with local communities in mind. These four material issues are essential for enabling us to take crossdepartmental perspectives throughout the Group’s business activities, and to perform our growth strategy by taking full advantage of Group synergy. View the details of the selection process for material issues Material Issues of the Dai-ichi Life Group Specific initiatives related to material issues to the Dai-ichi Life Group are introduced. View details of the roles of the four Special Committees Initiatives for Customers (material issue: quality Initiatives for an Accommodating Work assurance promotion) Enviroment (material issue: employee satisfaction and diversity & inclusion) Initiatives for Society and Environment (material Initiatives for Health (material issue: promoting issue: social contribution and environment) health) 㻞㻠 3URFHVVIRU,GHQWLI\LQJ0DWHULDO,VVXHVٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Step1 We organized the relevant issues into 23 categories of issues based on social issues indicated by the  Ascertaining and United Nations Global Compact, ISO26000, GRI Guideline, etc. with the Dai-ichi Life Group's Mission, organizing the issues Vision and Values as the base. Step2 Regarding the 23 categories above, material categories to the Dai-ichi Life Group were identified from the Analysis of degree of perspectives of both the Group and stakeholders. Thereafter, categories deemed material by both the importance and Dai-ichi Life Group and stakeholders were integrated into issues to be focused on in DSR management establishment of material and established as material issues of the Group. issues For the identified material issues, we keep continuous dialogues with our stakeholders. In addition, we Step3 review material issues if needed, taking our Group's business status, influence of our business activities, Dialogues and Review of and changes in stakeholder interest matters into account. Centering on such PDCA (Plan-Do-Checkthe issues Action), we strive to establish values for customers and society through our core business, and achieve sustainable growth as a company. The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 㻞㻡 3URFHVVIRU,GHQWLI\LQJ0DWHULDO,VVXHVٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Mapping of Material Issues 㻞㻢 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU&XVWRPHUVٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Basic Policy Adopting By your side, for life as our Group Mission, the Dai-ichi Life Group seeks to provide high-quality products and services that pursue customer satisfaction by standing by the side of our customers. To flexibly respond to the diversifying needs of customers, the Group will continue making a united effort in the future while taking advantage of the characteristics of each company. Targets and Progress The targets and progress of Dai-ichi Life are as follows. Effort Index Explanation of the Index Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Target 2013 2014 2015 Customer Satisfaction Survey Total percentage of responses *1 70.7% 70.9% Improvement from Percentage of affirmative ( Very satisfied, Satisfied, previous year response to overall satisfaction Somewhat satisfied ) in the web-based survey of individual customers Number of complaints 44,691 51,253 46,929 *2 *1 Results are not available because the web-based survey started in fiscal 2014. *2 We make efforts in operational process improvements by reflecting customer feedback, but do not set quantitative targets. 㻞㻣 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU&XVWRPHUVٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Specific Activities Initiatives for Utilizing Customer Feedback We have introduced a system to incorporate customer feedback collected extensively into management and operations. For detailed initiatives, please see the website of each company. Click here for initiatives at Dai-ichi Life Click here for initiatives at Dai-ichi Frontier Life (Japanese) Click here for initiatives at Neo First Life (Japanese) Initiatives for Listening to Customer Feedback At Dai-ichi Life, customer feedback is collected through various contact points. We hold roundtable conferences with customers to listen directly to the opinions and requests of customers in order to improve our products and services and conduct a Customer Satisfaction Survey performed by an outside agency. Dai-ichi Life website (Customers Roundtable Session) Dai-ichi Life website (Customer Satisfaction Survey) Customers roundtable session Main Examples of Improvements Based on Customer Feedback We make various improvements by listening to customer feedback. Specific examples of improvements are provided below. Initiatives at Dai-ichi Life Initiatives at Dai-ichi Frontier Life (Japanese) Initiatives for Incorporating Feedback from Society In an effort to receive opinions from a consumer-based perspective, Dai-ichi Life employs a Consumer Focus Group and has established the Advisory Committee for Business Quality to reflect their opinions in improvements in its business operations. Dai-ichi Life website (Advisory Committee for Business Quality/Consumer Focus Group/Visit to Consumer Affairs Center 㻞㻤 Consumer Focus Group roundtable session ,QLWLDWLYHVIRUDQ$FFRPPRGDWLQJ:RUN(QYLURPHQWٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Basic Policy The Dai-ichi Life Group aims to realize the group vision of Thinking People First by practicing DSR management, while sharing Dai-ichi's Social Responsibility Charter (DSR Charter) among all the employees of the Dai-ichi Life Group, to practice Group Misson of By your side, for life. We also believe that it is important to create values as an organization on the whole by mutually accepting diversity (inclusion) and active roles played by various individuals will become the basis for creating these new values. Targets and Progress The targets and progress of the domestic life insurance group (Dai-ichi Life, Dai-ichi Frontier Life, Neo First Life) are as follows. Effort Index Explanation of the Index Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Target 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of females Percentage of females in 18.4% *1 22.5% 23.3% April 2018 in managerial posts managerial positions 25% or more (department head or equivalent and section chief or equivalent) as of April 1 of each fiscal year Percentage of Percentage of employees as of 2.16% 2.25% 2.23% *2 employees with June 1 in the following year disabilities *1 The figures are for Dai-ichi Life. *2 The percentage of employees with disabilities is one in compliance with the statutory rate of disability employment. 㻞㻥 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRUDQ$FFRPPRGDWLQJ:RUN(QYLURPHQWٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Specific Activities Promoting the Achievements of Female Employees At the domestic life insurance companies, as one of the initiatives for Diversity and Inclusion, we are working to reform employee awareness and improve the human capital development system to provide more opportunities for female employees, comprising a large part of the Company. On April 1, 2016, the second female Executive Officer of the Company was appointed. In addition, the number of female General Managers (including Senior General Managers and Special General Managers) increased 1.2 times compared to the previous year, as nearly 40% of all managerial appointments were women. As a result, as of April 1, 2016, there were 830 female managers or higher, accounting for 23.3% of the total. Female leaders are also working at more than 40% of the Company's unit offices in more than 1,300 locations across Japan. In the Medium-term Management Plan (fiscal 2015-fiscal 2017), we have established a target to President's seminar increase the percentage of female managerial employees to more than 25% of all managerial staff by April 2018 and to more than 30% by the early 2020s. Under this goal, we will continue to carry out various initiatives for Total Life Plan Designers and office in-house employees. Please view the Dai-ichi Life website for details. Dai-ichi Life website (Promoting the Achievements of Female Employees) Promotion of Active Participation of Employees with Disabilities At the domestic life insurance companies, not only do we proactively employ persons with disabilities, but we are also engaged in several activities geared toward normalizing * the employment of persons with disabilities. We strive to create a comfortable working environment for persons with disabilities by conducting follow-up meetings with employees after they join the company and holding training courses on human rights awareness in order to deepen all employees' understanding of people with disabilities. As of June 2016, we employ 946 people with disabilities nationwide, or 2.23% of our entire workforce. Please see the Dai-ichi Life website for details. First floor of Dai-ichi Life website (Active Participation of Employees with Disabilities) Dai-ichi Seimei Hibiya Headquarters Building dl. Café in front of the Imperial Palace Global Diversity The Dai-ichi Life Group channels its energies into hiring international students and exchanging and developing top management at the divisional level inside and outside Japan, in addition to developing global human resources in Japan, to strengthen the entire Group's international competitiveness. Specifically, we promote dispatch of employees overseas for study or training, and conduct the Overseas Challenge Club for young people as a program for enhancing language skills and intercultural understanding by inviting teachers who are native speakers. In addition, we conduct short-term training in Japan for overseas group company employees and lectures by overseas group company managers, in an effort to promote mutual understanding among executives and employees and cultivation of a corporate culture that enhances the value of human capital and creates synergy for the entire Group. Lecture by John D. Johns, Chairman and CEO䚷Protective Life Please see the Dai-ichi Life website for details. Dai-ichi Life website (Global Diversity) 㻟㻜 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRUDQ$FFRPPRGDWLQJ:RUN(QYLURPHQWٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Work-Life Balance In order to create an environment that encourages the realization of diversity and inclusion at the domestic life insurance group, we are committed to promoting work-life balance in two core ways: enriching our Family-Friendly System and working to transform work styles. Please see the Dai-ichi Life website for details. Dai-ichi Life website (Work-Life Balance) Promotion of Work-Life Balance (Image) LGBT Friendly In addition to clearly laying out respect for basic human rights in the Dai-ichi Life Human Rights Declaration, we push forward initiatives aimed at becoming an LGBT*-friendly company as part of our effort to promote diversity and inclusion. Please see the Dai-ichi Life website for details. Dai-ichi Life website (LGBT Friendly, Japanese) Participation in Tokyo Rainbow Pride Parade * Normalization: The concept that it is normal for society to fully include both people with disabilities and those without, respecting and supporting each other, and living together in harmony with each other and with the community. * LGBT: An acronym representing Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender persons. 㻟㻝 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU6RFLHW\DQG(QYLURQPHQWٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Society Society Environment Basic Policy -Solving Social Challenges by the Dai-ichi Life GroupThrough its life insurance business with a highly social and public nature, the Dai-ichi Life Group aims to grow continuously together with local and international communities as a good corporate citizen while helping them build a safe and comfortable lifestyle and society. The Group strives to solve social challenges by providing its unique value mainly through the utilization of its unique know-how and resources under the three themes associated with the life insurance business. Countries around the world each have their own health challenges. In developed countries where the sustainability of the social security system is in question due to factors such as a rapidly declining birth rate and aging society and an increase in the number of people suffering from lifestyle-related diseases even amid modern lifestyles, some people are unable to receive adequate medical care because of poverty stemming Promoting from economic disparity. In addition, emerging and developing countries are facing serious problems such as the spread Health of infectious diseases caused by deteriorating sanitary conditions and the inability of their people to receive appropriate treatment due to economic reasons. People of all countries and ages wish to live a healthy life, which leads to the future development of those countries. The Group will deliver peace of mind in the form of good health to customers through life insurance by putting customers’ health first. The affluent next-generation society the Group is aiming to realize is a society in which anyone can receive the necessary education and enjoy culture and arts in a living environment abounding with greenery while sharing affluence in various aspects which forms the foundation for growth of society. Life insurance is a rare product that enables the company to have a long-term relationship with customers that may last Creating an several decades. In some cases the company moves forward together with customers for generations. The Group will Affluent strive to support child-rearing and the development of youth who will be the leaders of the next generation, in an effort to Next-Generation create and also develop a sustainable society. Society 㻟㻞 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU6RFLHW\DQG(QYLURQPHQWٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Global warming is a global issue that has a serious impact on people’s lives in the form of abnormal weather conditions and natural disasters, also significantly affecting the Dai-ichi Life Group’s business. The Group carries out resource conservation and energy conservation as environmental preservation initiatives, and provides subsidies and awards to promote afforestation and greening activities. In addition, we continue initiatives that Environmental contribute to environmental preservation from many angles mainly through environmentally friendly real estate investment. Preservation Targets and Progress (Society and Environment) The targets and progress of Dai-ichi Life are as follows. Effort Index Explanation of the Index Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Target 2013 2014 2015 Percentage of volunteer Percentage of departments 39.7% 50.0% 65.4% Fiscal 2016 activity involvement (head office) in which 50% or 70% more of employees participated in volunteer activities Specific Activities Cooperation with Local Governments Japan is said to lead the world as a nation confronted with various issues because it faces a wide range of social issues. The issues and their severity vary by region. Dai-ichi Life leverages its strength of having approximately 1,300 unit offices and approximately 40,000 Total Life Plan Designers in all 47 prefectures across Japan to solve issues facing each region. In the health field, we have concluded cancer awareness agreements with local governments in 41 prefectures (as of June 2016) under which Total Life Plan Designers provide health and medical information to increase the number of people screened for cancer. In addition, amid a sharp rise in households comprising only elderly, we concluded agreements aimed at preventing the isolation of elderly so that elderly can live with peace of mind in communities where they have called home for so long. We have established a system under which a Total Life Plan Designer cooperates with the local government whenever he or she notices something out of the ordinary with an elderly household. Furthermore, employees who have taken the Dementia Supporter Development Class and gained knowledge for deepening their understanding of dementia also carry out activities to deal with patients with dementia. Other than that, we have established a cooperation system with local governments in a wide range of fields, including promoting work-life balance for companies and employees and activities to alert them about bank transfer scams. We have concluded a comprehensive partnership agreement with Hokkaido, Yamagata Prefecture, Kanagawa Prefecture and Mie Prefecture (as of June 2016) and conduct a host of activities in response to various issues of each region. Going forward, we will continue working to solve local issues together with local governments. Chiba SSK Project Card Cancer Information Leaflet by Prefecture (Image) (Project for Preventing the Isolation of Elderly) 㻟㻟 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU6RFLHW\DQG(QYLURQPHQWٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Initiatives to Support Child-Rearing Since 2011, the Dai-ichi Life Group has been working to attract daycare and nursing facilities to open in the real estate properties it owns for the purpose of expanding acceptance of children waiting for enrollment in daycare and nursing facilities. Furthermore, given the serious shortage of after-school care programs, referred to as the barriers of first grade and fourth grade, in recent years, we have also been making efforts to invite after-school day-care centers* since 2016. In addition, since 2013, the Dai-ichi Life Foundation has been providing subsidies to newly established daycare and nursing facilities for purchasing playground equipment and other items with a view to providing children quality daycare. Besides that, the Group is making concerted efforts for full-scale operation by initiatives such as continuous support through employee volunteer activities at the facilities it invited and subsidized, and collaboration and support with local governments to leverage throughout Japan successful examples of our advancement of female employees and activities to promote work-life balance. The measures taken by the Group to deal with the declining birthrate, which also affects the life insurance business, aim at striking a balance between its core business and solving social challenges, such as contributing to improving business revenue including real estate rental revenue and stemming the falling birthrate. Going forward, the Group will comprehensively utilize its various resources to more effectively tackle issues. * This initiative is the first of its kind in the life insurance industry in Japan (according to our research). Uchu Daycare Kamakura in the Kamakura Dai-ichi Life Building Employee volunteer activities in the facility Network with Professional Medical Organizations Dai-ichi Life has established a first-class information network in the insurance industry with professional medical organizations for the purpose of providing customers a wide range of medical information including correct knowledge and prevention methods of diseases. Specifically, we collaborate with professional organizations specializing in the three major illnesses (cancer, acute myocardial infarction, and stroke) and dementia, and geriatrics and gerontology to provide high-quality information through sales activities of Total Life Plan Designers, health seminars organized by the company, and consultation services for policyholders. Going forward, we will continue to make efforts so that customers can lead healthy lives through the company’s activities. Cancer seminar Investment in Social Contribution-type Bonds Dai-ichi Life invests in social contribution-type bonds as part of ESG investment and lending. Following investment (approximately USD100 million) in the Inclusive Business Bonds*1 issued by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) in fiscal 2014, Dai-ichi Life purchased the entire amount (approximately USD50 million) of EYE Bonds*2 issued by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) in July 2015 as it supports IDB’s principle which aims at improving productivity and the lives of youth through education and employment support in Latin America and the Caribbean. Furthermore, in December 2015, Dai-ichi Life purchased the entire amount (approximately USD100 million) of the world’s first Microfinance bonds *3 issued by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) for institutional investors. By financially supporting the initiatives of international development financial institutions through investment in such social contribution-type bonds, Dai-ichi Life has found great social significance as an institutional investor. 㻟㻠 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU6RFLHW\DQG(QYLURQPHQWٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Image of project supported by Inclusive Business Bonds Image of project supported by EYE Bonds *1 Inclusive business is an economically and socially sustainable business model with potential for scale that integrates low-income groups of the world into the business value chain. Inclusive Business Bonds were issued for the first time in the world for institutional investors, and the funds raised are provided as loans to the Inclusive Business Program led by IFC. *2 Funds raised by EYE Bonds are provided as loans to EYE projects aimed at supporting (1) education, (2) youth, and (3) employment in Latin America and the Caribbean. *3 Funds raised by Microfinance bonds are used for investment in and lending to micro or small-sized enterprises in developing countries which have difficulty in receiving adequate funding from private financial institutions. Initiatives for InsTech The Dai-ichi Life Group coined the term InsTech as a name for its initiatives to create innovation unique to the life insurance business from both Insurance business and Technology perspectives and makes Groupwide efforts to promote InsTech as a top-priority strategic issue. As part of this effort, we analyze medical big data and other information, including information of approximately 10 million customers held by Dai-ichi Life, which leads to the development of further risk-segmented products and promotion of health of subscribers. This enables us to push ahead with development of new products that contribute to healthier and longer lives. In August 2015, Neo First Life developed the non-smoker discount rider as the first initiative in the hope of supporting efforts to quit smoking, which is one of the elements in promoting health. In March 2016, Neo First Life developed the health discount rider as the second initiative in the hope of helping many customers live healthier and longer through improvement and maintenance of the health condition of those with chronic illnesses. At the same time, Neo First Life started new services that lead to healthier and longer lives through initiatives promoting the health of customers, including providing the benefit of allowing policyholders to use the recipe site, Tanita Employee Cafeteria, free of charge for six months as a service promoting the health of policyholders and a hospital charge prepayment service as a benefit payment service. Going forward, we will continue working to develop products and services that help maintain and promote the health of society and customers by promoting InsTech initiatives. Click here for details Support to Rural Areas in Vietnam Since 2014 Dai-ichi Life Vietnam has been working on The Bridge Building Project – Million Bricks for a Happy Life in which concrete bridges are built in remote rural areas in Vietnam. In the rural areas in Vietnam, since simple wooden bridges are often used, the vulnerability of the bridges and also the safety of the people crossing the bridges when flooding occurs during the rainy season had been a concern. This project contributes to the improvement of approximately 20,000 local people’s lives in a total of 10 provinces. In addition, this project involves not only donation activities but also voluntary participation of more than 300 Dai-ichi Life Vietnam staff and financial consultants in actual construction of the bridges. These efforts were highly evaluated, and as a result, Dai-ichi Life Vietnam received the CSR Award (for the second time) in 2015. Bridge construction site * The Asia Insurance Industry Awards is the annually-held, largest contest of the Asian insurance industry, organized by the Asia Insurance Review, a prestigious insurance magazine in Asia based in Singapore. Dai-ichi Life Vietnam was the only company awarded the Corporate Social Responsibility Award among the life and non-life insurance companies. 㻟㻡 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU6RFLHW\DQG(QYLURQPHQWٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Educational Support in India Star Union Dai-ichi Life proactively works for the development of India’s next generation. In fiscal 2015, Star Union Dai-ichi Life repaired school facilities, supplied fixtures and equipment, and installed water supply facilities and computer rooms, as well as presented school supplies to students of schools in Mopuri and Borgaon. In addition, Star Union Dai-ichi Life provides annual tuition support to students in India, as well as educational support including donation of picture books to kindergartens and elementary schools. Presentation of school supplies Environmentally Friendly Real Estate Investment Click here for details Planting Mangrove Trees (Indonesia) Click here for details 㻟㻢 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU6RFLHW\DQG(QYLURQPHQWٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Initiatives for Arts, Music and Sports Arts VOCA Exhibition / Gallery Music NPO Triton Arts Network Salzburg Mozarteum Foundation Sports Dai-ichi Life All Japan Elementary School Student Tennis Tournament Dai-ichi Life Group Women’s Track & Field Team Championships 㻟㻣 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU6RFLHW\DQG(QYLURQPHQWٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Environment Society Environment Basic Policy Recognizing that, as a corporation, we have a social responsibility to help protect the global environment and build a recycling-oriented society, Dai-ichi Life works collectively to protect and conserve the environment and reduce environmental impacts based on our Group Action Principles for Environmental Initiatives. Given that environmental problems are a factor in people’s health, we see this objective as having a close affinity with our core business of life insurance. As a global insurance group, Dai-ichi Life intends to continue with its environmental initiatives to help achieve a sustainable society in which social and economic progress are in harmony with the global environment. Targets and Progress The table below lists the targets set by Dai-ichi Life and the progress it has made toward achieving them. Measure Definition FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Targets CO2 emissions Total CO2 emissions from the 144,000 141,000 137,500 154,560 *2 Company's investment t-CO2 t-CO2 t-CO2 t-CO2 in FY2017 property, business-use property, and welfare property*1 Total paper usage Total amount of paper used at 8,116t 6,509t 6,291t 6,388t *2 in FY2017 the Group companies (photocopy paper, pamphlets, policy illustration (policy overview), etc.) *1 Calculated based on the provisions of Article 7, paragraph 3 of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy ( Energy-saving Act ). Total emissions in each fiscal year have been recalculated by applying the fiscal 2009 coefficient. *2 Targets in the 2015-2017 Medium-term Environmental Effort Plan. The target for CO2 emissions was exceeded, and the Company continues to take steps to achieve further reductions. 38 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU6RFLHW\DQG(QYLURQPHQWٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Specific Activities Reducing CO2 Emissions To help prevent global warming, Dai-ichi Life is taking steps to cut its greenhouse gas emissions that include reducing energy use in its business activities. The company is engaged in Cool Biz and other ongoing group-wide energy efficiency initiatives, with a focus on rigorous measures to rationalize use of building facilities such as lighting and air conditioning. It is switching to energyefficient facilities and equipment that reduces the load on the environment in its new and refurbished buildings, including LED lighting and efficient air conditioners and heat storage systems. Reducing Paper Usage The Dai-ichi Life group uses a large number of printed and other documents in its activities. Accordingly, it is taking steps, both company-wide and all the way down to the level of individual employees, to cut its consumption of resources by reducing use of paper, increasing use of recycled paper, promoting green procurement of business consumables and other materials, and encouraging the recycling of waste. Steps aimed at reducing paper use include adopting electronic application forms and reducing the variety of paper-based documents, such as pamphlets and other material intended for customers and also in-house reports. In addition to use of projectors at company meetings to reduce the distribution of printed documents, Dai-ichi Life is also boosting efforts throughout the group aimed at reducing use of printer and copier paper, including the use of electronic documents in business processes and such voluntary reduction initiatives by executives and staff as making extensive use of double-sided copying and two-in-one printing. Policy guide – terms and conditions DVD (left) and use of DL Pad to fill out forms (right) Environmentally Conscious Real Estate Investing As the owner of 274 investment properties in Japan (as of March 2016), Dai-ichi Life is taking steps to save energy in terms of both its choice of building facilities and how they are used. In addition to installing efficient equipment to improve environmental performance in new buildings or when renovating or refurbishing, facilities-related initiatives also include striving to create greener buildings. In terms of routine building operation and management, energy savings are being achieved through ongoing improvements made in collaboration with management companies such as Dai-ichi Building. Tokyo Square Garden (Chuo-ku, Tokyo) Kyobashi no oka garden 㻟㻥 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU6RFLHW\DQG(QYLURQPHQWٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Mangrove Planting (Indonesia) Dai-ichi Life and Panin Dai-ichi Life have engaged in an environmental conservation program that involves planting mangrove seedlings. Other activities aimed at protecting the natural environment include sponsoring tree-planting organizations. Mangrove planting in progress 㻠㻜 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU+HDOWKٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Basic Policy The life insurance business that plays a role of complementing the social security system constitutes the core business of the Dai-ichi Life Group. We believe the Group's social responsibility is to enhance the sustainability of Japan's social security system by promoting public health. To this end, the Group takes initiatives that contribute to promoting health of people in local communities as well as engages in health management while deeming it important to promote the mental and physical health of employees. External Initiatives (for Customers and People in Local Communities) Basic Policy The Dai-ichi Life Group offers peace of mind through its primary business of life insurance and also takes various initiatives to extensively support customers and the public in promoting health from the position of complementing the social security system. Our Vision We aim to have the healthy life expectancy being extending by providing timely health-and-medical information and cooperating with local governments in promotion activities for preventing the three major illnesses and dementia and so on. In addition, we aim to solve national-scale problems such as stabilization of the social security system and suppression of medical expenses. The healthy life expectancy means average number of years that a person can expect to live a healthy and independently life in both mind and body. Extending the healthy life expectancy and shortening the difference between the average life span and the healthy life expectancy means to realize a longer and healthier life. 㻠㻝 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU+HDOWKٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV * Reference: The Committee on Regional Public Health Services and Health Promotion, Health Science Council of MHLW (October 1, 2014) Specific Initiatives Provision of information in cooperation with professional medical organizations and local governments We have concluded agreements with professional medical organizations and local governments of 41 prefectures (as of June 2016), and the Group's employees provide customers throughout Japan with the latest health and medical information. Each local government faces unique challenges, including the low cancer screening rates and the high mortality rates from the three major illnesses. To overcome these challenges, we hold seminars to educate people in local communities in cooperation with professional medical organizations and provide tools for preventing and educating them on such illnesses. Last year, we held 384 seminars across Japan, providing information to about 33,000 people. See here for details about initiatives concerning agreements with local governments. Educational activities in cooperation with local governments Provision of health and medical and nursing care services We provide advice and information on health, child care, and nursing care to Dai-ichi Life's customers via telephone and online 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Through this service, we endeavor to relieve customers' anxiety stemming from their daily lives by utilizing our information and network. Since December 2014, we have also expanded services targeted at seniors who are expected to continue increasing in the future. Leaflet on Service (Image) We provide information to customers under the following structure by taking the initiatives above. 㻠㻞 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU+HDOWKٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Internal Initiatives (for Employees) Basic Policy Promoting health has been positioned as an important management issue for the Dai-ichi Life Group so that the Group can fulfill its social responsibilities when responding to customers who are hoping to improve their health. This is based upon the awareness that Group officers and employees need to have a high level of personal interest in health and medical matters. Promoting health is carried out consistently in a top-down manner, from management to each workplace, using an organized structure for health productivity management promoting health management and clarifying the Group's management philosophy toward health. Targets and Progress The targets and progress of Dai-ichi Life are as follows. Effort Index Explanation of the Index Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Target *2 2013 2014 2015 Percentage of employees Percentage of employees with Men: Men: Men: Fiscal 2017 maintaining a desirable body a BMI*1 score of less than 25 69.8% 70.6% 70.7% Men:71.1% weight Women: Women: Women: Women:79.2% 77.9% 77.9% 77.5% Percentage of employees Percentage of employees Men: Men: Men: Fiscal 2017 doing regular exercise continuing more than 25.8% 34.7% 36.6% Men:36.8% 30-minute exercise twice or Women: Women: Women: Women:29.1% more per week for one year or 14.4% 27.1% 27.3% more Smoking rate Percentage of smokers Men: Men: Men: Fiscal 2017 31.9% 31.0% 30.7% Men:24.7% Women: Women: Women: Women:22.4% 27.7% 27.6% 26.5% 㻠㻟 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU+HDOWKٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV *1 BMI is the degree of obesity calculated from height and weight (BMI of 25 or more is classified as obesity). *2 Targets in the 2015-2017 Medium-term Effort Plan for Promoting Health (Percentage of employees doing regular exercise: A new target for fiscal 2016 has been adopted, as the target was exceeded for men.) The target is set by counting backward and dividing the target for 2022 in the Healthy Japan 21 (second campaign) of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare proportionally into the relevant periods. Specific Activities Initiatives for Undergoing Medical Checkup By thoroughly recommending the undertaking of further medical examinations ( secondary examinations ) after regular medical checkups, and by also thoroughly recommending the undertaking of special checkups and special health guidance sessions in response to metabolic syndrome, the Dai-ichi Life Group has worked to lower the prevalence of abnormal findings* discovered during the regular checkups of its employees. The Dai-ichi Life Group is also placing emphasis on encouraging its employees to undergo screening for various forms of cancer. In particular, as a result of mobile screening centers for breast cancer called, MammoBus, that have operated in approximately 320 locations nationwide, the employee screening rate is approximately 50%, twice of the national average. Prevalence of Abnormal Findings by Gender of the Dai-ichi Life Group (Statutory Items Only) * Prevalence of abnormal findings = Number of people identified as Requiring examination or Requiring detailed testing or Undergoing treatment / Total number of people undergoing medical checkups Lifestyle Improvement Initiatives At the Dai-ichi Life Group, health seminars and health indicator measurement gatherings are held for health issues of each office throughout Japan as an opportunity for employees to improve their lifestyles. In addition, as an anti-smoking initiative, we have expanded smoking-free day, which falls on the 22nd of every month as promoted by the Tobacco Control Medical-Dental Research Network * to include all days of the month with a two (2nd, 12th, 22nd). Activities include closing of some of the smoking rooms. Posters that highlight the importance of quitting smoking are also displayed to proactively raise awareness of quitting smoking. Since fiscal 2014, we have promoted a company-wide approach to health advancement that includes making one month in the fall of every year Dai-ichi Life health advancement month, during which the health advancement campaign and health events are held. For details, please see the Dai-ichi Life website. Dai-ichi Life website * Tobacco Control Medical-Dental Research Network website (Japanese) 㻠㻠 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU+HDOWKٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Initiatives for Health Advancement Month 㻠㻡 5HFRJQLWLRQIURP6RFLHW\ٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Finance Asia Best FIG DEAL Dai-ichi Life Kids Design Association 9th Kids Design Award KDA Chairman’s Award Dai-ichi Life (Inviting daycare facilities to open in buildings owned by Dai-ichi Life) HDI Help Desk Institute Japan HDI Help Desk Ranking 3-star certified Dai-ichi Life Daiwa Investor Relations Internet IR Award Excellence Award Dai-ichi Life Nikkei Business Publications, Inc. Survey on Female Workers’ Workplace Dai-ichi Life Opportunities: 1st among insurance, securities and other financial industries, 5th in overall ranking Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Obtained Platinum Kurumin certification Dai-ichi Life (certified by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare) Japan Industrial Association Companies and persons of merit commemorating the Dai-ichi Life 35th anniversary of the qualification system for Advisory Specialist for Consumers’ Affairs Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award Gender Equality Bureau Cabinet Award for leading companies in which women shine Dai-ichi Life Office The Minister of State for Special Missions Award Japan Women's Innovative Network 2016 J-Win Diversity Award First Prize of Company Dai-ichi Life Award, Advanced Category Toyo Keizai, Inc. CSR Corporate Ranking 4th among financial Dai-ichi Life institutions Nikkei Inc. Corporate ranking in Nikkei Environmental Dai-ichi Life Management Survey: 11th among financial institutions 㻠㻢 5HFRJQLWLRQIURP6RFLHW\ٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Organizer Assessment/Award Recipient Association of Consumer Affairs Consumer-Oriented Activities Award of the 1st Dai-ichi Life Professionals (ACAP) Commendation of Consumer-oriented Activities by ACAP (consumer education activities using consumer education materials) Japan Association for UNHCR Certificate of commendation for fundraising activities Dai-ichi Life to support refugees HDI Help Desk Institute Japan HDI Help Desk Ranking 5-star certified Neo First Life R&I R&I Fund Award 2016, 10th Year Special Prize, The DIAM Asset Management First Prize of Japanese Bond Fund received in DLIBJ Bond Open (Middle) and other 10 categories Morningstar Fund of the Year 2015, International-Stock Fund DIAM Asset Management Devision received in Medical Science Fund and one other category Lipper Lipper Fund Award 2016, Equity Japan Small and DIAM Asset Management Mid Caps, Best Fund Over 5 years received in DIAM Small Cap Fund and six other categories The Cincinnatti Enquirer Top Work Places Protective Life Birmingham Business Journal Birmingham's Healthiest Employers Protective Life American Heart Association Gold Fit Friendly Worksite Protective Life Smart Investor Blue Ribbon Awards Best Income Protection Policy 2015 TAL Canstar Accelerated Protection Outstanding Value Life TAL Insurance Australia Canstar Accelerated Protection Outstanding Value Income TAL Protection Canstar Accelerated Protection Term Life TAL Canstar Accelerated Protection Trauma TAL AB&F Life Insurance Company of the Year 2015 TAL Vietnam Young Entrepreneurs Top 100 best brands of Vietnam Gold Star 2015 Dai-ichi Life Vietnam Association award Vietnam Economic Times Golden Dragon Award 2015 Dai-ichi Life Vietnam Asia Insurance Review 19th Asia Insurance Industry Awards 2015 Dai-ichi Life Vietnam Corporate Social Responsibility Award 㻠㻣 5HFRJQLWLRQIURP6RFLHW\ٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Organizer Assessment/Award Recipient Investor 2015 The Best Life Insurance Company Panin Dai-ichi Life Infobank 2015 The Best Sharia Unit-Life Insurance Company Panin Dai-ichi Life Fintellect Life Insurance Company of the Year ~Small/Medium Star Union Dai-ichi Life Companies Category The Federation of Indian Chambers of The Winner in Unlisted Companies Private Sector Star Union Dai-ichi Life Commerce and Industry UBM India Giving Back 2015-CSR NGO Awards Star Union Dai-ichi Life Office of The Consumer Protection Outstanding Consumer Protection Contact Center Ocean Life Board 2015 The Ministry of Public Health in Employee Skill Development Award Ocean Life Thailand Lipper Lipper Fund Awards 2016 Janus Mixed-Asset Target Allocation Moderate Funds 10 Years Received in Janus Balanced Fund, D and two other categories American Financial Technology American Financial Technology Awards 2015 Janus Most Cutting-Edge IT Initiative 䛂eQuantum䛃 * The company names of organizers and recipients are at the time. Inclusion in the SRI Indices The Dai-ichi Life Holdings is included in domestic and overseas socially responsible investment (SRI) indices (stock price indices) such as the FTSE4Good Index Series (UK) and the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) (Japan) (as of October 2016). Dai-ichi Life has also been selected as a year book member in the Sustainability Year Book 2016 issued by RobecoSAM in January. Previous Recognition 2014 2013 㻠㻤 3DUWLFLSDWLRQLQ([WHUQDO,QLWLDWLYHVٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV The United Nations Global Compact comprises 10 principles on human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption, proposed by the then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan. It encourages participating companies to behave as good members of society, aiming to achieve sustainable growth. Dai-ichi Life endorsed the principles and joined the initiative in May 2014. UN Global Compact's 10 principles UN Global Compact Women's Empowerment Principles (WEPs) The Women's Empowerment Principles (WEPs) are a set of principles of corporate behavior created jointly by UN Women, a UN organization working for gender equality and women's empowerment, and the UNGC. The WEPs specify the development of labour and social environments in which women are able to fulfill their potential and improve their abilities, with their efforts fairly appraised. Dai-ichi Life endorsed the principles and signed a Statement of Support for the Women's Empowerment Principles in December 2012. Women's Empowerment Principles The United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) The United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) is an international network of financial institutions aiming at sustainable development that comprises financial institutions. It seeks to achieve economic development and sustainable development where the environment and sustainability are compatible, and promotes various business operations and services of financial institutions that take such aim into account. In the Dai-ichi Life Group, TAL endorsed the initiative and signed the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) of this initiative. The United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative 㻠㻥 3DUWLFLSDWLRQLQ([WHUQDO,QLWLDWLYHVٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) The Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) declare that insurance companies will consider ESG issues in their business operations and were established by the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) in June 2012. In the Dai-ichi Life Group, TAL endorsed and signed the principles. Principles for Sustainable Insurance The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) is an initiative that advocates the incorporation of Environmental, Society and Governance (ESG) issues by institutional investors into their investment decision-making process with a view to realizing a sustainable society. In the Dai-ichi Life Group, four companies including Dai-ichi Life, Asset Management One, and Janus Capital Management LLC endorsed and signed the principles. The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment Montreal Carbon Pledge Montreal Carbon Pledge is a new initiative for reducing greenhouse gas emissions (CO2e) that was established in September 2014 at the annual meeting held by the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) in Montreal, Canada. Institutional investors who endorsed the pledge need to understand and disclose greenhouse gas emissions of part or all of the stock portfolios they manage themselves. In the Dai-ichi Life Group, Asset Management One endorsed the pledge. Montreal Carbon Pledge Principles for Financial Action Towards a Sustainable Society (Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century) The Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century provide action guidelines for the overall CSR of financial institutions wishing to play a role and take responsibilities necessary for the formation of a sustainable society. Dai-ichi Life participated in the development of the principles as a member of the draft committee and signed up in November 2011. In addition, Neo First Life endorsed and signed the principles. Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century Corporate Governance Code Corporate governance is a structure for transparent, fair, timely and decisive decision-making by companies, taking into account the perspectives of shareholders and customers, employees and local communities, among others. The Corporate Governance Code aims at the development of companies, investors and the economy as a whole through the promotion of self-motivated actions of companies so that they achieve sustainable growth and enhance corporate value over the mediumto long-term. In order to establish sound and highly transparent corporate governance and 㻡㻜 3DUWLFLSDWLRQLQ([WHUQDO,QLWLDWLYHVٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV appropriately govern group companies, Dai-ichi Life Holdings has formulated the Corporate Governance Policy based on the Corporate Governance Code in an effort to achieve sustainable growth of companies. To see the Corporate Governance Code, click here ('DLLFKL/LIH+' website link). Japan ExchDnge Group (Corporate Governance) Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors (Japan’s Stewardship Code) Japan’s Stewardship Code states that “stewardship responsibilities” refers to the responsibilities of institutional investors to enhance the mediumto long-term investment return for their clients and beneficiaries (including ultimate beneficiaries) by improving and fostering the investee companies’ corporate value and sustainable growth through constructive engagement, or purposeful dialogue, based on in-depth knowledge of the companies and their business environment. In the Dai-ichi Life Group, two companies including Dai-ichi Life and Asset Management One agree with and publicly accept the Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors. To see Dai-ichi Life's Initiatives under Japan's Stewardship, click here (Dai-ichi Life website link). To see Asset Management One's Initiatives under Japan's Stewardship, click here (Japanese). Financial Services Agency, The Japanese Government (Japan’s Stewardship Code) The Industrial Federation for Human Rights,Tokyo The Industrial Federation for Human established in November 1979, and now consists of 125 companies (as of May 2016), most of which are headquartered in Tokyo. Under its basic philosophy of voluntary management and full participation, the federation actively tries to resolve the issue known as Dowa, a discrimination issue in Japan, and other human rights issues. Dai-ichi Life endorses and participates in their initiative. Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation (KCNC) Keidanren One Percent Club Council for Better Corporate Citizenship (CBCC) The Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation (KCNC) provides financial support to NPOs/NGOs working on the conservation of biodiversity and nature through the Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund (KNCF), as well as promotes companies' awareness, and exchange and cooperation with NPOs/NGOs. The Keidanren One Percent Club provides information on social contribution activities carried out by companies to promote social contribution activities by companies, and acts as a coordinator for cooperation among companies and NPOs/NGOs. The Council for Better Corporate Citizenship (CBCC) is an organization established by Keidanren that holds lectures and other events pertaining to CSR, promotes exchanges and collaboration with overseas CSR-related organizations, and conducts studies and research by dispatching delegates abroad. Dai-ichi Life endorses and participates in these organizations. Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation Keidanren One Percent Club -DSDQHVHRQO\ Council for Better Corporate Citizenship 㻡㻝 3DUWLFLSDWLRQLQ([WHUQDO,QLWLDWLYHVٜ*URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\DQG0DWHULDO,VVXHV Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership The Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership was established in October 2010 upon the 10th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity by businesses operators who endorsed the Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership Action Policy, as well as economic organizations, NPOs/NGOs, governments and other parties who have the intention of supporting the initiatives of such business operators. In the Dai-ichi Life Group, three companies, namely Dai-ichi Life, Neo First Life and Dai-ichi Life Research Institute, endorse and participate in the partnership. Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership KENKO Enterprise Group The KENKO Enterprise Group was established in June 2015 by companies actively working to promote employee's health advancement through the leadership of their executive management. The goal of this group is to unite the efforts of participating companies to address common health advancement themes and increase the level of efforts through mutual benchmarking. Through the provision of information based on activities not only to member companies but also to non-member companies, this group seeks to contribute to extending the healthy life expectancy of Japan as a whole. Dai-ichi Life endorses and participates in this initiative. 㻡㻞 &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFHٜ*RYHUQDQFH Corporate Governance Policy (194KB) PDF 㻡㻟 &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFHٜ*RYHUQDQFH Conduct of Business Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Dai-ichi Life Holdings is responsible for making important business decisions and supervising the conduct of business. To strengthen business management, outside directors have been appointed who are independent of the conduct of business. The Board of Directors meets monthly or as needed. To improve management transparency, an Nomination Advisory Committee and Remuneration Advisory Committee made up of the Chairman of the Board, President, and external appointees have been established under the Board of Directors. The Nomination Advisory Committee is responsible for assessing the qualifications of candidates for directorships and deliberating on the appointment and removal of directors and executive officers, and also for assessing the independence of external officers appointed by the company based on independence criteria. The Remuneration Advisory Committee is responsible for deliberating on the remuneration system for directors and executive officers. An advisory board made up of company management and employees has also been established as an independent body with aims that include strengthening and expanding governance and increasing corporate value by obtaining direct advice on a variety of subjects and from a variety of perspectives based on a mediumto long-term perspective on all aspects of the business with reference to external conditions. 㻡㻠 &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFHٜ*RYHUQDQFH and also for assessing the independence of external officers appointed by the company based on independence criteria. The Remuneration Advisory Committee is responsible for deliberating on the remuneration system for directors and executive officers. An advisory board made up of company management and employees has also been established as an independent body with aims that include strengthening and expanding governance and increasing corporate value by obtaining direct advice on a variety of subjects and from a variety of perspectives based on a mediumto long-term perspective on all aspects of the business with reference to external conditions. Number of directors 18 Number of directors on Audit & Supervisory Committee 5 (as of October 1, 2016) Number of outside directors 6 Number of outside directors on Audit & Supervisory Committee 3 (as of October 1, 2016) Number of board meetings 19 (FY2015) List of directors Self-evaluation by Board of Directors To underpin the effectiveness of decision-making by the Board of Directors, the board uses self-evaluation and other techniques to undertake an annual review of the efficiency of its meeting practices and effectiveness of its decision-making, and reports a summary of the results. In FY2015, the directors and auditors on the Board of Directors (excluding the Chairman of the Board and President (CEO)) undertook a self-assessment questionnaire involving third-party evaluation that focused primarily on the activities and deliberations of the Board of Directors. The results of the FY2015 evaluation are available in an attached file. An ongoing program is in place to improve the effectiveness of the Board of Directors by working through the PDCA improvement cycle, including by administering additional questionnaires to further improve the activities and deliberations of the Board of Directors. Result of the self-assessment survey in 2015 (98KB) PDF Conduct of business An executive officer system has been adopted to separate decision-making and supervision from the conduct of business and to strengthen functions. Executive officers are appointed by the Board of Directors and conduct business in accordance with the authority delegated to them by the Board of Directors. The Executive Management Board made up of the president and executive officers appointed by the president meets twice monthly to discuss important management issues and business decisions. Audit & Supervisory Committee The Audit & Supervisory Committee confirms and verifies the effectiveness with which directors execute their duties (including how they manage subsidiaries and other affiliates as well as other matters) and monitor their legality and appropriateness. To collect the information needed to confirm and verify effectiveness, their activities include directing reporting by internal audit and internal governance departments, participating in important meetings, canvasing the views of officers and staff, and reviewing important documents. Audit & Supervisory Committee members provide oversight of the Board of Directors by formulating and expressing views on matters such as director appointments and remuneration through activities such as sitting on the Nomination Advisory Committee and Remuneration Advisory Committee The staff who provide administrative support for the activities of the Audit & Supervisory Committee are assigned to the Audit & Supervisory Committee's Center, and the independence of these staff from the Board of Directors is maintained by having the Audit & Supervisory Committee deal with their evaluation and other employment matters. 㻡㻡 &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFHٜ*RYHUQDQFH Number of Audit & Supervisory Committee members 5 (as of October 1, 2016) Number of Outside Audit and Supervisory Board 3 (as of October 1 2016) Members Number of Audit & Supervisory Committee meetings 16 (FY2015) 㻡㻢 &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFHٜ*RYHUQDQFH Reasons for appointing outside directors and their activities Role Name Reasons for appointment Activities during FY2015 He has many years of experience at administrative institutions and specialist knowledge of corporate and economic ethics, and serves in a management oversight role as well as offers forthright opinions and suggestions on all aspects of management from an Attended 19 of 19 Outside director Haruo Funabashi objective perspective at the Board of Directors and board meetings elsewhere. Accordingly, he was appointed as an outside director on the basis that he could put his experience and other skills to use in the oversight of company management. In addition to being an expert in human resource development and corporate governance in global business, he also has extensive experience as a corporate manager at financial institutions, offering knowledgeable insights and extensive experience as an outside director of other companies and serving in Attended 16 of 16 Outside director George Olcott a management oversight role as well as offering board meetings forthright opinions on all aspects of management from a global and objective perspective at the Board of Directors and elsewhere. Accordingly, he was appointed as an outside director on the basis that he could put his experience and other skills to use in the oversight of company management. He was appointed as an outside director on the basis that he could serve in a management oversight role as well as offer forthright opinions on all aspects of management from a global and objective perspective Outside director Kouichi Maeda at the Board of Directors and elsewhere, having knowledgeable insight and extensive experience as a corporate manager of a company with a strong public service component. With extensive experience as a lawyer and as an outside auditor at other companies with a high level of expert knowledge, she serves in a management oversight role as well as offers forthright opinions, Outside director especially regarding legal matters, from an objective Attended 16 of 16 Audit & Supervisory Rieko Sato perspective at the Board of Directors and elsewhere. board meetings Committee member Accordingly, she was appointed as an outside director and Audit & Supervisory Committee member on the basis that she could put her experience and other skills to use in the oversight and governance of 㻡㻣 &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFHٜ*RYHUQDQFH Role Name Reasons for appointment Activities during FY2015 company management. Offering knowledgeable insights and extensive experience as a corporate manager at financial institutions, he serves in a management oversight role as well as offers forthright opinions on all Outside director aspects of management from a global and objective Attended 16 of 16 Audit & Supervisory Shu Ungyong perspective at the Board of Directors and elsewhere. board meetings Committee member Accordingly, he was appointed as an outside director and Audit & Supervisory Committee member on the basis that he could put his experience and other skills to use in the oversight and governance of company management. He was appointed as an outside director and Audit & Supervisory Committee member on the basis that he could serve in a management oversight and auditing role as well as offer forthright opinions, especially Outside director regarding financial matters, from an objective Audit & Supervisory Koichi Masuda perspective at the Board of Directors and elsewhere, Committee member having extensive experience as a certified accountant and a high level of expert knowledge, and also extensive experience as an outside director (and member of audit and other committees) and outside auditor at other companies. Remuneration of officers Basic policy The basic policy on decisions regarding the remuneration of company officers is as follows. Maintain the transparency, fairness, and objectivity of officer remuneration. Use performance pay to strengthen incentives for improving business performance. Achieve accountability by paying remuneration in accordance with the degree to which company performance indicators chosen on the basis of management strategy are achieved to share returns with shareholders. Use remuneration rates at other comparable companies (based on industry type) as a benchmark when determining specific remuneration amounts to decide whether the amounts are appropriate. In this case, take account of the level of remuneration paid to other company officers and employees and to officers and employees at other companies in industry associations to which Dai-ichi Life belongs. Policy on officer remuneration amounts and how to choose methods for calculating these amounts Officer remuneration for company directors (excluding directors on the Audit & Supervisory Committee and outside directors) is made up of a base amount, an amount tied to company performance, an amount tied to department performance, and remuneration in the form of stock options. In the case of outside directors (excluding directors on the Audit & Supervisory Committee), remuneration is in the form of a base amount only. The amount of remuneration in these cases shall be set using third-party surveys and other information on management remuneration at Japanese 㻡㻤 &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFHٜ*RYHUQDQFH companies. This policy shall be decided by the Board of Directors in consultation with the Remuneration Advisory Committee. Remuneration for Audit & Supervisory Committee members shall be in the form of a base amount only and the level of remuneration shall be set using third-party surveys and other information on management remuneration at Japanese companies. Total remuneration for each category of company officer, totals for each type of remuneration, and the number of officers to which they were paid. * FY2015 (current) remuneration amounts at Dai-ichi Life and number of officers to which they were paid. Each category Total Total remuneration for each category number of remuneration (Unit: Millions of yen) Board (Unit: Millions Members of yen) Basic Stock Bonuses Retirement Other remuneration options benefits Directors (excluding 680 549 124 7 11 Outside Directors) Audit and Supervisory Board Members (excluding Outside Audit 69 69 0 2 and Supervisory Board Members) Outside Directors and Audit and Supervisory 101 101 8 Board Members Total consolidated remuneration for each officer Not listed as no officers received total consolidated remuneration exceeding 100 million yen. Important employee payments to employees and executives No items in this category. Remuneration limits set in articles of association or at shareholders meeting Directors 840 million yen (per year) (of which no more than 200 million yen may be in the form of director stock options) Audit and supervisory board members 168 million yen (per year) Independence Standards for Outside Directors As part of its approach to strengthening corporate governance, Dai-ichi Life has established its own standards to determine the independence of its outside directors. Independence Standards for Outside Directors (85KB) PDF 㻡㻥 &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFHٜ*RYHUQDQFH Information Disclosure Basic Information Disclosure Policy Dai-ichi Life believes in measures to strengthen corporate governance (a key item which is recognized and by which we are judged), by disclosing information in a timely and appropriate manner, as well as increasing the transparency of management to society, customers, shareholders and investors. We have established a basic policy of information disclosure, in addition to the internal company regulations on publication disclosure when inappropriate events occur. Basic Information Disclosure Policy 1. We disclose information in accordance with the provisions of the Securities Listing Regulations of the Tokyo Stock Exchange as well as the Financial Products and Exchange Laws, and other laws and regulations. 2. In addition to the above, we disclose information that is determined to be important for society, customers, shareholders and investors, in a timely and appropriate manner. 3. We are committed to fair information disclosure for society, customers, shareholders and investors. Enhancing Information Disclosure The Company will work to further enhance information disclosure in accordance with the Basic Information Disclosure Policy. News Release 㻢㻜 &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFHٜ*RYHUQDQFH Equity holdings other than those held solely for the purpose of investment Possession of The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited (As of March 31, 2016) Equity holding excluding those held solely for the purpose of investment (Possession of The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited) Number of companies 8 Sum of carrying amount 215.4 billion yen Equity holding for specified purpose Company Name Number of share holding Carrying Amount (thousands of shares) (billions of yen) Resona Holdings, Inc. 125,241 51.4 Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 255,691 45.2 Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Holdings, Inc. 5,734 18.6 Equity holding contributed to the retirement benefit trust Company Name Number of share holding Carrying Amount (thousands of shares) (billions of yen) Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Holdings, Inc. 4,492 14.3 Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 69,208 11.6 (Note) The information is an extract from the Company's securities report (unofficial translation). For detail, please refer to the Company's securities report (Japanese only). 㻢㻝 ,QWHUQDO&RQWUROٜ*RYHUQDQFH Internal Control Dai-ichi Life has a Internal Control Policy that stipulates the core philosophies and implementation policies for internal control. The group internal control policy stipulates the core requirements for the establishment and operation of internal control to ensure the integrity and appropriate conduct of business activities at the Dai-ichi Life Group and to maintain and build corporate value. Internal Control Policy for the Dai-ichi Life Group 1. System for Ensuring Proper Operations within the Group 2. System for Ensuring Execution of Professional Duties in Accordance with Applicable Laws, Regulations and the Articles of Incorporation 3. System for Risk Management 4. System for Ensuring Efficient Execution of Professional Duties 5. System for Ensuring Appropriateness and Reliability of Financial Reporting 6. System for Preserving and Managing Information Concerning Execution of Directors' and Executive Officers’ Duties 7. Systems for the Execution of Duties of the Audit and Supervisory Committee 8. Systems for Ensuring Effective Internal Audits Click here for more information about the group Internal Control Policy (114KB) PDF 㻢㻞 ,QWHUQDO&RQWUROٜ*RYHUQDQFH Compliance The Dai-ichi Life Group understands that complying with laws and regulations, its Articles of Incorporation, social standards, and rules in the market is the basis for conducting business activities. To fulfill its social responsibilities and public mission, the Company is developing systems to promote compliance in the group's operations. Policies and Regulations Our Internal Control Policy for Dai-ichi Life Group includes basic matters concerning the development and management of a group compliance system. Under this basic policy, matters such as the basic approach to the promotion of group compliance are outlined in Basic Compliance Policy for Dai-ichi Life Group, and specific approval and reporting systems as well as the management method are outlined in Compliance Regulations for Dai-ichi Life Group. In addition, the Company has established the DSR Charter as corporate action principles to continually meet the expectations of customers, society, shareholders, investors and employees for the purpose of contributing to the building of a sustainable society. Organizational Systems The Company is endeavoring to develop and strengthen its compliance system as a Group, taking into account the attributes of each group company, by establishing a Compliance Unit. In addition to regularly convening to monitor the status of group companies, the Group Compliance Committee is developing a system under which it receives reports on important matters concerning compliance from each company and consults with the Executive Management Board, the President, and the Board of Directors as required. The Group is also taking appropriate actions as a Group, such as providing guidance and support to enhance the compliance framework of each group company. The Company has also established a hotline within Dai-ichi Life Holdings (in the Compliance Unit) and a consultation service (with outside lawyers) in accordance with the Whistleblower Protection Act to act as a channel through which employees from the Group can directly report and consult on compliance matters. The Company operates these systems with full respect for privacy so that those who duly blow the whistle or consult are not subject to unfavorable treatment resulting from their whistleblowing or consultation. 㻢㻟 ,QWHUQDO&RQWUROٜ*RYHUQDQFH Compliance Promotion At the Dai-ichi Life Group, group companies set out annual plans such as a Compliance Program in accordance with the issues identified for each fiscal year and take initiatives for each issue based on such plans, as well as check the status of execution appropriately and revises issues to promote compliance in a plan-do-check-action (PDCA) cycle. In addition, each company enhances education and training to deepen knowledge of laws and regulations and internal rules and awareness of compliance. 㻢㻠 ,QWHUQDO&RQWUROٜ*RYHUQDQFH Risk Management To ensure sound and proper business operations and to ensure that we fulfill the obligations arising from our insurance policies, we identify and evaluate potential risks, take appropriate action based on the specific characteristics of each risk and comprehensively manage those risks. We are committed, on a company-wide basis, to improving soundness through the management and control of the financial base, including risk volume and capital. We have also established a crisis management system and a risk management system to respond to catastrophes and large-scale disasters in addition to our everyday risk management system. Policies and Regulations Our Internal Control Policy for Dai-ichi Life Group and Basic Internal Control Policy include our basic philosophy and policies regarding risk management. The approach used to manage each type of risk is developed in line with our series of Basic Risk Management Policies. In addition, each of the risk management regulations and standards is translated into practical rules, following our series of Basic Risk Management Policies. Organization To ensure the integrity and appropriate conduct of the group, the risk management unit coordinates and implements group-wide policies for risk management in accordance with the group risk management guidelines. The risk management unit also plays a central role in monitoring and controlling the status and integrity of risk management across the group, while also seeking to improve how risk management is exercised. There is also a group ERM committee that sits regularly to formulate risk management policy, monitor compliance, and conduct studies aimed at improving how risk management is exercised. The audit unit assesses the effectiveness and appropriateness of this risk management infrastructure. An audit committee conducts audits of all aspects of risk management at the group, including management personnel. 䈜1 Risk Management Unit coordinates with other units as appropriate. 䈜2 Dotted frame shows the entities which Audit & Supervisory Committee makes instruction to, and receives reporting from. 䈜3 Audit & Supervisory Committee and Internal Audit Unit coordinate with each other. 㻢㻡 ,QWHUQDO&RQWUROٜ*RYHUQDQFH ERM The Dai-ichi Life Group conducts enterprise risk management (ERM) whereby it undertakes its business activities based on business plans, capital strategy, and similar that reflect the current situation regarding capital, risk, and profits. The risk management unit assesses the suitability of business plans, capital strategy, and similar formulated as part of ERM, and also seeks to improve group risk management while also controlling capital, risk, and profits in an appropriate manner based on the presence, nature, and characteristics of risk through activities such as setting and managing margins for risk. The Dai-ichi Life Group controls the integrity of the group through activities such as consolidating different types of risk and making capital provision on an economic value, book value, and regulatory basis. The management of risk on the basis of economic value is conducted using embedded value (an indicator used by life insurance companies to represent corporate value) and coherent risk assessment techniques. To identify and evaluate aspects that are not captured by the model-based quantification of risk, stress testing is conducted using worst-case scenarios based on possible future events or actual past events, such as financial market panics or large natural disasters. This is then used as a basis for analyzing the factors that influence the integrity of the organization and reporting the results to the board of directors, executive management board, and others, and for considering and implementing management and financial measures and ways to improve monitoring of market and other conditions as required. Crisis Management System The Company has a Group Crisis Management Policy and is pursuing a variety of crisis management responses by comprehensively identifying and managing the Group’s crisis management status as well as developing a crisis management promotion system in normal times to prepare in advance for preventing crises and for reducing risks in preparation for expected crises. Specifically, we work to avert crises by proactively detecting concerns about a crisis and instructing and alerting group companies and units, in addition to requiring group companies to report events that may cause a crisis. In addition, in times of a crisis, we rapidly establish an initial response system, including a communication system, in order to promptly respond and accurately collect information during a crisis and to implement responses to resolve the crisis in cooperation with group companies. 㻢㻢 ,QWHUQDO&RQWUROٜ*RYHUQDQFH Ensuring Appropriate Operations at Group Companies Dai-ichi Life Holdings focuses on monitoring the supervision of decision making by the Boards of Directors and operational execution at group companies and confirms the status of operational execution. Furthermore, we develop the required internal regulations and rules in order to ensure appropriate business among group companies, and the departments responsible for internal control at group companies report on the status of business operations to bodies including the Board of Directors, Executive Management Board, and Internal Control Committee as necessary. 㻢㻣 ,QWHUQDO&RQWUROٜ*RYHUQDQFH Internal Control over Financial Reporting In accordance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, we have developed and implemented an internal control system over financial reporting. We prepare an internal control report which verifies that our internal control over financial reporting was effective, based on the results of assessments of the effectiveness of internal control regarding key processes related to financial reporting and financial report preparation system, and submit this report together with the annual securities report. In addition, to confirm the effectiveness of the internal control report, an internal control audit is conducted by an independent auditor. Dai-ichi Life Group accurately and appropriately prepares financial reports in compliance with the business accounting standards that are generally considered to be fair, such as the governing laws and regulations, generally accepted accounting principles and internal regulations. And we are concerned to make a tax paymant in compliance with the relevant tax laws. We will continue efforts to ensure the reliability of financial reporting going forward by evaluating the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. Overview of the Dai-ichi Life Group's Results; Tax payment, Ordinary profit and Ordinary revenues (On a combined basis of our primary group companies) Dai-ichi Life Group accurately and appropriately prepares financial reports in compliance with the business accounting standards that are generally considered to be fair, such as the governing laws and regulations, generally accepted accounting principles and internal regulations. And we are concerned to make a tax paymant in compliance with the relevant tax laws. Corporate income taxes-current Ordinary revenues Ordinary profit Note1: Sum of figures recorded in the Financial Results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 of the group companies. Note2: Group companies represents The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited, The Dai-ichi Frontier Life Insurance Co. Ltd., The Neo First Life Insurance Company, Limited, Protective Life Corporation, TAL Dai-ichi Life Australia Pty Ltd, Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company of Vietnam, Limited and The Dai-ichi Life Information Systems Co.,Ltd. 㻢㻤 ,QWHUQDO&RQWUROٜ*RYHUQDQFH Information Property Protection Statement of intent The Dai-ichi Life Group recognizes that compliance with laws and internal regulations, undertaking appropriate measures for information asset protection, and defending information assets from cyber attacks or internal misconduct is the fundamental prerequisite for gaining the trust of our shareholders and other stakeholders. Policies and other rules on keeping information safe The group's internal governance policy stipulates the core requirements for implementing practices that ensure the safekeeping of group information. This policy serves as the basis for the policy on group information safekeeping, the stipulations of which include the philosophies underlying the safekeeping of group information, and the rules on group information safekeeping that stipulate more specific approval and reporting systems and other management practices. In order to deal with the increasing ingenuity of cyber-attacks, we have set out Group Rules for Handling Cyber Incidents. Organizational infrastructure for information safekeeping Dai-ichi Life has established practices under which important matters relating to keeping information safe are dealt with by the Group Compliance Committee. An information safekeeping group has also been established within the compliance unit to provide a permanent organization for handling the safekeeping of information at group companies. In addition to providing advice and support as needed based on considerations such as the business activities of each group company and the quantity and nature of the information they hold, this information safekeeping group is also involved in implementing appropriate management practices for information safekeeping at these companies. The internal audit unit conducts regular internal audits of how well these measures are operating and reports their findings to the board of directors and executive management board. Implementation of information safekeeping practices In accordance with the laws of the relevant countries, Dai-ichi Life Group has established the policies for the safekeeping of information by introducing security measures where needed and appropriate in order to prevent leaks, loss, or tampering with personal information. Handling for requests for access to personal information, etc. If we receive a request such as for the disclosure of personal information belonging to a particular shareholder or other stakeholder, we shall immediately respond as appropriate after confirming that it is the individual in person or a legitimate proxy. Instructions on how to go about disclosure or other requests under the law on the protection of personal information are available on the websites of Dai-ichi Life and its group companies. Response to requests and similar Dai-ichi Life will respond promptly and appropriately to requests that relate to the handling of personal information. 㻢㻥 ,QWHUQDO&RQWUROٜ*RYHUQDQFH Handling of Antisocial Forces Basic Recognition All Dai-ichi Life Group's organizations are united in their resolve to reject any coercion from antisocial forces that threatens the order and security of civil society or that disrupts sound economic and social development or corporate activities. The Dai-ichi Life Group is fully committed to halting the development of any relationships with these forces in all of its transactions to prevent any damage from occurring. Policies, Regulations, etc. Associated with the Handling of Antisocial Forces In accordance with the Group Basic Policy on Handling of Antisocial Forces based on the Group Basic Internal Control Policy, which establishes basic approaches and policies to halt the development of any relationships with antisocial forces in order to prevent any damage, the Company has established Group Antisocial Forces Handling Regulations, strengthening its unified Group-wide stance towards eliminating antisocial forces. Systems for Handling Antisocial Forces The Company has designated the General Affairs Unit to be in charge of streamlining and strengthening systems to block the development of any relationships with antisocial forces or to prevent damage that may occur, taking into account the attributes of each company, in daily operations and has given guidance and support as required in taking an appropriate response as a group. The Group Antisocial Forces Handling Committee convenes regularly to monitor the status of group companies and receives reports on initiatives to eliminate antisocial forces from group companies as Group-wide responses. The Company has made preparations whereby in the event business with an antisocial force is identified, the matter is reported to a director or other officer in a timely and appropriate fashion and efforts are made to promptly cut off the ties in question. Top management is also appropriately involved through procedures including regular reporting to the Board of Directors concerning the handling status of efforts to sever ties with antisocial forces. In addition, to ensure that we have no relations with and to prevent damage related to antisocial forces, the Company is permanently committed to developing close cooperative systems with external specialist organizations, such as local police offices, the National Center for the Elimination of Boryokudan (Organized Crime Groups), and lawyers. 㻣㻜 ,QWHUQDO&RQWUROٜ*RYHUQDQFH Organizational Structure for Severing Relations with Antisocial Forces and Preventing Damage 㻣㻝 ,QWHUQDO&RQWUROٜ*RYHUQDQFH Internal Audit To ensure the financial soundness and appropriate business operations of the Group as a whole, the Internal Audit Unit of Dai-ichi Life Holdings conducts internal audits to assure that internal control framework and activities of the Group are appropriate and effective. The measures and practices necessary for ensuring effective internal audit have been put in place, including those for maintaining the independence of the Internal Audit Unit. Policies and rules Dai-ichi Life Holdings has stipulated the core philosophies and policies for internal audit in Internal Control Policy for Dai-ichi Life Group and Internal Audit Policy for Dai-ichi Life Group (the Internal Audit Policy ). Dai-ichi Life Holdings has also established Internal Audit Regulations for Dai-ichi Life Group in accordance with the Internal Audit Policy to define the principles of internal audit and to effectively and efficiently implement all the activities relating to Group’s internal audit. Organizational structure Dai-ichi Life Holdings has set up the Internal Audit Unit as an independent organization to ensure its effective checking function to other organizations. The Internal Audit Unit verifies and assesses the appropriateness and effectiveness of internal control framework and activities of the Group, identifies flaws, provides advice for improvement and reports to the Board of Directors, Executive Management Board, etc. on the results of internal audits. Reporting to the Audit Committee Dai-ichi Life Holdings has the Audit Committee in which external directors have a majority. The Internal Audit Unit conducts internal audits under audit policy, plans and perspectives of the Audit Committee, and reports to the Audit Committee on its internal audit plans and results. 㻣㻞 +XPDQ5LJKWV$ZDUHQHVVٜ*RYHUQDQFH Human Rights Awareness Basic Policy The Dai-ichi Life Group has adopted Dai-ichi's Social Responsibility Charter (DSR Charter) as values cherished by all employees and has declared that it would make efforts to respect human rights as an item in the DSR Charter. With this background, in May 2014 Dai-ichi Life announced its participation in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a UN framework for the UN and corporations to achieve sustainable growth. We will continually endeavor to develop employees who always think of others and take action in any situation based on a correct understanding and awareness of human rights. In addition, respect for human rights constitutes the management foundation of companies, and we will aim to become a company rooted in the value of respect for human rights in the pursuit of human happiness. Dai-ichi Life established the Dai-ichi Life Human Rights Declaration (Three Pillars of the Human Rights Declaration) in 1986. We also included matters concerning human rights in the Code of Conduct for employees in order to improve the awareness of employees towards human rights. Dai-ichi Life Three Pillars of the Human Rights Declaration 1. Dai-ichi Life respects basic human rights and makes efforts to foster freedom under the rule of law, equality, and a spirit of mutual aid. 2. Dai-ichi Life works to create employees that are not only corporate citizens, but first and foremost outstanding members of society. 3. Dai-ichi Life works to educate human resources so that they can correctly understand the corporate social responsibility and act accordingly. Dai-ichi Life's Code of Conduct (Excerpt) Employees shall make efforts to have a correct and deep understanding of human rights in general and to respect basic human rights as they fulfill their day-to-day duties. Employees shall not discriminate against others based on gender, age, nationality, race,ethnicity, religion, social status, disabilities, sexual orientation, or gender identity and any other reasons. Employees shall not conduct sexual harassment or power harassment. In addition, employees shall not allow others to conduct these types of acts. Click here (60KB) PDF for details about Dai-ichi Life's Code of Conduct. 㻣㻟 +XPDQ5LJKWV$ZDUHQHVVٜ*RYHUQDQFH Specific Initiatives Internal Initiatives Dai-ichi Life makes efforts to promote human rights awareness based on the view that respect for human rights constitutes the management foundation of companies. Human resources support companies, and it is vital to persistently and repeatedly take initiatives aimed at promoting human rights awareness of employees in order to deepen each employee's proper understanding and awareness of human rights issues and tie these into daily activities. Although human rights issues are wide-ranging, we strive to promote human rights awareness on as many occasions as possible, including training by affiliation targeting all employees as well as training for Human Rights Awareness Committee members, and training for newly hired employees particularly focusing on anti-discrimination against Burakumin, promotion of normalization, harassment prevention, and promotion of understanding of LGBT. In fiscal 2015, we conducted training to promote understanding of LGBT for all employees for the first time. Also in fiscal 2016, we set up the LGBT contact point for employees in establishing a system that allows employees to consult about anxieties and concerns related to work. We believe such support that enables each employee to engage in lively participation leads to respect for the diverse values of employees. We will seek to become a company that boosts productivity and achieves sustainable growth by firmly incorporating the value of respect to human rights into corporate actions through promotion of human rights awareness to employees. Human Rights Awareness External Initiatives Initiatives for Customers Dai-ichi Life takes various initiatives for diverse customers while cherishing the value of respect for human rights. Please see Dai-ichi Life's website for details. LGBT-Friendly (Japanese) External Activities Dai-ichi Life is a member of the Tokyo Industrial Federation for Human Rights, and also actively participates in workshops held by government agencies and organizations in an effort to contribute to human rights awareness within the company. 㻣㻠 6WDNHKROGHU&RPPXQLFDWLRQ Stakeholder Dialogue The Dai-ichi Life Group's Basic Approach The Dai-ichi Life Group holds a stakeholder dialogue every year to provide opportunities for two-way dialogue between outside experts and internal officers and employees as a means of reflecting various stakeholders' opinions in the Group's business activities. We invite experts in a wide range of fields and reflect their opinions and assessments in the Group's business activities taking into account the latest social conditions, with a view to taking high-quality initiatives. * The company name, the affiliation and position of employees and outsiders are at the time. 㻣㻡 6WDNHKROGHU'LDORJXHٜ6WDNHKROGHU&RPPXQLFDWLRQ To Strengthen Governance -Initiatives at Dai-ichi Life Group and the Roles of Outside DirectorsWe spoke with Mr. George Olcott, an outside director of Dai-ichi Life, about efforts to strengthen the governance of Japanese companies and Dai-ichi Life and the role of outside directors. Outline of the Stakeholder Dialogue Theme To Strengthen Governance -Initiatives at Dai-ichi Life Group and the Roles of Outside DirectorsStakeholder George Olcott, Outside Director * The affiliation and position are at the time when the dialogue was held for producing Annual Report (published in July, 2016). 㻣㻢 6WDNHKROGHU'LDORJXHٜ6WDNHKROGHU&RPPXQLFDWLRQ Q. Changing governance practices in Japan has recently been drawing considerable attention. How do you evaluate the governance of Japanese companies in general and that of Dai-ichi Life? A. I think that the governance reforms of Japanese companies are moving things in a better direction. In the past, a serious problem with Japanese boards emanated from the fact that the board consisted almost entirely of internal directors. As most important decisions relating to the company’s strategy and investments had been made separately at the executive board, the board of director’s role was merely to rubber stamp these decisions. Today, however, the culture of external oversight over the decision-making process is becoming more embedded thanks in large part to the introduction of the Corporate Governance Code. The introduction of two or more outside directors is spreading thanks to changes to the listing rules of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The increase in the number of outside directors from two to five in the previous fiscal year at Dai-ichi Life is a good example of its governance reforms. I believe that this has improved the transparency and objectivity of decision making. On the other hand, care needs to be taken in the selection of outside directors. A diverse and balanced board is essential for the promotion of objectivity and avoidance of bias. Outside directors should raise questions about agenda items from various perspectives and question the company executives until they are convinced that proposals made by executives are truly for the benefit of all stakeholders, but particularly shareholders. I think that through this process, management as a whole will move in the same direction. The outside directors of Dai-ichi Life are well balanced, including a lawyer, an experienced investment banker and a person with experience in financial authorities. Dai-ichi Life has a foreigner and two women. Although outside directors are not specialists in the life insurance industry, there is active debate at the board and we express opinions from our various perspectives based on our careers and other experiences. Q. What are your views on the role of an outside director? A. The role of an outside director is not to direct the strategy of the firm or make specific proposals at the board. The main responsibility of outside directors should be to ascertain that the company has clearly set a vision and mission, that this vision and mission makes sense and will increase corporate value and that it has the strategies to realize its vision and mission and the resources to support those strategies. Without full participation in the formulation of the company’s long term objectives and strategies, it is difficult for outside directors to make sense of the company’s investment plans and proposals, and to make a meaningful contributions when, for example, a specific M&A proposal is debated at the board. Therefore, it is also very important to hold discussions about not only individual projects, but to hold regular and thorough discussions on mediumto long-term strategies. Checking that the company has effective risk management systems and proper internal controls is also an important role. Q. What are other key governance issues for a global company? A. Among listed Japanese companies, the number of female outside directors has increased quite sharply in recent years, from 150 in 2001 to 816 in 2014. That number is still considerably lower than in almost all other OECD countries. However the number of foreign outside directors is still shockingly low and has barely increased, rising from 232 to only 274 out of approximately 40,000 directors of listed Japanese firms in the last 15 years. Diversity is still a major challenge facing Japanese companies, given the role of outside directors to bring diverse perspectives to board discussions. I also think that there is still considerable scope to reflect the voice of shareholders and investors in the management of Japanese companies in general. In the United Kingdom, there is a lead outside director, and a key role of the lead outside director is to have a clear understanding of how shareholders view the company. The lead director therefore needs to keep in close touch with institutional investors. Japan may not yet be ready for this system, but there are still many Japanese companies that do not give feedback on the results of IR activities, including those overseas, to the board of directors, and I think that this is an issue they should address. At Dai-ichi Life, board members receive regular updates on IR activities in Japan and overseas and it is important for the board of directors to continue to hold discussions where the expectations of shareholders and other stakeholders are truly reflected. I believe that Dai-ichi Life will enhance its international presence in the future. The more that presence increases, the stronger the governance system that will be required. It is important that the company continues its efforts to strengthen governance. Stakeholder Dialogue 㻣㻣 Specific Initiatives Collection of opinions and requests through various contacts with customers The Dai-ichi Life Group works to improve our products and services by proactively collecting opinions and requests through various contacts with customers such as Total Life Plan Designers (sales representatives), contact centers (call centers), insurance shops (consulting counters), our website, and agents. Dai-ichi Life Insurance Shops Roundtable Conference with Customers At Dai-ichi Life, we hold roundtable conferences with customers at branch offices on a regular basis so that we can listen to the opinions and requests of our customers directly for the purpose of improving our products and services. At actual roundtable conferences, we receive many requests and opinions concerning the Total Life Plan Report, product development, and response to elderly residents. In addition, the explanation of management by our executives has been well received by customers. We are intent on continuing enhancing the roundtable conferences and reflecting the feedback therefrom in improvements to our business operations. Customer Satisfaction Survey At Dai-ichi Life, we conduct a customer satisfaction survey to measure the degree to which we are attaining our goal of Maximize Customer Satisfaction, as set forth in our basic management policy. To be specific, we determine customer satisfaction through a survey performed by an outside agency, covering individual and corporate customers, and use the survey results for initiatives to improve customer satisfaction. We will continue understanding customer satisfaction and use our understanding for initiatives aimed at further improving customer satisfaction. 㻣㻤 Advisory Committee for Business Quality At Dai-ichi Life, we established the Advisory Committee for Business Quality in 2006 as an advisory board to the Quality Assurance Promotion Special Committee for receiving opinions from a consumer-based perspective. More specifically, we consult with the Advisory Committee for Business Quality on issues discussed at the Quality Assurance Promotion Special Committee, with the opinions obtained reflected in improvements to our business operations. The Benefits and Claims Payments Screening Committee was merged with the Advisory Committee for Business Quality in fiscal 2012 and now the committee also addresses matters concerning the management of insurance payouts. We will continue receiving opinions from a consumer-based perspective to further promote improvements to our business operations. Consumer Focus Group Program At Dai-ichi Life, we have been operating the Consumer Focus Group Program since 1984 in an effort to listen to the opinions of our consumers and we have experts in consumer issues, advisers at consumer centers and advisory specialists for consumers' affairs assist us as consumer monitors. We receive opinions and advice from various perspectives on our products and services through roundtable conferences in major cities throughout Japan and reflect them in the improvement of our business operations. * Advisory Specialists for Consumers' Affairs: Persons accredited by the Prime Minister of Japan and Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry to develop human resources that can serve as a pipeline between companies and consumers. We have been an active proponent of this accreditation program, with 422 employees currently holding the designation (As of April 2016). Visits to the National Consumer Affairs Center of Japan At Dai-ichi Life, General Managers of our branch offices regularly visit some 180 locations of the National Consumer Affairs Center of Japan for the purpose of providing information on life insurance and Dai-ichi Life as well as obtaining information on inquiries and complaints related to life insurance brought up locally and receiving feedback from consultants, and report the requests collected to the Executive Management Board. We will continue visiting the National Consumer Affairs Center of Japan and push forward efforts to build a relationship of trust in the community. Seminars and Exchange Events for Managers At Dai-ichi Life, we hold events for managers throughout Japan with a view to providing information to corporate customers (managers) and helping them resolve management issues. Specifically, we hold seminars where specialists from inside and outside the company give lectures, as well as exchange events aimed at exchange of information and business matching among managers. We will continue planning and holding events tailored to the needs of society and communities in an effort to not only improve corporate customer satisfaction but also contribute to the revitalization of local economies and industries. 㻣㻥 &RPPXQLW\DQG6RFLHW\ٜ6WDNHKROGHU&RPPXQLFDWLRQ Specific Initiatives Collaboration with External Organizations The Dai-ichi Life Group carries out various activities by working with external organizations in order to contribute to the community and society. Specifically, we conduct blood donation activities for employees with the Japan Red Cross, charity sales promotion events to employees with local welfare facilities and organization as the exhibitors, and volunteer awards in conjunction with the Japan Philanthropic Association in order to further enhance social contribution activities of employees. Going forward, we will pursue contribution activities that are needed by the community and society by incorporating external perspectives through close collaboration with external organizations. Blood donation activities for employees Dialogue with Outside Experts At Dai-ichi Life, we regularly conduct dialogues by outside experts and the company's executives in order to utilize various opinions from stakeholders in management. We will continue making efforts so that we can steadily fulfill our social responsibilities and grow by asking about opinions and requests concerning business activities overall and using such information to improve day-to-day activities as much as possible. Stakeholder Dialogue for Fiscal 2015 Partnership with Local Governments At Dai-ichi Life, we assist local communities in resolving the challenges they face by concluding partnership agreements tailored to local governments using our strength of having branch offices throughout Japan. We have established cooperative relations with local governments in a wide array of fields, including cancer awareness agreements under which we mainly provide health and medical information for raising the cancer examination rate and agreements on activities to check up on elderly residents that support the safe living of the elderly. Going forward, we will continue pushing ahead with partnerships with more local governments to support community revitalization. Agreement signing ceremony President Watanabe of Dai-ichi Life (left) Governor Kuroiwa of Kanagawa Prefecture (right) 㻤㻜 6KDUHKROGHUVDQG,QYHVWRUVٜ6WDNHKROGHU&RPPXQLFDWLRQ 6SHFLILF,QLWLDWLYHV *HQHUDO0HHWLQJRI6KDUHKROGHUV $W'DLLFKL/LIHZHKROGWKH$QQXDO*HQHUDO0HHWLQJRI6KDUHKROGHUVLQODWH-XQHRIHDFK\HDUWR UHSRUWLPSRUWDQWPDWWHUVFRQFHUQLQJWKHFRPSDQ\WRVKDUHKROGHUVIRUWKHPWRUHVROYHVXFK PDWWHUV,QDGGLWLRQWRWKHH[SODQDWLRQRIEXVLQHVVRSHUDWLRQVDQGWKHPDQDJHPHQWSODQJLYHQE\ WKHSUHVLGHQWZHDUHZRUNLQJWRHQKDQFHWZRZD\FRPPXQLFDWLRQWKURXJKTXHVWLRQVDQG DQVZHUV)XUWKHUPRUHZHDUHWDNLQJLQLWLDWLYHVVXFKDVRQOLQHH[HUFLVHRIYRWLQJULJKWVDQG SDUWLFLSDWLRQLQWKHHOHFWURQLFYRWLQJULJKWVH[HFXWLRQSODWIRUPIRULQVWLWXWLRQDOLQYHVWRUVZLWKDQH\H WRLPSURYLQJWKHHQYLURQPHQWIRUH[HUFLVLQJYRWLQJULJKWV :HZLOOKROGWKH$QQXDO*HQHUDO0HHWLQJRI6KDUHKROGHUVDV'DLLFKL/LIH,QVXUDQFH&RPSDQ\/LPLWHGXQWLO )LVFDODQGDV'DLLFKL/LIH+ROGLQJV,QFIURP)LVFDO )LQDQFLDO5HVXOWV&RQIHUHQFH&DOO :HKROGD)LQDQFLDO5HVXOWV&RQIHUHQFH&DOOIRXUWLPHVD\HDUZKHUHVHQLRUPDQDJHPHQWH[SODLQVWKH'DLLFKL/LIH*URXS VILQDQFLDOUHVXOWVWR LQVWLWXWLRQDOLQYHVWRUVDQGDQDO\VWV7KH'DLLFKL/LIH*URXS VWRSPDQDJHPHQWGLUHFWO\H[SODLQVVXFKPDWWHUVIROORZHGE\DTXHVWLRQDQGDQVZHU VHVVLRQ7KH)LQDQFLDO5HVXOWV&RQIHUHQFH&DOOLVPDGHZLGHO\DYDLODEOHYLDRQOLQHVWUHDPLQJ )LQDQFLDO$QDO\VW0HHWLQJ :HKROGD)LQDQFLDO$QDO\VW0HHWLQJWZLFHD\HDUZKHUHWKHSUHVLGHQWH[SODLQVWKH'DLLFKL/LIH *URXS VVWUDWHJ\WRLQVWLWXWLRQDOLQYHVWRUVDQGDQDO\VWV7KHSUHVLGHQWGLUHFWO\H[SODLQVVXFK PDWWHUVIROORZHGE\DTXHVWLRQDQGDQVZHUVHVVLRQ7KH)LQDQFLDO$QDO\VW0HHWLQJLVPDGH ZLGHO\DYDLODEOHYLDRQOLQHVWUHDPLQJ,QDGGLWLRQZHKROG$QDO\VW'D\LQZKLFKRIILFHUVLQ FKDUJHRIPDMRUGHSDUWPHQWVGLUHFWO\H[SODLQWKHLUPDQDJHPHQWVWUDWHJLHVDQGPDNHWKH H[SODQDWRU\PDWHULDOVZLGHO\DYDLODEOHYLDRQOLQHVWUHDPLQJ 㻤㻝 6KDUHKROGHUVDQG,QYHVWRUVٜ6WDNHKROGHU&RPPXQLFDWLRQ 9LVLWWR'RPHVWLFDQG)RUHLJQ,QVWLWXWLRQDO,QYHVWRUVDQG6HSDUDWH5HVSRQVH :HKDYHVHSDUDWHGLDORJXHVZLWKPRUHWKDQGRPHVWLFDQGIRUHLJQLQVWLWXWLRQDOLQYHVWRUVD\HDU2IWKRVHLQVWLWXWLRQDOLQYHVWRUVPRUHWKDQ DUHIRUHLJQLQVWLWXWLRQDOLQYHVWRUVZLWKZKRPZHDFWLYHO\FRPPXQLFDWHLQFOXGLQJVHSDUDWHUHVSRQVHE\VHQLRUPDQDJHPHQW 5HVSRQVHWR,QTXLULHVIURP6HOOVLGH$QDO\VWVHWF :HUHVSRQGWRLQTXLULHVDVQHFHVVDU\IURPVHOOVLGHDQDO\VWVZRUNLQJIRUVHFXULWLHVFRPSDQLHVZKRDQDO\]HILQDQFLDOUHVXOWVDQGFRPSLOHDUHSRUWRI VWRFNSULFHIRUHFDVWV ,QWHUDFWLRQZLWKLQGLYLGXDOLQYHVWRUV :HSDUWLFLSDWHLQ,5HYHQWVZKLFKEULQJWRJHWKHUPRUHWKDQFRPSDQLHVHYHU\\HDUDQGKROGFRPSDQ\LQIRUPDWLRQVHVVLRQVQHDUO\WLPHVD \HDU:HHQJDJHLQDFWLYHH[FKDQJHPDLQO\WKURXJKWKHH[SODQDWLRQRIWKH'DLLFKL/LIH*URXSLQFOXGLQJVWUDWHJ\DQGILQDQFLDOUHVXOWVWRLQGLYLGXDO LQYHVWRUVZKRDFWLYHO\FRQGXFWHTXLW\LQYHVWPHQW ,5(YHQW 3UHVHQWDWLRQE\WKHSUHVLGHQW 6HPLQDUIRU,QGLYLGXDO,QYHVWRUV :HKROGVHPLQDUVIRULQGLYLGXDOLQYHVWRUVDERXWWLPHVD\HDUWRH[SODLQWKHFRPSDQ\SURILOHILQDQFLDOUHVXOWVDQGWKH'DLLFKL/LIH*URXS V LQLWLDWLYHVDLPHGDWIXWXUHJURZWK 㻤㻞 %XVLQHVV3DUWQHUVٜ6WDNHKROGHU&RPPXQLFDWLRQ Specific Initiatives Initiatives for Contractors At Dai-ichi Life, when selecting contractors, we evaluate them according to multiple perspectives, including information safety management and elimination of anti-social forces, and conduct site visits as required. And, once a year, we conduct a regular inspection of the contract details, as we strive to manage our outsource business properly and professionally. For our work related to underwriting and maintaining insurance contracts, and our business duties, including printing and sending documents and forms to customers, the company outsources part of that to outside contractors. Consideration for the Environment during Selection of Business Partners Dai-Ichi Life regularly conducts surveys of the environmental initiatives of our major business partner. And, in addition to installing environmentallyfriendly OA equipment, we promote Green Purchasing, which is the preferential purchasing of products that put little load on the environment. In addition to formulating our company’s Green Purchasing Guidelines, when purchasing office consumables, etc., as a rule, we purchase Green Purchasing-compatible products through our in-house bulk purchasing system. Training, Education, and Support for Agents At Dai-ichi Life, we outsource the sales of our products to professional agents of Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance with whom we have forged a comprehensive business alliance and support activities, including presentation of proposal methods and preparation of insurance design, for the purpose of providing total consulting services which cover life insurance and non-life insurance to customers. In addition, we hold an awards ceremony every year to honor agents that achieved remarkable sales results for our products. Also, Dai-ichi Frontier Life has established a call center for agents separate from its customer call center. Each call center continually works to strengthen its system for responding promptly and accurately to inquiries about products and procedures. 㻤㻟 (PSOR\HHVٜ6WDNHKROGHU&RPPXQLFDWLRQ Specific Initiatives Message from the President At the Dai-ichi Life Group, we have established an initiative that connects directly the president and employees by utilizing the company's intranet. The network is operated so that the management vision can be shared throughout the entire company. It can also pass along messages and official speeches given by the president on special occasions such as on anniversaries of the company's founding, etc. This initiative provides interactive communication so that employees are also able to convey to the president any questions and concerns regarding day-to-day operations. The feedback that the president's responses generate can also be shared with the entire company, etc. Message from the President over the intranet (Image) Dialogue with Top Management At the Dai-ichi Life Group, we conduct dialogue with top management as an opportunity for top management to seriously listen to employee views. Within this framework, executives visit the workplace and share with employees the background and views associated with various business challenges, in addition to management directly fielding questions and opinions from employees. Internal communications are invigorated through such direct discussions, and this framework also works to create an organization brimming with energy and a sense of unity. Dialogue with Top Management 㻤㻠 (PSOR\HHVٜ6WDNHKROGHU&RPPXQLFDWLRQ 7UDLQLQJDQG6XSSRUW6\VWHPV 'DL,FKL/LIH*URXSKDVHPSOR\HHVZKRSOD\DYDULHW\RIUROHVDQGERDVWVWKHODUJHVWQXPEHURIHPSOR\HHVLQWKHFRXQWU\LQFOXGLQJDSSUR[LPDWHO\ 7RWDO/LIH3ODQ'HVLJQHUV %\GHILQLQJWUDLQLQJV\VWHPVWRKHOSHDFKLQGLYLGXDOHPSOR\HHLQFUHDVHWKHYDOXHWKH\DGGWRWKHFRPSDQ\WKURXJKUHYLHZLQJWKHLUVNLOOVDQG ZRUNVW\OHVDQGVWUHQJWKHQLQJRXURUJDQL]DWLRQDOPDQDJHPHQWFDSDELOLWLHVE\VWUHQJWKHQLQJFRRSHUDWLRQEHWZHHQVXSHULRUVDQGVXERUGLQDWHVZLWKLQ DQGEHWZHHQGHSDUWPHQWVHWFZHDUHHQKDQFLQJRXUVHOIGHYHORSPHQWV\VWHPVVXFKDVWUDLQLQJSURJUDPVDQGHOHDUQLQJWRVXLWHDFKUHVSHFWLYH MREOHYHO $PRQJWKRVHV\VWHPVLQJURXSWUDLQLQJRXUDLPLVQRWRQO\WRHDUQFXVWRPHUV¶WUXVWE\OHDUQLQJXVHIXODGYDQFHGNQRZOHGJHDQGVNLOOVEXWLWLVDOVR GHVLJQHGWREHDSODFHZKHUHSDUWLFLSDQWVFRPHWRJHWKHUIURPDOORYHUWKHFRXQWU\WRVWUHQJWKHQWKHLUSUDFWLFDOVNLOOVE\HQJDJLQJLQSRWOXFN GLVFXVVLRQVRIWKHLUUHVSHFWLYHFKDOOHQJHVVKDULQJGLYHUVHLGHDVDQGYDOXHVDQGKRQLQJWKHLUVNLOOVDVWKHQH[WJHQHUDWLRQRIOHDGHUV 'HWHUPLQLQJ(PSOR\HH6DWLVIDFWLRQ $WWKH'DLLFKL/LIHZHKDYHFRQGXFWHGDQHPSOR\HHVDWLVIDFWLRQ (6 VXUYH\VLQFHILVFDO7KLVVXUYH\LVXVHGERWKWRJDXJHFXUUHQW(6DQGWR FRQVLGHUDQ\PHDVXUHVWREHXQGHUWDNHQLQUHVSRQVHWRFKDOOHQJHV$QDFFRPPRGDWLQJZRUNHQYLURQPHQWLVEHLQJGHYHORSHGE\WKHLGHQWLILFDWLRQRI FKDOOHQJHVDQGE\WKHLPSOHPHQWDWLRQRIUHVSRQVHVWRWKHP :KLVWOHEORZLQJ6\VWHP ,QWHUQDODQG([WHUQDO&RQVXOWDWLRQ6HUYLFH 7RHQKDQFHFRUSRUDWHJRYHUQDQFHWKH'DLLFKL/LIH*URXSKDVHVWDEOLVKHGDFRQVXOWDWLRQVHUYLFHZLWKLQDQGZLWKRXWHDFKFRPSDQ\LQDFFRUGDQFH ZLWKWKH:KLVWOHEORZHU3URWHFWLRQ$FWWRDFWDVDFKDQQHOWKURXJKZKLFKHPSOR\HHVFDQGLUHFWO\UHSRUWDQGFRQVXOWRQLPSRUWDQWFRPSOLDQFHPDWWHUV 6SHFLILFDOO\WKHFRQVXOWDWLRQVHUYLFHZLWKLQHDFKFRPSDQ\UHFHLYHVUHSRUWVFRQFHUQLQJYLRODWLRQVRIODZVDQGUHJXODWLRQVDQGLQWHUQDOUXOHVDQG RXWVLGHODZ\HUVRIWKHH[WHUQDOFRQVXOWDWLRQVHUYLFHKDQGOHDQGUHVROYHPDWWHUVUHSRUWHGE\HPSOR\HHVRIHDFKFRPSDQ\XQGHUDV\VWHP LQGHSHQGHQWIURPPDQDJHPHQW*RLQJIRUZDUGZHZLOOZRUNWRHQKDQFHJRYHUQDQFHDQGWKHWUXVWRIFXVWRPHUVE\OLVWHQLQJVLQFHUHO\WRYDULRXV IHHGEDFN &RQVXOWDWLRQ6HUYLFH5HODWHGWR+XPDQ5HVRXUFHV $WWKH'DLLFKL/LIH*URXSIRUWKHSXUSRVHRIKDQGOLQJYDULRXVFRQVXOWDWLRQVFRQFHUQLQJFDUHHUSDWKZLWKDYLHZWRHQKDQFLQJHPSOR\HHV KXPDQ UHVRXUFHYDOXHFDUHHUDGYLVRUVZLWKVSHFLDOVNLOOVRIIHUDSSURSULDWHDGYLFHLQRUGHUWRHQFRXUDJHWKRVHVHHNLQJFRQVXOWDWLRQWRUHVROYHPDWWHUVRQ WKHLURZQDQGVXSSRUWWKHFDUHHUGHYHORSPHQWRIHPSOR\HHV /DERXU8QLRQV 7KH'DLLFKL/LIH/DERXU8QLRQHPSOR\VDXQLRQVKRSV\VWHPZKHUHE\ERWKLQKRXVHVWDIIDQGVDOHVUHSUHVHQWDWLYHVDUHXQLRQPHPEHUV7KHUHDUH VRPHSHRSOH DVRI$SULO WRZKRPWKHFRQGLWLRQVRIXQLRQPHPEHUVKLSDSSO\7KHFRPSDQ\DQGWKHXQLRQHQJDJHLQDQDFWLYH H[FKDQJHRIRSLQLRQVYLDGLVFXVVLRQVKHOGLQYDULRXVFRPPLWWHHVWRERWKUHDOL]HDZHDOWKLHUDQGPRUHFKHHUIXOOLIHVW\OHIRUXQLRQPHPEHUVDQGVR DVWRFUHDWHDVDWLVI\LQJDQGSRVLWLYHZRUNSODFHIRUWKHP 㻤㻡 *5,*XLGHOLQHV9HUVLRQٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV GRI Guidelines Version 4 Sustainability Reports is based on the Core option of the version4.0 of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4). Therefore, only Paterialaspects (that were selected as material issues for the Dai-ichi Life Group) are disclosed in Specific Standard Disclosure. General Standard Disclosures Strategy and analysis Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Message from the President organization 㻤㻢 *5,*XLGHOLQHV9HUVLRQٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV Organizational pofile Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-3 The name of the organization Corporate Profile G4-4 The primary brands, products and services List of Group Companies G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarter. Corporate Profile G4-6 The number of countries where the organization operates List of Group Companies G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form Corporate Profile %DVLF6WRFN,QIRUPDWLRQ G4-8 The markets served List of Group Companies G4-9 The scale of the organization Corporate Profile List of Group Companies Sustainability Data The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company Annual Report 2015 P87 (Policy amount inforce) G4-10 The total number of employees Sustainability Data G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective Employees bargaining agreements Financial Highlights: Dai-ichi Life Holdings (Consolidated) G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Stakeholder Communication G4-13 Any significant change during the reporting period Sustainability Reports 㻤㻣 *5,*XLGHOLQHV9HUVLRQٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV Commitments to external initiatives Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach Risk Management or principle is addressed by the organization G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social Participation in External Initiatives charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) Participation in External Initiatives and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization Identified material aspect and boundaries Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated List of Group Companies financial statements G4-18 The process of defining the report content and the Aspect Process for Identifying Material Issues boundaries G4-19 All material Aspects Process for Identifying Material Issues G4-20 Aspect Boundary for each material aspect within the Process for Identifying Material Issues organization G4-21 Aspect Boundary for each material Process for Identifying Material Issues G4-22 The effect of any restatement Not Applicable G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Not Applicable scope and Aspect Boundaries 㻤㻤 *5,*XLGHOLQHV9HUVLRQٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV Stakeholder engagement Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder Communication G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Stakeholder Communication with whom to engage. Handling of Antisocial Forces G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Communication G4-27 5HSRUWNH\WRSLFVDQGFRQFHUQVWKDWKDYHEHHQUDLVHG Stakeholder Communication WKURXJKVWDNHKROGHUHQJDJHPHQW Initiatives for Customers Report profile Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-28 Reporting period for information provided Sustainability Reports G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Sustainability Reports G4-30 Reporting cycle Sustainability Reports G4-31 The contact point for questions regarding the report Sustainability Reports G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen GRI Guidelines Version 4 G4-33 The external assurance The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company website: Environment : Environment : Performance Governance Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-34 The governance structure of the organization Corporate Governance Structure 㻤㻥 *5,*XLGHOLQHV9HUVLRQٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV Ethics and Integrity Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms Group Sustainability Approach of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Specific Standard Disclosures Category:Economic Aspect: Economic performance Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Message from the President Strategy Process for Identifying Material Issues *(& The direct economic value generated and distributed Financial Information Category:Environmental Aspect: Materials Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Sustainability Data 㻥㻜 *5,*XLGHOLQHV9HUVLRQٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV Aspect: Energy Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN3 Energy consumption by primary energy source. Sustainability Data G4-EN5 Energy Intensity Sustainability Data Aspect: Water Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Sustainability Data Aspect: Emissions Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). Sustainability Data The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company website: Environment : Management System G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope Sustainability Data 2). The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company website: Environment : Management System 㻥㻝 *5,*XLGHOLQHV9HUVLRQٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV Aspect: Effluents and Waste &DWHJRU\0DWHULDO$VSHFW'0$DQG,QGLFDWRUV &DWHJRU\ CDWHJRU\0DWHULDO$VSHFW'0$DQG,QGLFDWRUV Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Sustainability Data Waste disposal method is in accordance with the local government's instructions. Aspect: Compliance Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonNot Applicable monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Aspect: Transport Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company and other goods and materials for the organization's website: Environment : Environmental operations, and transporting members of the workforce Action 㻥㻞 *5,*XLGHOLQHV9HUVLRQٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV Aspect : Overall Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN31 Total Environmental Protection Expenditures and Sustainability Data Investments by Type Category: Social Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect : Employment Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Enviroment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and Sustainability Data employee turnover by age group, gender and region. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by Sustainability Data gender. We don't regard the total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave as important by reason of our parental leave systems that can be taken by the applicant. 㻥㻟 *5,*XLGHOLQHV9HUVLRQٜ6XVWDLQDELOLW\'DWD Aspect: Training and Education Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Employees G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Sustainability Data support the continued employability of employees and assist The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company them in managing career endings. website: Human Resource Development Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Enviroment G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Sustainability Data employees per employee category according to gender, age Sustainability Data group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Enviroment 㻥㻠 *5,*XLGHOLQHV9HUVLRQٜ6XVWDLQDELOLW\'DWD Category: Social Sub-Category: Human rights Aspect: Investment Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Enviroment G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures Human Rights Awareness concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Sustainability Data operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Category: Social Sub-Category: Society Aspect: Local Communities Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Initiatives for Society and Environment engagement, impact assessments, and development Sustainability Data programs 7KLVLQGLFDWRULVQ WUHODWHGWRWKLVUHSRUW EHFDXVHWKH*URXSKDVRQO\RQHEXVLQHVV VHJPHQW 㻥㻡 *5,*XLGHOLQHV9HUVLRQٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV Aspect: Anti-corruption Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Compliance Process for Identifying Material Issues G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for Compliance risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Not Applicable Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Compliance Process for Identifying Material Issues G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, Not Applicable anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Aspect: Compliance Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Compliance Process for Identifying Material Issues G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonNot Applicable monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. 㻥㻢 *5,*XLGHOLQHV9HUVLRQٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV Category: Social Sub-Category:Product responsibility Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Customers G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Sustainability Data Aspect: Customer Privacy Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Information Property Protection G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Information Property Protection breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data NotApplicable Aspect: Active Ownership Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company website: Our Initiatives under Japan's Stewardship Code G4-FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company institution's portfolio with which the reporting organization website: Our Initiatives under Japan's has interacted on environmental or social issues. Stewardship Code G4-FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company environmental or social screening. website: ESG Investment and Lending 㻥㻣 ,62ٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV ISO26000 The Sustainability Report features an index of information for readers based on ISO26000. 6.2 Organizational governance Core Subjects and Issues Location Message from the President Group Sustainability Governance Stakeholder Communication Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Enviroment 㻥㻤 ,62ٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV 6.3 Human rights Core Subjects and Issues Location Issue 1 Due diligence Human Rights Awareness Issue 2 Human rights risk situations ― Issue 3 Avoidance of complicity Human Rights Awareness Handling of Antisocial Forces The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Our Role as an Institutional Investor Issue 4 Resolving grievances Stakeholder Communication Issue 5 Discrimination and vulnerable groups Human Rights Awareness Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Enviroment Issue 6 Civil and political rights Human Rights Awareness Issue 7 Economic, social and cultural rights Initiatives for Health Initiatives for Society and Environment Issue 8 Fundamental principles and rights at work Human Rights Awareness Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Enviroment Stakeholder Communication Employees The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Our Role as an Institutional Investor 㻥㻥 ,62ٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV 6.4 Labour practices Core Subjects and Issues Location Issue 1 Employment and employment relationships Human Rights Awareness Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Enviroment The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Our Role as an Institutional Investor Issue 2 Conditions of work and social protection Human Rights Awareness Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Enviroment Stakeholder Communication Employees Issue 3 Social dialogue Stakeholder Communication Employees Issue 4 Health and safety at work Initiatives for Health Issue 5 Human development and training in the workplace The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Human Resource Development 6.5 The environment Core Subjects and Issues Location Issue 1 Prevention of pollution Initiatives for Society and Environment The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Our Role as an Institutional Investor Issue 2 Sustainable resource use Initiatives for Society and Environment The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Our Role as an Institutional Investor Issue 3 Climate change mitigation and adaptation Initiatives for Society and Environment The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Our Role as an Institutional Investor Issue 4 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of Initiatives for Society and Environment natural habitats 㻝㻜㻜 ,62ٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV 6.6 Fair operating practices Core Subjects and Issues Location Issue 1 Anti-corruption Group Sustainability Approach Compliance Issue 2 Responsible political involvement Issue 3 Fair competition Compliance Issue 4 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain ― Issue 5 Respect for property rights ― 6.7 Consumer issues Core Subjects and Issues Location Issue 1 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair Stakeholder Communication: Customers contractual practices Issue 2 Protecting consumers'health and safety Issue 3 Sustainable consumption Issue 4 Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute Stakeholder Communication: Customers resolution The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Insurances Benefit/Claim Payme Issue 5 Consumer data protection and privacy Information Property Protection Handling of Personal Information Issue 6 Access to essential services Issue 7 Education and awareness Stakeholder Communication: Customers 㻝㻜㻝 ,62ٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV 6.8 Community involvement and development Core Subjects and Issues Location Issue 1 Community involvement Initiatives for Society and Environment Issue 2 Education and culture Initiatives for Society and Environment Issue 3 Employment creation and skills development Issue 4 Technology development and access Issue 5 Wealth and income creation Issue 6 Health Initiatives for Health Issue 7 Social investment Initiatives for Society and Environment 㻝㻜㻞 6XVWDLQDELOLW\'DWDٜ5HOHYDQW0DWHULDOV Sustainability Data Scope of information: Unless otherwise stated, figures are for Dai-ichi Life Holdings Corporate Governance Corporate structure Committee governance structure, including auditors, etc. Directors 2016/10 No. of directors 18 (No. of external directors) 6 (No. of non-Japanese directors) 1 (No. of female directors) 1 No. of external directors who are independent 6 Auditors and other committee members 2016/10 No. of auditors and other committee members 5 (No. who are also external directors) 3 No. of external directors who are independent 3 㻝㻜㻟 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials Nominations advisory committee FY2016 Chairperson External director No. of committee members 5 (No. who are internal directors) 2 (No. who are external directors) 3 Remuneration advisory committee FY2016 Chairperson External director No. of committee members 6 (No. who are internal directors) 2 (No. who are external directors) 4 Composition of executive officers (including directors with other roles) FY2016 No. of executive officers 35 (No. of women) 2 (No. of non-Japanese) 1 Ratio of women 6% 㻝㻜㻠 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials IR activities (at Dai-ichi Life Insurance) March year 2013 March year 2014 March year 2015 March year 2016 Financial results briefings 4 4 4 4 Management briefings 2 2 2 1 Analyst days and briefings 0 0 1 1 Engagements with institutional Approximately 200 Approximately 200 Approximately 100 Approximately 140 investors companies in Japan companies in Japan companies in Japan companies in Japan More than 100 More than 100 More than 200 360 companies companies overseas companies overseas companies overseas overseas Interactions with Customers Engagement with customers (Dai-ichi Life) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 No. of shops 82 81 82 77 No. of agencies 2,597 2,590 2,950 3,056 Consultation service for payment difficulties (Dai-ichi Life) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 No. of inquiries to disputes service 202 172 149 152 No. of consultations with external 6 11 6 15 lawyer No. of times payment arbitration used 6 8 1 5 㻝㻜㻡 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials Customer feedback (Dai-ichi Life) No. of interactions FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Disputes 68,174 44,691 51,253 46,929 䓕 Breakdown by dispute reason 䓕 Taking out insurance policy 6.5% 8.3% 8.9% 9.7% 䓕 Premium payment 7.1% 7.0% 6.5% 6.9% 䓕 Procedures 30.3% 29.0% 27.9% 27.1% 䓕 Payment of claims and 15.3% 14.9% 13.9% 14.3% benefits 䓕 Other 40.8% 40.6% 42.5% 41.8% Expressions of thanks 60,060 107,817 233,633 385,695 Comments or requests -*1 1459*2 2,916 3,146 Customer satisfaction (individuals) -*3 -*3 70.7% 70.9% Customer satisfaction (organizations) 87.5% 87.9% 91.0% 90.6% *1 No data as only commenced in February 2014 *2 Data for February to March 2014 *3 No data as web survey only commenced in FY2014 Payout of claims and benefits (Dai-ichi Life) x100 million yen FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Payout for death, serious disability, or 4,396 4,354 4,382 4,347 designated illness, etc. Benefit payout for hospitalization or 1,233 1,266 1,280 1,260 surgery, etc. Policy maturity payment, annuity, or 12,598 11,815 12,252 11,222 pension, etc. 㻝㻜㻢 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials No. of payments for claims and benefits (Dai-ichi Life) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Payout for death, No. of payments 80,482 82,066 85,979 87,640 serious disability, or designated illness, etc. No. of payments 3,495 3,701 3,539 3,689 declined Benefit payout for No. of payments 936,899 980,602 1,032,693 1,070,988 hospitalization or surgery, etc. No. of payments 32,840 30,086 29,376 35,421 declined * Excluding policy maturity and annuity payments, etc. * Figures calculated in accordance with The Life Insurance Association of Japan’s accounting reference model. 㻝㻜㻣 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials Activities as an Institutional Investor (Dai-ichi Life) Stewardship Approval of May 2014 Japan stewardship code rules for responsible institutional investors Stewardship (Dai-ichi Life) FY2014 FY2015 No. of voting companies 2,206 2,247 No. of companies consenting to all company proposals 1,903 1,961 No. of companies consulted during voting 302 286 No. of companies abstaining from one or more company proposals 1 0 Consultations with constructive objectives 110 233 No. of companies consulted during voting 313 120 Employees No. of employees by region (consolidated basis) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Japan 57,462 55,982 56,503 Asia/Pacific (excluding Japan) 2,050 2,189 2,401 North America 2,476 2,542 Total 59,512 60,647 61,446 * The figures are for the number of staff employed by Dai-Ichi Life Group (Dai-Ichi Life Holdings and its consolidated subsidiaries, excluding staff that have other concurrent roles with Dai-Ichi Life Holdings and staff that have been seconded outside the Group, but including staff that have been seconded to the Group), and do not include executive officers. As part-time and other temporary staff number less than 10%, they are not recorded. 㻝㻜㻤 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials Gender composition (Three Japanese life insurance companies) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Japan No. of employees 55,906 54,454 55,033 Male 10% 10% 9% Female 90% 90% 91% * Includes both full-time contract and company staff. No. of employees (Dai-ichi Life) Breakdown of no. of employees*1 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Total*2 Male 1,221 1,201 1,167 )HPDOH 42,145 41,061 41,816 Total*3 Male 3,951 3,855 3,772 )HPDOH 8,286 7,973 7,862 Total Male 5,172 5,056 4,939 )HPDOH 50,431 49,034 49,678 Total 55,603 54,090 54,617 *1 Equals the number of employees in Japan. As part-time and other temporary staff number less than 10%, they are not recorded. *2 The number of Total Life Plan Designers employed includes those who have signed an outsourcing contract with the Company and also are registered as life insurance agents, totaling 1,301 as of the end of fiscal 2013, 1,412 for fiscal 2014, and 1,485 for fiscal 2015. Those with assistant duties were 603 at the end of fiscal 2013, 567 for fiscal 2014, and 512 for fiscal 2015. *3 Includes both full-time contract and company staff. Composition of management staff (Three Japanese life insurance companies) FY2013 FY2014* FY2015* Japan Male 2,957 2,783 2,744 )HPDOH 667 808 836 Percentage female (%) 18.4% 22.5% 23.3% * FY2013 figures are for Dai-ichi Life only, FY2014 and subsequent figures are totals for life insurance group in Japan (Dai-ichi Life,QVXUDQFH, Dai-ichi Frontier Life Insurance, and Neo First Life Insurance). 㻝㻜㻥 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials Employee details (Dai-ichi Life) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 New recruits (life planners) 8,666 8,465 8,645 New recruits (back office) 719 703 756 Mean age (life planners) 47 years 1 month 47 years 5 month 47 years 5 month Mean age (back office) 43 years 9 months 44 years 2 months 44 years 7 months Mean years of service (life planners) 10 years 6 months 10 years 11 months 10 years 11 months Mean years of service (back office) 13 years 11 months 14 years 5 months 14 years 10 months Mean monthly remuneration (life planners) 255,000 yen 252,000 yen 252,000 yen Mean monthly remuneration (back office) 297,000 yen 301,000 yen 304,000 yen Percentage of disabled staff*1 2.16% 2.25% 2.23% Employee satisfaction*2 3.48 3.51 3.58 *1 Percentage of disabled staff is undertaken in compliance with statutory employment rate. Figure is for June 1 of following year. *2 Employee satisfaction surveys are used as a tool for quantitatively assessing the current situation and effectiveness of initiatives, and to facilitate the resolution of issues. The target for FY2017 is 3.62. Calculation method: Mean score (out of five) of main questions in questionnaire. 㻝㻝㻜 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials Work/life balance (Dai-ichi Life) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Instances of childcare leave 1,056 1,077 1,143 No. of staff on short working hours (for childcare) 303 379 390 No. of staff receiving benefits to pay for childcare 3,912 3,713 3,571 services No. of staff taking nursing leave 250 274 234 No. of staff using Family relocation program 35 46 24 No. of male staff taking childcare leave 43.8% 56.0% 85.5% Average monthly overtime (back office staff) 6.9 hours 7.6 hours 7.7 hours Average annual days of paid leave 12.3 days 12.3 days 12.7 days Mean percentage of annual paid leave taken 65.9% 66.0% 68.1% 3HUFHQWDJHRIVWDIIUHWXUQLQJWRDQGUHPDLQLQJLQZRUNDIWHUFKLOGFDUHOHDYH 'DLLFKL/LIHEDFN RIILFHVWDII % FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Percentage of staff returning to work 88.6 94.1 93.1 Percentage still employed after one year 93.1 95.5 90.0 Headquarters training of life planners (Dai-ichi Life) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 No. of trainees at headquarters 974 992 1,335 1,280 Total training time 110,000 hours 130,000 hours 170,000 hours 170,000 hours Classroom time per trainee 14 hours 39 14 hours 39 13 hours 56 14 hours 10 minutes minutes minutes minutes * A centralized training program was conducted at headquarters to provide life planners selected from throughout the country with a high level of education so that they would be equipped to satisfy customer's various needs. 㻝㻝㻝 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials Human rights awareness education (Dai-ichi Life) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 No. of sessions 15 20 19 No. of attendees* 169,068 166,231 167,002 * Cumulative total of attendees Engagement with Local Communities Public good donations (Dai-ichi Life) Category: Health improvement x 1 million yen Organizations Working with communities, NPOs, and other organizations, running voluntary programs Implementation plan Nationwide rollout of health programs, assisting with and celebrating health initiatives, educating people about insurance Sum for FY2014 363 Sum for FY2015 559 Outcomes of FY2015 initiatives Support for action on health issues Winners of the FY2015 Hoken Bunka 3XEOLF+ealth $wards (10 organizations and 5 individuals, totalprize money of 25 million yen) Awareness raising for cancer screening with local governments Holding health seminars with experts, provision of health information with medical institutions, etc. Raising public awareness of health through promotional activities by nationwide sales staff Care for the elderly by staff who have completed a training course on caring for people with dementia Working through NPOs to support school meals for children in developing nations suffering from hunger or malnutrition (approximately 25,126 meals in FY2015) Support for medical research institutions Support for healthy living by assisting with fun runs (Run with you) 㻝㻝㻞 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials Category: Building a better world for the next generation x 1 million yen Organizations Collaboration with NPOs and other organizations, participation in social welfare programs, cooperative activities Implementation plan Nursery school projects, consumer and financial/insurance literacy education, providing opportunities for children Sum for FY2014 193 Sum for FY2015 298 Outcomes of FY2015 initiatives Total of 30 million yen distributed to 42 nursery schools Support for working mothers by increasing number of nursery schools Promotion and spread of consumer education (2,782 presentations given, attended by 2,022 people, 48 free educational materials distributed) Yellow Badge with traffic accident insurance for elementary school new entrants. Approximately 1,100,000 badges handed out (for April 2016 new entrants). Human resource development through actuarial science course at The University of Alabama in USA Human resource development and training for people involved in insurance policy and practice in Asia Support for junior tennis players (96 participants in elementary school tennis tournament (48 boys/48 girls)) Category: Environmental protection x 1 million yen Organizations Work with philanthropic organizations, running voluntary programs, etc. Implementation plan Participation in biodiversity program, urban greening, awards programs, etc. Sum for FY2014 71 Sum for FY2015 77 Outcomes of FY2015 initiatives Help prevent global warming and protect biodiversity through projects to assist greening, community building and promoting engagement with nature. Five grants to Green Environment Design Awards, two to the Omotenashi no Niwa (hospitality garden) program, and ten awards to the Green City Awards. 㻝㻝㻟 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials Category: Contributing to local communities x 1 million yen Organizations Work with NPOs, participation in programs, local community activities with NPOs, etc. Implementation plan Participation in local community activities Sum for FY2014 5.6 Sum for FY2015 5.2 Outcomes of FY2015 initiatives Community contribution by staff 100% participation rate in volunteer activities 439 volunteer activity programs (cumulative total) Support for Kinugawa River flooding and Tohoku earthquake recovery Category: Support for art and culture x 1 million yen Organizations Work with NPOs, participation in programs, etc. Implementation plan Assistance with overseas art exhibition, providing venues and economic support for young artists, aesthetic education by providing music Sum for FY2014 249 Sum for FY2015 136 Outcomes of FY2015 initiatives Monet exhibition: approximately 760,000 visitors Support for VOCA modern art exhibition (three prize winners, total prize money of 5 million yen, three exhibits by individual prize winners in Dai-ichi Life gallery) 6XSSRUWIRU92&$PRGHUQDUWH[KLELWLRQ WKUHHSUL]HZLQQHUVWRWDOSUL]HPRQH\RIPLOOLRQ \HQWKUHHH[KLELWVE\LQGLYLGXDOSUL]HZLQQHUVLQ'DLLFKL/LIHJDOOHU\ Donations (Dai-ichi Life) x 1 million yen FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Donations 528 623 635 㻝㻝㻠 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials Volunteer activities by staff (Dai-ichi Life) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 No. of projects undertaken 309 362 439 * Cumulative totals for corresponding fiscal year Awareness-raising and educational work (Dai-ichi Life) Description FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Health seminars No. of seminars 261 245 317 No. of attendees 20,586 17,320 22,003 Consumer education, No. of copies 3,480 2,635 2782 financial/insurance distributed (free of literacy (Life Cycle charge) Game II) No. of sessions held 47 21 48 No. of attendees 1,658 586 2,022 Insurance education No. of seminars 4 6 7 seminars (FALIA)*1 No. of attendees 123 256 198 *1 Undertaken by the Foundation for the Advancement of Life & Insurance Around the World (FALIA), an philanthropic organization established by Dai-ichi Life 㻝㻝㻡 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials Environmental Initiatives Environmental performance data FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015*7 Coverage (%) CO2 emissions (t-CO2)*1 153,000 146,500 144,000 141,000 156,100 100 Scope 1 (t-CO2) 16,000 14,700 15,600 14,900 14,600 100 Scope 2 (t-CO2) 137,000 131,800 128,400 126,100 141,500 100 Scope 3 (t-CO2)*2 4,430 4,690 4,933 77 Transportation (t-km) 2,185,000 2,209,000 1,968,857 1,518,006 1,383,759 77 Electric power consumption (MWh) 292,423 284,450 276,483 267,088 294,908 100 Electric power consumption (GJ)*3 1,052,722 1,024,020 995,338 961,516 1,061,668 100 Specific energy consumption (MWh/km2) 101 101 99 97 94 77 Water use (million m3)*4 190 1,815 1,655 1,675 1,725 89 Waste material (t)*5 39 484 441 412 496 81 Paper waste recycled (t) 2,688 2,925 2,789 2,350 1,850 77 Paper consumption (t) 9,922 9,849 8,116 6,509 6,559 94 Percentage of green procurement*6 95 93 91 90 91 77 *1 Calculated based on the provisions of Article 7, Paragraph 3 of the law concerning the rationalization of energy usage (Act on the Rational Use of Energy). For the previous fiscal year's emissions, the FY2009 coefficient applies. For overseas, it is calculated using each country's emissions coefficient according to the GHG Protocol. And, each country's coefficient is used for the emissions coefficient. *2 Actual data since FY2013 for 4 items, covering [Category 4] Upstream transportation and distribution, [Category 6] Business travel, [Category 7] Employee commuting, [Category 9] Downstream transportation and distribution. *3 Units of MWh of electric power converted as 3.6 GJ/MWh *4 Data up to FY2011 is for three headquarters workplaces. Data from FY2012 onwards is for all workplaces. *5 Data up to FY2011 is for some workplaces only. Data from FY2012 onwards is for all workplaces. *6 Percentage of purchased items acquired through centralized company purchasing. *7 The total number of group companies as of FY2015 (including some group companies in Japan from before FY2014) 㻝㻝㻢 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials 㻝㻝㻣 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials Environmental accounting (Dai-ichi Life) x 1 million yen Category*1 &RVW *2 FY201 FY201 FY201 Energy efficiency Capital 686 795 1,066 Expenditure 12 11 11 Reduction in resource Capital 0 0 0 use Expenditure 101 78 75 Environmental Capital 0 0 0 protection Expenditure 55 71 78 Environmental Capital 0 0 0 information Expenditure 5 34 5 *1 Categories are taken from the Dai-ichi Life Mid-Term Environmental Action Plan. *2 Capital investment and some expenditure on reducing resource use apply to Hibiya headquarters, Toyosu headquarters, Shinooi office, and Fuchu office only. Economic benefits of environmental protection measures (Dai-ichi Life) x 1 million yen FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Savings from reduction in electric power 1,105 1,134 1,501 consumption*1 Savings from reduction in paper consumption 473 297 218 *1 Calculated based on average unit price per 1kWh of electricity used 㻝㻝㻤 Sustainability DataٜRelevant Materials Reduction in energy use by investment properties FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 No. of buildings 127 125 118 113 107 Electric power 55,036,483 51,351,722 51,717,715 50,355,256 48,494,006 consumption (kWh) Gas consumption (m3) 1,944,162 1,925,106 1,903,953 1,834,088 1,760,586 Hot and cold water 26,945,040 25,129,778 27,427,450 25,094,330 28,871,550 consumption (MJ) CO2 emissions (t-CO2) 26,852 25,307 25,518 24,717 24,035 Actual data on reduction in communal consumption in buildings managed by Dai-ichi Building 㻝㻝㻥
