WITH PLEASURE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 IN THE SPOTLIGHTS 4 Foreword by the chairman and the CEO 6 Company profile 8 The changing society 10 Our sustainability policy 16 Our most important sustainability programs 17 Commitment to our customers 24 Commitment to our employees 31 Commitment to society and local communities 39 Commitment to fair, open and transparent business practices 51 Sustainability reporting 52 Methodology 53 GRI G4 Core 55 Summary of the Performance 58 KPI per Materiality 61 GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures 63 GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures 66 UN Sustainability Goals 67 UN Global Compact COP IN THE SPOTLIGHTS Our sustainability performance at a glance Commitment to Commitment to our employees our customers Helemaal Mee Tournee 50% women in the Senior already reached Leadership Team and 286,050 residential 3 women in the Board of customers since its Directors launch in 2015 74,1390 hours of training WIGO: first all-in package followed by 2,400 employees 150,000 customers in 6 months Commitment to Commitment to society and local communities fair, open and transparent business practices € 1.5 million investments 329 tons of waste avoided per day in our fixed and by recycling and revaluating mobile networks used decoders and modems € 1.2 million investments Telenet maintains its Gold in community initiatives EcoVadis CSR Rating for its and 2,145 hours of sustainability performance in community work terms of environmental, social by Telenet employees and governance topics 3 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 FOREWORD BY THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO Dear customer, Dear partner, Dear shareholder, No company is an island. We thrive and live by grace of embracing the possibilities of the digital age at the fullest, our customers, our employees and the society in which with pleasure. we operate. Keeping our finger on the pulse of what is However, we are keenly aware of the potential challenges of happening in society is vital as it impacts all of our internal digitalization. and external stakeholders. One of the key societal forces driving rapid change in our business and in society at large is We want people to find and keep the right digital balance: digitalization. they should have fun with technologies without damaging their social relationships or their health. Digital technologies will change our lives, We want digital technologies to be inclusive: everyone for the better should have access to connectivity and get the opportunity We see the tremendous potential of digitalization, in both our to strengthen his/her digital skills and media literacy. private and professional lives. Imagine a future of smarter We want to build innovative technology solutions for our cities, more sustainable mobility solutions and affordable customers, without compromising the trust of our health care services. Think about more flexible working stakeholders. New technologies and new business models environments and memorable entertainment experiences at are stirring up the public debate about the necessity of home. Digitalization will power the engine of innovation transparent privacy policies and data security measures. and boost economic growth in the years to come. Together with our stakeholders, we work on balanced and It is our ambition to develop best-in-class and customerfuture-proof customer guidelines and business practices. friendly products and services for our customers, bringing Crucial in this is finding the right balance between innovation, them an amazing customer experience in the digital age. business growth and trust. Digitalization comes with its own unique Telenet’s impact on society challenges We are aware of the important societal role that Telenet Making and using digital technologies is essential in today’s plays in the local communities. We remain fully committed and tomorrow’s society. to being a responsible and sustainable company in the digital age and we will further strengthen our relationship with our As a leading Belgian telecom and entertainment company, stakeholders through consultation and dialogue. we are committed to build a society in which people are 4 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Telenet stands for pleasure. We are all about taking a positive approach to life. We are all about making the life and work of our customers easier and more enjoyable, through our fixed & mobile network solutions, through our entertainment services, and through our business offerings. We are all about creating a society where people enjoy living and working together, embracing the possibilities of digital at the fullest. Pleasure connects people. Pleasure is infectious. It is a simple fact: it’s all about pleasure! Our actual societal contribution is demonstrated by our innovative products and services, and an amazing customer ranking in the annual Dow Jones Sustainability Index. experience. This recognizes leading companies in each industry for At the end of 2016, we also announced our intention to their responsible economic, social and environmental take over SFR, a significant cable operator active in parts of performance. In 2016, Telenet reconfirmed its position Brussels, Wallonia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. as Worldwide Industry Group Leader. For the fifth consecutive year we were rewarded as ‘best in class’ in This acquisition fits in our ambition to become a leading the global media industry. Since 2011 we also support national provider of connected entertainment and business the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and we solutions. actively embrace the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Acting in a socially responsible way At Telenet we strive for sustainable growth, with a good Laying the foundations for a promising balance between operational excellence and social future responsibility, taking into account the social, economic and 2016 was an important milestone in the history of our environmental aspects of our business operations. company with the acquisition of BASE Company. As part of our transformation program, we took the We have jointly embarked on a journey of integration and opportunity to thoroughly rethink our sustainability strategy. transformation. Our 2020 ambition is clear: to be the leading Not to drastically change course, but to ensure that in terms provider of converged connected entertainment and of sustainability, we also maintain our leading position among business solutions in Belgium. Belgian companies. Our first priority in 2016 was to build a fully integrated Because, together with our employees and our stakeholders, organization, ensuring a position with clear roles and we want to make a positive contribution to the Belgian digital responsibilities for each of our employees. Together we economy and build a digital society that is accessible to all. are now working on an ambitious transformation project which lays the foundation for sustainable growth in the long run and confirms our commitment to offering Bert De Graeve John Porter our customers in all regions of the country best-in-class, Chairman Chief executive officer 5 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 COMPANY PROFILE Underpinned by high quality fixed and telephony solutions across Belgium. these strategic partnerships can mobile networks, Telenet is a leading The Telenet Business department be found on the Telenet corporate entertainment and business solutions serves the business market in Belgium website. provider in Belgium. Under the brand and Luxembourg with connectivity, Telenet is committed to becoming name Telenet, we focus on offering hosting and security solutions. the leading provider of converged digital television, high-speed Internet To meet the expectations of all its connected entertainment and and fixed and mobile telephony customer segments, Telenet opens its business solutions in Belgium by 2020. services to residential customers network to partner brands: Branded in Flanders and Brussels. Under the Resellers and Mobile Virtual Network brand name BASE, we provide mobile Operators (MVNO). An overview of Inspiring entertainment 50% participation in De Vijver Media € 12 million investments per year in local media productions (Chaussée d’Amour & De Dag) Superior Superior business connectivity solutions € 1.5 million Core activities: investments per day internet, data, Ookla speedtest telephony, digital TV award winner Extra services: cloud, hosting & IT-solutions Status: December 31, 2016 As a growth company, Telenet is Brussels – had 3,300 employees and company, investing, innovating and conscious of its increasing social a total annual revenue of 2.4 billion empowering people in more than responsibility. The company therefore euros at year end, an increase 30 countries across Europe, Latin carries out an active sustainability of 33 percent compared to the America and the Caribbean to make policy with attention to the ecological, previous fiscal year. Telenet reached the most of the digital revolution. social and economic aspects of its 2,149,200 unique customers. More information about Telenet and business operations. Telenet is 57.4 percent owned by its financial results can be found in the At end December 2016, Telenet Liberty Global the world’s largest Financial Report 2016. – with headquarters in Woluwe, international TV and broadband 6 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 OUR VALUES Cooperation Passion Accountability Customer Leadership centricity 7 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 THE CHANGING SOCIETY: HOW TODAY IMPACTS TOMORROW As a responsible company, their home country. The accelerated devices and objects, which requires migration flow in 2015 led in several high-performing mobile and fixed we keep a close eye on European countries to political networks and advances in big data key societal trends that tensions and public debates on the technologies. influence how we live and cultural and economic integration of Finally, the aging population is an the migrant population in the local work, today and tomorrow. community. important demographic trend. Our society is aging: the life expectancy Despite the globalization, there is a increases while the proportion of Climate change new-found appreciation for ‘being elderly people in the total population The global warming has serious local’: local communities flourish, is growing. This causes a strain on consequences for humans and the grassroot organizations and citizens our health care and social security environment. The Paris Agreement unite around common causes, close systems. Digital applications can offer (2015) recognizes the significant to home. These networks often a sustainable solution, both preventive impact of corporates on the health grow into powerful voices in the and curative. of our planet. There is an urgent plea public debate due to social media, to limit harmful emissions, reduce our thus having the power to influence Economic growth and jobs ecological footprint and to take bold governments and corporations Digitalization fuels job creation and steps in developing environmentally bottom-up. In this world, stakeholder sustainable economic growth. sound technologies, in order to reach engagement is no longer ‘a nice to The European Commission’s the COP 21 target of limiting global have’. Localization also leads to new Digital Economy and Society Index warming to 2°C above the prebusiness models like the sharing (DESI) annually tracks the digital industrial level by 2030. economy, facilitated by technology performance and competitiveness platforms and digital applications. of its member states. In 2017, Demographic changes: Another notable demographic trend Belgium ranks 6th in this index, with the world versus local is the growing urbanization: already strong performances on broadband communities over half of the world population connectivity (3rd) and the integration The steady progress of transport, resides in cities. In the next decades of digital technologies by businesses telecommunications and international this is expected to increase to 80 (5th). The country’s performance on trade leads to a strong globalization percent, creating new challenges digital skills (11th) and the adoption of and to a shift in the global power in terms of livability, energy supply digital public services (13th) show room balance: the economic dominance and mobility. Digital innovations for improvement. of the West is being challenged play a crucial role in creating smart To fully exploit the digital by the East and South, with major cities that offer a better quality opportunities, Science, Technology, implications for the position of of life. In Belgium too, regional and Engineering and Mathematics Europe where economic growth and local governments, companies and (STEM) competencies, creativity job creation are under pressure. Yet research institutes are joining forces and entrepreneurship are of vital Europe continues to attract migrants to give shape to the smart cities importance. who for humanitarian, economic of the future. This is based on the and geopolitical reasons are leaving continuous connection of people, 8 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Governments and corporates need to partner up to strengthen these skills through education and lifelong learning initiatives. According to the DESI 2016 report, the lack of STEM graduates and the shortfall of ICT workers are expected to lead to 30,000 open job vacancies by 2020 in Belgium. Youth unemployment is a key issue in the digital economy and remains hard to tackle. Low education levels increase the risk of long-term unemployment. The potential to train and activate NEET (Not in Education, Employment or Training) youngsters and to guide them to jobs, particularly In the market place, eCommerce in terms of privacy, the protection of in the digital space, is tremendous. is no longer a gimmick but a fierce personal data and the prevention of competitor putting pressure on the data fraud. It is our responsibility to Finally, how we work is set to traditional retail sector. In this type take appropriate action and to protect change. As digitalization allows us to of world, the consumer’s demand in particular those who are vulnerable, work where and when we want, the for speed and data continues to such as children, in the digital world. relationship between employee and increase. To cater for this demand, Digital technologies should also be employer is changing. Standing out as continuous investments in fixed inclusive: not everybody is a digital an employer by creating meaningful and mobile networks by operators native and knows how to fill out a tax jobs with a good work-life balance will are the lifeblood of the economy. statement online or transfer money be key in attracting talented people. Looking further ahead, we should through an app. prepare for a transition to 4.5G and 5G Digital is the new normal Finally, new business models, such as networks. Today, many technological targeted and personalized advertising, Digitalization offers a wealth of applications are leaving the realm have the potential to provide oxygen opportunities to consumers and of science fiction and are becoming to the local broadcasting industry. businesses. One area where this is reality in our day-to-day lives. Think But these initiatives should not particularly clear is entertainment: about augmented reality, virtual reality, compromise the trust of customers linear TV watching is declining year self-driving cars and autonomous and stakeholders. They should on year. More personalized platforms vehicles. therefore be set up in dialogue with offering maximum freedom to At the same time consumers are the respective regulators and respect consumers such as VRT NU, Yelo Play, becoming increasingly aware of the the local privacy and data regulations. Netflix and YouTube are on the rise. risks related to digital, in particular 9 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 OUR SUSTAINABILITY POLICY THE MATERIALITY Sustainability is a multi-faceted concept – more than one company dialogue with its stakeholders. The result is a schematic representation MATRIX can tackle at the same time. Therefore, Telenet has made the of the sustainability priorities and their relative importance: the materiality conscious decision to focus its efforts matrix. Initially defined in 2012, the on the most relevant issues: the materiality matrix was reviewed in materialities. Telenet determines the April 2015 to reflect the most current importance of the various material interests of our stakeholders. matters in close consultation and Privacy & data security HIGH Fair, responsible & transparent business conduct Best-in-class quality products and services Pricing & Importance to stakeholders billing transparency Customer Open internet experience Being an innovative and leading company Customer’s energy consumption Attracting, Responsible retaining and Offering customeremployer developing talent centric products Electronic waste and equipment recycling Reducing environmental impact Customer health & safety Supply chain management Safe use of internet by children Role in society Promoting skills for the 21st century society MEDIUM Media landscape Employee engagement MEDIUM Influence on business success HIGH 10 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Determining the Talking with Selecting the 20 most (potential) impact stakeholders relevant topics in the of the 20 most to gauge their New materiality telecommunications important interest in the matrix and media industry questions 20 most important on Telenet’s questions operating success DESIGNING A structured process is applied. First, a detailed analysis of organizations) are consulted to determine how important they deem THE MATERIALITY relevant economic, social and ecological considerations in the each of the 20 issues to Telenet. For the most recent exercise in 2015, MATRIX telecommunications and media a total of 1,405 stakeholders were sector results in a list of 100 topics. surveyed. This long list is further refined and Senior management determines the categorized into a short list of (potential) effect of each issue on the 20 topics. commercial success of Telenet. The most important stakeholder A clear and measurable objective groups (residential and business is set for each materiality, as customers, employees, investors shown in table ‘KPI per Materiality’ and shareholders, suppliers, policy (pages 58-60). makers/regulators, consumer organizations, media and sector THE DECISION MAKING PROCESS Board of Directors Senior Leadership Reputation Corporate Affairs Team (SLT) Board Director • 10 members, 3 of which are • Top 12 managers • Board consisting of SLT and • Manages daily activities and independent directors • Sustainability progress as board members provides reports • Design, implementation and fixed agenda item • Assesses and directs checking the sustainability improvements to • Meets fortnightly program as a permanent Telenet’s corporate item on the agenda reputation, including • Meets at least once sustainability aspects per quarter • Meets quarterly 11 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 THE SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY At Telenet we strive for sustainable We want to build a society in which Amazing Customer Experience: growth, with a good balance people enjoy to live and work our commitment to customers between operational excellence together, embracing the possibilities Great Workplace: our and social responsibility, taking of the digital world at the fullest, with commitment to employees into account the social, economic pleasure. In this digital era, we want and environmental aspects of our to make a real difference by engaging Digital Society: our commitment business operations. As part of our with our customers and employees to society and local communities transformation program following the in an inclusive and empathic way. We Responsible Business Practices: BASE Company acquisition, we have are committed to build an open and our commitment to a fair, open taken the opportunity to thoroughly transparent relationship with all our and transparent dialogue with all rethink our sustainability strategy. Not stakeholders, looking them straight stakeholders to drastically change course, but to in the eye and responding to their ensure that in terms of sustainability, expectations as it comes to our social, Per commitment, we have defined we also maintain our leading position economic and environmental impact. a set of measurable targets, to be among Belgian companies. reached by 2020. Our focus domains Our commitment: The new sustainability program With pleasure! underscores our commitment to At Telenet, we believe that people the key stakeholders and reflects should feel good about the way their interests as defined by the digital can play a part in their lives. materialities: Amazing customer Digital Society experience Responsible Business Great Practices Workplace 12 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 TELENET SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK 2017-2020 Our 2020 Vision Guiding principles Our business priorities • To be the leading converged • pioneering digital nearby • Build a leading integrated network connected entertainment sparkling friendly sincere, • Lead in inspiring entertainment and business solution honest and transparent provider in Belgium. inclusive pleasure • Unlock the potential in business solutions • Create memorable customer experiences With pleasure! We live in exciting times. In the digital era, the way we live together, work together, play together has changed. We have now more tools than ever to make of every moment a meaningful moment, and to love every one of them. At Telenet, we believe people should feel good about the way digital can play a part in their lives. We want to build a society in which people enjoy to live and work together, embracing the possibilities of the digital world at the fullest, with pleasure. In this digital era, we want to make a real difference by engaging with our customers and employees in an inclusive and empathic way. We are committed to build an open and transparent relationship with all our stakeholders, looking them straight in the eye and responding to their expectations as it comes to our social, economic and environmental impact. Digital Society Amazing Customer Great Workplace Responsible Business Experience Practices Our commitment We want to build a society We do everything to give We want every Telenet We do business in an in which people enjoy to live our customers the best employee to be proud to open an transparent way, and work together, embracing experience possible and work for our company and taking the expectations of the possibilities of the digital to build lasting trusted to become real Telenet all our stakeholders into world at the fullest, with relationships with them. Ambassadors. We want to account, as it comes to pleasure. empower, inspire and enable our social, economic and our employees to flourish. environmental impact. 2020 Objective Unlock the potential of digital Net Promoter Score of -5 Zoom employee score of RepTrak scores on for all through at least 3 digital 61%, with a clear ambition Governance & Citizenship skills programs.Accelerate to reach a score in the top +3% percentage points 25,000 young people in the quartile (compared to base digital age RepTrak 2016Q4 Flanders & Brussels) We’ll do this by • Investing in high• Bringing the best • Attracting & retaining the • Limiting our environmental performant fixed & mobile customer experience best talent footprint connectivity solutions • Delivering top quality • Stimulating learning & • Managing our supply chain • Boosting the digital and products & services that development in a responsible way creative economy are easy to use • Engaging our employees • Demonstrating • Nurturing 21st century • Ensuring privacy & data through internal good governance & skills for children and security communications and transparency in our empowering youth through • Driving transparent corporate culture business practices entrepreneurship and pricing & billing • Cultivating employee digital literacy training wellbeing & diversity • Ensuring basic digital literacy skills for all • Promoting the right digital balance 13 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 OUR COMMITMENT TOWARDS OUR STAKEHOLDERS At Telenet, each department is responsible for developing structured stakeholder relationships. At the corporate level, Telenet maintains dialogues with the following stakeholder groups: Customers Investors Employees • Telenet uses the Net Promoter Score • As a listed company, Telenet • Telenet actively assesses the (NPS) to assess the satisfaction of its openly, actively and simultaneously satisfaction of its employees through customers. communicates with all its investors. the annual Zoom survey. • Telenet applies four values to every • Telenet issues financial reports • Telenet employees work in an new product: simplicity, transparency, in accordance with International environment that encourages personal focus on loyal customers, and standards such as the International development. forward-looking. Financial Reporting Standards (EU) and the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act. • Telenet gives young employees the • Telenet maintains transparent opportunity to develop their talent in communication around sensitive the Young Grads program. issues such as price adjustments. • Telenet promotes equal opportunities • Through our social media channels we and works on diversity to ensure actively engage in dialogue with our our organization is a good reflection customers.. of the broader society and our customer base. 14 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Important memberships Suppliers Local community Policy makers • Telenet uses a code of conduct on • Telenet consults local communities • Telenet has adopted a charter with sustainability that has to be signed by and neighborhood committees for specific guidelines on stakeholder every supplier. major projects, such as the roll-out of engagement, with a particular ‘De Grote Netwerf’ project in Flemish emphasis on our dealings with public • Telenet evaluates and monitors the cities and municipalities. authorities. sustainability risk of each supplier through the EcoVadis platform. • Telenet actively supports social • Telenet is a member of professional initiatives that boost the digital talents organizations, such as the ISPA • Telenet develops structural of the future, like CoderDojo Belgium, (Belgian Internet Service Providers partnerships with suppliers who have Toekomst­Atelier and Yout­hStart. Association), the GSMA, Cable Europe a strong social dimension, such as the and the Agoria Federation of Telecom company IMSIR. Operators. • Telenet seeks transparent interactions with policy makers, but does not support political parties. 15 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 OUR MOST IMPORTANT SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Telenet remains committed to being a responsible and sustainable company that takes into account the social, economic and environmental aspects of its business operations. Sustainability, however, is a multi-faceted concept – more than one company can tackle at the same time. At Telenet, we therefore consciously choose to focus our efforts on the most relevant issues – the materialities – which we define in close consultation with our various stakeholders. These materialities also form the foundation for the sustainability programs that we actively support as a company: COMMITMENT TO COMMITMENT TO FAIR, OPEN AND OUR EMPLOYEES TRANSPARENT BUSINESS PRACTICES COMMITMENT COMMITMENT TO TO SOCIETY OUR CUSTOMERS AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES 16 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 COMMITMENT TO OUR CUSTOMERS It is our ambition to develop lasting trusted relationships with our customers by investing in bestin-class, customer-friendly products and services, by driving a transparent pricing policy, by respecting our customers’ privacy, and by striving for memorable experiences that enhance customer satisfaction. 17 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 LOOKING BACK AT 2016 At Telenet, we put in all effort to offer connections with broadband speeds The best experience in a innovative products and services to up to 1 Gbps and large data volumes. digital world our customers. This underscores our commitment to Positive customer experiences form The technology as such does not continuously improve the customer the foundation of sustainable growth. matter to our users. What does experience by driving innovation matter is how it helps them gain across our various business domains. Through our different customer business productivity, relax carelessly Besides investments in network engagement channels, we guide or interact freely. These are all innovation, we also drive product our customers to the best and experiences to which Telenet actively and service innovation: most efficient solution, offering contributes by investing in state-ofthem a seamless, high-quality and In June 2016, Telenet launched personalized service. the-art fixed and mobile network WIGO, the first genuine all-in connectivity and by delivering highTelenet since 2014 has been investing package for families and quality connected entertainment and in the Amazing Customer Experience businesses that responds to business solutions. Program (ACE), through which we changing customer behaviors The acquisition of BASE Company and removes the traditional monitor, analyze and report on the in February 2016 was a key moment barriers between fixed and mobile experiences of our customers. As for Telenet. It turned the company services. This resulted in just over a result we are able to more quickly into a national telecom services 150,000 WIGO subscribers at identify pain points and provide provider with its own mobile end December 2016, boosting targeted corrections. Over the past network. This will allow us to better the quad-play penetration to 23 years, the number of customer respond to the rising demand percent of cable customers. complaints on Telenet that the from both residential and business Ombudsman for Telecommunications The Helemaal Mee Tournee, feeds back to us has been declining customers for the full range of fixed a full and free check-up of the steadily*: and mobile telecom services. indoor installation at our Telenet A first important step in the integration customers’ homes, continues to 1 file per 1,639 services of both companies was our decision set a new standard for customerdelivered in 2014 to invest in the upgrade of the BASE centric servicing. Since its launch 1 file per 2,081 services mobile network across Belgium in 2015, the program has already delivered in 2015 by 2018. At the end of 2016, already reached 286,050 residential 500 macro sites were successfully customers, out of which 150,258 1 file per 2,212 services delivered in upgraded and in January 2017 close in 2016. We plan to reach another 2016 (including BASE) to 38,000 Telenet MVNO customers 120,000 customers in 2017. In As a company we have to constantly were migrated to our own mobile June 2016, the initiative received improve the experience to earn network. The investments in the the Golden Effie Award, a the trust of our customers. The BASE mobile network across prestigious marketing award. acquisition of BASE Company was the Belgium complement our ongoing starting point of a transformation The BASE Fix2 Go solution offers efforts to optimize our fixed network journey to build by 2020 an a professional repair service infrastructure in Flanders and Brussels integrated approach to customer for mobile phones and tablets, through De Grote Netwerf and Nexus engagement, with aligned business including associated services such projects. These enable residential processes, systems and tools. as mobile phone configurations and business customers to benefit and data transfers. A repair The following focus domains will be by 2019 from high-speed internet in the BASE shops takes only instrumental to further strengthen the approximately 40 minutes. customer engagement: * Note: The given numbers prior to 2016 do not include BASE customer complaints. 18 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Better aligning internal processes to the customer journey: customers expect Telenet to deliver a seamless experience across all touchpoints, from initial inquiry right through post-sales support. As an organization we still have the opportunity to improve internal process efficiencies, to remove barriers between business functions and channels, and to proactively capture the impact of internal developments on the customer journey. In autumn 2016, we amended the Driving transparent pricing Embracing a new digital policy, in view of the launch of a and billing targeted advertising test case on customer experience: the the SBS TV channels. The changes Early 2016, Telenet informed all growing digitalization leads to to this Customer Data Policy were its customers personally about a changing customer expectations. communicated in an open and price adjustment to a number of its In the digital economy, customer transparent way to our customers. products and services. These price contacts must be quick, easy and changes were led by the growing fun with a 24/7 service delivery. As The launch of the targeted advertising demand for faster connections, more an organization we have to develop test case stirred up the public debate data, more mobile Internet, and more a real digital customer interaction about the necessity of transparent capacity. To meet these consumer approach that is complementary privacy policies and led to an inquiry and business expectations, we need to the non-digital customer by the Belgian Privacy Commission to invest more in our network, our engagement channels where a on Telenet’s Customer Data Policy products and our services. While warm, human experience makes in general and its compliance with on-going investments will be required the difference. the new EU General Data Protection in the future potentially leading to Regulation in particular. We are price adjustments -, we have the Ensuring privacy and data currently in consultation with the responsibility to reflect on how we security Belgian Privacy Commission to can keep ensuring the best value for further refine the Telenet Customer money to our customers, earning their Earning trust also implies that Data Policy. long-term trust. customer interactions are handled with respect of privacy and data Next to the update of the Telenet As far as billing is concerned, Telenet security. We manage a vast amount Customer Data Policy, we reviewed launched a campaign mid-2016 to of information from and about our the data policy for BASE customers invite its residential customers to customers. The Telenet Customer to better align it with the Telenet one, choose for e-billing. Up to 56 percent Data Policy describes what in view of a further integration of the of Telenet customers migrated from information we process, why we do privacy and data security policies in a traditional paper bill to the e-bill so and what our customers’ rights the future. solution. are. It is applicable to all commercial At BASE, there were no major activities of Telenet and is publicly changes to pricing or to billing in 2016. available on the Telenet website. 70 percent of the BASE customers uses an e-bill solution. 19 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 IN A NUTSHELL: MAJOR EVENTS AND On track/Completed Work in progress ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 Requires further attention Focus 2016 Events and achievements Status Next steps Bringing the A new family of customers A new family of customers : best customer SFR acquisition The acquisition of BASE Company, experience turns Telenet into a national telecom The take-over of SFR’s cable operations in Belgium services provider with its own mobile and Luxembourg, as approved by the Belgian network. A transformation project is competition authorities on June 13 2017, will initiated to build an integrated approach further extend our footprint, turning Telenet into to customer engagement by 2020. the largest telecom provider in Brussels. Net Promoter Score (NPS) for Net Promoter Score (NPS) for Telenet and Telenet and BASE 2016 BASE 2017 NPS is our main performance indicaAs far as Telenet is concerned, we have set a tor for customer loyalty and is based -4 NPS score at year-end. on a monthly online survey among As far as BASE is concerned, we target a -7 NPS 12,000 residential and business cusscore at year-end. tomers. In 2016, Telenet achieved an end result of -6.9, slightly below target. The NPS score for BASE was -12.10 at year-end. Delivering top Telenet WIGO Continue to offer the WIGO all-in package and quality products & extend the offering to even better respond to Launched in June, WIGO is the first services that are the expectations and needs of our residential and genuine all-in package for families and easy to use business customers. businesses. WIGO registered over 150,000 subscribers at end 2016. 75 percent of our customers, who turned to WIGO, pay less than before. Inspiring entertainment: Telenet Continue to offer inspiring entertainment Play More solutions Re-launched in December, Play More Telenet Play Sports: in May 2017, Telenet was provides an enriched linear viewing granted the non-exclusive live broadcasting experience, with a new user interface rights for the Belgian ‘Jupiler Pro League’ football and improved search and recommend competition till season 2019-2020. In addition, we features. With the Mr. More messenger were granted the exclusive rights for the football bot, we have set a new standard for game summaries and for the live broadcasting guiding viewers in the online entertainrights through Over-The-Top (OTT) distribution. ment catalogue. 20 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Focus 2016 Events and achievements Status Next steps Ensuring privacy & Telenet Customer Data Policy Telenet Data Protection Policy to be further data security refined in accordance with the relevant legal Reviewed and amended in autumn provisions and in consultation with the Belgian 2016, the changes to the policy were Privacy Commission. We are also working on the openly communicated to customers. implementation of the EU General Data Protection Internal awareness was ensured through Regulation. Good progress has already been made a mandatory online training for all in the areas of privacy by design, privacy impact employees. assessments and data breach handling. BASE Customer Data Policy Further alignment and integration of the Telenet and BASE customer data and security Reviewed and amended in autumn policies. 2016, to better align the policy to the Telenet one. Privacy complaints and breaches Continue to monitor privacy compliance through the relevant internal councils and Last year the Belgian Privacy consultative bodies. Commission sent Telenet 5 requests for information with regards to the processing of (personal) customer data. 14 potential privacy incidents were investigated by Telenet, of which 5 derived from a customer complaint. None of the incidents resulted in a fine. As far as BASE is concerned, we did not receive any complaints or requests for information. Driving transparent Telenet price adjustment Telenet price adjustment pricing & billing In January 2016, Telenet announced a A new price adjustment was announced in full price adjustment to a number of sertransparency in January 2017. We are reflecting vices and products, to cover additional on how to ensure the best value for money to our investments in network, services and customers, earning their long-term trust. products, and to meet growing consumer and business expectations. 21 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 THE GOLDEN PRINCIPLES FOR BUILDING TRUSTED CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Delivering top quality Ensuring Privacy and Data Driving transparent pricing products and services that Security and billing are easy to use The Telenet and BASE Customer Pricing: We strive to transparently Simple and easy product Data Policies describe what show our prices and any other choices: Telenet Whop and information we process, why we do costs both on our websites and in Whoppa. Telenet Play, Play More so and what our customers’ rights our promotions or advertisements. and Play Sports. BASE 15-25are. The policies are applicable One-off costs for activation, 35-45. Thanks to a clear and to all commercial activities of installation or the exchange of limited offering, it is easy for the Telenet and BASE. They are hardware are as clearly as possible customer to compare different publicly available on the respective shown on our website. products and to make a fast and websites. We will actively implement the EU General Data Invoicing: Telenet customers, who balanced choice. Protection Regulation by 2018. choose to receive an electronic Clear product information: With invoice, will automatically receive every Telenet or BASE product, the The Privacy Council since 2014 an email notification when a customer will find a leaflet with the discusses all privacy matters new invoice is available on My general conditions, an installation and priorities. It comprises Telenet, where invoices can be guide and an explicit CE certificate representatives from the various viewed for up to fourteen months. or technical flyer, if needed. business departments. BASE customers can review their We will also state the legally invoices online in the customer The Security Council formulates section of the BASE website or on required information about waste strategic recommendations the MyBASE application. treatment and energy use, and the around risks and threats arising SAR values of mobile phones. from malicious or erroneous use Proactive communications: Availability: We remain close of data. When making important changes to our customers and actively to our products and services, we The Cyber Security Road Map notify customers well in advance guide them towards the best outlines the most important via email our through bill insert. digital experiences, using different security projects and is channels: revised annually based on the No Notice Period: We do not – On the television channel 444 recommendations of the Security apply a notice period for product and the Telenet YouTube Council. bundles, Internet, fixed or mobile Channel short videos provide telephony and television, with the extra information on Telenet Internal awareness through exception of the paid channel products training: In 2016, 222 employees package Telenet Play Sports received an introduction to privacy where a legal contract term of six – On My Telenet, customers can and security while attending the months is applied as set by the subscribe to various Telenet mandatory Business Discovery Telecommunications Act. newsletters Day. At end 2016, an online training – On the Telenet and BASE social on privacy and data security was Tariff Plans: We proactively media, such as Facebook, launched, following the changes contact customers for whom it is Twitter and Linkedin, we applied to the Telenet Customer cheaper to change to a product enter into a dialogue with our Data Policy. Up to 50 percent of formula that better matches their customer the Telenet employees started product use. – On the Telenet story platform the online course in the first weeks SNAP (snap.telenet.be) the after launch. customer can read more about the Telenet company and our entertainment offerings – On our Online Community Forums – Telenet Netweters and BASE Go Mobile Forum – customers ask questions, share experiences and make suggestions to improve new or existing products. 22 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 IN THE SPOTLIGHTS Via telephone Via internet, e-mail and Via social media 78 percent of phone calls are mail We can be reached every day answered within 120 seconds. The Telenet online customer from 8AM to 10PM and in the service was visited 890,000 weekend from 8.30AM to 6PM, We achieved a First-Time Right THE TELENET AND percentage (customer receives times per month. This platform even on public holidays (with offers customers specific BASE CUSTOMER optimal assistance during first step-by-step plans and useful the exception of Christmas and SERVICE & contact) of 73 percent. information to initially resolve New Year). TECHNICAL problems on their own. We achieved 462,810 HELPDESK IN 2016 The BASE online customer registered social media mentions,an increase with service was visited 225,863 43 percent compared to 2013. times per month. The BASE social media My Telenet was visited over channels achieved 15 million times through 70,034 mentions the year and reached 1,070,000 unique visitors, The hottest topics in 2016 an increase with 7 percent for Telenet were WIGO and compared to 2015. The MyBase Digibende. app had 247,296 unique users The hottest topics in 2016 per month, an increase with 53 for BASE were handset percent compared to 2015. promotions and the free 78 percent of complaint emails streaming of Red Devils and letters were answered matches. within two days. Telenet SNAP BASE Go Mobile platform On our story platform SNAP the customer can The BASE Go Mobile read more about the smart platform shares the latest use of Telenet products and news on BASE products our entertainment offerings. and services, and provides THE TELENET AND De Netweters/ useful tips and tricks for a BASE COMMUNITY Les Netnologues truly mobile life. FORUMS On this online platform, The BASE Community is residential customers help the place to be for BASE each other to be fully up to customers to help other speed with the digital world. customers, interact with They can ask questions, each other and exchange share experiences and do ideas. suggestions to improve existing products. BASE Launched in 2015, the PaybyMobile Apple Stores PAYBYMOBILE solution offers BASE customers the (AppleMusic, iTunes, opportunity to buy e-books and online iBooks, the AppStore) entertainment products such as movies, Google Play Store music, games and apps in an easy and secure way. Sony PlayStation Store Customers can handle the invoices Samsung Store, related to these online purchases through Galaxy Store their BASE telecom invoice. The BASE Facebook PaybyMobile sets a new standard for safe, online transactions. It is available on the PaypalMobile following platforms: 23 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 COMMITMENT TO OUR EMPLOYEES As an employer, Telenet wants to be a passionate partner that encourages strong work performance and personal growth in a continuously changing working environment. We drive an employment policy that builds talent and stimulates maximum engagement. And we ensure that everyone feels happy at work. 24 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 LOOKING BACK AT 2016 The take-over of BASE Company engagement through the Zoom Meeting ‘The Telenet Way Day’ in as approved in February 2016, survey. In 2016, Telenet reached June 2016 and a fully revamped marked the start of a company-wide a 60 percent engagement score, Intranet ‘Tellit’ with an ongoing flow of transformation journey that touches 9 percentage points above the Belgian business, corporate and employee all parts of our business operations. average, with top scores on diversity stories from across the organization. The Human Resources department & inclusion, compliance & ethics In 2017, special emphasis will be put is one of the cornerstones of this and values. The most important on building a new corporate story transformation program: it is in charge areas for improvement included that is fully aligned with the employee of ensuring the people’s wellbeing career opportunities and rewards & values and the brand purpose, and in times of change. It also focuses on recognition. The Zoom measurement that has the power to engage our optimizing the processes and systems was done in January 2016, prior to the employees turning them into real that underpin our employment policy. BASE Company acquisition. Telenet ambassadors. The first HR priority after the In January 2017, the Zoom survey Employee engagement also translates acquisition was the smooth was rolled-out for the first time to into a corporate culture that is integration of both organizations, all employees of the new integrated embraced by all employees. making sure all employees quickly got organization. The first results Since the BASE Company acquisition, clarity about their job position and are encouraging: with a score of Telenet has become a national their roles and responsibilities within 58 percent, 7 percentage points telecom services provider, with the new organization. This process ahead of the Belgian average, the business activities in all regions of was initiated in March and closed in engagement score remains stable. Belgium and with a diverse, multiJuly, without any forced dismissals. Telenet employees indicate career cultural team. In a historically opportunities and performance As a next step in the transformation Flanders-oriented company, this still management as key attention points. journey, we are currently focusing requires a mind-shift for a large part of on the alignment of the different According to the Zoom 2017 survey, the employee base. HR business processes, and the Telenet’s brand and external Finally, in times of transformation, optimization of the back-office reputation as an employer including building a resilient workforce systems and IT tools in order the pride that people have working that can cope with uncertainty, to build a fully integrated HR for the organization-, could also be unexpected changes and stress, practice by 2018. Important further improved. makes a real difference. In 2015, will be the harmonization of the This underscores the need to we therefore initiated a special working conditions between former continue investing in internal development program in this respect Telenet and former BASE Company communications and corporate for people leaders and employees, employees, in close consultation with culture initiatives. Since spring 2016, with training sessions, an employee the social partners. we have been intensifying internal assistance program, personal A key success factor in this communications to ensure all coaching and on-the-job support. transformation journey is the active employees are fully informed about This resilience program contributes to engagement of the employees our integration and transformation Telenet’s employer branding strategy in the new organization. Telenet journey. Major initiatives include: and boosts our external reputation as yearly measures the employee regular newsletters, an All Employees ‘an employer of choice’. 25 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 IN A NUTSHELL: MAJOR EVENTS AND On track/Completed Work in progress ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 Requires further attention Focus 2016 Events and achievements Status Next steps Attracting & A new family of colleagues Continue the integration journey by retaining the harmonizing business processes and optimizing Mid 2016 Telenet and BASE Company best talent back-office systems, building one fully integrated employees formed one, fully integrated human resources practice by 2018, in close organization, with confirmed job consultation with the social partners. positions and clear roles and responsibilities for all. All employees were regularly informed about the acquisition and the integration journey. LinkedIn Recruiter Certification Continue online recruitment through LinkedIn, complementing the more traditional In 2016, the entire Telenet recruitment recruitment channels, such as job fairs and ads team was certified as LinkedIn recruiter, in newspapers or on specialized job sites and the after completing an intensive LinkedIn own Telenet website Recruiter Certification Program. Telenet is the first Belgian company to be LinkedIn certified. Young Graduate -Program Continue Young Graduate Program Selected in January 2015, 15 Young Telenet is hiring 20 new Young Grads for the new Grads completed the two-year training program cohort, starting September 2017. program for recently graduated master students in November 2016. 13 Young Grads were hired, while 2 left Telenet to pursue other career opportunities. Refer a Friend (RAF) Program Continue the Refer a Friend Program in order to fill the job vacancies. In 2016, 18 new employees were hired following a recommendation by Telenet employees. Stimulating learning Learn-it Continue the Learn-it deployment and & development strengthen the adoption by all employees In December 2016, Telenet launched a brand-new learning portal, allowing all employees to easily manage their personal development. Learning & Development Continue Learning & Development initiatives In 2016, 2400 employees followed training, representing a total of 74,139 hours of training. Leadership Launch Path Continue the Leadership Launch Path program roll-out In 2016, 18 recently promoted people leaders and managers from the new, integrated organization followed this personal development program which aims at boosting (people) leadership in times of change, by finding the right balance between technical expertise and people management skills. 26 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Focus 2016 Events and achievements Status Next steps Engaging our Zoom Employee Engagement Continue Zoom Employee Engagement employees In March 2016, the yearly Zoom survey In April 2017, the first Zoom employee engagement through internal showed a 60 percent engagement survey including both Telenet and BASE Company communications and score, which is 9 percentage points employees, showed a stable score of 58 percent, corporate culture above the Belgian average and 7 percentage points ahead of the Belgium average. 5 percentage points above the Zoom 2015 results. The 2016 Zoom survey did not yet include BASE Company employees. Internal Communications Continue Internal Communications efforts, As part of the integration journey, we are in the In 2016 extra emphasis was put on process of refreshing our company values. driving internal communications as part of the integration journey. Key initiatives included the All Employees Meeting ‘Telenet Way Day’ in June and the launch of the renewed Intranet ‘Tellit’ in autumn. Cultivating Resilience Program Continue Resilience Program implementation employee wellbeing as part of the companies’ integration and transition Initiated in 2015, this program & diversity journey. strengthens personal resilience in times of change. It includes several training and coaching initiatives for both people leaders and employees. Gender diversity Continue ensuring gender diversity Telenet has a diverse employee base with a wide range of professional and cultural backgrounds and a healthy mix of male and female, young and old. In 2016, the number of female employees was 35.4 percent. At the end of 2016, Telenet’s Senior Leadership Team consisted of 50 percent females. The Board of Directors included 3 women. 27 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 A SUSTAINABLE EMPLOYMENT POLICY Telenet makes sustainability and the wellbeing of its employees central to its employment policy, which is developed in close consultation with the social partners. Key employment initiatives of general physical and mental Consultation with social health, a reviewed approach to partners Sabbatical: a career pause is candidate selection, assessment part of the legal regulation of time and recruitment, additional The Works Council (WC) credit. The maximum duration is competencies training efforts, (Ondernemingsraad – Conseil one year of the entire career and special career development d’Entreprise) has an equal can be either a full suspension and coaching initiatives, the representation and comprises the or a reduction of working hours. promotion of internal mobility same number of employer and Upon return, the employee must and the recognition of acquired employee representatives. It is take up the same position. At the competencies. involved in the social, economic end of 2016, 467 employees took and financial policies of the advantage of this program. Outplacement: the employer company. Reports from the WC offers the employee a set of are, as required by law, published Employment plan for older guiding services and advice to all employees. employees: companies with to enable him/her to find more than 20 employees must employment with a new employer The Committees for Prevention develop such a plan in order to as soon as possible, or to develop and Protection at Work (CPBW: realize an increased participation a professional activity as a selfComités voor Preventie en rate of employees of 45 years employed person. Outplacement Bescherming op het Werk and older. Telenet particularly is arranged for by law. In 2016, CPPT: Comités pour la focuses on 45+ employees. The 26 employees were offered Prévention et la Protection au program includes: the promotion outplacement. Travail) is a consultative body that represents all employees and that is composed equally. It comprises both employer and employee representatives, the occupational doctor and the internal service for prevention and protection at work. The CPBW is actively involved in the health policy for employees in the performance of their work, the global prevention plan and the annual action plan. This includes the domains of labor safety, health supervision, ergonomics, hygiene, workplace decoration, the psychosocial aspects of work, including bullying, violence and unwanted sexual behavior and the (living) environment. The CPBW primarily has advisory tasks around new and changing technologies, work procedures, the design of the workplace, work means, protection measures, trainings, instructions, periodic check-ups, etc. 28 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Health, Safety and absenteeism in contact centers, experts on specific subjects. In Wellbeing a review of the health surveillance addition, ‘Wellbeing champions’ following legal changes, a have been appointed in 2015 The Wellbeing Survey: this survey smooth start of the renewed within the departments, to assist is conducted every three years safety committees after the their managers in drawing up based on the S-ISW list. It identifies social elections of 2016, and the and monitoring the wellbeing psycho-social risks at work related ongoing project of fire auditing/ action plan. Internal persons of to work organization, job content, risk analyses. In addition, various confidence and external psychointerprofessional work relations, environmental activities such as social prevention advisors can work environment and work the renewal of permissions were be consulted by employees for conditions, and the correlation carried out. The status and results specific psycho-social issues at on wellbeing indicators such as on wellbeing are reported yearly to work, with personalized advice, stress, burn-out, motivation, the General Direction Supervision referral, mediation, and further absenteeism, and unwanted on Wellbeing at Work, which is analysis if needed. behavior such as (sexual) part of the Federal Government harassment, discrimination and Internal awareness initiatives: Service Employment, Labor and violence, both on an individual and All employees are activated Social Consultation and to the organizational level. In 2014, the with regards to wellbeing and Committees for Prevention and Wellbeing survey was completed environment in general and the Protection at work. In 2016, there by 75 percent of all employees. psycho-social aspects of work were 74 occupational accidents, A detailed follow-up action plan in particular. Launched in 2015, including work accidents with was developed and carried out the Resilience Program is a a total temporary incapacity in 2015 and 2016 for the highest concrete example of how people for work of 773 calendar days. risk factors. The next Wellbeing leaders and regular employees There were no fatal occupational Survey will be conducted in 2018, are prepared to cope with stress accidents or accidents with leaving room in 2017 for the and uncertainty in times of confirmed permanent disability. BASE Company integration and change. Other training initiatives Overall the work accident transformation initiatives. include work in flow, assertive frequency and severity remains communications, and dealing with The Global Prevention Plan: this below the sector levels for all aggression, mindfulness, problem outlines the company’s wellbeing divisions. solving and emotional intelligence. and environmental goals for five Roles and Responsibilities: When needed, individual years, as identified through audits, The wellbeing policy is carefully employees are referred to an risk analyses, yearly evacuation monitored at both the business employee assistance program or exercises, periodic and specific and department level. Directors other forms of personal coaching. inspections, incident and accident and managers are responsible for For administrative employees, analyses, the results of the translating the wellbeing policy into a training program on PC & Wellbeing survey, new legislation or their specific businesses. Advice ergonomics is offered. Technicians important organizational changes. and assistance is provided by the receive basic safety training This is in accordance with the act Safety, Health and Environment according to SCC standard (Safety on wellbeing at work. Every year, team consisting of the internal Checklist for Contractors) and progress is measured, goals are prevention advisors, the external specific safety training related to reset if needed and translated into environmental consultants, their risk activities (e.g. working at specific annual action plans. In occupational doctors from the height or very high height, lifting 2016, the most important actions external prevention service, and hoisting). included: the resilience program and other internal and external in times of changes, a pilot on 29 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 IN THE SPOTLIGHTS the training program. These young they had to turn an innovative idea professionals are all younger than into a business case that could 28 years and have been working improve the customer experience. less than 2 years. They are evenly One of the ideas – promoting the distributed across all departments re-use of nearly new smartphones of the company and for two years – will be turned into a real business THE YOUNG become full members. During project. GRADUATEthat period, they follow a number In November 2016, the first Young PROGRAM of targeted trainings around core Grads selection completed the competencies such as innovation, training. 13 Young Grads were formally leadership, and customer focus. hired, while 2 left the company Through pitchand presentation The Young Graduate-program is a to pursue other professional sessions, the participants in the Young two-year training program for recently opportunities. In spring 2017, Telenet Grads –program get the opportunity graduated master students. selected 20 new Young Grads for the to present their competencies and new training program cohort, starting In January 2015, a group of 15 Young skills to the Senior Leadership team. in September 2017. Grads – including 8 new employees In 2016, the Young Grads particularly and 7 existing employees – started focused on the topic of Innovation: We empower our employees to take a one-stop-shop for learning and control of their own development development, offering them a large and to look beyond traditional portfolio of training programs: education. In doing so, we apply a sessions to strengthen personal 70-20-10 model: skills such as mindfulness and LEARN-IT: 70% learning on the job people management, FOSTERING 20% learning through coaching and sessions to build professional TALENT feedback competencies such as DEVELOPMENT 10% learning through formal presentation & business writing trainings and courses skills and foreign language skills, This third part comprises a wide sessions to strengthen Telenet and selection of internal trainings BASE product knowledge, such as and external trainings by Cevora the Helemaal Mee Atelier. and other partners. Launched The Learnit platform also provides a in December 2016, the Learn-it large selection of e-books. portal provides employees with Initiated in 2015, the program Special attention is paid to strengthens personal resilience in emotional intelligence, collaboration, times of change. intrapersonal communication and dealing with stress. THE RESILIENCE It encompasses inspiration and PROGRAM: training sessions for both people The program follows the 70-20ENABLING A leaders and employees and aims at 10 approach to development, by RESILIENT preventing health and psychological combining classroom training, WORKFORCE issues, with a strong focus on selfcollaboration and on-the-job learning. care, stress and burn-out. The Resilience program is welladopted by the Telenet employee The Resilience Program is available to community and has a positive impact all employees of the new, integrated on the motivation of individual organization and consists of an employees. one-day training for employees and a two-day training for managers. 30 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 COMMITMENT TO SOCIETY AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES Digitalization offers significant growth opportunities for society. By investing in our fixed and mobile networks, we help build the knowledge society of the future. We believe people should feel good about the way digital can play a part in their lives. That’s why we empower children and youngsters by nurturing their 21st century skills. That’s why we encourage digital entrepreneurship and give the Flemish media landscape a boost. That’s why want to equip everyone with the right digital literacy skills, so they can embrace the possibilities of technology at the fullest, in their own way and at their own pace. With a smile. 31 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 LOOKING BACK AT 2016 Investing in digital networks provide consumers with and business customers to benefit innovation and high state-of-the-art communications by 2019 from internet connections performing network and entertainment services. Reliable with broadband speeds up to 1 Gbps infrastructures broadband boosts information and large data volumes. After the sharing and education and it increases BASE Company acquisition, we also Digital innovation is of crucial the productivity of businesses. decided to invest in the upgrade of the importance to the prosperity of our Based on data from 2013 to 2016, the BASE mobile network across Belgium region: it ensures an increased quality average social return on investment by 2018. At the end of 2016, already of life, sustainable growth and new from Telenet network investments in 500 macro sites were successfully jobs. The European Commission Belgium is estimated at 37 percent. upgraded and in January 2017 close therefore intends to stimulate the to 38,000 Telenet MVNO customers digital economy and boost the In 2016, our investments totaled were migrated to our own mobile European GDP by 5 percent by 2020 626.8 million euros – or 25.8 percent network. and create 3.8 million new jobs. of the corporate revenue. The majority of these investments were used to In 2016, our total contribution to the According to recent research (2017) upgrade our network infrastructure. Belgian treasury was 538.6 million commissioned by Liberty Global, Telenet invests 1.5 million euros euros, or 110.9 percent of the realized investments in superfast broadband per day in its fixed and mobile operation profit – the difference networks generate an important networks. between turnover on the one hand, economic benefit for society. In the and the cost of goods and sales on the study, the international economic Initiated in 2014, De Grote Netwerf and other hand. The total contribution was consultancy firm Oxera states that Nexus projects are turning our fixed up 22.4 percent from 2015. the digital economy is expanding network infrastructure in Flanders seven times faster than the rest of the and Brussels into a high performing economy. High-quality broadband network that will enable our residential Overview investments Contributions to 2016 the Belgian treasury 2016 in millions of euros Rental of set-top Network boxes for digital Difference investments television between payable Corporation tax and deductible on the results 4% VAT 40% 107.7 285.7 Payroll tax 64.5 44% 74.3 12% 6.4 Social Maintenance of security the network and other Company Customer maintenance contributions installations and taxes 32 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Investing in the local media sector to boost creative entrepreneurship As a local player in the Flemish media ecosystem, Telenet has been committed for years to a strong Flemish audio-visual landscape, helping creative entrepreneurs to flourish. As such, we foster Flemish television productions and movies through STAP, an investment program of 30 million euros that ran from 2013 till 2016. We also hold a 50 percent stake in De Vijver Media NV and are working The power of digital: We see three main challenges: with channels VIER and VIJF on the opportunities and opportunities the convergence of TV challenges 1. Unlock the potential of and Internet offers. digital for all We live in exciting times. Digital A key milestone in 2016 was the innovation creates new opportunities, To succeed in today’s knowledge release of ‘Chaussee d’Amour’, in both our private and professional economy, digital skills are imperative, our first own drama series lives. We see a future of smarter cities, for all. made in collaboration with the more sustainable mobility solutions Not everybody is a digital native production company De Mensen. and affordable health care services. though and knows how to fill out a tax In October 2016, we announced – We experience more flexible working statement online or transfer money together with TV channel VIER –, environments and memorable in a secure way using an e-banking our second drama series ‘De Dag’, a entertainment experiences at home. application. production of FBO and Woestijnvis, with the support of VAF/Mediafonds. Making and using digital technologies In the European Commission’s Digital This new cooperation model for has become essential in today’s and Economy and Society Index (DESI) Flemish fiction series ensures a tomorrow’s society. 2017, Belgium only ranks 11th on human win-win-win situation for viewers, for However, as a leading telecom capital and digital skills adoption by Telenet as a Flemish entertainment and entertainment company in the population. A recent study of player, and for the VIER TV channel, Belgium, we are also aware of the the Gezinsbond/Ligue des Familles which can continue to produce and potential challenges that come with (2016) unveiled that 20 percent of the offer top-class fiction in this way. digitalization. Belgian population has issues using the Internet, and 50 percent of the population is unable to complete a public administration form online. The digital literacy gap is mostly hitting elderly people, women and socially underserved people. 33 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 The Helemaal Mee Tournee, a full market rates. The aim is to provide entrepreneurship via the Telenet and free check-up of the indoor educational organizations with a fast Kickstart start-up acceleration installation at our Telenet customers’ internet connection and protection program. homes, offers our technicians with against volatile influences. All services Youth unemployment is a key issue the opportunity to engage with people are managed and secured by Telenet, in the digital economy and remains on the use of digital technologies. thereby taking over the operational hard to tackle. In January 2017, the They educate them on basic digital responsibilities of ICT-coordinators youth unemployment rate reached skills such as how to safely use the at schools so they can focus on 19.6 percent in Flanders, 20 percent in internet, how to get out more of their their key role of enabling teachers in Wallonia and 26.5 percent in Brussels. digital TV and how to use the Telenet the effective use of ICT-tools in the Low education levels increase the Yelo app. In autumn 2016, Telenet also classroom. risk of long-term unemployment. The presented the Digibende, a group potential to train and activate Not in of 20 enthusiast digital natives who 2. Digital as an enabler for Education, Employment or Training showed families, children and elderly future generations (NEET) youngsters and to guide them people in a fun way how to get out The European DESI trackers 2016to jobs, particularly in the digital space, more of their digital lives. 2017 clearly highlights it: Belgium has is tremendous. Telenet therefore At the same time we should make a low share of Science, Technology, partners up with YouthStart, an consumers more aware of the risks Engineering and Mathematics international organization active related to digital, in particular in (STEM) graduates. Only 14 out of in all Belgian regions, to unlock terms of privacy, the protection of 1,000 individuals are graduated from the potential of unemployed personal data and the prevention of the technical and science branches of youngsters by strengthening their data fraud. It is our responsibility to education, leading to an ICT workforce entrepreneurial skills. take appropriate action and to protect shortfall and eventually 30,000 open in particular those who are vulnerable, job vacancies by 2020. 3. Finding the right digital such as children, in the digital age. balance In 2012, the Flemish government In 2016, Telenet joined the Belgian therefore decided to encourage Digital technologies enable people Better Internet Consortium careers in math, science and to be connected anytime, anyplace (B-BICO) that aims at promoting technology through the STEM action and on any device. Digital is changing media literacy and a safer use of the plan. Education plays a major role in our personal and professional lives, internet by children. Through our main this. But also social partners, media mostly for the better. As a telecom shareholder, Liberty Global, we are and companies are supporting the and entertainment provider we are also a Gold Partner of the annual plan. In November 2015, Telenet enabling and promoting a digital Safer Internet Day, a European signed the STEM charter and is lifestyle through the high performing awareness campaign. To increase the an active member of the STEM (mobile) connectivity solutions online safety of children and youth, we academy, which mainly supports we offer. also offer parental control solutions extracurricular STEM activities. We should however remain conscious for all our Internet and television In this context, we support about the downsides of this ‘always services. CoderDojo Belgium, a non-profit on’ lifestyle. In an inclusive digital society, organization that teaches boys and It is our responsibility to help technological innovations should girls between the ages of 7 and 18 in a people find the right balance: digital be available to all. For this reason, group setting to code, build websites, technologies should not harm Telenet applies a social fee to all its and develop apps and games. personal interactions, nor present a telecom products and services Besides strengthening the digital serious risk for people’s life or health. (Internet, television, fixed & mobile skills of youth, it is also key to telephony) and thus goes beyond In that perspective we run the ‘Smart boost their creativity and what is legally required in Belgium. phones, smart drivers’ campaign in entrepreneurial spirit. By doing so, The Telenet Business department the summer of 2016, in cooperation we create economy added value and also offers – in cooperation with the with the Belgian Road Safety Institute. sustainable growth in a competitive Flemish government – SchoolNet+, The media campaign aimed to global market. a commercial solution with a social sensitize young drivers on the risks purpose. Under the Schoolnet The growing start-up community of using a smart phone while driving. proposition, we offer elementary has already proven that it pays off A survey showed that a fifth of young and secondary schools and libraries, to bet on innovation and creativity drivers regularly use their smart phone internet and security packages at a – with a good dose of courage and in traffic, increasing the risk of a road strongly reduced price, approximately entrepreneurship. Since 2014, accident with 23 percent. 50 percent below standard Telenet stimulates young digital 34 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 A committed member of community. Together they bike to extend this employee volunteering the local community and run for the good cause, they program to the former BASE raise money for charities and they Company employees who joined our Telenet invests in various social invest time themselves as mentor or organization in 2016. projects. In 2016, our financial coach in social projects that Telenet contribution to charities and The ‘Give a smile’ program enables supports. From 2015 onwards, every community initiatives was over Telenet employees to dedicate their Telenet employee can take one 1.2 million euros. But, we go beyond annual teambuilding activity to a day paid leave per calendar year mere financial support: we encourage charity and we work with the nonto volunteer on one of the projects and support our employees’ active profit Time4Society, which offers supported by Telenet. In 2016, Telenet engagement. Our employees are customized socially-oriented events. employees thus invested 2,145 hours strongly anchored in the local of community work. In 2017, we aim 2016 2015 Total financial contribution to charities and community initiatives € 1,226 m € 1,351 m (rounded up) Community investments per type (%) Social welfare Digital Social welfare Digital inclusion inclusion Health Health 6% 0.1% 10% 1% 1% 15% 18% 2016 2015 74% 74% Education Economic Economic development development 2016 2015 Employee volunteering work (hours) 2,145 1,915 35 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 IN A NUTSHELL: MAJOR EVENTS AND On track/Completed Work in progress ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 Requires further attention Focus 2016 Events and achievements Status Next steps Investing in highDe Grote Netwerf and Nexus Continue De Grote Netwerf and Nexus performant fixed & Initiated in 2014, De Grote Netwerf fixed We target 60 percent of the fixed network mobile connectivity network optimization represents an nodes to be upgraded by end 2017. solutions investment of 500 million euros over 5 year. An additional 9.5 million euros is invested in Nexus, to connect SME business parks to the network. Per end 2016, 36 percent of the fixed network nodes had been successfully upgraded. BASE Mobile Network Upgrade Continue BASE Mobile Network Upgrade Announced after the BASE Company We target an upgrade of 2,800 macro sites acquisition in spring 2016, we invest 250 million and the roll-out of 800 to 1,000 new mobile euros in the mobile network upgrade across sites. These upgrades are to be substantially Belgium by 2018. In 2016, just over 500 macro completed by mid-2018. sites had been upgraded, with 100 new sites already rolled out. Superior Connectivity In December 2016, Telenet received the Speedtest by Ookla Award and was rewarded fastest Internet Service Provider in Belgium. Boosting the digital Telenet Kickstart Establish Telenet Kickstart 2.0 Program and creative economy In June 2016, 4 Growth start-ups graduated We will continue to boost the Belgian in Belgium from the Telenet Kickstart powered by start-up landscape. In order to create more Idealabs start-up acceleration program. material impact, we need to diversify our In summer 2016, we ended the cooperation approach and better align our initiatives with the Antwerp-based incubator Idealabs, to the lifecycle of start-ups. In addition, we to refocus our start-up program on 3 activity need to build sustainable partnerships and domains: Community, Acceleration and cooperation models in all regions of Belgium: Sustainable Growth. Our investment in Community: continued partnership with the Community was materialized in the Start it@kbc and scouting partnership partnership with Start it@kbc, the largest opportunities in Wallonia and Brussels, Belgian start-up community. Acceleration: partnership with IMEC IStart. Key focus on start-ups in the Telecom, Media and Entertainment sector, Sustainable growth: investments in promising start-ups, scale-ups and spinoffs offering a value-add for the Telenet business units. Investments in the Flemish Media Continue investments in the Flemish Landscape Media Landscape In May 2016, Telenet released ‘Chaussee Investments in promising local content d’Amour’, its first own drama series, financed will continue in 2017 and beyond. A review through STAP. In October 2016, Telenet’s of the STAP investment plan is foreseen, second drama series ‘De Dag’, was announced, in close consultation with the relevant a production of FBO and Woestijnvis, with the stakeholders in the Flemish media and support of VAF/Mediafonds. entertainment sector. 36 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Focus 2016 Events and achievements Status Next steps Nurturing 21st century CoderDojo Belgium Continue Coderdojo Belgium skills for children In 2016, 69 dojos were organized on a In order to maximize the reach in all regions and empowering monthly basis by a community of 370 of Belgium, we need to build structural youth through enthusiast volunteer coaches. They reached partnerships and invest in complementary entrepreneurship and 20,700 children, mostly in Flanders and training and communications initiatives that digital literacy training Brussels. strengthen the Coderdojo community in a The first dojo communities were initiated in material way. Wallonia. Special emphasis is to be put on reaching children out of underserved communities. Youth empowerment Continue youth empowerment As of September 2016, Telenet is Platinum We will continue our commitment Sponsor of YouthStart, a global organization to Youthstart and extend our youth that stimulates entrepreneurial spirit among empowerment efforts to BeCode, a brandopportunity-seeking young people across new professional training program that aims Belgium through coaching and training. We at cultivating web developer/designer skills of structurally help the organization in setting-up young underprivileged people in Brussels. up to 50 training sessions for about 450 youngsters in Brussels and Wallonia. Ensuring basic digital Digibende Re-evaluate Digibende campaign literacy skills for all In October 2016, Telenet presented the We are exploring how to scale-up the Digibende – 20 digital savvy millennials – who Digibende campaign in order to run it in showed families, children and elderly people a sustainable way. A continuation of the in a fun way how to get out more of their digital campaign is at this stage uncertain. life. One of the key campaign initiatives was ‘Campus Senior’ that connected students who were looking for a quiet place to study with seniors. In return for a study room and a cup of coffee, the students helped the seniors getting up to speed with digital. Online safety Continue focus on online safety In 2016, Telenet signed the Belgian Better We will actively support the B-BICO Internet Consortium (B-BICO) charter. initiative. An action plan will be developed in cooperation with the different partners. Promoting the right ‘Smart phones, Smart drivers’ Review ‘Smart Phones, Smart drivers’ digital balance Run in summer 2016 in cooperation with the campaign Belgian Road Safety Institution, this awareness A detailed evaluation of the 2016 campaign campaign sensitized youngsters on the risks of showed that there is a need to involve more using a smartphone while driving. stakeholders such as government agencies, Communications included radiospots, grassroots organizations and companies social media postings, distribution of 20,000 in order to reach a real material societal leaflets youth organizations and promotion impact. The Belgian Road Safety Institution at 9 summer festivals across Belgium. Up to is reviewing the opportunity of establishing a 20,000 people visited the campaign website consortium with different players. with useful information and tips & tricks on the A second ‘Smart phones, Smart drivers’ safe use of smart phones in traffic. campaign could eventually be extended to other target audiences such as people in the 35-45 age range. 37 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 IN THE SPOTLIGHTS incubators and accelerators in Belgium, we want to provide mentoring and coaching to early TELENET stage (digital) entrepreneurs, KICKSTART teaching them how to turn their innovative idea into a scalable, market-ready solution. We also organize inspirational events and international start-up trips. In 2016, this commitment resulted Telenet is no newbie when it Financing – The teams received in a structural partnership with comes to supporting young, digital 25,000 euros in seed funding Start it@kbc, the largest start-up entrepreneurs. during the acceleration phase and community in Belgium. Through our start-up acceleration a convertible loan of 50,000 euros Driving start-up acceleration: program Telenet Kickstart we during the growth phase. we want start-ups, scale-ups and help promising start-ups to turn A key milestone in the 2016 program digital entrepreneurs to accelerate their innovative idea into a viable was the start-up discovery trip to Newtheir business. The recently sustainable business. York to discover the local start-up announced partnership with IMEC community and explore potential iStart and the establishment of the We started our journey in business growth opportunities. The IMEC iStart vertical on Telecom, September 2014, when we launched so-called BeBoldNY-trip was jointly Media and Communications, our first early stage incubator organized by IMEC iStart, Start it@kbc materializes this commitment program, together with the Antwerpbased accelerator Idealabs. Together and Telenet Kickstart in partnership Promoting sustainable growth: we helped 18 start-up teams on with Startups.be, BELCHAM and we want to invest in start-ups their entrepreneurial journey. The the Flanders Investment & Trade and scale-ups that provide program consisted of two consecutive organization. added value to our own business phases of 4 months each. During the The second edition of Telenet activities as a leading telecom, Acceleration phase, 8 to 10 start-up Kickstart, powered by Idealabs, media and entertainment teams focused on converting their concluded at the end of June 2016. company. We establish strategic innovative idea into a workable win-win partnerships by Several start-up teams continue prototype or Minimum Viable Product investing financially or by buying their growth journey by acquiring (MVP). After a pitch session in front of services from innovative digital first customers and by convincing a professional jury, 4 teams were given entrepreneurs. First examples new investors, with investments up the chance to further refine their MVP include: the cooperation between 1 million euros. into a market-ready product during Telenet Play Sports and Fan Arena, the Growth-phase of the program. In summer 2016, we ended our a Telenet Kickstart alumnus that During the whole process, Telenet cooperation with Idealabs and focuses on fantasy sports, and the Kickstart provided the following reoriented our start-up acceleration implementation of the Cumul.io support to the start-ups: program. In order to generate more data visualization solution into the material impact in the different Telenet Business organization. Expertise – A network of regions of Belgium and to support experienced mentors and Telenet invests up to 1 million start-ups along their lifecycle from coached the teams in fiscal, legal, euros per calendar year in start-up early stage tot sustainable growth we psychological, technical and acceleration. restructured the Telenet Kickstart marketing matters program around three main pillars: Work space – The Idealabs hub Boosting the start-up in the heart of Antwerp offered community: through structural an inspiring second home for the partnerships with leading entrepreneurs. 38 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 COMMITMENT TO FAIR, OPEN AND TRANSPARENT BUSINESS PRACTICES As an important Belgian player in telecommunications, media and entertainment, we want to maintain and strengthen the trust of our stakeholders. We pledge to conduct our business in a fair, responsible and transparent manner. To do so, we apply the highest corporate governance standards and actively engage with our stakeholders to respond to their expectations as it comes to our social, economic and environmental impact. 39 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 LOOKING BACK AT 2016 1. LIMITING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT It is our ambition to grow Telenet as a 2016 was a challenging year. Given the important impact of the company while reducing our impact BASE Company acquisition on our The acquisition of BASE Company on the environment. environmental footprint, we have – with its own mobile network decided to set a new baseline for our Our top environmental priorities are infrastructure and its own operational environmental impact, based on the threefold: activities along the supply chain, consolidated 2016 results for Telenet has put Telenet’s overall energy and Reducing carbon emissions; and BASE Company : carbon efficiency under pressure. Improving energy efficiency; Increasing (e-)waste recycling and recuperation. GHG emissions in metric tons (2016) Total consolidated Telenet Telenet* Former BASE Group Holding NV/SA Company* Scope 1 emissions 8,928 6,816 2,112 Scope 2 market-based emissions 4,766 3,271 1,495 Scope 2 location-based emissions 35,273 18,584 16,689 Scope 3 emissions 3,912 3,613 299 Total location-based GHG emissions 48,114 29,013 19,101 Total market-based GHG emissions 17,606 13,699 3,907 Carbon credits (Bos+) 0 8,627 0 Remaining market-based GHG emissions 17,606 5,072 3,907 * The given split numbers for Telenet and former BASE Company are estimates 40 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 The recent acquisition of SFR as approved by the Belgian Competition Authorities on June 13, 2017 will further extend our network infrastructure and business operations in parts of Brussels, Wallonia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. This will also have an impact on our environmental footprint. This is the reason why at this stage we reforestation project in Ecuador. In 2016 Telenet’s climate action have not yet set new 2020 targets for Since the start of the project in 2011, plan was reviewed by the Carbon energy efficiency and carbon emission 383,095 native trees were planted, Disclosure Project (CDP). reduction. In the months to come representing a reforestation of 517 With a Bscore ‘Management’, Telenet our teams will make an assessment hectares with estimated accumulated is recognized for taking a coordinated of the SFR network infrastructure carbon sequestration storage of 8,627 action on climate change issues. and operation processes and in 2016. These carbon compensation Telenet scores above the Industry collect all data that should allow us results are only applicable to the Activity Group Average and the CDP to further refine the baseline for our Telenet carbon emissions, not to Program Average (C – Awareness). environmental impact and set new emissions generated by the former In its review report, CDP refers to our energy efficiency targets. BASE Company operations. The strong performance on governance benefits of this nature-friendly forest In order to reduce our environmental and on emissions management. Key management initiative stretch far footprint, we are also investing in a areas for improvement include a beyond carbon sequestration. The carbon compensation initiative. more proactive approach to risk and forest is reviving the local fauna and Since 2011, Telenet has a structural opportunity management as well as a flora, providing shadow, clean air and partnership with the nature third-party verification of the Scope food. Growing trees and the planting organization Bos+, dedicated to better 1-2-3 emissions data. and management of forests also and more forests in Flanders and creates local jobs resulting in the the world. Together with local NGOs, professional activation of dozens of Bos+ is working on a sustainable local residents. 41 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 OUR MAIN ENERGY EFFICIENCY INITIATIVES In order to increase our energy efficiency, we will continue to take appropriate actions in the following domains: Electricity consumption compressors for cooling units. a smaller lease car with within our own buildings and We are also replacing old cooling lower CO² emissions and a leased premises. Telenet uses equipment and are increasing the compensation for unused 100 percent green energy within use of the server farm. budget. They can even opt its own buildings, including out of the company car in Mobility and transportation. We the facilities of Hostbasket, exchange for compensation.As encourage responsible mobility Belcompany and Interkabel. We far as former BASE Company solutions among our employees: opt for renewable energy sources employees are concerned, such as solar panels. Our leased o Clean vehicles The average they can choose for a public buildings – including the former CO2 emissions of all passenger transportation subscription BASE Company offices in Woluwe, vehicles in 2016 was 110g/km, instead of a company car. do not all use green electricity. In while the average CO2 emission Employees working out of the 2016, the share of grey electricity of newly deployed passenger Telenet offices in Mechelen can was 8 percent. In the years to vehicles was 106g/km. use rental bikes from the social come, we will look into ways to workshop ‘t Atelier to commute o Mobility alternatives for convert the grey electricity into to the train station. company cars – Telenet green energy as much as possible, employees can combine in consultation with the owners of their company car with a the leased properties. rail subscription or opt for Energy efficiency of our network infrastructure. We ensure important savings by upgrading our networks and by replacing old equipment with more efficient equipment. The energy efficiency – Power Usage Efficiency (PUE) – of the 51 technical stations of the Telenet fixed network and the Telenet and BASE data centers is continuously measured to enable fast adjustment and optimization of the systems and processes. Energy efficiency of the data centers. Telenet supports the EU Code of Conduct on Data Center Energy Efficiency. Besides the electricity consumed by the fixed and mobile networks, the data centers are responsible for a major share of the total electricity usage. To improve the Power Usage Efficiency values, we invest in LED technology, alternating pulsion for climate cabinets and turbo 42 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Waste reduction. We are taking a As far as BASE is concerned, In 2016, no new incidents variety of measures: 22,000 invoices were involving significant spills processed digitally (70 percent occurred, but two past o Reusing material A large of the total) in 2016. Since incidents at the Telenet proportion of the Telenet 2013, Telenet uses electronic offices in Mechelen were decoders and modems is meal vouchers and in 2016, resolved or underwent ongoing recycled. Telenet works with the 1,950 employees opted for treatment. Ongoing ground company IMSIR in Boom on a an electronic pay slip. As far watering in follow-up of a fuel reverse logistics solution. Used as former BASE employees leakage in 2012 continued BASE equipment is recycled are concerned, 509 people and will be closed in 2017. through Amtrust. Telenet’s opted for an electronic pay In December 2015, historic old PCs and IT equipment are slip. Finally, in 2016, 56 percent spilling was discovered when given a second life thanks to a of the Telenet customers two underground fuel tanks cooperation with the non-forand 70 percent of the BASE were found on the parking lot profit organization Close the customers had opted for an during construction works. Gap, while old BASE equipment electronic invoice. These tanks date back to the is refurbished through Pro-Used Computers (PUC). In 2016, 1.1 When waste is inevitable, we former military activities on the percent of the customers who put in every effort to ensure property before it was acquired bought a new mobile handset at it is disposed of correctly. by Telenet. The tanks were a Telenet or BASE point of sales Normally, the waste that removed and results of the soil traded in their old device. Some we produce is recycled or and ground water investigation of these mobile devices are permanently removed through were finalized. The case was reprocessed as second-hand energy recuperation (e.g. closed in 2016 with the approval devices. incineration). For its waste by the authorities. disposal, Telenet mainly works For a proper disposal of o Correct disposal of waste with SUEZ and Brussel Energie the waste created by our First and foremost, we try for processing everyday waste customers, Telenet is affiliated to avoid waste as much (eg. from offices and shops). with several government as possible by promoting Electronic waste is treated recognized organizations. For rational paper use in our separately. SIMS Recycling every purchase of a Telenet or offices and by adopting processes discarded electric BASE product, a contribution smart and environmentally and electronic products and is made to Recupel and Bebat. friendly packaging solutions ensures 95 percent of the For other waste streams, such leading to a saving of no less material from these devices as packaging and ad prints, we than 285 tons of paper and is recycled into reusable raw pay an annual contribution to 600 tons of CO2 every year. materials or energy. BASE Fost Plus, Val-i-Pac, and the In addition, we opt for digital network waste is treated by non-profit Interventiefonds administration solutions. As Timeline and CDPI. Oud Papier. such, the Telenet supplier accounting department Telenet is also improving processed 67,500 invoices in the registration of its waste 2016 (87 percent of the total) streams. digitally – a huge paper saving. 43 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 IN THE SPOTLIGHTS TELENET & IMSIR: TAILOR-MADE REVERSE LOGISTICS Every year, Telenet recycles more strict procedures and complies with individuals with limited access to than 220,000 decoders and modems stringent quality standards. At the end the labor market. Finally, the project that its end-customers return to the of 2011, IMSIR obtained the ISO9001 offers opportunities to dozens of Telenet Centers or that are replaced quality certificate for this process. interns from special education and by Telenet technicians. We were internships for job seekers looking to The sustainable partnership between looking for a sustainable and costre-enter the labor market. Telenet and IMSIR every year results efficient reverse logistics solution that in an important contribution to the The reverse logistics cooperation could substantially reduce waste and environment. In 2016 we avoided between Telenet and IMSIR is still would have a social dimension. more than 329 tons of waste through growing. We are in the process of Since 2007, we collaborate with the the recycling and revaluation of purchasing special test equipment for company IMSIR in Boom that offers used decoders and modems. modems to be installed at the IMSIR job opportunities to individuals The cooperation with IMSIR also workshop in the course of 2017. with limited access to the labor creates jobs for more than 60 market. The 60 IMSIR employees have a structured approach to work: the received goods are unpacked, counted and sorted. They are then tested on modern test benches. The decoders and modems that still function well are refurbished by the IMSIR team and put in a new package. They are then completely ready for use. Devices that no longer function properly are recycled. This reverse logistics process follows 44 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 2. MANAGING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN IN A RESPONSIBLE WAY The products and services that we weight, in addition to the price and fundamental human rights (such purchase from our suppliers have as quality of the goods or services to be as the prohibition on forced and much of an ethical, environmental and supplied. child labor); social impact as our own products Once the contract is agreed on, we working conditions (such a and services. very precisely include the security working hours and termination We reward those suppliers who strive and environmental specifications procedures); for sustainable operations and we guidelines on equipment and raw health and safety at work; encourage the others to improve in materials, specifications on energy that area. This goal is firmly embedded consumption and packaging, waste business ethics (such as in our procurement process. and recycling. In addition, all suppliers anti-corruption). confirm to acknowledge our Code We require our suppliers to provide Suppliers also guarantee to comply of Conduct and Anti-Curruption the following information with every with the Principles around Policy. It officially confirms that there quotation: Responsible Purchasing and Supply is no conflict of interest between the Chain from our parent company social policies in the workplace; suppliers and their representatives on Liberty Global. These principles the one hand, and between Telenet respect for legislation and contain international labor standards, and persons affiliated with Telenet on regulations on child labor; including the International Labour the other hand. Organization Core Conventions, the commitment to efficient The Code of Conduct covers the UN Treaty on Human Rights, Bribery transportation; following themes: and Corruption, Health, Safety and the environmental efforts in business Environment. environmental standards for the operations. supplier’s activities, products and When we select a supplier, these services; criteria are given a relatively high Suppliers and subcontractors should comply to the conventions of the International Labor Organization (ILO) in relation to prohibition on child and forced labor, discrimination and freedom of association. Covers all labor policies and standards, including health and safety, working conditions and remuneration. TELENET Is publicly available. SUPPLIER POLICY Is firmly embedded in the procurement process. Communicating the Supplier Policy to all its suppliers worldwide. All supplier contracts do include clauses regarding labor standards and policies. Regularly assessing its suppliers on policy compliance. Driving audits to check policy compliance. When suppliers are suspected to breach TELENET the policy, a formal audit is done. ENFORCES ITS SUPPLIER Providing support and guidance to non-compliant suppliers through the implementation of corrective actions and recovery plans. POLICY BY: 45 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 We continuously encourage our Since 2013, Telenet – together with supply directly to Telenet. All screened suppliers to raise their sustainability its main shareholder Liberty Global – Telenet suppliers achieved an average through the following initiatives: also applies the dynamic scorecard to good CSR engagement score. No of EcoVadis to measure the ethical, Telenet suppliers were placed in the developing a supplier manual that environmental and social risks of high-risk category. is given to every new supplier; our suppliers. This assesses the Telenet itself is also acting as a major developing a quality handbook CSR performance of companies on supplier to large corporations. with the warehouse partner; twenty-one indicators, grouped into four themes: environmental risk, social In august 2016, we were solicited by organizing an annual ‘day of the risks (working conditions and human Nestlé to respond to their EcoVadis contractors’ gathering, with a prize rights), ethical risk and supplier risk. On supplier assessment to measure our for the best contractor; this basis, every company is given a sustainability performance in terms of training new employees at score between 1 and 100. We use this environmental, social and governance installation companies on system to compare and benchmark topics. customer service and technical the performance of our suppliers. Telenet maintained its Gold EcoVadis aspects; including bonus/malus We regularly monitor our suppliers CSR Rating and slightly improved clauses in the contract with critical and, in case of a suspected breach, its overall score: from 63 points suppliers. we will start a formal audit. In case of achieved in the EcoVadis assessment In order to effectively manage our non-compliance with CSR principles, in 2014, to 64 points in the current supply chain, we have formalized a we will initially help the supplier to take evaluation. We score fairly good process to identify critical suppliers corrective action. If no agreement is grades in the areas of labor and fair using the Kraljic matrix to classify the reached on an acceptable recovery business practices and sustainable 4 main categories: leverage items (15 plan, the business relationship may be procurement, but we lag behind on percent of suppliers), strategic items terminated. environment. The main environmental (5 percent of suppliers), bottleneck risks identified by EcoVadis are a lack In 2016, a risk analysis was carried items (5 percent of suppliers) and of certification and formal policy, out on 94 suppliers. Out of which 46 non-critical items (75 percent of which is pretty similar to the 2016 suppliers). CDP environmental performance review. With these scores, Telenet’s assessment results are confirmed for Nestlé for a period of three years. The 2016 EcoVadis score was also shared with the major Belgian bank KBC that also solicited Telenet for a supplier assessment in autumn 2016. Impact on profts Leverage Strategic items items Non-critical Bottleneck items items Procurement risk Example EcoVadis Scorecard Kraljic matrix 46 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 3. DEMONSTRATING GOOD GOVERNANCE & TRANSPARENCY IN OUR BUSINESS PRACTICES At Telenet, we are committed to confidential roles. The code includes of Liberty Global. The anti-corruption conduct our business in a fair, honest a number of business policy principles policy has been approved by the Board and respectful manner. and covers themes such as equal of Directors and the Audit Committee. opportunities, fair competition and It is extensively communicated to all In that perspective, we are anti-corruptions, confidentiality of employees and agents, contractors subscribing to a series of internal information and protection of privacy, and suppliers. The policy is further codes of conduct and external proper accounting, conflicts of clarified with the help of specific economic, environmental and interest, insider trading and business examples and practical guidelines. It social charters, principles and integrity, protection of safety, health contains a prohibition on the giving initiatives. We ensure that the and environment, and rules on and taking of bribes, a limitation on human rights are respected across whistleblowers. In 2016, no violations the giving and receiving of gifts, and our value chain by setting the highest were found on fair competition and a reminder to observe laws and standards to our employees, our monopoly practices. regulations, restrictions on the giving customers and our suppliers. and taking of gifts, and an obligation In addition, there are special codes As such, we apply the United Nations of transparency around political of conduct for anti-corruption Global Compact to guide our strategy donations. Telenet did not spend any and bribery, competition and and our corporate culture, and to drive money on political contributions in privacy issues that apply to the our daily operations in a sustainable 2016. The company invested 1.9 million entire workforce. Through training manner. In 2011, we formalized our euros in lobby activities including and information sessions, Telenet commitment to these ten principles salaries, administrative fees and employees are regularly informed with regard to human rights, sponsoring contributions. about these codes of conduct. environment and anti-corruption. Violations can be reported Early 2017, Telenet was caught in a On an annual basis, we report on the anonymously. In 2016for the ninth public debate on the nature and role progress achieved on these principles, consecutive year no violations were of its Advisory Board. as shown in the table on page 67 reported. of this report. Telenet is an active Initially created in 2007, the Advisory member of the UN Global Compact All complaints are handled by the Board aimed at guaranteeing Children Rights and Business Company Compliance Officer and involvement of the mixed Practices Commission. In 2015 we the chairman of the Audit Committee. intermunicipalities after these entities also embraced the UN Sustainable Compliance with the codes of sold the majority of their shares in Developments Goals of the UN, 17 conduct is periodically monitored Telenet. internationally agreed targets for the through Entity Level Controls (ELC) In 2011, the role of the Advisory Board development of a more sustainable and IT General Controls (ITGC). On was redefined to advise the Telenet society and economy. Page 66 of this an annual basis, these monitors management on socio-economic, report outlines how Telenet commits are tested by the main shareholder political and media challenges the to these goals. Liberty Global and the auditor (KPMG). company faces. The members of To guarantee the integrity of our The Corporate Governance Charter the Advisory Board – most of them business practices, we are convinced contains a summary of the rules and were also active in the Belgian political that we must meet the highest principles around which the Corporate scene committed to refrain from standards of corporate governance. Governance of the company is providing advice in relation to issues We therefore monitor all aspects of organized. The charter can be found they were actively involved in as part our business with several internal on the Investor Relations website of of their political mandate. Since 2015, codes of conduct, as outlined below: Telenet. the Advisory Board had de facto evolved towards bilateral contacts Our Code of Conduct is signed Telenet’s anti-corruption policy is between its members and the Telenet by the management board, senior in line with international regulations, management. management, and all employees with the Belgian legislation and the policy 47 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 We are fully committed to being a efficiency. For example, it endorses In 2016, two alleged breaches responsible company that takes into the European Code of Conduct on of ethical advertising practices account the broader impact of its Energy Efficiency of Data Centers. were reported for Telenet, but not business activities and corporate acknowledged by the JEP. As far as The high ethical standards that decision making on the community BASE advertisement practices are Telenet imposes on itself, also we are operating in. We will continue to concerned, one breach was received apply to its advertising and engage with corporate stakeholders and acknowledged by the JEP. It was publicity campaigns. Telenet including public authorities through decided to suspend the concerned acts in accordance with the rules consultation and dialogue. In that TV commercial and to adjust the of the JEP – the Jury for Ethical perspective, we have established a related Instagram ad. Practices in Advertising. The JEP stakeholder engagement charter is a self-disciplinary body of the Finally, through its main shareholder with a number of principles that advertising sector in Belgium and Liberty Global, Telenet is a member ensure we develop lasting, trusted guards the correct and fair nature of AAPA – the Audiovisual Antirelationships with our corporate of advertising messages. The JEP’s Piracy Alliance. The AAPA represents stakeholders in an open and decisions are considered opinions. major European players in the digital transparent way. These opinions are published on the television and telecommunications. Furthermore, Telenet uses specific JEP’s website. Telenet follows these codes of conduct on energy recommendations as far as possible. TELENET’S CODE FREEDOM OF OF ETHICS FOR EXPRESSION: ADVERTISING AND MAXIMUM BUT PROMOTIONAL NOT ABSOLUTE ACTIVITIES As a leading provider of Internet services, we have a Telenet’s commercials and advertisements must special social responsibility with regard to the freedom of represent the products and services in a fair and accurate expression. Our general principle: we do not limit it in any manner, with respect for the relevant laws and marketing way except when requested to do so by an authorized guidelines. With its four core values – ‘catching, attentive, authority. agreeable and entrepreneurial’ – Telenet goes beyond the fair and accurate advertising practices required by law. Together with other Belgian Internet providers, we signed These values are essential to our good reputation with a Protocol with the Belgian Gaming Commission in which our stakeholders. All claims in advertisements and other we, in cooperation with the Federal and Regional Computer statements to customers and potential customers must Crime Unit, take action against websites offering illegal be done on a sincere and reasonable basis. Moreover, they gambling. The judicial powers can also require us to block must be tested before they are published or distributed. websites that violate copyrights or that distribute illegal This applies to all advertising statements across all types pornographic material. of media, as well as to oral presentations and even casual Finally, we are a leading member of the Association of conversations wherein objective, factual or quantifiable Internet Service Providers in Belgium (ISPA) and adhere to remarks are made about our products or services. their code of conduct to – in cooperation with Child Focus Finally, suppliers such as research bureaus or (digital) – prevent and combat child abuse via chat applications marketing agencies take care of the protection of privacy and websites. and information when they collect, use and retain information about customers. 48 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 IN A NUTSHELL: MAJOR EVENTS AND On track/Completed Work in progress ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 Requires further attention Focus 2016 Events and achievements Status Next steps Limiting our Energy & carbon emission results 2016 Energy & carbon efficiency baseline environmental In 2016, Telenet’s energy consumption and and 2020 targets footprint carbon emissions increased due to a growing The acquisition of SFR as approved in demand for data and digital services and June 2017, further extends our network to the acquisition of BASE Company. Our infrastructure and business operations, consolidated market-based carbon emission potentially resulting in an increased impact was 17,606 tons CO2 equivalents, a new environmental impact. In 2017, we will baseline. make a detailed assessment of the SFR infrastructure and operations and refine our consolidated baseline. This should allow us to set new environmental targets for 2020. (E-)waste recycling and recuperation (E-)waste baseline and 2020 targets results 2016 (E-)waste recycling and recuperation Telenet’s consolidated (e-)waste recycling baseline a and recuperation result was 44 percent In 2017 we will further refine our refurbishment of collected customer consolidated baseline, taking into equipment and 100 percent recycling of account the recent SFR acquisition. This hazardous waste, a new baseline. should allow us to set new environmental targets for 2020. Telenet’s response to CDP Climate Change Continue Climate Change 2016 information request review by CDP Telenet reached a Bscore ‘Management’, From 2017 onwards Telenet will report on which is above the Industry Activity Group its Climate Action Plan, in a consolidated Average and the CDP Program Average. CDP submission with Liberty Global. We have a strong performance on governance and emissions management. Key areas for improvement include a more proactive approach to risk and opportunity management as well as a third-party verification of the Scope 1-2-3 emissions data. IMSIR Reverse Logistics Continue IMSIR Reverse Logistics In 2016 Telenet avoided more than 329 tons Cooperation of waste through the recycling and revaluation The cooperation will be extended thanks of used decoders and modems through to the installation of additional test the social entrepreneur IMSIR. This reverse equipment for modems at the IMSIR logistics solution created 60 jobs for people workshop. with limited access to the labor market 49 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Focus 2016 Events and achievements Status Next steps Managing our EcoVadis Risk Analysis of Telenet Suppliers Continue EcoVadis Risk Analysis supply chain in a In 2016, an EcoVadis risk analysis was carried In 2017, Liberty Global plans to assess responsible way out on 46 Telenet suppliers. 100 suppliers including Telenet suppliers All screened suppliers achieved an average using the dynamic scorecard of to good CSR engagement score. No Telenet EcoVadis. suppliers were placed in the high-risk category. As part of the integration journey, this assessment will also be extended to former BASE Company suppliers. Ecovadis Supplier Assessment Telenet The Gold Ecovadis CSR Rating as Telenet maintained its Gold EcoVadis CSR obtained by Telenet in 2016 is confirmed Rating, with a score of 64 points. Telenet for a period of three years. scores fairly good grades in the areas of labor and fair business practices and sustainable procurement, but lags behind on environment. Demonstrating UN Sustainable Development Goals Continue our commitment to the UN good governance & At end 2015, Telenet formalized its Sustainability Goals (an overview can transparency in our commitment to the UN Sustainable be found on page 66 of this report) business practices Development Goals. In October 2016 Telenet In February 2017 signed the also signed the Belgian SDG Charter as issued Commitment Charter ‘Decent Work for by the Belgian Sustainability Platform The Shift. all’ as issued by the Belgian Sustainability Platform The Shift. Stakeholder Engagement Policy Stakeholder Engagement Charter Telenet actively engages in an open dialogue Mid 2017 Telenet’s approach to with its main stakeholders to collect their stakeholder engagement has viewpoints and insights, to address their been formalized in a Stakeholder perspectives, to strengthen our license to Engagement Charter that provides a set operate and to earn their trust. The most of golden principles to ensure contacts important engagement platforms include: 1:1 with stakeholders are built in an open and stakeholder meetings, expert round tables, transparent way. networking events, publications and speaking engagements at third-party events. In 2016, Telenet organized one expert round table (Telenet Talks) and one large networking event (Mix & Mingle). 50 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 51 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING: GENERAL PRINCIPLES Scope Commitment to the further progress of the ratings in 2016. To us, extra-financial information This sustainability report is an With this document, Telenet wants is as important as financial explanation of extra-financial to report truthfully on the economic, information. Telenet is working to parameters and indicators from all social and ethical activities and have more environmental aspects sectors of the company Telenet over environmental achievements that and social data externally verified. the calendar year 2016 (01/01/2016 are most relevant to the company This report is read and approved by to 31/12/2016). This report follows and its stakeholders. In this annual Birgit Conix, Telenet’s Chief Financial Telenet’s Financial Annual Report report, Telenet provides an overview Officer. 2016, published in April 2016. Every of the goals it strives to achieve, of the year, Telenet publishes an update on latest achievements and of the new Explanation of key its CSR activities in a sustainability initiatives that are being developed to numbers report. When the report mentions realize the sustainability goals of the Telenet, we, us, the company, company. The reported results and key social the corporation, the group or numbers relate to all Telenet Group In its sustainability management, the business, it refers to Telenet Holding NV/SA offices and locations, Telenet strives to adhere to the Group Holding NV/SA, including its unless stated otherwise. general applicable principles subsidiaries and within the context of inclusion, materiality and of the Belgian market engagement. responsiveness. This report When data only apply to Telenet or emphasizes the strengths and BASE Company as separate entities, weaknesses of each of the defined this is explicitely stated. Data and physical aspects and provides us information about the extra-financial with the opportunity to continuously practices and performance of Telenet improve processes and performance. Group Holding NV/SA from the year 2016 are reported through two Because all concerned departments additional documents: respect the results of this analysis, we can make an important contribution Telenet Financial Annual Report 2016 Telenet Sustainability Report 2016 52 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 GRI G4 Core The extra-financial parameters and hand provides relevant information indicators reported in this document by plotting the ten most important are organized in accordance with material issues on the G4 Material the Global Report Initiative (GRI) Aspects and by reporting on at least guidelines. This report complies with one of the indicators per aspect. GRI G4 guidelines on a core level, Where information was available, which means that the report on the multiple indicators were included in one hand is focused on the general the report. standard disclosures, and on the other Relevant topics Category Aspect G4 Indicator Boundary Boundary outside within organization organization Privacy & data security Economic Customer privacy PR8 Telenet Group customers Holding NV/SA Fair, responsible and Economic Society SO8 Telenet Group only relevant within transparent business Holding NV/SA organization conduct Best-in-class quality Economic Compliance PR9 Telenet Group customers products and services Holding NV/SA Pricing and billing Economic Marketing PR7 Telenet Group customers transparency Communications Holding NV/SA Customer experience Economic Product and Service PR5 Telenet Group customers Labeling Holding NV/SA Being an innovative and Economic Indirect Economic EC7 Telenet Group customers, society leading company Impacts Holding NV/SA Offering customer-centric Economic Compliance PR9 Telenet Group customers, suppliers products Holding NV/SA Open internet Social Access to content PA7 (Telecommunication Telenet Group customers Sector Supplement) Holding NV/SA Attracting, retaining and Social Labor LA1, LA9 & LA10 Telenet Group employees developing talent Holding NV/SA Responsible employer Social Labor LA5 Telenet Group employees Holding NV/SA 53 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Principles to determine the content of the Significant changes and sustainability report restatements Telenet takes various elements into With this report, Telenet wants to Telenet is part of Liberty Global plc account when deciding on the content show how the company will encourage and in order to align group reporting, for this report. Telenet has identified economic, social and environmental as of 2014 the reporting for Telenet its main stakeholders, identified developments both locally, regionally is fully aligned with that of its main the key expectations from these and globally. Telenet does this with shareholder, Liberty Global. As a result, shareholders and describes how a focus on the material aspects, various definitions and measure Telenet meets these expectations. provided to it by its stakeholders. points were adjusted. The figures with In addition, the company looks at regard to environmental results in its own performance in the broader the report were restated for the past sustainability context by determining, 3 years (2013, 2014 and 2015). among others, the most important trends faced by telecommunications companies today. CONTACT Financial information Rob Goyens CSR information Ineke Rampart +32 15 333 054 +32 15 366 262 rob.goyens@telenetgroup.be ineke.rampart@telenetgroup.be 54 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 SUMMARY OF THE PERFORMANCE Note: In alignment with the Financial Reporting, we follow the US notation style in the figures Environmental performance Metric 2013 2014 2015 2016 Energy consumption Non-renewable fuel LPG kWh 0 1,978 0 0 Diesel kWh 26,231,734 24,941,734 25,758,017 27,160,148 Petrol kWh 96,413 353,368 131,741 116,399 Natural gas kWh 4,683,458 4,152,495 4,314,575 3,973,053 Burning oil kWh 0 0 0 0 Gas oil kWh 2,033,574 1,657,817 1,799,497 1,730,685 Fuel oil kWh 0 0 0 22,199 Jet fuel kWh 0 0 0 0 Total kWh 33,045,179 31,107,392 32,003,830 33,002,485 Electricity, heating and cooling Electricity kWh 178,118,491 180,771,747 188,644,737 186,227,712 Heating and cooling kWh 0 0 0 0 Total kWh 178,118,491 180,771,747 188,644,737 186,227,712 Electricity sold kWh 0 0 0 0 Total energy consumption(1) kWh 211,163,669 211,879,139 220,648,567 219,230,197 Energy intensity Energy intensity kWh of electricity 266.5 264.5 179.5 137.4 per terabyte of data usage Electricity generated from onsite renewables Kwh 31,227 28,882 32,662 31,474 GHG Emissions Scope 1 emissions Metric tons CO2e 8,984 8,289 8,571 8,928 Scope 2 market-based emissions Metric tons CO2e 10,794 30,593 31,893 4,766 Scope 2 location-based emissions Metric tons CO2e 39,108 35,431 35,731 35,273 Scope 3 emissions Metric tons CO2e 673 3,470 3,610 3,912 Total location-based GHG emissions Metric tons CO2e 48,765 47,190 47,912 48,114 Total market-based GHG emissions Metric tons CO2e 20,451 42,352 44,074 17,606 Emissions intensity (scope 1 and 2 market-based) metric tons CO2e 0.030 0.057 0.038 0.010 / terabyte of data usage Emissions from business travel Tons CO2e 614 677 682 524 Waste by type and disposal method Reuse Metric tons 127 127 190 127 Recycling Metric tons 1,879 2,094 1,895 1,937 Incineration Metric tons 621 626 646 640 Landfill Metric tons 0 0 0 0 Composting Metric tons 18 13 16 9 Total waste generated Metric tons 2,644 2,860 2,747 2,713 Recycling rate % 71 73 69 71 Water withdrawal by source Municipal water supplies m3 19,360 21,053 23,984 21,706 Other m3 929 1,045 1,076 1,453 Total m3 20,289 22,098 25,060 23,160 Initiatives Emissions reductions Metric tons CO2e 105 189 Energy saved through efficiencies kWh 555,000 1,000,000 Costs savings from environmental initiatives € 83,238 110,000 Revenue generated from environmental initiatives € 0 0 (1) Sum of total energy consumption from non-renewable fuel and electricity, heating and cooling, minus electricity sold (2) Refer to page 60 for definitions of our GHG emissions 55 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Social performance Metric 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total community investment € 1,740,148 2,112,129 1,351,559 1,225,618 Total workforce and breakdown by employee category Employees Headcount, year end 2,189 2,247 2,415 3,290 Outsourced employees Headcount, year end 1,815 1,766 1,938 2,444 Employees by contract type Permanent contracts Headcount, year end 2,187 2,245 2,415 3,261 Temporary contracts Headcount, year end 2 2 0 29 Employees by contract type Full time Headcount, year end 1,821 1,868 2,014 2,714 Part time Headcount, year end 368 379 401 576 Average age General In years 38 38 38 38 Men In years 39.5 39 40 39 Women In years 35.5 35 36 36 Employees by age group Under 30 years old Headcount, year end 499 483 537 619 30-50 years old Headcount, year end 1,449 1,516 1,613 2,239 over 50 years old Headcount, year end 241 248 265 360 Division of employees by department Engineering/technical profiles % of total staff 27 26 27 27 Sales & Customer Care % of total staff 37 36 33 31 Marketing & Product Management % of total staff 5 5 5 4 Telenet Business % of total staff 14 15 16 20 IT % of total staff 8 8 9 9 Staff & administration % of total staff 9 10 10 10 Women in management Women in management positions % of total management 30 25 25 29 workforce New employee hires and employee turnover New employee hires by age group and gender Under 30 years old Headcount 177 155 126 233 30-50 years old Headcount 100 122 120 91 over 50 years old Headcount 6 4 4 12 Total Headcount 283 281 250 336 New hires – male Headcount 162 153 141 192 New hires – female Headcount 121 128 109 144 Rate of new hires Rate (%) 13 13 10 10 Employee turnover by age group Under 30 years old Number of leavers 94 104 93 97 30-50 years old Number of leavers 96 89 95 131 over 50 years old Number of leavers 11 30 27 37 Total Headcount 201 223 215 265 Employee training Average training hours Hours per FTE 39.9 31.6 35.5 24.4 Average training investment € per FTE 554 522 530 384 Occupational health and safety Work-related fatalities 0 0 0 0 Employee performance reviews Employees reviewed % 93 93 95 93 Social performance Metric Employee performance reviews by gender and employee category Male Female Male Female Male Female Senior Management % NA 100 100 100 100 100 100 Managers/ Supervisors % NA 94 100 99 100 82 84 Non-management % NA 92 91 91 95 98 92 V Key figures and percentages shown only relate to (employees of) Telenet NV 56 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Telenet’s reporting Scope 2 (indirect): emissions Location-based and methodology from purchased electricity, heating market-based emissions and steam. Relevant gases: CO2 All environmental and social data Scope 3 (indirect): emissions As prescribed by good practices, relate to the period from 1 January from business air and land travel we publish both the location-based to 31 December – unless noted (e.g. flights taken by employees and market-based emissions, otherwise. The environmental data and car travel by private cars), which provide a good illustration that Telenet reports is in accordance water and waste (e.g. emissions of the impact of our purchase with the GHG Protocol Corporate from water usage and from waste and production of alternative Standard of 31 December 2014, that results from that activity), energy. Location-based emissions the World Resources Institute and emissions from the recycling are calculated using the average the World Business Council on of customer devices, and conversion factors of the national grid Sustainable Development. We use the movements through installation for the entire electricity consumption. operational control approach for this. and service cars of third parties. This does not take into account In 2014, we added for the first activities that reduce emissions, such Our ‘scope 1’ and ‘scope 3’ emissions time emissions from movements as the purchase of CO2 compensation are calculated using the emission through installation and service or the use of electricity from factors (2014) of the UK Department cars of third parties to our ‘scope renewable energy sources. Markedfor Environment Food & Rural Affairs 3’ emissions. Relevant gases: CO2, based emissions are calculated using (DEFRA). Our ‘scope 2’ emissions are N2O, CH4 (if applicable). Our a conversion factor of zero for all the calculated using the DEFRA emission ‘scope 3’ data does not take into used electricity that comes from factors (2014). account any emissions that result locally generated renewable energy Scope 1 (direct): emissions from from the use of set-top boxes by and from certified green energy sources that the companies own our customers. contracts. and control, including emissions For more information, go to from static combustion (e.g. fuel http://www.libertyglobal.com/cr/ in generators for heating or power cr-report-2016 and view our full supply), mobile combustion criteria for environmental reporting. (e.g. fuel for own or leased fleet) and refrigerants and propellants (e.g. in air-conditioners units and fire extinguishing system). Relevant gases: CO2, N2O, CH4, hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and perfluorocarbons (PFCs). 57 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 KPI PER MATERIALITY Materiality KPI Result (2016) Comments Target Best-in-class Net Promoter Score (NPS) Telenet: -6.9; BASE (Mobile NPS scores are on a range Telenet:-4; BASE: -7 quality products NPS): -12.1 between -100 to +100, resulting and services from subtracting the percentage of detracters from the percentage of promoters. Privacy and data Number of breaches of 0 More information on pages Continue measures to security data protection 19 and 21. avoid breaches of data protection RepTrak score protecting 64.6 This score relates only to the 65.5 data and privacy of reputation of Telenet in Flanders customers and Brussels. It excludes BASE Company. Fair, responsible BrandTracker score on 62 This reflects our customers' To be defined and transparent ‘Considerate’ experience of the extend to business conduct which Telenet does its best to be attentive and respectful. This score relates only to the Telenet brand, not to the BASE brand. Total number of Telenet did not incur any fines Not applicable legal actions for antior settlements related to competitive behavior, anti-competitive behavior, antianti-trust, and monopoly trust, and monopoly practices practices and their in 2016. outcomes Pricing & billing Customer Effort Score 15.42% Measures how much effort As of 2017, we will transparency customer has to take in order to report Billing NPS get an answer or a solution: the instead of Customer lower, the better. Effort Score. # phone calls received per 28.5 Score and target refer to 26.5 1,000 invoices the services of both Telenet and BASE. Being an RepTrak score for 67.8 This score relates only to the 68.8 innovative and innovation reputation of Telenet in Flanders leading company and Brussels. It excludes BASE Company. Customer Customer churn rate 8.1% This is the average weighted To be defined experience customer churn for video, internet and fixed telephony. # visits ‘Telenet Helemaal 150,258 customer visits in 2016 120,000 extra cusMee Tournee/Tip Top Tour’ tomer visits in 2017 Offering customerBrandTracker score 64 This score relates only relates To be defined centric products “Products are simple and to the Telenet brand, not to the easy to use” (customer BASE brand. experience) Attracting, Employee turnover 5% The voluntary employee turnover To be defined retaining and stood at 5% in 2016. developing talent Training hours per FTE 24.4 To be defined Employee Employee engagement 60% The Zoom measurement To be defined engagement score (Zoom) in January 2016 did not yet include BASE Company employees. More information Zoom employee engagement measurement on page 25. 58 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Materiality KPI Result (2016) Comments Target Open Internet Policy on net neutrality and Refer to page 47. Not applicable adhering to related rues Responsible % women in management 3 female directors on the Board To be defined employer positions (Board of since early 2016, 50% of Senior Directors and SLT) Leadership Team consists of women. Number of lost days (on 26.81 lost days per 200,000 To be defined which it was not possible to hours worked work due to work-related illnesses or accidents) % of employees covered 100% Continue 100% by collective bargaining coverage in 2017 agreements and beyond Supply chain # suppliers monitored with 94 suppliers were assessed by LG will continue management EcoVadis Liberty Global in 2016, out of expanding the which 46 Telenet suppliers. assessment program to 100 suppliers in 2017, including Telenet and BASE Company suppliers. Safe use of internet Investments in the local € 1,080 To be defined by children community, category ‘digital inclusion’ Role in society Number of start-ups 88 8 startups teams completed the In 2017, we continue accelerated through Telenet Kickstart powered by accelerating start-ups Telenet Kickstart Idealabs program in 2016. As of in partnership with June 2016, we support Start it@ IMEC Istart and Start kbc which was joined by 80 new it@kbc. In addition, we startups in the second semester will continue to invest of the year. in individual start-ups with a commercial value-add to the Telenet business. Total community invest€ 1,225,618 To be defined ments (€) RepTrak score for 60.8 This score relates only to the 61.6 citizenship reputation of Telenet in Flanders and Brussels. It excludes BASE Company. Promote skills # children and 20,700, mainly in Flanders and 23,000 children and for the 21st teens trained in the Brussels teens in Flanders, century society CoderDojo-workshops Brussels and Wallonia. Reducing environCO2-emissions (in tons) Telenet's total group-wide Refer to page 41 for more To be defined mental impact including compensation market-based emissions information on our carbon stood at 17,606 metric tons compensation. in 2016. Telenet's emissions were compensated by 8,627 metric tons. Energy efficiency (KWh/€ 0.09 kWh per € of revenues To be defined revenues in million intensity) 59 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Materiality KPI Result (2016) Comments Target Customer’s energy Customer Premise 271,991 This figure is related to the To be defined consumption Equipment (CPE) energy annual energy consumption of use (MWh) set-top boxes and modems in our customer's homes. Mobile handsets are not included. Electronic waste Recycling rate of 100% of Telenet’s hazardous Mantain recycling rate and equipment hazardous waste (%) waste was recycled in 2016. of hazardous waste recycling at 100%. CPE refurbishment (%) 26% of newly deployed set-top To be defined boxes and modems were from refurbished stock. Capital expenditures saved In 2016, refurbishment (reuse To be defined (€) & waste (kg) avoided and recycling) of set-top boxes through reverse logistics and cable modems realized a € 17.3 million reduction of capital expenditures and avoided 329 tons of waste. Health and safety Policies and practices Refer to page 22. Not applicable of customers with respect to Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) of handsets Media landscape Investments in the STAP € 8.1 million To be defined fund and local media productions (€) 60 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 GRI G4 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Indicator General Standard Disclosure Telenet Sustainability Telenet Financial External Report 2016 Report 2016 Assurance G4-1 CEO statement. Foreword by the chairman and CEO, page 4-5 G4-3 Name of the organization. Company profile, page 6 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. Company profile, page 6 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters. Company profile, page 6 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates. Company profile, page 6 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. Company profile, page 6 Shareholder structure, page 28 G4-8 Markets served. Company profile, page 6 G4-9 Scale of the organization, including employees, Company profile, page 6 Information on the operations, revenues and quantity of products and Company, pages 8-12 services. G4-10 Total number of employees broken down by contract Social performance, page 56 and gender and employment type, and supervised workers. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective KPI per Materiality, page 59 bargaining agreements. G4-12 Description of the supply chain. Managing our supply chain in a responsible way, page 45-46 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Our approach to reporting: regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, general principles, page 54 or its supply chain. G4-14 How the precautionary approach or principle is Demonstrating good governance addressed by the organization. & transparency in our business practices, page 47-48 G4-15 External economic, environmental and social charters, Demonstrating good governance principles, or other initiatives to which the organization & transparency in our business subscribes. practices, page 47-48 G4-16 Memberships of associations maintained at the Important memberships, organizational level. page 15 + Demonstrating good governance & transparency in our business practices, page 47-48 G4-17 Entities included the report. Our approach to reporting: general principles, page 52-54 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Our approach to reporting: Aspect Boundaries. general principles, page 52-54 61 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Indicator General Standard Disclosure Telenet Sustainability Telenet Financial External Report 2016 Report 2016 Assurance G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining Our sustainability policy: the report content. materiality matrix, page 10-11 + Our approach to reporting: general principles, page 52-54 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization. GRI G4 Core, page 53 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization. GRI G4 Core, page 53 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in Significant changes and previous reports. restatements, page 54 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods. Our approach to reporting: general principles, page 52-54 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Our commitment towards our organization. stakeholders, page 14-15 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Our commitment towards our with whom to engage. stakeholders, page 14-15 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement. Our commitment towards our stakeholders, page 14-15 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Our sustainability policy: the through stakeholder engagement. materiality matrix, page 10-11 + Our approach to reporting: general principles, page 52-54 G4-28 Reporting period. Our approach to reporting: general principles, page 52 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. Our approach to reporting: general principles, page 52 G4-30 Reporting cycle. Our approach to reporting: general principles, page 52 G4-31 Contact point for questions. Contact, page 54 G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization GRI G4 Core, page 53 has chosen. G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Our approach to reporting: external assurance for the report. general principles, page 52-54 G4-34 Governance structure of the organization. Decision-making process, page Corporate 11 governance statement, page 25-50 G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and Our values, page 7 + norms of behavior. Demonstrating good governance & transparency in our business practices, page 47-48 *GRI Sector Guidance Telecommunication Services – Pilot Version, May 2013. 62 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 GRI G4 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Aspects Disclosure on Management Approach Telenet Sustainability Omissions External (G4-19) (DMA) and Performance Indicators Report 2016 Assurance Privacy & data security G4-DMA Ensuring privacy and data security, page 19 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated Privacy complaints and complaints regarding breaches of customer breaches, page 21 privacy and losses of customer data. PR3 (Telecommunication Sector Supplement) Ensuring privacy and data Description of reporting organization’s security, page 19. Geographic policy, procedures/management systems, scope of our policy is Belgium. and compliance mechanisms for consumer privacy. Identify geographic areas covered by policy. Fair, responsible and G4-DMA Demonstrating good governance transparent business & transparency in our business conduct practices, page 47-48 G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for Telenet did not incur any fines anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and or settlements related to antimonopoly practices and their outcomes. competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices in 2016. G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines Demonstrating good governance and total number of non-monetary sanctions & transparency in our business for non-compliance with laws and regulations. practices, page 47-48 Best-in-class quality G4-DMA Delivering top quality products products and services and services that are easy to use, page 22 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines Demonstrating good governance for non-compliance with laws and regulations & transparency in our business concerning the provision and use of products practices, page 47-48 and services. Pricing and billing G4-DMA Driving transparent pricing and transparency billing, page 22 G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of nonDemonstrating good governance compliance with regulations and voluntary & transparency in our business codes concerning marketing communications, practices, page 48 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Customer experience G4-DMA The best experience in a digital world, page 18-19 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring Net Promoter Score (NPS) for customer satisfaction. Telenet and BASE 2016, page 20 Being an innovative and G4-DMA Commitment to society and leading company local communities, page 31-34 G4-EC7 Development and impact of Investing in digital innovation infrastructure investments and services and high performing network supported. infrastructures, page 32 + Investing in the local media sector to boost creative entrepreneurship, page 33 63 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 Material Aspects Disclosure on Management Approach Telenet Sustainability Omissions External (G4-19) (DMA) and Performance Indicators Report 2016 Assurance Offering customerG4-DMA Delivering top quality products centric products and services that are easy to use, page 22 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines Demonstrating good governance for non-compliance with laws and regulations & transparency in our business concerning the provision and use of products practices, page 47-48 and services. Open internet G4-DMA Freedom of expression: maximum but not absolute, page 48” PA7 (Telecommunication Sector Freedom of expression: Supplement*) Policies and practices to maximum but not manage human rights issues relating to access absolute, page 48 and use of telecommunications products and services. Attracting, retaining and G4-DMA Attracting & retaining the best developing talent talent, page 26 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new Social performance, page 56 Due to our limited employee hires and employee turnover by age geographic scope, group, gender and region. Telenet does not differentiate between regions, therefore employee data is not reported per region, but at company level. G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year Social performance, page 56 per employee by gender, and by employee category. G4-LA10 Programs for skills management Employment plan for older and lifelong learning that support the employees, page 28 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving Social performance, page 56 regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category. Responsible employer G4-DMA A sustainable employment policy, page 28-29 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce The Committees for Prevention represented in formal joint managementand Protection at Work, page worker health and safety committees that help 28. Coverage is Telenet BVBA, monitor and advise on occupational health Telenet BVBA ICS, Telenet Group and safety programs. BVBA and Telenet Retail BVBA covering 99.9% of all employees. *GRI Sector Guidance Telecommunication Services – Pilot Version, May 2013. 64 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 GRI G4 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Additional Disclosure on Management Approach Telenet Sustainability Omissions External performance (DMA) and Performance Indicators Report 2016 assurance indicators* G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. Environmental performance, page 55 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization. Environmental performance, page 55 G4-EN5 Energy intensity ratio. Environmental performance, page 55 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. Environmental performance, page 55 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products KPI per Materiality, page 60. The Resulting emissions and services. average energy use per set-top of products is not box used by our customers reported. To be decreased by 9.1% in 2016 reported as soon as compared to 2015. possible. G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1. Environmental performance, page 55 G4-EN16 Energy Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions Environmental Scope 2. performance, page 55 G4-EN17 Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions Environmental Scope 3. performance, page 55 G4-EN18 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity. Environmental performance, page 55 G4-EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions. Environmental performance, page 55 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Environmental disposal method. performance, page 55 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. Correct disposal of waste, page 43 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Managing our supply chain in a using environmental criteria. responsible way, page 45-46 G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative Managing our supply chain in a environmental impacts in the supply chain. responsible way, page 45-46 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Managing our supply chain in a using human rights criteria. responsible way, page 45-46 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative Managing our supply chain in a human rights impacts in the supply chain and responsible way, page 45-46 actions taken. * These additional performance indicators are not considered the most important materialities for the purpose of this report: which is to comply with the GRI G4 standard ‘in accordance’ at ‘core’ level. We nevertheless add them for stakeholders that are looking for additional information. 65 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 UN SUSTAINABILITY GOALS 1 2 3 GOOD HEALTH & NO POVERTY ZERO HUNGER WELL-BEING 4 5 6 7 8 QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER & AFFORDABLE & DECENT WORK & EDUCTION EQUALITY SANITATION CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH 9 10 11 12 13 INDUSTRY RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION & REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES & CONSUMPTION & CLIMATE INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES COMMUNITIES PRODUCTION ACTION 14 15 16 17 LIFE BELOW PEACE, JUSTICE & PARTNERSHIPS LIFE ON LAND WATER STRONG INSTITUTIONS FOR THE GOALS How Telenet commits: 8 Telenet is an important Telenet and its partners Telenet limits its 4 Telenet helps children player in the Belgian 11 13 and youth in developing contribute to making cities environmental footprint digital skills that prepare 9 economy. We stimulate and communities more with a strong focus on them for employment and growth by providing sustainable with smart and improving our carbon entrepreneurship. competitive and innovative innovative IT-solutions. efficiency. Our services products and services also help others to cut back for our customers and carbon emissions. 5 Telenet promotes a culture by investing in a leading 12 Telenet promotes of inclusion and diversity, integrated network, We sustainable management 10 offering equal opportunities create good jobs in our and efficient use of natural 17 Telenet limits its irrespective of race, religion, own company and help resources. We actively environmental footprint sexual orientation, gender, entrepreneurs thrive. Of reduce the amount of with a strong focus on disability or age. course, we also ensure waste generated in our improving our carbon decent working conditions business processes efficiency. Our services in our supply chain. through prevention, also help others to cut back reduction, recycling and carbon emissions. reuse. 66 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP Area Indicator Description Page Human rights G4 HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human 46 rights criteria G4 HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in 45 the supply chain and actions taken Labour G4 10 Total number of employees etc. 56 G4 11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective 59 bargaining agreements G4 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and 56 by employee category G4 LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 56 career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Environment G4 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 55 G4 EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization 55 G4 EN5 Energy intensity ratio 55 G4 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 55 G4 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 55 + 60 G4 EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1 55 G4 EN16 Energy Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 2 55 G4 EN17 Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 3 55 G4 EN18 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity 55 G4 EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 55 G4 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 55 G4 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 43 G4 EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 46 environmental criteria G4 EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts 45 in the supply chain Anti corruption G4 56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and 7 + 47-48 norms of behavior 67 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2016 www.concerto.be Corporate Communications T. 015 33 30 00 www.telenet.be Responsible editor Telenet, Rob Goyens Rue de Neerveld 105, 1200 Brussels
