Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 Always responsible Environmental Dialog Semiconductor Plc Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Value chain Society responsibility Sustainability report 2016 Contents How to use this interactive PDF Select the navigation tabs at the top of each page to jump to the start of that section. Introduction 01 Select from the contents list (left) or highlighted text throughout the report, Materiality 08 to jump to that page or web link. Our people 14 Go to main contents page Business ethics 17 Environmental responsibility 20 Print PDF Value chain 22 Search PDF Society 27 Go to previous view Appendix 30 Go to previous page Go to next page 02 The “Spirit of Dialog” 04 About Dialog 08 Materiality 22 Value chain “ We aspire to apply Powering the smart connected world with We aim to align our sustainability management Our products and fabrication partners help leading power management and energyactivities, including reporting, with our most us to create value for our customers. sustainability efficient integrated circuits (“ICs”). material issues. management standards equal to our business ambitions.” Dr. Jalal Bagherli Chief Executive Officer You can read more about our sustainability performance at www.dialog-semiconductor.com/sustainability Introduction Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 01 This is our fifth annual sustainability report, published on 7 April 2017 and covering the 2016 calendar year. The report is aligned with the “Core” requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. As such, it places primary focus on those issues that are considered most material to Dialog and its stakeholders – as defined through a materiality assessment (pages 8–13). Fuller details, including a table of G4 Aspects and Indicators, can be found on our website. The content of this report is not subject to external assurance. www.dialog-semiconductor.com (GRI G4 information) Introduction Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 02 We create value through energy-efficient ICs “ Our ambition is to power the smart connected Every day, we strive to bring the “Spirit of Dialog” to our customers, future in a responsible fabrication partners and the communities in which we operate. and efficient manner.” Dr. Jalal Bagherli Chief Executive Officer The “Spirit of Dialog” captures the essence of our values, the The nature of our fabless model means we face relatively True to the “Spirit of Dialog”, we will continue to think of way we work and how we collaborate with our customers, limited levels of exposure to sustainability risks within our own new and better ways of working and enhancing the power fabrication partners and communities to design great operations. Our ICs are manufactured by leading foundries brought by collaboration, diversity, and new ideas to our products. Together, we create value through innovative power in highly automated plants staffed by qualified technicians customers, fabrications partners and the communities management and energy-efficient integrated circuits (“ICs”), and engineers and subject to rigorous operational controls. in which we operate. enhancing the usability, effectiveness and sustainability of Our fabrication partners apply mature management systems more than a billion electronic consumer products during to address issues such as quality control, human resources Dr. Jalal Bagherli 2016. Dialog was one of two UK companies in the inaugural and environmental performance. Chief Executive Officer Clean200 list, in recognition of our contribution to a Although fabless, we are ultimately responsible for the delivery clean‑energy economy. of our products to our customers. In order to monitor and Our ambition is to power the smart connected future optimise the manufacturing process, we assign Dialog staff in a responsible and efficient manner. In line with the members to any foundry producing our ICs. This supports Agility “Spirit of Dialog” and as a supporter of the United Nations a continuous quality improvement process which seeks Global Compact (“UN Global Compact”) – we aspire to to minimise financial risks of potential problems in the apply sustainability management standards equal to our manufacturing process. Additionally, it seeks to provide high business ambitions. levels of assurance to us and our customers in mitigating The potential risks they are exposed to through our supply chain. Ideas power Difference In this, our fifth report, our people, products and relationships of... In 2016 we implemented a new energy management system with our fabrication partners take centre stage. They represent in all our German facilities and achieved ISO50001 certification. our most important areas of focus in terms of business sustainability. Since 2012, we have doubled our workforce, On behalf of the Board and the Executive Team I would like to invested almost US$1 billion in R&D and deployed a new thank our teams in Quality and Environment Systems, Supply Many manufacturing technology for our high-volume products Chain and Value Management, and Manufacturing – as well in close collaboration with our main fabrication partner. as our sustainability champions and all other employees In 2016 we have made further efforts to offer high levels of involved – for their efforts and dedication in support of The “Spirit of Dialog” is the articulation of our values and transparency and focus, mapping our relevant and material our sustainability activities. culture. It has helped us to deliver success for our customers, issues to our key areas of business sustainability. employees and shareholders. For more information, see our 2016 Annual report. Introduction Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 03 Our performance over the year In 2016, we implemented a new energy management system, distributed US$1.1 billion in economic value and rolled out a new version of the Dialog Code of Business Conduct The purpose of this exercise was to identify and prioritise Key highlights include: ee The screening and auditing of new and existing fabrication (with the help of our external partners) those sustainability ee Implementation of a new energy management system as partners (i.e. those supplying more than 1% of our total issues impacting Dialog and its stakeholders. The results are a further module to our Quality and Environment System, volume of integrated circuits) against our Self-Audit being used to help define our sustainability strategy and achieving ISO50001 certification at our facilities in Germany Checklist. This covers labour and human rights, health to ensure the right allocation of resources for its effective in 2016; and safety, the environment and business ethics, as well implementation. Furthermore, the results have directly as the application of pre-qualification audits to all new ee Rolling out a new version of the Dialog Code of Business informed the contents of this report – which is aligned with fabrication partners; and Conduct to help employees navigate an increasingly the “Core” requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative’s ee The auditing of all seven existing significant fabrication complex commercial and regulatory world; G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. partners against our Supplier Audit Checklist and Corporate ee Distribution of US$1.1 billion in economic value to our As a result of the interim materiality assessment, the content Social Responsibility Checklist – with one “major” negative employees, suppliers, host governments, local communities of this report is now more closely tailored to the specific nature audit findings identified. These processes did not identify and providers of capital. This represents 90% of our of our business model, activities and relationships. any material risks relating to human rights, labour rights, total turnover; health and safety or the environment. ee Our emerging talent programmes continued successfully in 2016, with 35 graduates and 51 interns entering In 2017 we aim to make further progress towards a well defined the business; sustainability strategy and to carry out our second materiality assessment. This will help ensure that our sustainability strategy ee Participation in a strategic partnership with University stays on course and we continue to integrate sustainability into Technical College Swindon (“UTC Swindon”) in the our business and support Dialog’s long-term value. United Kingdom; For further sustainability information, please contact: jose.cano@diasemi.com sustainability@diasemi.com Introduction Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 04 About Dialog Powering the smart connected world with leading power management and energy-efficient ICs Our passion for innovation and entrepreneurial spirit ensures Our power saving technologies deliver high levels of Outputs we remain at the core of mobile computing and the Internet efficiency and enhance the consumer’s user experience of Things (“IoT”). by extending battery life and enabling faster charging of Power efficient product range 05 their portable devices. Our highly integrated standard and Reusable IP portfolio 19, 29 Through our collaborative R&D approach and responsible custom mixed‑signal ICs are optimised for mobile computing, supply chain management, we develop and market Trusted relationships with customers 18, 25 wearables, LED solid state lighting (“SSL”), and Smart highly‑integrated power management and energy-efficient Home applications. Environmental outputs 21, 29, 30 mixed signal integrated circuits. Our integrated design approach helps to reduce component Economic value creation 29 Our technologies help extend battery life in portable devices size and numbers, meaning our customers can reduce and IoT applications, enhancing consumer experience materials and costs and maximise performance. and enabling our customers to differentiate and move fast to market. Our technology portfolio includes power management, audio, Bluetooth® low energy, Rapid Charge™ AC/DC converters and Innovation is at the core of our business. Our most important LED drivers. assets include our highly-skilled engineers and intellectual property (“IP”), the strength of our customer relationships For more information on our product range and forward focus, and close collaboration with responsible production partners. please see our 2016 Annual report. All these play an important role in the design of our products. For more information on our business model, please see our 2016 Annual report. Introduction Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 05 Key outcomes How we make our products sustainable Power ee Power efficiency Dialog replaces multiple discrete power management ee Longer battery life ee Lighter, thinner, smaller products management components with one highlyintegrated chip; these single chip solutions reduce energy usage and provide a simple yet flexible design at a lower cost. Typical usage tests show our power management integrated circuits (“PMICs”) can decrease the power consumption of a portable device by up to 30%. ee Ultra-low power Bluetooth® Since the launch of our first Bluetooth® low Smart connected devices such as wearables low energy energy Wearable‑on-Chip™ we have enabled or Smart Home applications, are increasingly Connectivity ee 50% reduction in power consumption consumers to benefit from more energy-efficient part of our daily lives. This type of device and size of classic Bluetooth® products wearable devices, like the Mi Band and Mi Band 2. requires power efficient connectivity and The recently launched Mi Band 2 can deliver sensing technologies to interact with ee One of the most energy-efficient up to 20 days of battery power, one of the the environment. connectivity solutions available most energy-efficient solutions available to consumers to consumers today. Power ee High efficiency AC/DC power converter Our AC/DC converters and LED drivers are designed to cost-effectively reduce energy Our SSL LED drivers support very high efficiency, long-lifespan SSL bulbs. conversion ee Reduction in number of components required consumption by maximising power conversion efficiency with digital technology that uses fewer It is estimated that the increased use of energy-efficient LED lighting of all kinds in components. This includes converters that use the United States alone will save 300 terawatt ee Zero standby power consumption little or no power while on standby – a particularly hours by 2030 – equivalent to approximately for portable devices important aspect when you consider that 210 million tonnes of greenhouse standby demand consumes more than 100 billion gas emissions. kilowatt-hours of electricity annually in the United States alone (enough to power more than nine million American households). Dialog was the first company to introduce a zero standby power AC/ DC pulse width modulations (“PWM”) controller. Introduction Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 06 Our approach to Sustainability Introduction Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 07 Our Vision and applicable external standards Embedding sustainable and responsible practices into our business As a participant in the UN Global Compact, we aim to do business in a way that respects human rights, supports responsible labour practices, protects the environment and maintains strong business ethics – while helping advance broader sustainable development. It’s not just the right thing to do. We believe this approach will We extend related requirements to our major suppliers through Sustainability management ultimately support the long-term value of our business. This is the application of our Supplier Code of Conduct, which In 2016 we made changes to our internal organisation, due to the increasingly stringent expectations of our investors, incorporates the requirements of the Electronics Industry and devolved responsibility for sustainability management our customers and the end-consumers of the products in Citizenship Coalition (“EICC”) Code of Conduct. to the relevant departments. This was in order to integrate which our technology is integrated. sustainability management into our business activities. In addition, we apply the following external standards: As such, our Vision is to embed sustainable and responsible Our Human Resources, Manufacturing, Business Development ee Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact; and Legal departments are now fully responsible for the practices into the way we act internally and engage externally. We are guided in this respect by a range of corporate policies ee ISO14001 environmental management system standard, management of their respective sustainability issues – and and codes, including our: to which we are certified; are subject to the oversight of the Executive Committee. ee ISO50001 energy management system standard, to which We believe this is a better way to fully embed sustainability ee Corporate Code of Business Conduct (“Dialog Code into the responsibilities – and actions – of managers we are certified in Germany; and of Business Conduct”); throughout the Company. The Sustainability Committee ee ISO9001 quality management system standard, to which ee Quality, Environmental and Energy Policy; oversees the overall coordination and is comprised of we are certified. ee Health and Safety Policy; a representative of engineering, human resources and We are also guided in our external sustainability reporting investor relations. ee Intellectual Property Policy; and by the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability ee Conflict Minerals Policy. Reporting Guidelines. Where there are issues of sustainability management or performance of sufficient importance, each of the responsible departments will report these directly to the Board on an ad hoc basis. Further details regarding the management of specific issues within Dialog can be found in the following chapters. Introduction Materiality Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 08 Materiality Introduction Materiality Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 09 Materiality process The outcome of the materiality process informs our sustainability strategy Our approach is to undertake a full materiality assessment every other year. Following the full 2015 assessment, in 2016 we have carried out an interim review of our materiality matrix. MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS 1 2 3 4 5 Initial review of Definition of a “Dashboard” In-depth analysis to prioritise each Gathering of feedback Mapping of the G4 Sustainability sustainability issues facing of relevant issues for Dialog Dashboard issue based on Dialog’s on the results from internal Reporting Guidelines and its stakeholders actual and potential impact on its discipline experts and external “Aspects” against Dialog’s stakeholders and vice versa stakeholders and the appropriate most material issues adjustment of scores ee Dialog; This included: ee Dialog’s Shareholders; and ee Analysis of Dialog’s activities, locations ee The semiconductor and business partners; (and wider electronics) sector. ee Engagement with internal discipline experts; ee A review of existing company management system components; ee A review of Dialog’s existing risk assessment and supply chain audit results; and ee A review of external analysis and commentary on the semiconductor (and wider electronics) industry. Introduction Materiality Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 10 Materiality process continued We have worked with external advisers to identify and prioritise our most material issues on the basis of: ee The potential or actual impact of Dialog on its stakeholders; and ee The potential or actual impact of stakeholders on the ability of Dialog to achieve its business objectives. Stakeholder engagement Risk management Strategic risks Our ongoing engagement with internal and external Our Risk Management office identifies the key risks faced Human capital: The need to support ongoing product stakeholders helps us understand: by Dialog and reports these, along with the status of any innovation and ensure Dialog has the appropriate leadership mitigating actions or controls, to the Management Team capabilities for an expanding and increasingly complex ee The impact of our activities and relationships on global operation. and Audit Committee. others – and how we can best manage these impacts in a responsible manner; These risks are recorded in a central risk register, which is Operational risks reviewed by our Management Team and Audit Committee. Fabless business model: The need to ensure that our suppliers ee The potential risks and opportunities associated with perform (both operationally and otherwise) in a way that does stakeholders – and how we can best manage these The risk register is used to plan our internal audit activity and assess any potential impact on our strategy. not undermine our customer relationships. in a proactive way; and ee The ongoing effectiveness of our management actions. Legal and compliance risks Key sustainability risks in 2016 Legal compliance: The need to understand – and comply with In this context, we select stakeholders we engage with Although the risk register cuts across all aspects of our business, – applicable local laws and regulations as Dialog expands into on the basis of: key risks relating to our sustainability performance are set new jurisdictions. ee Their actual and potential impact on Dialog; and out below and remain in line with those reported in 2015. Environmental compliance: The need to ensure that (in the Each of these has been integrated into our materiality process. context of the fabless model) suppliers comply with applicable ee Dialog’s actual and potential impact on stakeholders – For more information on our principal risks, please see pages environmental regulations. both positive and negative. 52 to 56 of our 2016 Annual report. In addition to informing our materiality process, stakeholder Intellectual property: The need to legally and physically protect engagement also helps inform our corporate risk highly innovative intellectual property held by Dialog. management process. Introduction Materiality Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 11 Materiality process continued General stakeholder engagement activity in 2016 Stakeholder type Form of engagement Frequency of engagement Examples of issues raised Employees ee Annual employee survey ee At least monthly ee Involvement in sustainability activities ee Employee annual reviews ee Quarterly group conference calls ee Terms of employment ee Regular communications on Company intranet ee Working environment ee Global sustainability group representatives from ee Company strategy each office ee Learning and development Investors ee Annual report ee At least daily ee Industry dynamics ee Investor roadshows ee Technological trends ee Ongoing investor relations engagement ee Company performance ee Business strategy ee Supply chain management ee Governance (including sustainability) Customers ee Customer service feedback ee Monthly to annual contact with key customers ee Product design ee Customer audit activity ee Product quality and price ee Delivery schedules Community ee Sustainability report ee Monthly to annual contact with local communities ee Donations and in-kind support ee Community projects Peers ee Industry forums and work groups ee Ad hoc ee Industry dynamics ee Technological trends Government/ ee Government consultations ee Ad hoc ee Environmental regulations Regulators ee Regulatory enquiries ee Product standards Suppliers ee Procurement contract tenders ee At least daily with respect to major suppliers ee Product quality and price ee Supply chain audits ee Delivery schedules ee On-site presence at fabrication plants ee Management of identified issues in the 2015 process ee Performance reviews ee Implementation of the 2016 auditing process Introduction Materiality Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 12 Materiality process continued Our material areas have a clear link with our key business areas Core sustainability issues New in core Issue Issue Change from 2015 Mapping to business issue No change In 2016, we have given further clarity on the linkage between our material issues and our key business areas. For that purpose, ee Economic performance and impact People Re-prioritisation all our sustainability issues have been mapped to one of our of core issues key business areas. ee Advancement of technology Products During 2016, corruption and bribery were replaced by ee Intellectual property Other employee development as one of our core sustainability issues. All our other core sustainability areas remained unchanged. ee Compliance with customer standards Products ee Governance Other ee Product impacts Products ee Recruitment Professionals People ee Labour rights and human rights (value chain) Supply chain ee Employee development People ee Health and safety (value chain) Supply chain ee Conflict minerals Supply chain ee Transparency (value chain) Supply chain Introduction Materiality Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 13 Materiality process continued The outputs of our interim review are set out in the materiality matrix About the materiality matrix Materiality matrix The outputs from our materiality process are set out in the High People matrix. This includes our most material issues, as well as a range of additional relevant issues that we are also proactively Products managing. In 2016 we carried out an interim review of our Supply chain materiality matrix and we aim to undertake a full materiality Other Economic performance and impact Advancement assessment in 2017. of technology Health and safety Product impacts Intellectual property The materiality matrix has been directly informed by: (supply chain) Compliance with Labour/ customer standards Diversity and equality human rights Corporate ee Ongoing stakeholder engagement throughout 2015; (supply chain) governance Enhancing the external skills pool Conflict ee Targeted stakeholder engagement in 2015 and 2016 minerals Employee development Philanthropy Recruitment: Graduates to directly support our materiality process; and Recruitment: Professionals Impact on stakeholders Retention, morale and engagement Transparency (supply chain) ee Our corporate risk management process. Corruption/bribery Energy and carbon emissions In addition to the interim review carried out during 2016, we Environmental Pollution, resources and waste impacts (supply chain) General legal compliance have tried to give further clarity on the linkage between our key sustainability issues and our business issues. For that purpose, we have mapped each of our sustainability areas to one of Health and safety our key business issues: people, products and supply chain. For further details see our business model and Sustainability sections in the 2016 Annual report. Low Low Impact on Dialog High Introduction Materiality Our people Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 14 Our people Introduction Materiality Our people Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 15 Our people Our people are the engine of our innovative business. The ability to recruit, retain and develop our high-quality employees is vital Materiality ee The application of our corporate Code of Business Conduct1, We continue to recruit globally for the most talented people, The nature of our business , which relies on the ongoing which sets out our minimum, Group-wide requirements in identify centres of engineering talent and build our business advancement of cutting-edge semiconductor technology, relation to labour and human rights, health and safety and around them. In 2016, we expanded our existing design means we are highly reliant on our ability to recruit, retain, and related issues; centres in Europe, Asia and North America. develop high-quality electronic engineering professionals, ee Ongoing talent planning and skillset gap identification; as well as leading management talent. This is particularly the ee Proactive engagement at university level to identify and Emerging talent programmes: Graduate case given: recruit emerging talent; and and intern recruitment and development Ensuring we maintain a robust and sustainable skills pipeline ee Strong, ongoing competition for skills within the sector; ee Ongoing identification and engagement of high-value is essential for our current and future success. We run ee An ageing electronics engineering demographic; and professionals and leaders. targeted intern and graduate recruitment and development ee Our strong commercial growth. Responsibility for our performance sits with the Senior Vice programmes to ensure our emerging talent pipelines President Human Resources. He is supported in this role by remain healthy. In this context, we are focused on maintaining a sustainable dedicated local Human Resource teams. skills pipeline – ranging from the identification, development Key components of our emerging talent recruitment 1 See www.dialog-semiconductor.com/investor-relations/corporateprocess include: (and ultimate recruitment) of high-potential undergraduates governance/code-of-business-conduct-and-ethics. through to the attraction of experienced experts. We take a ee Sponsorships and internships; holistic view towards both recruitment and retention that Recruitment and retention ee Direct graduate recruitment from our partner universities; looks beyond the provision of highly competitive financial rewards. We also aim to deliver the kind of lifestyle, working The nature of our industry means those working in it are highly ee Careers fairs and university events; and environment, development opportunities and inclusive skilled, international and mobile. Our growing employment ee Focused graduate and intern assessment days. culture that allow our people to develop high-quality, brand and development of a strong employment proposition long-term careers with us. continues to help us attract people to all our locations. In 2016, this helped us recruit a total of 30+ new graduates into our workforce – all of whom have been enrolled in our At the end of 2016 we employed 1,766 people (excluding formal Dialog Graduate Development Programme. In addition, Management approach temporary staff on fixed-term contracts and Dyna Image we hired over 50 interns in 2016, many of whom are likely We manage our people through: employees), a 6.4% increase on 2015. We now operate from to become our future graduate hires once their educational 30 locations in 15 countries and our global workforce continues studies have been completed. ee The application of national-level human resource policies, to increase in diversity. Dialog employees are drawn from tailored to reflect local legal requirements, business priorities 65 nationalities. and labour markets; Introduction Materiality Our people Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 16 Our people continued Retention characteristic. Furthermore, we recognise the value a diverse Overall workplace profile2 as of 31 December 2016 As in previous years our staff turnover remains low compared workforce can bring in terms of creativity, dynamism and Employment type Gender to our industry. In 2016, staff turnover was 7.9% (2015: 6.9%). new perspectives. Full time Part time Male Female Total Although this represents a slight increase in total leavers, In this context, we aim to nurture a working culture Permanent employees 1,709 57 1,503 263 1,766 the proportion of voluntary leavers is largely unchanged. characterised by mutual respect and non-discrimination. We continue to monitor our staff turnover rate, analyse which Temporary employees 27 type of employees leave and also examine the reasons for In 2016, we had one case of use of discriminatory Total employees 1,793 leaving through exit interviews. language reported to our confidential third-party hotline. Discriminatory behaviour is not tolerated at Dialog and the 2 The temporary employee category is made up of employees on fixed-term contracts. Please note that we do not make material use of workers who are legally recognised as self-employed. Development reported issue was dealt with very swiftly. As the report was made anonymously, all staff in the reported location As a research and development-led business that specialises in innovative technology, it is important that we stay at the underwent briefing sessions with an HR Manager. Geographic distribution of workforce cutting edge of our sector. We need to invest in our existing Our globalised footprint and nature of our sector mean Gender employees on an ongoing basis. that, like many of our peers, we enjoy a highly international Region Male Female Total workforce – many of whom work for us in locations Asia 234 51 285 In particular, we need to provide employees with access to away from their countries of birth. For example, we high-quality development opportunities. This not only builds Europe 1,039 167 1,206 have a total of 65 nationalities represented within our their skills, expertise and knowledge, but also enhances the North America 230 45 275 business – as well as a Senior Executive Team representing internal pool of world-class talent we can call upon. It also Total 1,503 263 1,766 seven different nationalities. incentivises high performers to continue developing their career with us. It is a reality, however, that the electronic engineering sector As far as our recruitment and selection processes are concerned, and subject to any relevant performs relatively poorly in terms of gender diversity. There regulatory restrictions, the national or sub-national origins of applicants is irrelevant. Coaching and developing each other is an important aspect has been much analysis of why this is the case, with growing of employee life at Dialog. We offer all employees a wide variety focus being placed on invisible, structural considerations that Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared with local of development opportunities and encourage a 70/20/10 may be limiting female engagement with the sector and/ minimum wage at key operating sites development split of “on the job” learning (70%), feedback and or inducing a degree of self-deselection (i.e. rather than any mentoring (20%) and classroom learning (10%). We have also Ratio of employees’ standard entry level wage conscious barriers on the part of the sector). This may partly responded to business demand by developing programmes Minimum wage to local minimum wage (if applicable) reflect why women currently comprise only 14.9% of our for key employee types and career stages. Location in place? Male Female workforce (2015: 15.8%). From 1 December 2016 the female In 2016 we delivered development opportunities to our representation on our Board of Directors is 10% (one of United Kingdom Yes 2.98 2.98 employees including mentoring, technical and professional ten Directors). During 2016 we took a step towards greater Germany Yes 2.88 2.88 training, and a strong focus on management and leadership diversity of industry and background with the appointment Netherlands Yes 2.22 2.22 training. We continually measure the impact of training by the of Mary Chan to our Board. Her insight into the ways United States Yes 4.13 4.13 percentage increase in competence 90 days post-training, connectivity and the IoT are driving change across multiple China Yes 3.62 3.62 and this figure drives our return on investment measurement. platforms will be especially valuable to the Company. We will continue to develop our virtual and online solutions into Note: We are keen to raise awareness amongst women both inside 2017 to offer flexible development options to our employees. The standard entry level is the entry level for professionals after completing university education. Minimum wage figures and outside the Company about the exciting potential careers used are the rates effective in January 2017. For the US the California minimum wage rate has been used and for China the available to them at Dialog and to encourage them to explore Shenzhen minimum wage rate. Diversity and equality these opportunities with us. We are exploring how we can We are committed to employing and developing those people make better use of a potentially significant skills pool (in the who have the necessary skills, experience and values to excel form of actual and potential female engineers), as a means in their relevant role – irrespective of their gender, ethnicity, of addressing current demographic challenges within the religion, disability or any other non-work related personal electronic engineering sector. Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 17 Business ethics Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 18 Business ethics Our business relies on the trust of our partners, including our investors, customers and suppliers Materiality Compliance ee ANSI/ESD S20.20 (electrostatic discharge control). Maintaining our partners’ trust depends on: Customer and industry standards ee EICC Code of Conduct. As a supplier of semiconductors to manufacturers of Further information on our supply chain auditing activity ee Our strict adherence to our customers’ exacting technical, sophisticated electronic goods, we are subject to a significant can be found on pages 22 to 26. commercial and ethical requirements; body of technical, legal, social responsibility, and quality control ee The protection of both our own intellectual property and requirements defined by our customers. The performance of our suppliers in this regard is assessed that of our business partners, which is fundamental given by the following Dialog departments on an ongoing basis: the technologically innovative nature of our business; and In many cases, our compliance with these requirements is included as a condition of contract with our customers – ee Quality and Environmental: Quality engineering, physical ee Our strict compliance with the laws of our host societies – laboratory, quality and environment system. making our strict adherence essential. This is particularly the case including those relating to anti-bribery and corruption. with respect to the technical specifications and quality of our ee Global Manufacturing Operations: Test development, Any breach of this trust, or of our legal obligations, would have highly sophisticated products. Any slight variation in this respect offshore operations and assembly development. the potential to seriously compromise our business – whether is not only likely to render them valueless from the perspective ee Supply Chain and Value Management: Global procurement, in terms of the loss of valuable commercial relationships, of our customers, but also has the potential to undermine our supply chain and trade compliance, customs and the undermining of our reputation or the application of customers’ own products (and thus brands). foreign trade. official sanctions. Because of this, we put a significant amount of energy into Similarly, our customers typically apply their own set of understanding our customers’ extensive requirements and Management approach applying comprehensive management systems to ensure that compliance measures to ensure we are meeting their We manage business ethics through: requirements. This includes auditing of: these are fully met by both the design of our products, as well ee The application of the Dialog Code of Business Conduct, as their production by our fabrication partners. This includes, ee Our management systems, processes and which addresses a broad range of issues including conflicts for example: facility specifications; of interest, discrimination, trading in Dialog shares, protection ee The posting of Dialog personnel at our fabrication partners’ ee The communication of their own standards to our of intellectual property, confidentiality, competition, trade sites to monitor production activities; manufacturing partners and their application in practice; restrictions and export controls, accuracy of records, data ee An extensive raft of operational quality control measures ee Product testing processes and documentation; privacy and reporting of infractions. The Code of Business through which we assess our fabrication partners; ee Materials and product traceability; and Conduct is applicable to all Dialog employees, consultants and contractors; ee Regular business reviews with our manufacturing partners ee Possible contamination of products by to understand their performance and future capabilities; and disallowed substances. ee A range of specific policies addressing issues such as bribery and corruption, fraud, money laundering, financial dealings ee Ongoing annual auditing of our manufacturing partners, We evaluate customer satisfaction with the quality and and whistleblower protection; and including against the following management system specifications of our products on an ongoing basis, using: standards (as well as our Suppliers Control Plan): ee Mandatory training on specific topics such as bribery and ee Individual reviews; corruption, conflicts of interest, preventing harassment and ee ISO9001 (quality management). ee Analysis of any customer complaints; and insider dealing. ee TS 16949 (quality management). ee Customer surveys. Responsibility for this framework sits with our Senior Vice ee ISO14001 (environmental). President General Counsel. He is supported in this role ee OHSAS18001 (health and safety). on a day‑to-day basis by the Assistant Company Secretary. Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 19 Intellectual property Although we are not subject to the conflict minerals reporting Conflict The protection of intellectual property is vital for any business requirements set out in Section 1502 of the US Dodd-Frank Act, focused on the creation of innovative and high-value many of our customers are. In this context, we are committed technological solutions. Any failure in this regard could to providing our customers with assurance by: minerals have profound consequences, for example, on the value ee Identifying whether any 3TG in our products has originated of our inventions, products and Company. Furthermore, our from the DRC or adjoining countries; semiconductors are specifically designed for integration as ee (If it has), understanding whether the 3TG in our products components into our customers’ own products. This means has financed or otherwise benefited armed groups; and we necessarily access and work with customers’ intellectual property and/or commercial and technological secrets. ee Disclosing the results of this process to our customers. This requires a high degree of trust on the part of our customers, As such, our Conflict Minerals Policy commits us to: EU Regulation on Conflict Minerals whose business we would lose were this trust to be broken. ee Supporting the aims and objectives of those provisions Following lengthy negotiations between the European Council, We ensure that all intellectual property is safeguarded through of the US Dodd-Frank Act 2010 that relate to 3TG; European Parliament and European Commission, in March 2017 the application of: ee Not knowingly procuring 3TG minerals from the DRC the European Union approved a new Regulation on conflict minerals. ee A dedicated Intellectual Property Policy (as well as related or adjoining countries that are not certified to be It is expected that the Regulation will go to the EU’s Council Information Technology and Intellectual Property Security “conflict free”; and of Ministers for formal adoption. Policies). Together, these address issues including data ee Asking our suppliers to undertake reasonable supply chain An earlier version of the Regulation proposed by the European security, the regulation of external communications and due diligence to ensure that they only use 3TG that is: Parliament sought to establish an EU-wide system of self-certified incident management; (1) sourced from outside the DRC or adjoining countries; supply chain due diligence applicable to smelters and refiners, mineral ee Related restrictive provisions in both our Code of Business or (2) sourced from within the DRC or adjoining countries importers and manufacturers who source tin, tungsten, tantalum and Conduct and our contracts of employment; and which is certified by an independent third party to gold (“3TG”) from “conflict-affected and high-risk areas”. ee Robust information technology systems to prevent data be “conflict free”. Following the negotiations, the adopted Regulation imposes leakage; and Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires our suppliers to comply mandatory due diligence obligations for EU importers of 3TG minerals ee Access controls to specific project data for employees with the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of or metals (including smelters and refiners who import 3TG) from and third parties. Conduct (“EICC Code”). Under the EICC Code, companies must: 2021. Certain exemptions are in place to protect smaller companies In addition, we seek to protect our intellectual property ee Provide reasonable assurance that the 3TG in the products from undue bureaucratic burden, including those relating to recycled from being illegitimately copied or used by others through they manufacture do not directly or indirectly finance metals and the import of small quantities of 3TG. the application of patents, copyright and trademarks on a or benefit armed groups that perpetrate serious human rights abuses in DR Congo or its adjoining countries; and A review clause in the Regulation raises the possibility that further global basis (see page 29 for further details on our creation of patentable inventions). Our dedicated Patent Committee mandatory due diligence measures could be applied in future if ee Carry out due diligence on the source and chain of custody oversees the identification and legal protection of all deemed necessary (potentially including ‘downstream’ operators of their 3TG and make these due diligence measures new inventions. such as product manufacturers). available to customers when requested. In 2016 we had no complaints relating to breaches of customer In addition, our Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers to We are reviewing the new Regulation, which will be enforced by each privacy, losses of customer data or the misuse of customers’ complete and return information requests regarding the origin Member State, to understand its implications for our business, the intellectual property. of any 3TG contained in products supplied to Dialog. If we do requirements we will need to pass on to our supply chain partners identify 3TG in our products that originate from the DRC or and the level of assurance we are likely to need to deliver to customers Conflict minerals adjoining countries and which may have financed or benefited in future. We support international efforts to ensure that the mining and armed groups, we will carry out further due diligence. If this trading of tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold (known as “3TG”) shows that the 3TG has financed or benefited armed groups, from high-risk locations does not contribute to conflict and/or it will be excluded from our supply chain. serious human rights abuses in the Democratic Republic of the In 2016, as in previous years, we did not identify any cases Congo (DRC) and the Great Lakes region of Africa (or elsewhere). where 3TG integrated into our products may have or did finance or support armed groups in the DRC or adjoining countries. Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental Environmental responsibility responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 20 Environmental responsibility Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental Environmental responsibility responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 21 Environmental responsibility As we contract out the fabrication of “ Environmental awareness and 5R training will contribute our products, our direct environmental to reducing Dialog’s carbon footprint.” impact remains limited Berna Erdogan Senior QA & Environment Systems Engineer, Quality & Environmental Systems Materiality Energy and carbon emissions Pollution, resources and waste We operate environmentally responsible practices within our We are working across our offices to significantly reduce CO2 Natural resources own business and promote them across our supply chain. emissions and minimise the carbon footprint of our business. We take the scarcity of natural resources seriously and This year, we offset 100% of emissions from all air travel and consider the conservation of raw materials to be a priority. Our products are based around a range of energy-efficient IC the use of rental cars from our two main design centres: Dialog continues to identify potential methods to improve solutions, and we aim to have a positive impact on the wider Nabern and Swindon. We work with Climate Care to offset CO2 existing technologies and substitute gold for copper, to environment through the development and marketing of emissions through various renewable energy projects in China minimise our impact on the environment, and reduce costs energy-saving technology. We make an ongoing effort to and the LifeStraw Carbon for Water Project. without sacrificing quality and performance. minimise our: ee Energy consumption and carbon emissions; CO2 emissions 2015 2016 Hazardous substances ee Pollution and waste; and Scope 1 159.8 86.2 The monitoring of hazardous substances used in our labs Scope 2 1,890.7 1,739.2 ee Use of natural resources. is one of the key objectives of our annual “Environment Scope 3 (travel only) 3,975.1 4,685.2 Goals Programme”. Management approach Scope 1: Direct emissions from self-generation. Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the consumption of purchased electricity, Recycling Responsibility for environmental performance sits with our heat or steam. Senior Vice President Global Manufacturing Operations. Scope 3: Other indirect emissions including those related to transport. We implement the recycling of metals, such as gold, silver and We further govern our environmental responsibility through copper, from waste and damaged products. the application of the Dialog Code of Business Conduct, CO2 emissions per employee 2015 2016 Scope 1 0.10 0.05 Each of our major sites systematically measures and records which addresses our emissions to air and water, resource Scope 2 1.14 0.98 our emissions, waste and recycling on a monthly basis. use, management of hazardous substances and waste This reporting system is utilised to ensure that we closely management. Furthermore, we are certified to the ISO14001 Scope 3 2.39 2.65 monitor outputs from our major offices to minimise our environmental management system standard, and our Total 3.63 3.68 environmental impact. Company Quality and Management Manual supports our efforts to achieve continuous improvement. Our newly Our major sites, such as our Swindon design centre, measure implemented energy management system is a comprehensive our recycling levels by type of waste, waste recovery levels and tool to control energy efficiency within our internal facilities the level of waste sent to landfill sites. This allows us to calculate and equipment. In 2016 the system was certified to the the percentage of recycling, the amount of energy recovered, ISO50001 certification. and the number of trees we have saved per month. Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 22 Value chain Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 23 Value chain Dialog works with leading fabrication partners mostly based in Taiwan, the People’s Republic of China and other parts of Southeast Asia Materiality Management approach ee Regular business reviews during which Dialog managers Given the nature of our business model and our commercial We manage our value chain through: meet with its suppliers to discuss performance and relationships, value chain management is a particularly future capabilities. ee A policy of only dealing with fabrication partners who important issue for Dialog. This not only includes operational In addition, our customers carry out additional auditing both are accredited to or are compliant with the ISO14001 aspects (including the avoidance and mitigation of supply of Dialog and our suppliers. This is to ensure that: (environmental) and ISO9001 (quality) management system chain disruption and supply constraints), but also sustainability standards. In addition, we require our major suppliers ee Dialog is effectively communicating customer standards aspects such as: to commit to the requirements of our Supplier Code of to our suppliers – and has adequate systems in place to ee The impact of our business partners on human rights and Conduct (and by extension, to the EICC Code of Conduct) monitor their ongoing application in practice; labour rights; and to apply their own documented corporate social ee Suppliers are achieving a level of performance that is in line ee Health and safety performance amongst our suppliers; and responsibility policy; with our customers’ requirements (including those around ee The environmental impacts of both our suppliers and the ee Screening of all new significant fabrication partners supplier environmental performance, for example); and contents of our products. (i.e. those supplying more than 1% of our total volume ee The products supplied to customers meet any relevant of integrated circuits) against our Self-Audit Checklist sustainability criteria that the customer has committed itself This reflects: (which covers labour and human rights, health and safety, to (including those relating to the type and source of input ee Evolving stakeholder expectations, which place everthe environment and business ethics), as well as prematerials, for example). growing emphasis on the need for companies to identify, qualification audits prior to their integration into our supply and use their legitimate influence to proactively manage chain. Further details on our screening activity can be found Responsibility for supply chain management sits with the their indirect sustainability impacts; and on page 25; Senior Vice President Global Manufacturing Operations. ee Dialog’s duty to help protect its customers from reputational, ee Annual auditing of all existing fabrication partners against our He is supported in this role on a day-to-day basis by the Supplier Audit Checklist and Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental Manager. contractual or commercial harm. Checklist. In addition to requirements relating to ISO14001, OHSAS18001 and ISO9001, auditing covers a range of broader sustainability issues, including those drawn from the SA8000 social accountability standard. In 2016, Dialog carried out 18 supplier audits on this basis. The outcomes of our auditing activity can be seen on page 25; and Labour rights 24 Environmental Health and Dialog safety Semiconductor Plc Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Value chain Value chain Society responsibility Sustainability report 2016 Value chain continued Although fabless, we are responsible for delivering our products to customers. Labour rights Health and safety Environmental management An efficient and responsible supply chain is important to us and our customers Labour rights Health and safety About our Supplier Code of Conduct Environmental management Ethics We expect all of our major suppliers to comply Labour rights Health and safety Environmental Ethics Management systems Including the International Including occupational management Including business integrity, Including policies, lines of with our Supplier Code of Conduct. Labor Organization (“ILO”) health and safety, emergency Including pollution intellectual property, accountability, compliance Under the Supplier Code of Conduct, relevant core labour standards, preparedness, industrial prevention, reporting, competition, whistleblowing mechanisms, risk assessment, suppliers must comply with the EICC Code working hours, wages hygiene, living conditions hazardous substances, and conflict minerals. training, auditing and of Conduct. This comprehensive document and benefits, and the and physical safeguards. waste and wastewater sub-suppliers. imposes minimum standards with respect to: treatment of employees management, and in the workplace. emissions to air. Labour rights Health and safety Environmental management Management systems Ethics By requiring its suppliers to comply with the EICC requirements, Dialog helps Environmental management Ethics Management systems Health and safety “cascade” good practice throughout its supplier base and minimise its indirect negative impacts. By doing so, it is not only protecting its own reputation, but Dialog Code of Business Conduct also the reputation of its customers – some of whom are potentially vulnerable to consumer activism. http://www.dialog-semiconductor.com/ sites/default/files/dialog_code_of_business_ www.eiccoalition.org (Code of Conduct) conduct_-_v4_dec_2016.pdf Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 25 Value chain continued Sustainability screening and auditing of significant fabrication partners Transparency Responsible supply chain management by issue type (new fabrication partners screened1/existing fabrication Value chain transparency is vital for the maintenance of Human rights and labour rights partners audited2) predictable sourcing and marketing activities, as well as the Dialog’s suppliers must demonstrate a commitment to 2014 2015 2016 avoidance and/or minimisation of any negative indirect upholding workers’ human rights and to treating them with Health and safety 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% impacts that we might otherwise contribute to. This includes dignity and respect. In addition to key requirements around Environment 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% impacts relating to human rights, labour rights, health and the ILO core labour standards (relating to forced labour, child safety, and the environment. labour, discrimination and freedom of association/collective Labour rights (incl. human rights) 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% It is a particularly important issue for Dialog, due to: bargaining), the Dialog Code of Conduct also requires our Society 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% major suppliers to: 1 Screening activity is aimed at improving the performance of our fabrication partners where necessary, rather than their ee Our fabless business model, which makes us highly exclusion from our supply chain. reliant on the ability of our fabrication partners to meet ee Follow relevant national law with respect to working hours, 2 Includes both auditing of documentation and on-site auditing. All of our fabrication partners were subjected to on-site auditing of specific operating sites in 2016. the stringent quality requirements imposed on us by holiday entitlements and the outsourcing of labour; and our customers – and to protect our own reputation by ee Ensure workers are not subject to physical or verbal Type and number of “major” negative audit findings3 maintaining responsible working practices; abuse, bullying, or any form of unlawful harassment ee High levels of sensitivity amongst key consumer-facing and intimidation. 2014 2015 2016 electronics brands regarding their potential exposure to The Dialog Code of Business Conduct is directly informed in Health and safety 0 0 0 reputational risk via their supply chains; and this respect by the following instruments and standards: Environment 0 0 1⁴ e e Increasing stakeholder scrutiny of the electronics industry Labour rights (incl. human rights) 2 0 0 ee Universal Declaration of Human Rights. regarding indirect negative impacts taking place at lower, Society 0 0 0 ee ILO International Labour Standards. less visible tiers of the supply chain (including amongst 3 i.e. audit findings of sufficient seriousness that Dialog requires immediate correction on the part of the supplier. sub-suppliers) – particularly in relation to mineral extraction, ee UN Global Compact. 4 Discrepancy found in actual temperature setting vs Safety Data Sheet. trading and processing. ee EICC Code of Conduct. Although only one “major” audit finding was identified in 2016, Dialog did identify “minor” In this context, we require our major suppliers to: ee SA8000 social management system standard. audit findings. Some examples are set out in the following table. All of these have been notified to the relevant supplier, which is expected to address them within a reasonable timeframe. ee Provide assurance regarding their compliance with our In 2016, none of our significant suppliers or our own operations Progress in addressing such findings is monitored on an ongoing basis. Supplier Code of Conduct through Self-Assessment were found to pose a significant risk to – or to have violated Questionnaires, validation audits and the provision – individuals’ human rights and labour rights (including those Examples of “minor” negative audit findings in 2016 of documentation; relating to the core labour standards). Health and safety A medicine that had passed its expiry date was found ee Maintain membership of the EICC’s online data management system (“EICC-ON”); and Health and safety in a first aid area ee Complete and return information regarding the origin of The highly regulated and automated nature of our fabrication Environment Identification of environmental waste not always systematic potential conflict minerals integrated into parts supplied partners’ plants – as well as the mature nature of their health Labour rights (incl. human rights) None and safety management systems – means that their risk profile to Dialog (page 19). Society None is relatively low compared with many assembly plants higher In addition, we assign at least one Dialog representative to each up the value chain (where chips are integrated into larger of the fabrication plants producing integrated circuits for us. consumer products). This allows us to clearly communicate our operational, quality control and sustainability requirements to our partners on an Nonetheless, we work with our major suppliers to ensure that ongoing basis, while also identifying and (in partnership with what risks do exist are minimised. In this context, the Dialog our fabrication partners) proactively addressing any issues of Code of Business Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct potential concern. Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 26 Value chain continued (including the related EICC Code) require them, amongst other Environmental impacts ee Responsibly manage emissions to air (including volatile things, to: It is important that our fabrication partners respect the organic chemicals, aerosols, corrosives, particulates, ozone environment. This is why we will only work with major depleting chemicals and combustion by-products) and ee Minimise worker exposure to potential health and suppliers who are accredited to, or comply with, the ISO14001 minimise their greenhouse gas emissions; and safety risks, including through the application of design, engineering and administrative controls (including safe work environmental management system standard. ee Adhere to all applicable laws, regulations and customer procedures, training and the encouragement of employees Under our Supplier Code of Conduct (and related EICC Code), requirements regarding the exclusion of specific substances to raise related concerns) – as well as the provision of in products and manufacturing. our major suppliers are required to: protective equipment where necessary; We are continuing to work with our major suppliers to develop ee Comply with relevant environmental laws and regulations; ee Apply systems to prevent, manage, track and report health recovery processes, and resource substitution technologies and safety incidents, including the proper recording of ee Minimise their use of resources (including water and energy) and other methods to reduce greenhouse gas emissions all cases of occupational injury and illness, the provision and their generation of solid waste and wastewater; throughout the supply chain. of medical treatment and the development and ee Identify and safely manage hazardous materials. In 2016, none of our significant suppliers or our own operations implementation of corrective action plans; This includes the provision of relevant materials declarations were found to pose a significant risk to the environment. ee Implement emergency planning and response measures, under EU Directive 2011/65/EU (Restriction of Hazardous including evacuation procedures, the provision of fire Substances or “RoHS2”) and EU Regulation (EC) 1907/2006 detection and suppression equipment, the maintenance (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of adequate exits and recovery planning; and of Chemicals or “REACH”); ee Control the exposure of workers to hazardous substances ee Responsibly manage solid waste (including through and to physically demanding tasks. recycling) and wastewater (including through treatment prior to discharge, ongoing monitoring and the control In 2016, none of our significant suppliers or our own operations of discharges to local water bodies); were found to pose a significant risk to individuals’ health and safety. Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 27 Society Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 28 Society Dialog is committed to generating “ By achieving ISO50001 certification for our Energy positive social impacts, at both Management System we have a powerful vehicle in place to a societal and community level control the energy efficiency of our business infrastructure.” Klaus Ambaum Director Physical Lab, Quality & Environmental Systems Materiality Beyond this, we also carry out community engagement and Responsibility sits with our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Our most important social impact (as well as our raison philanthropy. Although these do not represent material issues, Financial Officer (with respect to our economic performance). d’être) is our generation of economic value – much of which such activity is in line with the “Spirit of Dialog” and helps Meanwhile, our Senior Vice President Engineering is responsible is distributed amongst our investors, employees, suppliers, support our corporate reputation. for technological innovation. host governments and other beneficiaries. Given the ongoing opportunities for expansion of our business, as Management approach Societal benefits well as ever‑increasing demand for advanced semiconductor Full details on how we manage our direct and indirect Economic impact technology, this positive impact is expected to grow – economic value generation and distribution, as well as our As with any business, our primary obligation is to generate as are our associated indirect economic impacts. research and development activities, can be found throughout profit for our shareholders. In pursuit of this aim, we also our 2016 Annual report. generate broader economic value, much of which is distributed Furthermore, our position at the forefront of semiconductor R&D means we are constantly helping advance scientific We help promote electronic engineering skills in our local to a wider set of stakeholders. knowledge in this area – laying the ground for future communities through a range of means, including: technological innovation, whether by ourselves or others. Direct impacts ee The provision of sponsorship and access bursaries to Likewise, the nature of our products, which are primarily Our most important means of distributing value are through: engineering students at the universities of Edinburgh, focused on power management, power conversion, low power London (Imperial College), Southampton, Ulm ee Payments to our employees and employed contractors short range connectivity and solid state lighting LED, means and Karlsruhe; (including both wages and benefits); we play an integral role in helping millions of end-users access affordable and life-enhancing technology. ee Key partnerships with University Technical College Swindon ee Payments to other businesses, including our fabrication (“UTC Swindon”), including the provision of an enterprise partners and other suppliers; We also remain committed to having a positive impact at adviser, in the United Kingdom and the UK Electronic Skills ee Payments to government, including taxes; a local level. Our most material issue in this respect is the Foundation (UKESF); enhancement of local skills pools. This not only benefits ee Community investment spending (page 29); and ee Industrial placements for undergraduate students in global school and university students by enhancing their engineering ee Payments to our providers of capital. offices; and capabilities, but also helps bolster our own ability to recruit talented new graduates and support our long-term ee Mentoring and support of school students in the UK skills pipeline. and the Netherlands. Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 29 Society continued Our business and its positive impacts would cease to exist if Total value generation and distribution by type increases the sum of global technological knowledge in the we fail to generate economic value. This would materially affect (US$ millions) three areas set out above. a wide range of our stakeholders, including individuals we 2014 2015 2016 As at 31 December 2016, we had approximately 710 inventions employ, the customers whose specialised products we procure Economic value generated 1,156.1 1,355.3 1,197.6 for which we are pursuing or have already obtained patent goods and services from, suppliers and the governments to Economic value distributed 1,020.7 1,201.1 1,076.2 protection. These include more than 700 cases in the United whom we pay taxes. States, of which around 460 have been granted. Operating costs1 764.0 871.7 794.9 The table opposite shows how much value we generated Employee wages and benefits2 210.4 224.3 230.3 While intellectual property protection around this technology over the last three years – and to whom it was distributed. Payments to providers of means it will not be shared in the short to medium term (see There are no material government shareholdings in capital 14.8 6.6 3.4 page 19), in the long term it is technology that can be applied our Company. Payments to government 31.5 98.5 47.4 by anyone. Community investments 0.5 0.6 0.2 Indirect impacts Product impacts Economic value retained 135.4 154.2 121.4 In addition to our direct economic impact, we also generate Positive product impacts 1 Excluding employee wages and benefits and property tax. a range of indirect economic impacts, including through: 2 Including share-based payments. The technology that we develop and market supports the ee The application of our technology to improve the wider provision (by our business partners) of advanced, capabilities and portability of handheld electronic Technological impact affordable technology to consumers in a range of global devices (amongst others). This enhances the ability of our Our business is also helping advance integrated, mixed signal mass-markets, including: customers to develop and market enhanced consumer circuit technology in a range of areas, including: ee Personal, portable handheld devices; products – as reflected in the recent boom in advanced ee Mobile power management; ee IoT applications; mobile communications and tablet technology. In turn, this has helped support the creation and maintenance ee Power conversion; and ee LED solid state lighting; and of jobs amongst suppliers and customers working in this ee Bluetooth® low energy connectivity. ee Automotive technology. exciting sector. Furthermore, it also supports the delivery Given the rapid evolution of technology and fast-moving In this context, our products offer a range of advantages to of ever-more productive and portable communications and consumer demands, the sustainability of our business requires end-users (and, by extension, our customers who are selling computing technology to end-users. In 2016, for example, us to stay at the cutting edge of these technologies. As a result, to them). These include: we shipped approximately 1.5 billion integrated circuits. we invest a significant amount into R&D. In 2016, for example, ee Mobile power management: Greater power efficiency, ee The enhancement of skills and knowledge within the we spent US$241 million on R&D activities, or 20.2% of our electronic engineering community through our range of resulting in longer battery life and increased mobility. total revenue. For example, typical usage tests suggest our Power “pre-employment” educational initiatives, our recruitment and development of high-quality graduate electronics Management Integrated Circuits decrease the power Number of United States patents (held and consumption of smartphones, tablets and Ultrabooks™ engineers (page 15), the experience our senior engineers pending) in each given year (non-cumulative) gain by working on cutting-edge products (page 16) by up to 30%. and our considerable investment in R&D. 2014 2015 2016 ee Power conversion: Our high efficiency AC/DC power Granted 14 3 93 converters and LED drivers help maximise power conversion Filed 104 84 86 efficiency using digital technology and fewer components. As a result of this kind of investment, we produce original ee Connectivity: Our ultra-low power Bluetooth® low energy, technological inventions on an ongoing basis. This not only SmartBond™ System-On-Chip helps to significantly increase helps underpin the future success of our business, but also the battery life of a range of connected devices and IoT applications. Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 30 Society continued Appendix Minimisation of negative product impacts The key means by which we manage product health and safety External review of reporting on sustainability The nature of our integrated circuits means that their actual and issues include the following: Verisk Maplecroft was commissioned by Dialog Semiconductor Plc potential negative impacts are relatively limited. Nonetheless, ee Pre-emptive product design – including the application to help advance its sustainability reporting. we design our products in a way that is intended to minimise of proven “fail-safe” technology and processes; any negative impacts they might have over their lifecycle. This included guidance with respect to reporting strategy, ee Extensive lab-testing of new designs – including materiality, selected content and reporting best practice. This includes efforts to reduce the size of our integrated circuits factors relating to physical integrity, heat emission This statement is made in our capacity as a service provider to (thus reducing the amount of input materials required, as well and functionality; and Dialog Semiconductor Plc on this assignment. Verisk Maplecroft as the amount of packaging used to protect and ship them). In addition, and as described above, we aim to make our ee External auditing of product technical performance – did not verify the data contained in this sustainability report. integrated circuits as energy-efficient as possible – while also including by our customers. enhancing the energy efficiency of the larger products they Approach These are applied to all of our product categories, with the are integrated into. aim of achieving continuously improved performance. Verisk Maplecroft was involved in the following activities These processes are overseen by the Senior Vice President between late 2016 and early 2017: Given the important role our integrated circuits play in managing the power supply of more than a billion consumer of Global Manufacturing and Operations, who is ultimately ee Review of reporting standards: Including the GRI G4 end-products, we place significant emphasis on ensuring they responsible for ensuring the safety of our products. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (“G4 Guidelines”) and the do not pose health and safety risks to end-users. As a result of such efforts, in 2016 we had no reported incidents Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. This includes extensive measures to minimise the risk of of non-compliance with any legal or customer requirements ee Gap analysis: To identify and, where feasible, help address gaps our products (in the context of their integration into larger concerning the cross-lifecycle health and safety performance in Dialog Semiconductor’s existing reporting practices against electronic end-products) contributing to: of our products. the relevant reporting standards. ee Engagement: Including both remote and face-to-face ee Overheating; Community benefits engagement with Dialog Semiconductor managers ee Fire risks; and Community engagement and corporate giving (supported by visits to Dialog Semiconductor facilities ee Power overload. Dialog has an active community engagement and corporate in Germany and the United Kingdom). Furthermore, we are subject to extensive official legal and giving programme, and in 2016 we gave US$213,000 to various ee Materiality process: Implementation, with Dialog customer requirements in this regard (page 18), making causes aligned with our business objectives. These included: Semiconductor, of an interim materiality assessment. This was product health and safety a key compliance issue. For example, the use of our technology for good causes, promoting based on the updating of the results of the Company’s full we are required to ensure that all of our products meet the STEM education, and encouraging women in engineering. 2015 materiality assessment, which was aligned with the following official standards (in addition to comprehensive During the first few days of 2017, the Company rolled out requirements of the G4 Guidelines. customer standards imposed by consumer-facing a new corporate giving policy, encouraging employees to ee Performance enhancement: The outcomes from the above electronics brands): engage with the communities in which they work. The policy processes were used, where possible, to enhance Dialog put a stronger emphasis on activities to which we can bring Semiconductor’s level of reporting and support its closer ee RoHS2. additional value through our expertise and business activities. alignment with the “Core” requirements of the G4 Guidelines. ee REACH SVHC168. ee Halogen-free. Gus Macfarlane, 21 March 2017 Verisk Maplecroft, 1 Henry Street, Bath BA1 1JS, United Kingdom www.maplecroft.com info@maplecroft.com Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 31 Appendix continued GRI G4 material aspects Category G4 aspect Material? Page Category G4 aspect Material? Page Economic Economic performance Y 28–29 Social: Labour practices Labour practices grievance mechanisms Economic Market presence 04–05 Social: Human rights Investment Y 23–26 Economic Indirect economic impacts Y 29 Social: Human rights Non-discrimination 16, 25, GRI table Economic Procurement practices 23–26 Freedom of association and collective Environmental Materials 19, 23, 30 Social: Human rights bargaining Y 15, 25, GRI table Environmental Energy 21 Social: Human rights Child labour Y 15, 25, GRI table Environmental Water Social: Human rights Forced or compulsory labour Y 15, 25, GRI table Environmental Biodiversity Social: Human rights Security practices Environmental Emissions 21 Social: Human rights Indigenous rights Environmental Effluents and waste Social: Human rights Assessment Environmental Products and services Y 29–30, GRI table Social: Human rights Supplier human rights assessment Y 23–26 Environmental Compliance Y 18–19, 21 Social: Human rights Human rights grievance mechanisms Environmental Transport Social: Society Local communities 03, 30, GRI table Environmental Overall Social: Society Anti-corruption Y 18–19, 23–26, GRI table Environmental Supplier environmental assessment 23–26 Social: Society Public policy Environmental Environmental grievance mechanisms Social: Society Anti-competitive behaviour 18–19 Social: Labour practices Employment 15–16, GRI table Social: Society Compliance 18–19 Social: Labour practices Labour/management relations Social: Society Supplier assessment for impacts on society Y 23–26 Social: Labour practices Occupational health and safety GRI table Social: Society Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Social: Labour practices Training and education Y 15–16, GRI table Social: Product responsibility Customer health and safety Y 18, 25–26, GRI table Social: Labour practices Diversity and equal opportunity 16, GRI table Social: Product responsibility Product and service labelling Y 18, 25–26, GRI table Social: Labour practices Equal remuneration for women and men 16 Social: Product responsibility Marketing communications Social: Labour practices Supplier assessment for labour practices Y 23–26 Social: Product responsibility Customer privacy Y 1–19, GRI table Social: Product responsibility Compliance Y 18–19, 30 UN Global Compact reference table Category Principle Page Human rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 07, 15–16, 23–26, GRI table Human rights 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 07, 15–16, 23–26, GRI table Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 07, 15–16, 23–26, GRI table Labour 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 07, 15–16, 18–19, 23–26, GRI table Labour 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 07, 15–16, 18–19, 23–26, GRI table Labour 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 07, 15–16, 23–26, GRI table Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 07, 21, 23–24, 26, 28, 30, GRI table Environment 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 07, 21–24, 26, 28, 30, GRI table Environment 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 04–05, 12–13, 29–30, GRI table, Annual report Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 07, 18–19, 23–26, GRI table Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2016 32 Group directory Germany The Netherlands Japan China Taiwan Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Dialog Semiconductor B.V. Dialog Semiconductor K.K. Dialog Semiconductor Trading Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Neue Strasse 95 Het Zuiderkruis 53 Kamiyacho MT Bldg. 16F (Shanghai) Ltd Taiwan Branch D-73230 Kirchheim/Teck-Nabern 5215 MV ‘s-Hertogenbosch 4-3-20 Toranomon Room 503, Building 1, No. 1535 7F, 392 Ruiguang Road Germany The Netherlands Minato-ku Hong Mei Road Neihu District Phone: (+49) 7021 805-0 Phone: (+31) 73 640 88 22 Tokyo 105-0001 200233 Shanghai Taipei City 11493 Fax: (+49) 7021 805-100 Fax: (+31) 73 640 88 23 Japan China Taiwan, R.O.C. Email: dialog.nabern@diasemi.com Email: dialog.nl@diasemi.com Phone: (+81) 3 5425 4567 Phone: (+86) 21 5424 9058 Phone: (+886) 281 786 222 Fax: (+81) 3 5425 4568 Fax: (+86) 21 5424 9058#107 Fax: (+886) 281 786 220 United Kingdom North America Email: dialog.tokyo@diasemi.com Email: dialog.taiwan@diasemi.com Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd Dialog North America Dialog Semiconductor (Shenzhen) Ltd Delta 200 2560 Mission College Boulevard Rooms 1009-1011 Korea Delta Business Park Suite 110 Chang Hong Science and Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd Welton Road Santa Clara Technology Building Korea Branch Swindon California 95054 South 12 Road, Southern District in 6 FL, Deokmyeong Building, 625 Wiltshire SN5 7XB USA High‑tech Park Teheran-ro United Kingdom Phone: (+1) 408 845 8500 Nanshan District Gangnam-gu Phone: (+44) 1793 757700 Fax: (+1) 408 727 3205 518057 Shenzhen Seoul, 06173 Fax: (+44) 1793 757800 Email: NA_sales_enquiries@diasemi.com China Korea Email: dialog.swindon@diasemi.com Phone: (+86) 755 2981 3669 Phone: (+82) 2 3469 8200 Dialog Semiconductor Inc. Fax: (+82) 2 3469 8291 100 Longwater Avenue 675 Campbell Technology Parkway Email: dialog.korea@diasemi.com Green Park Suite 150 Reading RG2 6GP Campbell United Kingdom California 95008 Phone: +44 1793 757700 USA Fax: +44 1189 450219 Email: info@diasemi.com Environmental Dialog Semiconductor Plc Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Value chain Society responsibility Sustainability report 2016 www.dialog-semiconductor.com Registered office Dialog Semiconductor Plc Tower Bridge House St Katharine’s Way London E1W 1AA UK Designed and produced by: Radley Yeldar І www.ry.com
