Statement of Support RR Kabel recognizes that it exists in an environment where the ten principles of UN Global Compact are very significant. We understand the nuances of the ten principles in the domain of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. The requirements of these are embedded into our policies and procedures, which guide each and every team member at RR Kabel at all times. The values of dignity of labour, respect for every employee, being fair and developing each one of them to the best of their abilities is the basis for Human Rights. We appreciate and recognize the labour rights and can say with pride that we have one of the finest labour practices in our organization. Environmental concerns are a top priority in our business agenda. Continually working on the optimum use of resources, we have taken a lead by installing a Solar Energy plant. We have taken a lead in implementing the Energy Management Systems standard ISO 50001:2011. We have also taken a lead in implementing the new standard on Environment Management System ISO 14001:2015. The organization denounces corruption in any form. It has policies which guide people at all levels to exhibit a good moral and ethical behaviour. Add to these, we are working on nine of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s). As a corporate citizen, we fully support the ten principles of UN Global Compact & Sustainable Development Goals and are pleased to communicate the progress. Mahendra Kabra Jt. Managing Director 15th September 2017 1 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. At RR Kabel, we recognize that every human being has a right to have access to food, shelter and education. As an organization, we have been supporting education of the children in tribal areas. Our founder Chairman has been the President of THE FRIENDS OF TRIBAL SOCIETY OF INDIA. The organization has adopted villages in the state of Jharkhand. Education of the tribal children is taken care of by us. A policy on conflict mineral has been made to prohibit procurement of tin that has been sourced from mines that support and fund conflict within the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. We are also creating an awareness on conflict minerals within our group companies and the suppliers. The three important Human Resource values of the organization are RESPECT, DIGNITY and SAFETY. Every task is treated with dignity and every employee is treated with respect. The focus is on adding value to each and every task, whereby the person doing it does not feel inferior in any way. At the same time safety considerations are kept foremost – for men in general and for women, in particular; since they are a vulnerable section of employees. The policy on prevention of sexual harassment at work place has been implemented. We provide a safe working environment for all our employees. As an organization, we ensure that at no point of time we are complicit in human rights abuses. The guidance standard ISO 26000:2010 on Social Responsibility is being implemented. The underlying principles will reinforce the ten principles of UNGC. 2 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right of collective bargaining. Principle 4: the elimination of the forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. At RR Kabel the employees transcend to the level where they are treated as family members of an extended family of Ram Ratna Group. Driven by the human resource values of respect, dignity and safety, they are being groomed to be a better person and valued team member. The organization has the following polices in place: 1. Prevention of forced and compulsory labour 2. Prevention of child labour 3. Policy for non-discrimination 4. Policy for equal opportunities Every team member is informed and educated on the contents and implications of these policies. Regular training is taken on the policies. Compliance status is made and reviewed in the monthly management review. The well constituted committees exist for ‘Employee Welfare’, ‘Canteen’, ‘Women Welfare’, ‘Sports & Recreation’, During the last two years, there has been no case reported for a case of a) Child labour b) Forced / compulsory labour c) Grievance for discrimination d) Grievance for favouritism/ inequality 3 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilities Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. RR Kabel is fully aware of the environmental challenges and has exerted a very proactive role to ensure that it leaves the minimum carbon footprints. The initiatives taken by the organization are as follows: 1. Proactive training to employees on the new standard for Environment Management System (EMS) – ISO 14001:2015 2. Implementation of the requirements of ISO 14001:2015 3. Extensive tree plantation in and around the plant site 4. Training on conservation of resources, including fuel for vehicles and food in the canteen. RR Kabel encourages mass transport in buses. It discourages the practice of wasting food and drinking water in the canteen. Regular training, counselling and education takes place formally and informally. 5. Installing translucent sheet on roof top to let sunlight be used during the day time. 6. Promoting energy efficient machines and processes. 7. Promoting use of LED lamps There is a close monitoring of consumption of resources (water, electricity, materials). The environmental objectives are monitored and have been achieved during the year. The table below gives the reduction in consumption of resources. Sr. No. Area Target Achievement 1 Water 5% 4% 2 Electricity 5% 6% 3 Fuel 5% 7% 4 Process scrap 3% 2.5% RR Kabel has installed a Solar Energy Plant of 1.25 MW, which is a very environment friendly initiative. RR Kabel has been the frontrunner in implementing the Energy Management System (EnMS). It is the first cable company in India to be certified with ISO 50001:2011. 4 The initiatives on Energy Management front have been recognized nationally and internationally. RR Kabel is represented in the energy management committees of Bureau of Indian Standard and International Organization of Standardization. Tree plantation by our Chairman and Managing Director on World Environment Day. There is an extensive green coverage in the plant. 5 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery The two values ETHICS and INTERGITY are deeply rooted in the organization. These are followed at all levels, at all times and in all situations. ETHICS is about following the rules. INTEGRITY is about doing the right thing, regardless of the rules. RR Kabel differentiates between what is right and what is not right. It differentiates between what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. There is a policy which prohibits people from accepting gift or favour of any kind from anyone. Misuse of power or position is viewed seriously. Every employee is trained and retrained on the requirements of the 10 th Principle of UN global Compact. 6 SelfAssessment Sheet for UNGC Ten Principles Assessment Date: 15th Sep’17 Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Principle Requirement Status as on 15th Sep’17 1 Support & respect internationally  Fully Support proclaimed Human Rights  Fully Respect 2 Ensure businesses are not complicit in  Not at all complicit Human Rights abuses in Human Rights abuses 3 Uphold freedom of association and  Employees have effective recognition of the rights to freedom of collective bargaining association and rights to collective bargaining 4 Uphold elimination of all forms of forced  Zero forced or and compulsory labour compulsory labour. 5 Uphold the effective abolition of child  Zero child labour labour 6 Uphold elimination of discrimination in  Zero non respect of employment and occupation discrimination 7 Support precautionary approach to  Good practices in environment challenges place to address environment challenges 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater  Several initiatives environmental responsibility taken towards better environment 9 Develop and diffuse environmentally  Solar energy plant friendly technologies  Energy efficient machines  Energy efficient processes 10 Work against all forms of corruption,  Ethics and Integrity including extortion and bribery promoted at all levels.  Zero tolerance to corruption. 7 RR Kabel’s focus on Sustainable Development Goals during 2016-17 Goal No Goal Actions 3 Good Health and  RR Kabel organized free medical camp and Well Being dental for the community. The total number of beneficiaries is 600 and 215 respectively.  The company conducts regular training sessions on parenting and holistic well being 4 Quality Education  Within the organization the company grooms its employees through meaningful knowledge sessions. On an average, every employee receives 30 hours of formal training to upgrade his knowledge.  Outside the organization, the company lends support to local engineering colleges by providing guest faculty. Four such lectures were taken in different colleges during the year.  To supplement engineering education, the student’s visits to the manufacturing plant were held. More than nine such visits by colleges were held.  In order to reinforce concepts of Physics, students from schools also visited our manufacturing plant. Two such visits were held 6 Clean Water and  HEMA FOUNDATION the philanthropic arm of Sanitation RR Kabel is engaged in imbibing moral values in school children through short films. SWACHHTA – film on cleanliness was released. It will be shown to children in all the schools across the country.  The organization has constructed a toilet block at a girl’s hostel in tribal area in Silvassa. The maintenance and water supply is ensured by the organization.  There is a regular awareness training of cleanliness and sanitation for all employees. 7 Affordable and Clean  The organization has set up a Roof Top Solar Energy Energy plant of 1.25 MW capacity. 8 Decent Work and  The organization supports development of skills Economic Growth of the engineering students. It provides them an opportunity to work hands-on on various streams/ trades. A total of 12 trainees received training to sharpen their skills. This will help them to seek better employment opportunities. 9 Industry, Innovation  The organization is expanding vertically and and Infrastructure horizontally. It will provide employment opportunities to more people in the coming years.  Through introduction and use of latest technology, the organization will increase quality of work in all the spheres. 8 Goal No Goal Actions 12 Responsible  Responsible consumption and production starts consumption and with responsible/ sustainable procurement. The production organization takes cognizance of various legal and other requirements; particularly in the areas of Ozone depletion, Conflict minerals.  The approach to zero waste has been driving the organization on wastes minimization. 13 Climate Action  The organization is committed to GREEN manufacturing, with zero emissions and discharges.  Organization is committed to reduce its Carbon footprints through several initiatives. 15 Life on land  The organization is working towards a dense tree plantation in and around its manufacturing plant.  Tree plantation is carried out through the year. The trees planted are selected on environmental considerations and their support to bird life.  On the World Environment Day (5th June) BASIL (tulsi) saplings are given free of cost to all the employees of the organization. 9
