CR REPORT 2016 Travel with Purpose allows us to take advantage of our global footprint and scale to provide opportunities, strengthen communities and preserve the environment. As one of the world’s largest industries, travel and tourism plays an important role in helping the international community reach the Global Sustainable Development Goals set out by the United Nations in 2015. Hilton has properties in over 100 countries, employs more than 360,000 Team Members*, and is part of the booming travel and tourism industry that contributes 1 in 10 jobs to the worldwide economy. We harness our global hospitality mission to help drive local solutions in the communities where we operate. Learn more about how we bring Travel with Purpose to life around the world. Travel with Purpose Our Approach EXECUTIVE STATEMENT At Hilton, our people and business are guided by our shared • We won “Product of the Year” from Environmental Leader purpose – to be the most hospitable company in the world. for our Corporate Responsibility Measurement Platform, LightStay. Our values serve as a compass for how we deliver our Hilton hospitality to the global community. They define our • We launched a major expansion of the industry’s largest soap responsibilities to our Team Members, the guests we serve, the recycling program with the first soap recycling brand standard owners with whom we grow our business and the communities for the All Suites brands, including Embassy Suites by Hilton, we call home. Homewood Suites by Hilton and Home2 Suites by Hilton. Travel with Purpose has played an important role in bringing • We received our third consecutive perfect score on the annual our vision and values to life by uniting our organization around Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality a set of global issues that connect our business to society – Index. youth opportunity, environmental stewardship and community resiliency. It provides a framework for goals and solutions while • We earned 2016 Great Place to Work awards for “Best supporting our teams’ efforts to innovate locally. Large Workplaces” in China, Colombia, India, Italy, Mexico, Netherlands, Peru, Sri Lanka, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Together we have made significant progress in our three areas United Kingdom and the United States. We were also of focus – Opportunities, Communities and Environment: listed on 100 Best Workplaces for Women, World’s 25 Best Multinational Workplaces, and as a Regional Winner in Europe • We have reached more than 550,000 young people through and Latin America. apprenticeship programs, career engagement and life skills training as part of our commitment to open doors for one As we celebrate our successes of the past year, we are million youth by 2019. looking to the future. In 2015, the United Nations issued a new development agenda, the UN Sustainable Development • We have reduced energy use by 17 percent, carbon output by Goals, which provide a set of goals and targets for government, 22.9 percent, waste output by 29.1 percent and water use by NGOs and businesses to address the most pressing societal 16.7 percent since 2009. challenges of our time. The challenges of the world require the • We have hired more than 10,000 veterans and spouses to very best of what Hilton has to offer. work at our owned, managed and independently operated Over the next few years, our collective efforts will increasingly franchised properties in the Hilton portfolio, reaching our focus on the areas where we think Hilton can have the greatest “Operation: Opportunity” commitment two years ahead of impact: creating pathways to economic opportunities, building schedule. stronger and thriving communities and preserving our • We announced multi-year sustainable seafood goals in environment. partnership with the World Wildlife Fund to source at least 25 Our founder, Conrad Hilton, inspired others to assume their percent of our global seafood volume from Marine Stewardship fair share of responsibility for the world in which they lived. At Council certified fisheries and Aquaculture Stewardship Hilton, we are fortunate to have the great privilege of serving Council certified farms by 2022. others and fulfilling our vision in responsible and sustainable • We organized 4,166 volunteer projects resulting in 291,000 ways. volunteer hours during our 2016 Global Month of Service. Thank you for traveling with us. • We celebrated our first Earth Celebration in 2016 with 1,500 environment-focused projects in 900 communities across the globe. • We partnered with Whole Foods Market and the U.S. Department of Energy to launch Better Buildings Challenge Christopher J. Nassetta SWAP to uncover innovative ways to save energy. President and Chief Executive Officer • We awarded more than $320,000 to “intrapreneurs” across properties and corporate offices around the world, creating innovative solutions to local social and environmental problems through our Travel with Purpose Action Grants program. Creating Opportunities The travel and tourism The most important driver of our success is our industry is the world’s people. We strive to create a diverse, inclusive culture and world-class learning and single largest employer. development programs to enable our people to reach their goals. We actively work to empower youth through our Open Doors Commitment. u YOUTH VIDEO I am aware of what I bring to the table for this company; this range of opportunities lets me dream of learning experiences in different countries. And I know that the hotel will open doors for me if my work Heiner Corrales is top quality – there are 94 other options. Lima, Peru Strengthening Communities 360,000+ local We mobilize our 360,000 Team Members* to become intraprenuers changemakers in their local communities. u COMMUNITY VIDEO Corporate Responsibility comes with doing programs such as helping the community out, making people aware of other people’s circumstances. It’s also just being grateful for what you have and how you can Krupa Roy better the world. Slate, Texas, USA Preserving Environments 5,000+ We have nearly 5,000 hotels tracking their environmental footprint — from energy use, water use and waste to setting goals and sharing best learning labs practices — through LightStay, our innovative measurement platform implemented across all Hilton properties. We mobilize Hilton Team Members to build a more integrated sustainability culture u SOAP RECYCLING VIDEO across Hilton, encouraging environmentally smart choices both inside and outside of work. Our footprint could be huge throughout the world... if you think of the linen, lights, water we need to operate... but we have really taken a stand and put measures in place to reduce Marsha Roach our global impact. Memphis, Tennessee, USA STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Team Members NGOs and International • All Hilton Team Member meetings Organizations • Annual Global Hilton Team Member Survey • Participation in expert forums and ongoing dialogues, white papers, publications and surveys • Heart of Hilton • Public-private partnerships and engagement • Hilton Hotline on selected topics • Executive leadership emails • Strategic partnerships and consultation • Hilton Team Member Resource Groups around key material issues • Travel with Purpose Committees • Team Member Travel Program Investors • Annual and quarterly reports Franchise Employees • Annual meeting of shareholders • Meetings, conferences and roadshows • Community champions • Quarterly earnings conference calls • Conferences, summits and leadership meetings • Surveys and questionnaires • Global Team Member Volunteer Program • Investor days and conferences • Hilton Worldwide University • Recognition programs • Pre-shift huddles and learning conversations Owners • Collaboration on key material issues • Global Owners Conference Guests • Owners communications • Owners services • Service and Loyalty Tracking (SALT) for customers • Owners surveys • Guest assistance • Regional Owner Connections • Our brands and loyalty program, Hilton Honors Suppliers • Social media monitoring and engagement • Collaboration on key material issues Government • Questionnaires and surveys Policymakers • Responsible sourcing policy • Strategic sourcing • Ongoing dialogue on key issues • Supplier audits and assessments • Participation in multi-stakeholder initiatives • Supplier development program – seminars • Association membership and training OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT YOUTH 550,000+ 9,000 70,000+ We have connected, prepared or We provided Passport to Success for Since 2012, we have partnered with employed more than 550,000 Hospitality, a life-skills training Room to Read to create greater access young people through our Open program created with our partner to educational opportunities for Doors commitment. International Youth Foundation, to more 70,000 youth, especially girls, in South than 66 Hilton trainers and over 9,000 Asia by 2017. young people. CHALLENGE APPROACH The largest youth generation in human history is breaking The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals set out an another, more unenviable record they’re facing the worst youth ambitious agenda to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure unemployment crisis in history, with an astonishing 71 million prosperity. Those goals can only be realized if we work together young people around the world currently looking for work. Too to invest in and empower the next generation. At Hilton, we’ve many of our youth across the globe don’t have the minimum level been taking the challenge of youth unemployment very of basic skills needed to be gainfully employed. seriously. In 2014, we committed to open doors for at least one million young people by 2019 by connecting with them, preparing them for the workforce or employing them. To date, we have reached over 550,000 young people through engaging, mentoring and training them to give them a brighter future. ACTION Partnerships | Associations | Awards Hilton’s signature partner in the youth development space is the Connect International Youth Foundation (IYF). Through a holistic We have connected with tens of thousands of young people strategy, we have worked together to develop cutting edge prethrough career guidance talks and job shadowing events hosted by employment and development programs and a research our hotels and offices around the world. In 2016, our hotels hosted platform to identify obstacles that deter young people from over 1,100 events, reaching more than 102,600 youth around the entering into the hospitality industry. We work with IYF to world. conduct research that can help all industries identify the Prepare challenges that youth face in the countries where they operate We created Passport to Success (PTS) for Hospitality, a soft skills and work to address those challenges. training initiative, in partnership with The International Youth Since 2012, we have partnered with Room to Read, a global Foundation (IYF). As of 2016, we trained more than 9,000 young organization advocating for literacy and gender equality around Team Members and local youth around the world through the lifethe world, to directly support the education of youth – especially skills training program. Due to growing demand, we extended girls. As one of the organization’s key partners, we have made a our partnership with IYF to develop an online version of PTS for significant impact through direct support of Room to Read’s Hospitality, which is available to all of our hotels through Hilton programs and through creative Team Member engagement that University (HU). Through HU, we provide recommended and helps Room to Read’s community efforts thrive. To date, our required courses on professional development. These partnership with Room to Read has equipped more than 70,000 comprehensive, hands-on accelerated training programs help young people in Asia with the resources they need to succeed. A equip the next generation of hospitality leaders with key training year into our extended partnership with Room to Read, we made in critical life and professional skills. significant progress in creating opportunities for young people, Hilton has a team dedicated to developing relationships with more particularly in India and Sri Lanka. The collaborative efforts than 75 hospitality schools and universities around the world. Our between Room to Read and our teams have helped establish global program offers summer and yearlong internships and multiple educational institutions and literacy programs. apprenticeships. These programs allow individuals to gain In Singapore, we partner with UN Women and its Girls2Pioneers exposure to the variety of opportunities that exist within program, to provide opportunities and introduce youth to the hospitality and provide career-ready skills for future positions. hospitality industry. For example, we provide youth tours of our We have also created a program of school alliances in China, hotels and focus on the variety of careers within Hilton, in which has contributed nearly 1,500 interns and management particular within Engineering and Finance functions. trainees to our hotels every year. Our teams conduct over 200 We are a founding member of the 100,000 Opportunities Hilton training sessions for these school alliances. Initiative, the largest employer-led coalition in the U.S. Employ committed to creating pathways to meaningful employment for We support more than 2,500 apprenticeships around the world young people. As a founding member of the White House's First and are a member of the Global Apprenticeship Network, which Job Compact, we take action to identify, recruit and employ outpromotes work readiness programs. Building on our experience of-school, out-of-work young people. with designing and implementing thousands of apprenticeships, In 2016, Great Place to Work named Hilton on the list for ‘Best we are leading a UK-wide review of government apprenticeship Large Workplaces” in China, Colombia, India, Italy, Mexico, standards. Netherlands, Peru, Sri Lanka, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, In Turkey, we created the first ever hospitality apprenticeship United Kingdom and the United States. curriculum as part of an EU-funded Lifelong Learning Program, Fortune listed Hilton as one of the 10 Best Workplaces in the which fosters the transfer of the apprenticeship model from EU Fortune 500, Best Companies to Work For (#56) and Best countries to neighboring countries. Workplaces for Millennials (#60). We participate in the Youth Career Initiative, an International Tourism Partnership program, which provides training and employment to young people from disadvantaged backgrounds. Programs in Brazil, Mexico, Romania and Vietnam have provided over 60 young people with internships at our hotels. We expanded the program to hotels in Lebanon in the summer of 2016. In 2015, the United Nations issued a new development agenda the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which provide a set of goals and targets for government, NGOs and businesses to address the most pressing societal challenges of our time. The challenges of the world require the very best of what Hilton has to offer. Through our YOUTH work, we’re helping to address the following SDGs: OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT DIVERSITY & INCLUSION 100+ We are creating opportunities in more 50% 100 Great Place to Work® recognized Approximately 50 percent of Hilton’s than 100 countries and territories. Hilton as one of the World’s 25 Best global workforce is female. Multinational Workplaces. Hilton also ranked in all 14 country lists where it was eligible in 2016 including ranking #1 in China, Turkey and Saudi Arabia. CHALLENGE APPROACH As a company that operates in over 100 countries, our goal is Hilton is committed to an inclusive workforce that fully to serve any guest, anywhere in the world, for any travel need. represents many different cultures, backgrounds and viewpoints. The diversity and inclusivity of our workforce allow us to Our global brands provide meeting places for people from all understand and reflect the various cultures, perspectives walks of life to connect, creating a welcoming environment for all. and needs of our guests, owners and communities around Understanding our Team Members’ unique perspectives, along the world. with those of our Guests, Owners, Suppliers, and Partners, is essential to driving our competitive performance. Our company will always strive to reflect the global communities where we live and work. Our strategy is to leverage and promote diversity and inclusion through a framework of Culture, Talent and Marketplace initiatives: 1) We create an engaging, innovative environment that promotes global inclusiveness, 2) We attract, develop, and retain the best and brightest talent in hospitality, 3) We engage, support and create business opportunities in our communities. ACTION We are also leading a number of other regional initiatives, including establishing Gender Equality in Leadership We believe a diverse and inclusive culture starts with our committees in APAC and driving efforts to increase our executive leadership. Our senior leaders demonstrate ongoing headcount of women in Saudi Arabia, which has seen a jump of support and commitment to diversity and inclusion through a over 60% in two years. variety of channels. Additionally, we partner with the Women’s Leadership Program Our President and CEO, Chris Nassetta, chairs the Hilton at University of Virginia Darden School of Business to help our Executive Diversity Council (EDC). The EDC is comprised of the leaders successfully navigate their careers. company’s most senior leaders and provides oversight of our Marketplace diversity and inclusion programs and initiatives. We engage, support and create business opportunities in our A Quarterly Diversity Dashboard , including updates on key communities for our key stakeholders; suppliers, guests, diversity metrics and progress related to our culture, talent and community members and owners. Diversity is continually marketplace initiatives, is reviewed by EDC members. promoted within our marketplace through our supplier diversity Our leaders are committed to our diversity and inclusion efforts, program, multicultural marketing to diverse customer segments, and we hold them accountable through Organizational partnerships with numerous diverse non-profit organizations, Objectives that measure their performance against our diversity and development of property ownership opportunities for goals. We also monitor feedback directly provided by our Team women and minorities. Members on our leaders’ diversity focus. Through our award-winning Supplier Diversity Program, which Through our Executive Committee (EC) Networking Program, began nearly a decade ago, we have cultivated relationships with Chris Nassetta and all EC members have at least two women more than 1,550 women-,minority-, and LGBT-owned businesses, mentees whom they meet with on a regular basis. The emerging by developing strategic alliances with companies whose culture leaders are diverse in background, functional area, geographic and values are consistent with ours. location and experience. Culture Partnerships | Associations | Awards We have eight Team Member Resources Groups (TMRGs) that We provide support for numerous universities globally by help foster an inclusive and innovative business culture, promote participating in conferences and recruiting events, and through professional growth through networking and development, monetary and in-kind contributions for scholarships and student provide market insights, and support our communities. Our development programs. TMRGs are all sponsored by senior leaders. The success of these Since 2014, we have supported Project Inspire, a joint initiative by groups is reflected in the substantial growth in membership and UN Women and MasterCard to help young change-makers in the number of chapters. Membership has increased more than create a better world for women and girls in APAC, Middle East 150% since 2012, and the number of chapters has jumped from and Africa. The challenge presents 18-35 year olds with a 20 to 46. Hilton was recognized as #11 on DiversityInc’s Top 12 5-minute platform. They compete to win a top grant of $25,000 Companies for Employee Resource Groups list in 2016. (USD), or a runner up grant of $10,000 (USD), sponsored by Hilton. Talent Ten youth finalists selected from more than 400 applications from In order to attract, develop and retain the best and brightest, we over 100 countries pitched their social change ideas to a panel focus our efforts on sourcing and hiring diverse talent. Across all that included UN Women, MasterCard, Bain & Company, INSEAD manager levels, we have established diverse hire targets for nonand Hilton. hourly job openings, candidates for all Director and above Hilton became the first hospitality company to join the U.S. State positions. Our sourcing efforts and scholarship support are Department’s Global Equality Fund, an initiative working to targeted across a broad set of talent pools, including Black, advance and protect the human rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and Hispanic, Asian and Pacific Islander-serving colleges and transgender (LGBT) persons around the world. universities. We offer opportunities for Team Members at every level of the Associations organization: professional development, programs with top We partner with many organizations that promote diversity and universities, VP and GM Excellence Programs, leadership events inclusion, including: & publications, Team Member Resource Groups, differential programs for women in leadership. • Ascend Pan-Asia Leaders We have set three-year diversity goals for our corporate • Asian Hotel Owners Association leadership targeting females and ethnically diverse leaders. • Asian Pacific Islander American Scholarship Fund Additionally, we have set regional goals for female • American Hotel & Lodging Educational Foundation representation of our global General Manager population. • American Resort Development Association We are deliberate in our approach to developing women leaders. • Catalyst We incorporated Women in Leadership sessions into key global internal meetings, including the inaugural Women In Leadership • Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD) Conference in China. We became a pioneering Singapore IMPACT • Human Rights Campaign Champion in support of HeForShe, the UN Women solidarity • International Gay & Lesbian Travel Association movement for gender equality, making three pledges to advance • Latino Hotel Association gender equality across our hotels and offices in Asia Pacific; • League of United Latin American Citizens 1) All General Managers and Directors in Asia Pacific will attend an • National Association for the Advancement of Colored “Unconscious Bias” training by the end of 2016; People (NAACP) 2) Double the number of female General Managers/Hotel • National Association of Black Accountants, Inc. Managers in Asia Pacific by the end of 2016, and 3) Implement flexible work initiatives in all corporate offices in Asia • National Black MBA Association, Inc. Pacific and run a pilot in at least one hotel in each region within • National Association of Black Hotel Owners, Operators & Asia Pacific by the end of 2016. Developers • National Business & Disability Council Top 50 Companies for Diversity (#42), 2016 • National Center for American Indian Enterprise Top 15 Companies for Mentoring (#3), 2016 Development Council Top 13 Companies for Supplier Diversity (#4), 2016 • National Council of La Raza Top 12 Companies for Employee Resource Groups (#11), 2016 DiversityInc • National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce • National Hispanic Corporate Council Corporate Equality Index Rating of 100 Percent, 2016 Human Rights Campaign • National LGBTQ Task Force • National Minority Supplier Development Council Corporate Leadership Award, 2016 • National Society of Black Engineers National LGBTQ Task Force • National Urban League • National Veteran-Owned Business Association The 25 Most LGBT-Friendly Brands, Trailblazing LOGO • Out & Equal Workplace Advocates • OutServe – SLDN Most Valuable Employer, 2016 • Point Foundation CivilianJobs.com • Prospanica • Reaching Out MBA Top 50 Organizations for Multicultural Business Opportunities (#38), 2016 • Services & Advocacy for GLBT Elders (SAGE) DiversityBusiness.com • U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce USA Top 100 Most Attractive Employers Ranking for Business, • U.S. Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce 2016 • WEConnect International APAC Top 50 Most Attractive Employers, 2016 • Women’s Business Enterprise National Council Universum USA & Universum China Top 50 Companies for Latinas to Work, 2016 Awards LATINA Style 50 10 Best Workplaces in the Fortune 500, 2016 Best Companies to Work For (#56), 2016 LATINO 100 Companies Providing the Most Opportunities Best Workplaces for Women (#56), 2016 for Latinos, 2016 Best Workplaces for Millennials (#60), 2016 LATINO Magazine Best Multinational Workplaces, 2016 World’s Most Admired Companies, 2015 & 2016 Workforce 100: Ranking the World’s Top Companies for HR, 2016 Fortune Magazine Workplace Magazine Best Large Workplaces Award, 2016: Top 100 Military Friendly Employers, 2016 • China (#1) • Mexico • Turkey (#1) Top 100 Military Spouse Friendly Employers, 2016 • Colombia • Netherlands • United Arab Emirates Best for Vets: Employers, 2016 • India • Peru • United Kingdom Military Times Magazine • Italy • Sri Lanka • United States Top Supplier Diversity Program, 2016 Regional Winner in Europe and Latin America, 2016 Top Diversity Employer of Women, 2016 100 Best Workplaces for Women, 2016 Professional Woman’s Magazine World’s 25 Best Multinational Workplaces, 2016 Great Place To Work Top Supplier Diversity Program, 2016 Top Diversity Employer, 2016 America’s Best Employers, 2016 Black EOE Journal Forbes 50 Out Front Companies for Diversity Leadership (#26), 2016 Diversity MBA In 2015, the United Nations issued a new development agenda the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which provide a set of goals and targets for government, NGOs and businesses to address the most pressing societal challenges of our time. The challenges of the world require the very best of what Hilton has to offer. Through our INCLUSION work, we’re helping to address the following SDGs: OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT HUMAN RIGHTS 1ST We conducted a global human rights 1,500 65,000 We partnered with the Global fund We trained more than 65,000 Hilton impact assessment of our operations for children to support grassroots Team Members on issues related to and supply chain and published our first anti-trafficking efforts reaching ethics, human trafficking and child Human Rights Policy Statement and 1,500 children around the world. trafficking through the global rollout Responsible Sourcing Policy. of our Code of Conduct. CHALLENGE APPROACH As a business of people serving people, we recognize the Hilton operates with a respect for the rights of the people we importance of respecting everyone’s rights in order to deliver employ, serve as customers and do business with along our value safe, high-quality products and services that are respectful to chain. Our approach focuses on continually evaluating and guests and business partners. The United Nations Guiding prioritizing respect for human rights. In 2014, we completed a Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) clearly define global human rights impact assessment across our business the duty of governments to protect human rights and activities. This assessment focused on the risk that our business companies’ responsibility to respect human rights in this shared operations may pose to individuals’ rights in terms of severity agenda for human dignity. This framework helps inform how we and likelihood and included an assessment of risks in the area of shape policies, develop partnerships and elevate standards to modern slavery and human trafficking. We used this deliver on our mission to create a positive impact in our assessment to fine-tune our internal policies and procedures communities. and made it a goal to implement further efforts to identify and prevent human trafficking and modern slavery. Specifically, we engage in awareness and education of our leadership, team members, franchisees, owners and supply chain. We also conduct risk-based reputational due diligence within our hotel ownership and supply chains. Our policies currently include our Human Rights Policy Statement, our Code of Conduct and our Responsible Sourcing Policy. Our commitment to human rights issues is a central part of who we are as a business of people serving people around the world, and we are proud of our mission to strengthen the communities in which we operate. We will continue to build upon our existing efforts to prevent human rights abuses and combat modern slavery and human trafficking across our global operations, and work with our industry partners to share best practices. ACTION Team Members The policy confirms that Hilton reserves the right to conduct Hilton continues to assess and develop awareness and unannounced audits and inspections of facilities to ensure that educational tools to help our team members meet the human our suppliers are taking reasonable efforts to operate in a manner rights and ethical standards expressed in our policies. In 2016, consistent with the policy. Violations or non-compliance may lead we trained more than 65,000 team members on topics related to termination of the supplier relationship. to ethics, human rights, and slavery and human trafficking Leaders in key internal functions (e.g. procurement, human through the continued global rollout of our Global Code of resources, development, design and construction) and our key Conduct. suppliers have been educated with respect to risks that have been We encourage our team members to report any instances of identified as high-risk sourcing arrangements in the industry (i.e. misconduct or potential violations of laws or policies through recruitment and employment agencies). In the UK, we request our the Hilton Hotline, which is administered by an independent suppliers that provide employment services to conduct an ethical third party and coordinated with our internal Compliance team. audit with a third-party auditor and/or desktop reviews, and to Our Efforts to Prevent Trafficking implement any suggested action items. In 2016 we launched a In 2011, Hilton signed the ECPAT Code of Conduct. ECPAT is a working group to expand and align our approach to other global organization that leads the fight against the crime of child countries of operations, primarily in the Middle East. trafficking and sexual exploitation. Using this code as a guide, we We will continue to work with our suppliers in the future to refine implemented a training and education programme to raise and enforce our policies and principles with respect to modern awareness of risks of child trafficking, which more than 3,000 slavery and human trafficking and in particular will be focusing on hotel team members have taken to date. The programme was continued education of our suppliers and hotel owners and updated in October 2016. methods to ensure and confirm compliance with our Code of In order to support the global fight against sexual exploitation, we Conduct and Responsible Sourcing Policy. launched the Global Freedom Exchange programme in Construction Workers partnership with Vital Voices, an international network Hilton does not build hotels, nor are we involved in the sourcing of of activists on the forefront of global efforts to prevent and labor for construction of hotels or related facilities. However, we respond to the crime of child trafficking. Since 2013, Hilton and work towards increasing our hotel owners’ awareness of the risks Vital Voices have brought together more than 100 women leaders associated with the conditions of recruitment, work and from 39 countries to participate accommodation for construction site workers. We are also in a two-week learning and networking programme. We also have working with the International Tourism Partnership to raise funded programme participants to launch or expand local training, awareness, share best practice, and develop positive mitigation advocacy and survivor services programmes. tools in this area. In 2014, we created the Hilton Anti-Trafficking Fund with the Refugee Crisis Global Fund for Children to support grassroots anti-trafficking Our hotels have been proactively engaged in supporting efforts around the world. The fund supports five innovative, highindividuals being affected by the refugee crisis. Over 20 hotels potential organizations in affected communities with annual across Europe are working with local partners to support grants and services. Over the course of the three-year project, an individuals who have fled war and hardship. estimated 1,500 children in Nigeria, South Africa, Thailand, Turkey and the United Kingdom were reached. Partnerships | Associations | Awards In 2015, we partnered with the Metropolitan Police, London Hilton engages with global, regional and local organizations to Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham, the Royal Borough of increase awareness of human rights issues, particularly modern Kensington and Chelsea London, and Westminster City Council to slavery and human trafficking. We are signatories to the United launch the Operation MakeSafe campaign. This effort focused on Nations Global Compact. The United Nations Guiding child trafficking awareness raising, and included in-person training Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) help inform for hotel teams across London. It also involved all UK heads of how we shape policies, develop partnerships and elevate housekeeping and our UK labor agency partners. standards to deliver on our mission. Using these UNGPs, we focus on continually evaluating and prioritizing respect for Supply Chain human rights across our business. We were the first hospitality Hilton works closely with our supply chain to ensure that their company to join the Global Business Initiative on Human activities meet our expectations as set out in our Responsible Rights and have been an active member of its steering Sourcing Policy. We encourage our owners, managers, developers committee since August 2016. This coalition works to advance and suppliers to maintain at least the same level of commitment. human rights in a business context through cross-industry In 2015, we conducted a mapping exercise of our global supply peer learning, outreach and capacity building, and by informing chain across a range of economic, environmental and social risks, policy. We are also members of the human rights working including human rights. In the same year, we established a Global group at the International Tourism Partnership (ITP), which Responsible Sourcing Advisory Council, with representatives from brings global hospitality brands together to develop common regional leads on procurement and corporate responsibility and approaches to industry-wide challenges. In November 2016, we launched the Responsible Sourcing Policy which we have begun also became a founding member of the UK Stop Slavery Hotel communicating to our key suppliers. Industry Network. In 2015, the United Nations issued a new development agenda the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which provide a set of goals and targets for government, NGOs and businesses to address the most pressing societal challenges of our time. The challenges of the world require the very best of what Hilton has to offer. Through our HUMAN RIGHTS work, we’re helping to address the following SDGs: OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT VOLUNTEERISM AND ENGAGEMENT 4,144 We activated more than 4,144 $2.5 MILLION We have offered $2.5 million USD in $850,000 We have provided more than $850,000 community projects across 93 support through our Hilton Disaster USD of support to properties and countries aimed at addressing local Responds Fund, backing communities community organizations addressing issues during our global volunteer with long-term rebuilding efforts local and social environmental issues celebration. following a disaster. around the world . CHALLENGE APPROACH To deliver everything that a guest expects in a hotel – Community service has been a tradition at Hilton for nearly 100 friendliness, support, dynamism, resilience, safety – it takes a years. Our community strategy focuses on utilizing the talent community. This is why we see the hotels we open as key and expertise of our Team Members and the service-oriented partners in a larger community. Once we open a hotel, it culture of our unique brands. We create programs and resources becomes a permanent fixture in a unique neighborhood – mixing that enable all hotels and offices to volunteer throughout the cultures, industries and generations. Our hotel teams are active year, and activate our hotels to provide support in times of members of the community, not just employees of a local disaster. We empower all of our hotels to join our community business. We see each of our Team Members and owners as an initiatives and provide them with the flexibility to address global agent of change. They provide personal insights into local social issues in localized ways, helping to build vibrant, resilient challenges and lead solutions to strengthen the resilience of communities around them. their communities and make a lasting positive impact. ACTION Network of Champions We have Community and Sustainability Champions at more than Community Engagement 1,500 properties in our full-service and luxury brand hotels to Hilton sees service as a tool that can both aid in recruitment and help activate Travel with Purpose in their local communities. To professional development, but also strengthen relationships help ensure we have a clear line of communication with our with our guests and partners. property-level Champions, we have created a global group of 40 An overview of our community service approach and strategy is regionand function-specific Travel with Purpose subject matter included in orientations for new Team Members, with additional experts who receive additional training and resources. in-person sessions for General Managers and Directors of Sales. Additionally, a network of 21 Community Committees located in Our Brand Performance Support and Brand Hospitality teams are our corporate and regional offices serve as ambassadors of crucial advocates of Travel with Purpose, our integrated corporate Travel with Purpose to coordinate, educate and activate key responsibility strategy. These advocates help ensure we embed campaigns throughout the year. community engagement in daily operations and brand training Hilton Responds Fund throughout the year. In select hotels across North America, we We developed the Hilton Worldwide Responds Fund to enable engage our guests in on-site community projects as part of Team Members to voluntarily contribute funds that support meetings and events offerings. We have also hosted similar events communities around the world. The fund provides immediate aid with some of our largest clients and partnered with meeting in the aftermath of a disaster and engages in long-term planners to integrate a service element into conferences or rebuilding efforts in disaster-affected communities. One special events held at our properties. aspect of the Hilton Worldwide Responds Fund is that it provides Global Team Member Volunteer Program assistance to those Team Members and families who are Volunteerism is driven by Hilton’s culture and legacy. Our Global impacted by disaster and may need support. It also provides a Team Member Volunteer Program provides numerous ways for vehicle for Hilton Worldwide to match the generosity of our Team Members to engage in the community—whether as Team Members’ voluntary contributions. For most of our individuals, as a department, or as teams. A dedicated Hilton disaster campaigns, Hilton Worldwide matches contributions corporate team works across functions to aid our thousands of dollar for dollar. hotels in organizing and supporting the coordination of these volunteer opportunities. Every year, teams design and complete Partnerships | Associations | Awards large-scale “signature” volunteer projects during our annual Global Month of Service. We partner with Points of Light, an international service nonprofit, to develop community engagement opportunities around the Volunteer projects address a range of issues from opportunities world. Through our relationship with Points of Light, we connect to food security to environmental conservation. In 2015, Hilton with organizations and measure the impact of our community Team Members contributed over 420,000 volunteer hours service work in key markets. Points of Light also helps us execute around the world valued at over US $9.8 million. (Calculated our annual volunteer celebration, Global Month of Service, through Points of Light’s Economic Impact volunteer calculator, around the world. this value does not include pro-bono services.) In 2014, we collaborated with Points of Light and the Taproot Global Month of Service is our annual, global celebration in which Foundation to create Hospitality+Service, an online curriculum all hotels and offices around the world are encouraged to designed to help nonprofit staff and volunteers enhance guest coordinate or participate in hands-on volunteer projects. In 2016, and client experiences by building enduring cultures of hospitality. hotels from 93 countries participated in more than 4,166 To date, nearly 600 organizations, ranging from large nonprofits community projects, generating over 291,620 volunteer hours. and government agencies to smaller local organizations, have Travel with Purpose Action Grants downloaded the curriculum. In 2013, we launched Travel with Purpose Action Grants, a program designed to invest in our hotels’ ideas to address local issues impacting their communities. Since 2013, more than 300 grants have been awarded, providing over $850,000 to support projects around the world and creating the foundation for longer-term projects. In 2016, we received more than 500 applications to support innovative, local approaches that address social and environmental challenges. In 2015, the United Nations issued a new development agenda the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which provide a set of goals and targets for government, NGOs and businesses to address the most pressing societal challenges of our time. The challenges of the world require the very best of what Hilton has to offer. Through our VOLUNTEERISM AND ENGAGEMENT work, we’re helping to address the following SDGs: OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT ENERGY 112,520 We conserved enough energy to power 4,900 We certified more than 4,900 hotels in -17% We reduced actual energy use intensity 112,520 homes for a year. ISO 50001 for energy management. by 2.7 percent in 2015 over 2014. Hilton cumulatively reduced energy use intensity by 17 percent between 2009 and 2015, based on the per square foot normalized results for Hilton’s managed and franchised hotels worldwide. CHALLENGE APPROACH Energy is a vital resource for our operations. Our focus on energy Hilton has invested in energy data collection and analysis for efficiency drives us to uncover new technologies and best almost a decade to provide our teams, owners and management practices that will reduce our carbon impact, enhance guests’ groups the insight they need to make informed decisions and experiences, and strengthen our communities. improve performance. To ensure progress across our global portfolio, we require hotels to set goals and complete improvement projects to actively reduce energy use. With over 4,900 hotels reporting data and actively identifying new solutions, we are increasing the overall effectiveness of our energy initiatives. Our teams drive energy reduction and savings through a combination of on-property energy efficiency projects, Team Member insights and behavioral changes, partnerships and renewable energy usage directly or through credits. ACTION Partnerships | Associations | Awards Measurement In 2016, we continued our collaboration with World Wildlife Fund We leverage LightStay, our proprietary corporate responsibility to support our environmental goals. We participate in the performance measurement platform, to understand how our Corporate Renewable Energy Buyers Principles led by WWF to hotels are managing energy and driving improvements over advance renewable energy purchasing options as part of the time. Since launching LightStay, we’ve gathered more than seven broader Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance. years of global data that allows us to drive greater efficiencies, In 2014, following LightStay upgrades, we achieved ISO 50001 savings and value for our company and owners, and to create certification for energy management for the entire Hilton tools and training for our hotels. portfolio. Companies gain certification by implementing Energy Management and Forecasting policies, procedures and systems that follow and meet Through LightStay we track historical energy and weather data international ISO standards, which are assessed by a third-party to forecast future energy consumption levels and predict the certification body, DEKRA. This certification complements our impact of performance on cost. This enables our hotels, owners, additional global system-wide certifications of ISO 9001 (quality and management groups to take corrective action to influence management) and 14001 (environmental management). With future performance. The system cross-references the data these certifications, we became one of the first multinational hotels submit with expected performance to send automatic companies to certify our entire system globally, achieving one of alerts to hotels when performance falls below expected levels. the largest-ever volume certifications of commercial buildings. Hotels are also required to track and complete improvement With our company-wide ISO 50001 Energy Management projects each year, enabling us to uncover and share learning certification, we continue to partner with the U.S. Department of and best practices from nearly 10,000 energy-efficiency Energy (DOE) to bring the DOE’s Superior Energy Performance projects. We also actively monitor and negotiate energy (SEP) certification and recognition program to the hotel industry. contracts while managing supply-side energy risks to ensure our Three Hilton properties are now the first commercial buildings to hotels have favorable energy prices and, where possible, drive receive DOE SEP certification. We also joined the DOE’s Better efficiencies leading to more competitive pricing. Buildings SEP Accelerator initiative, making Hilton the first In our owned and managed hotels, the bonus potential for our commercial company to join the partnership. Hilton Directors of Property Operations & Engineering is tied to Following the certification, we were asked to join DOE’s Better the attainment of our environmental goals, including reductions Building Challenge, an initiative to better share innovative ideas in energy consumption for their hotel’s respective operations. across industries. We partnered with Whole Foods Market to Directors are responsible for identifying and executing relevant execute a “SWAP” (switching our Hilton energy management energy projects and coordinating across functions at the hotel team with Whole Foods’ team), to evaluate one another’s to drive energy efficiency and improve performance. We also operations and identify opportunities for improvement. We partner with our strategic suppliers to embark on an aggressive have implemented a number of the ideas identified, and will campaign to reduce energy use through more efficient lighting. continue to reduce energy intensity across our buildings Property level audits identify the best combination of lighting portfolio by learning and sharing best practices. that will reduce energy usage and cost. This program is required for all owned and managed properties in the United States. Hilton has also developed several partnerships that offer laundering technologies that can reduce hot water use by up to 45 Earth Month percent. P&G Tide Coldwater and Ecolab Aquanomics are both During the month of March, we celebrate Earth Month, a time laundry detergent solutions that eliminate hot water from the when we educate Team Members on responsible energy, water wash process and maximize laundry efficiency. We are also and waste practices by providing examples developed by their performing trials with the Xeros polymer bead-based washing colleagues across the globe. In 2016, we had over 1,500 system, which uses less water, energy and chemical detergents. environment projects launched during Earth Month. We collaborate with eTemp, a company that has developed a For the sixth consecutive year, our hotels around the world united technology that reduces compressor cycle times in to celebrate Earth Hour, a key time within Earth Month. Earth refrigeration units. All Hilton owned and managed properties in Hour is the world’s largest grassroots movement that celebrates the United States are required to undergo an audit and install climate action. In 2007, World Wildlife Fund (WWF) developed these laundering and refrigeration devices where they make the idea for Earth Hour at the Hilton in Sydney, Australia. Since sense. Earth Hour's inception, Hilton hotels have organized energy saving projects such as switching off exterior lighting, dimming lobby and reception lighting, and hosting candlelit dinners with sustainable food and drink menus. In 2015, the United Nations issued a new development agenda the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which provide a set of goals and targets for government, NGOs and businesses to address the most pressing societal challenges of our time. The challenges of the world require the very best of what Hilton has to offer. Through our ENERGY work, we’re helping to address the following SDGs: OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT WATER 1,770,611 We have used “room ready” bedding -16.7% We reduced actual water use by 1.4 5,272 We saved enough water to fill 5,272 products (where possible), to eliminate percent in 2015 over 2014. Hilton Olympicsized swimming pools (based first wash, saving 1,770,611 gallons of cumulatively reduced water use on actual annual savings between 2009water since 2014. intensity by 16.7 percent between 2015 for Hilton’s global portfolio). 2009-2015. CHALLENGE APPROACH Water is the lifeline to our hotels’ hospitality, our culinary Hilton set up a global collaboration with the World Wildlife Fund offerings, our guests’ comfort and our communities’ livelihoods. (WWF) to develop a multi-year water stewardship strategy. We Through our global footprint and operations, we see an actively contribute to industry and cross-sector working groups opportunity to lead on local solutions to preserve water and on and partnerships to define shared standards and foster behavioral changes in high-risk geographic regions. collective impact. Our water strategy focuses on measuring water consumption and translating the data into relevant metrics that Team Members, owners and management groups can use to drive decisions and set goals to improve performance and long-term value. Our consumption data helps us to uncover best practices we can leverage to develop global tools, processes and training to support our hotels. We require hotels to set goals and complete improvement projects based on their local operating context and environment. Our teams drive water reduction efforts through a combination of on-site water efficiency projects, Team Member insights and behavioral changes. In addition, we leverage our participation in association working groups and partnerships to understand opportunities to improve and drive shared value. ACTION Partnerships | Associations | Awards We continued our collaboration with World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Measurement to build upon our existing efforts to develop an industry-leading, We leverage LightStay, our proprietary corporate responsibility multi-year water stewardship strategy. As Hilton’s signature performance measurement platform, to understand how our environmental partner, WWF is working with us to evolve our hotels are managing water and improving over time. Through global business practices in furtherance of WWF’s mission to LightStay, we’ve gathered more than seven years of global data protect and conserve the Earth’s life-supporting resources. across the portfolio that we use to drive greater efficiencies, As members of the International Tourism Partnership (ITP), we save value, and create tools and training for hotels. We compile collaborate with other leading international hotel companies on the data to project anticipated water use and cost impacts in the ITP water working group, examining risks around water and future months, which allows us to start planning how we can play a ways we can standardize the measurement and communications role in the larger water crisis. LightStay automates alerts to hotels of consumption in our industry. if they have reached a higher than anticipated water usage threshold, and uses hotel data to provide suggested projects that In collaboration with Ecolab, we use the Center for Sustainable reduce consumption. We require all hotels to have reduction Procurement (an initiative of Business for Social Responsibility) targets in place and ongoing water improvement projects to evaluate current water usage and diversion practices and recorded, which drives continuous improvement, efficiencies, develop metrics to track, measure and report data. and learnings across our global portfolio. In collaboration with P&G and Tide Professional, we have Earth Month developed several partnerships that offer laundering Our annual Earth Month celebration empowers Team Members technologies and products, including P&G/Tide Professional and to make changes that improve energy use, water efficiency and Ecolab Aquanomic Low-Temp Laundry Programs, that reduce waste reduction. Throughout Earth Month, we provide hotels water consumption by up to 40 percent and energy with simple tips for lowor no-cost water reduction activities consumption between 50 and 75 percent. These programs that are inspired by their colleagues’ best practices around the improved washing processes and also resulted in a reduction in world. The month encourages Hilton Team Members to identify linen replacement. where they use the most water in the hotel and to make simple We achieved ISO 14001 certification for environmental operational changes to reduce the usage and identify new ways management by requiring our global portfolio of hotels to of conserving water. In 2016, we launched over 1,500 measure usage and set reduction targets with improvement environmental projects at hotels and offices during the first-ever projects in place for energy, water and waste. Companies gain Earth Month celebration. certification from ISO by implementing policies, procedures Work Stream and systems that follow and meet international ISO standards, Through a 2016 mapping exercise, we aimed to expand our which are assessed by DEKRA, a third-party certification body. This operational efforts into parts of our value chain that are exposed certification complements our global system-wide certifications to high water risk, as well as to communities that are increasingly of ISO 9001 (quality management) and 50001 exposed to water stress. The findings from this exercise will help (energy management). Hilton is one of the only multinational outline next steps and potential pilot programs, to be launched in companies to certify its entire system globally, achieving one of 2017. the largest-ever volume certifications of commercial buildings. Our environmental efforts have been recognized by Newsweek’s 2016 Top Green Companies in the World rankings. In 2015, the United Nations issued a new development agenda the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which provide a set of goals and targets for government, NGOs and businesses to address the most pressing societal challenges of our time. The challenges of the world require the very best of what Hilton has to offer. Through our WATER work, we’re helping to address the following SDGs: OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT WASTE 11 We have developed 11 property level -29.1% We reduced actual waste intensity by 5,000,000 Since 2011, more than 1,600 hotels have food waste pilots around the world. 2.0 percent in 2015 over 2014. Hilton been involved in soap and amenity cumulatively reduced hotel waste recycling, donating over 1,000,000 intensity by 29.1 percent between pounds of used soap and distributed over 2009-2015. 5,000,000 new bars of soap. CHALLENGE APPROACH The World Bank estimates that global urban populations create After years of collecting and analyzing data on waste output and 1.6 billion tons of solid waste per year, and more than half of that diversions, we are able to inform our teams’ decisions to improve ends up in landfills. In the United States, the hospitality industry performance and promote a ‘second life’ mindset at our hotels. alone produces 1.9 billion pounds of waste annually1. We see this We have shifted from hotel goals that target a reduction of total area as an opportunity to leverage relevant partner waste output, to goals that focus on total diversion from landfill organizations and unlock our Team Members’ creative minds in an effort to promote recycling and donations at the hotel level. to rethink our approach to materials and provide innovative Hotels are now required to set individual annual goals that drive solutions to recycle and redefine waste. team engagement and understanding. By empowering teams to own the issue, we foster the creation of simple, yet impactful practices, which we scale to other properties. 1 UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) ACTION that this has been required as a brand standard. We already had the industry’s largest soap recycling program, which will now Measurement include more than 1,600 hotels participating in the partnership with We leverage LightStay, our proprietary corporate responsibility Clean the World. Our All Suites brands include Embassy Suites by performance measurement platform, to understand how our Hilton, Homewood Suites by Hilton and Home2 Suites by Hilton. hotels are managing waste and driving improvements over time. The new brand standard will nearly double the number of hotels Since launching LightStay, we’ve gathered over seven years of participating in the soap-recycling program. global data across our hotel portfolio and have used this information to drive greater efficiencies, savings and value and to Partnerships | Associations | Awards create best practices and training for hotels. We track and record We are two years into our three-year collaboration with World our properties’ waste hauling data, allowing hotels to monitor Wildlife Fund (WWF) to reach our environmental goals and current performance against their diversion targets and share progress, and drive value for our operations. One focus of our work their annual waste initiatives. together is evaluating additional ways to reduce food waste within In addition, we educate Team Members through resources and the company’s operations and supply chain by separating and partnerships that help them understand how to reduce nonmeasuring waste. We are also focused on getting more hotels to traditional items, ranging from soap to bed mattresses. participate in food rescue and food waste landfill diversion. Food Waste Pilots In collaboration with Waste Management, we are partnering with Through our partnership with World Wildlife Fund (WWF) we have the Center for Sustainable Procurement, to evaluate current launched multiple food waste pilots, aimed at identifying waste and diversion practices and develop metrics to track, opportunities to reduce waste through self-audit procedures. One measure and report data. example is our work at Hilton St. Louis, focused on separating out Hilton was the first major hospitality company to partner with food waste in order to measure it by category and re-evaluate all Global Soap in 2011, which recently joined forces with Clean the actions within the food and beverage operations chain, from World. We’ve been instrumental in providing operational purchasing habits to plate preparation. We will continue to expand expertise and expanding Global Soap’s footprint. We continue to be our food waste pilots and share lessons learned to strategically the largest global hospitality company donating to the soap reduce food waste across our portfolio. recycling efforts led by Clean the World. Earth Month We also partner with SoapCycling and Soap Aid and are engaged Earth Month, celebrated throughout March, empowers and with Soap4Hope, a soap recycling program of SealedAir/Diversey inspires Team Members to implement small changes that will (one of our strategic soap suppliers) to support more than 75 hotels reduce waste. Hotel teams are encouraged to identify a item in Asia Pacific, Africa and Latin America. Across our partnerships, frequently wasted and investigate ways to manage that waste Hilton continues to be the largest multi-brand hospitality company through low-cost and creative changes. currently participating in soap recycling with over 1,600 hotels Many of our hotels develop new waste reduction ideas during Earth recycling soap and amenities around the world. Month that can be replicated around the world. For example, NoIn collaboration with Serta, Simmons, and Global Sustainability Bin Day encourages Hilton Team Members to remove all waste Solutions, our hotels in the US are able to recycle their mattresses bins from their dining areas, reminding them to take less and and box springs rather than sending them to a landfill. The leads to smaller meal portions, leading to reduced food waste and components of the mattresses and box springs are repurposed cost savings. No-Bin Day grew from an idea at one hotel into a into various products with approximately 95 percent of the weekly program that all Hilton Team Member restaurants in the components being repurposed into new products. Bed frames are Asia Pacific region, and several in the Europe, Middle East and also recycled through the mattress-recycling program. Africa regions, are now participating in regularly. We also partner with Waste Management Sustainability Services Responsible Meetings (WMSS), which provides recycling consulting and support to owned In 2015, we launched Meet with Purpose, a concept that makes it and managed properties in the Americas. Together, we’ve focused easier for meeting professionals to reduce waste and on recycling fluorescent lamps, lighting ballasts, batteries, and incorporate health and wellness into their meetings and events. mercury-containing devices. Another major WMSS initiative We continue to expand the concept and global participation. Meet includes utilizing monitors on compactors to eliminate waste with Purpose encourages more meeting and event planners to hauls, which in turn reduce truck emissions. re-evaluate event dining options, and consider low-cost practices that are less resource-intensive, such as using We have partnered with Totally Green to offer our hotels the Orca paperless registration and water pitchers and giving out notepads organic food waste disposal system. This technology disposes food only upon request. waste on site, converts organic waste into environmentally safe water within 24 hours and reduces the amount of wet waste that Brand Standard goes to landfills. In 2016, we announced that all 750 properties across our All Suites brands in the United States and Canada will recycle discarded soap Our environmental efforts have been recognized in Newsweek’s and amenity bottles through our partnership with Clean the World. 2016 Top Green Companies in the World rankings. This major expansion marked the first time in the industry In 2015, the United Nations issued a new development agenda the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which provide a set of goals and targets for government, NGOs and businesses to address the most pressing societal challenges of our time. The challenges of the world require the very best of what Hilton has to offer. Through our WASTE work, we’re helping to address the following SDGs: OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT CARBON -23% We reduced actual carbon emissions 148,058 Our reduced carbon output is the 70 intensity by 2.3 percent in 2015 over 2014. We offer the Clean Air Program to equivalent of taking 148,058 cars off Hilton cumulatively reduced carbon more than 70 Asia-Pacific hotels, the road from 2009 to 2015. emissions intensity by 23 percent giving customers different ways to between 2009 and 2015. offset emissions from their meetings. CHALLENGE APPROACH Tracking carbon emissions gives us a great opportunity to Our carbon emissions strategy focuses on the direct and indirect understand our tangible impact on the environment and a impacts that are most critical to our business. By collecting unique source of intelligence to apply towards implementing robust data across our portfolio, we can measure and manage strategies of reduction or offsetting. our performance over time by setting goals and implementing best practices. We focus heavily on driving reductions in energy use, which has the most influence on our carbon emissions. We also leverage renewable energy credits and carbon offsets in targeted areas to help reduce impact. ACTION Partnerships | Associations | Awards In 2016, we participated for the third time in the Carbon Measurement Disclosure Project (CDP), an organization that works with Through LightStay, our proprietary corporate responsibility companies to disclose their environmental impacts. Improving performance measurement platform, we are able to track on last year’s score of 97-B, we earned a disclosure and patterns and understand how our hotels are managing energy— performance score of A-, well above the industry average of C. allowing us to drive improvement over time. Since launching LightStay, we’ve gathered more than seven years of global data, We are members of the Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative. which allows us to create tools and trainings for hotels, save value The International Tourism Partnership and the World Travel & for our company and owners, and improve our reporting to share Tourism Council (WTTC) formed this initiative to set an industry best practices and reduce our impact. standard to calculate the carbon footprint of hotel stays and meetings. All of our 4,900 hotels are able to report to this With a recent upgrade to LightStay, we provide hotels with more standard. information on how to improve energy efficiencies and operational performance, which in turn will lower carbon output We are also members of the WTTC Climate Change Task Force. across our global hotel portfolio. The upgraded system leverages The task force is designed to identify industry priority action historical data to predict future energy use and resulting cost areas for the future and evaluate industry progress against implications. This enables our hotels, management groups and climate change commitments that were made in 2009. owners to adjust their real-time behaviors to influence future In 2014, following LightStay upgrades, we achieved ISO 50001 performance. certification for energy management for the entire Hilton We also designed a simplified performance dashboard and portfolio. Companies gain certification by implementing policies, distributing process for sharing results across the hotel to drive procedures and systems that follow and meet international ISO greater engagement. LightStay will also send automatic data standards, which are assessed by a third-party certification body, alerts and performance tips to hotels. These tips will show hotels DEKRA. This certification complements our global system-wide how to improve based on successful projects that have been certifications of ISO 9001 (quality management) and 14001 completed at other hotels. (environmental management). With these certifications, we became one of the first multinational companies to certify our Carbon Offsets entire system globally, achieving one of the largest-ever volume To calculate the carbon footprint of any event at one of our certifications of commercial buildings. hotels, we have created a tool called the Meeting Calculator for our Sales and Marketing teams to use through LightStay. The Our environmental efforts have been recognized in Newsweek’s tool provides our customers and hotels with ideas on how to 2016 Top Green Companies in the World. minimize customers’ footprints during their stay based on best practices we track throughout the portfolio. Our Clean Air Program is an effort to offset carbon from meetings and events in more than 70 participating Asia Pacific hotels. We use the Meeting Calculator to calculate the carbon emissions generated by meetings and events to purchase carbon credits to offset the impact. The credits go toward a program of our customer’s choice, such as rainforest protection projects in Indonesia and Australia or wind-generated energy projects in India and China. In 2015, the United Nations issued a new development agenda the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which provide a set of goals and targets for government, NGOs and businesses to address the most pressing societal challenges of our time. The challenges of the world require the very best of what Hilton has to offer. Through our CARBON work, we’re helping to address the following SDGs: OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 1,550 We partnered with more than 1,550 41 25% We are the first global hotel company We announced our Sustainable women-minority and veteran-owned to achieve the Marine Stewardship Seafood Goals that include banning the businesses. Council's (MSC) group certification for procurement of endangered species*, 41 of our owned, leased and managed sourcing 25 percent of seafood for hotels in Europe. owned, managed and leased hotels from MSC or Aquaculture Stewardship Council Certified sources and supplying the rest from other sustainable sources. CHALLENGE APPROACH What we buy, source, use and serve every day are essential In 2015, we conducted a thorough analysis of the following components of the exceptional experience we deliver—every categories of sourcing: seafood, meat and proteins, produce, hotel, every guest, every time. and apparel and linens. To drive responsible sourcing across these categories, we created a dedicated role and a crossfunctional advisory group. This group oversees the development of our comprehensive responsible sourcing strategy and guides the global decisions related to implementation. We are committed to working with suppliers who share our standards. In 2015, we updated our Responsible Sourcing Policy to reinforce our expectation that our suppliers and partners support and help us achieve our goals of long-term sustainable supply by addressing known business, environmental and social issues. *Endangered species as identified by WWF, which include IUCN endangered and critically endangered and CITES. ACTION Animal Welfare In 2015, we committed to switching to cage-free eggs by Inclusive Sourcing December 31, 2017 for Hilton Hotels & Resorts, Waldorf Astoria Our goal is to forge strong relationships with our wide range of Hotels & Resorts, Conrad Hotels & Resorts, Canopy by Hilton and vendors and suppliers that reflect the diversity of our global DoubleTree by Hilton hotels. Additionally, by December 31, 2018, portfolio of hotels and guests. Through our award-winning all pork products for these properties must be purchased from Supplier Diversity Program in the United States, we have suppliers that house breeding pigs in groups rather than in cultivated relationships with more than 1,550 women, minority gestation crates. These changes are being initially implemented in and veteran-owned enterprises. We are currently evaluating 19 countries where these products are currently available and will ways to expand our program into other markets. be adopted in additional markets as supply comes online. Local Sourcing Responsible Meetings Hilton Team Members and suppliers also look for local sourcing We expanded Meet with Purpose, a concept designed to make it opportunities and form relationships with area farmers to collect easier for meeting professionals to incorporate balanced meals and distribute products to our hotels. We work with suppliers to and wellness into meetings and events, to over 40 properties in develop unique training for farmers related to handling, safety the U.S. and across all of Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Meet guidelines and insurance requirements needed to supply our with Purpose encourages meeting and event planners to consider properties. To date, we have more than 40 hotels in 11 major cities using locally sourced food items that can provide fresh and in Europe, Latin America, the United States and Canada balanced menu options, in a bid to boost participants’ energy participating in our local sourcing and education programs. levels and reduce impact on the environment. Sustainable Seafood Following our ban on shark fin across all properties globally in 2014, Partnerships | Associations | Awards we began focusing on the sustainability and traceability of the With the support of World Wildlife Fund (WWF) we continue to seafood we source. Hilton Singapore became the first hotel in progress towards our environmental goals and drive value for Asia to achieve Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) and our operations. WWF will help us expand our sustainable seafood Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) chain-of-custody efforts and continue to work with us to further evolve our certification, which ensures that the MSC and ASC seafood we responsible sourcing strategy to incorporate new products. serve is fully traceable to a sustainable source. We also became Through our membership with WEConnect International, an the first global hotel company to achieve MSC group chain-oforganization that empowers women business owners to custody certification for 41 of our hotels in the UK, Netherlands succeed in local and global markets, we connect hotels and Belgium. These hotels now all serve MSC-certified cod in their throughout Asia with opportunities to consider diverse suppliers restaurants. in their purchasing decisions. In 2016, we announced a comprehensive shrimp program with In 2016, we co-founded the Better Buying Lab led by the World Sysco and their Portico line to improve the responsible sourcing of Resource Institute to research and catalyze action that enables our farmed shrimp for North America. As one of our largest consumers to buy more sustainable foods. Leading companies in volume purchases, this work has great potential to positively the food industry, behavioral economics and marketing are impact the regions that we source from. joining forces to try to shift diets to preserve the environment. To further drive this momentum, we collaborated with World We are a member of the Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) Wildlife Fund (WWF) on our recently launched Sustainable Seafood Procurement Leadership Group, a group of sustainability and Goals. By 2022, we will source at least 25 percent of total global procurement professionals across industries that explores seafood volume for owned, managed and leased properties from innovative approaches to sustainable supply chains. MSC certified fisheries and ASC certified farms. The remaining seafood will be sourced from fisheries and farms working to Our environmental efforts resulted in Newsweek naming us to its credibly transition to greater sustainability. This includes fisheries list of the 2016 Top Green Companies in the World. and farms in assessment for MSC or ASC certification or in comprehensive fishery and aquaculture improvement projects, tuna products sourced from International Seafood and Sustainability Foundation (ISSF) participating companies, or species listed as “green” on WWF regional seafood guides. Globally, we have committed to remove endangered species from all property menus. WWF will support our team to drive and measure progress to assist us in reaching our goals. In 2015, the United Nations issued a new development agenda the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which provide a set of goals and targets for government, NGOs and businesses to address the most pressing societal challenges of our time. The challenges of the world require the very best of what Hilton has to offer. Through our RESPONSIBLE SOURCING work, we’re helping to address the following SDGs: GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report GRI-G4 Guide This table sets out how the Global Reporting them to have a dialogue with us and understand Initiative (GRI) 4.0 Reporting Framework has the issues related to our business and impact. Key: been applied to our corporate responsibility The GRI Reporting Framework forms a key Indicator reporting process. The purpose of our part of our commitment to continuous G4-X: GRI-G4 Indicator reporting process is to disclose our approach to improvement and transparency. Our corporate responsibility and our performance 2014 Corporate Responsibility report is in Level of disclosure against the issues that are most material to accordance with GRI-G4 and is self-assured. F: Full coverage reporting our business and stakeholders. We also use our P: P  artial coverage report to engage with stakeholders by enabling reporting Indicator Description Level Location Notes General Standards Disclosure G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior F CEO Letter decision-maker of the organization G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, F 10-K and opportunities. G4-3 Report the name of the organization. F Our Approach Global Website G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and F 10-K Tru by Hilton was launched. services. Annual Report G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s F Contact Us headquarters. G4-6 Report the number of countries where F Annual Report the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and F 10-K legal form. G4-8 Report the markets served (including P 10-K geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 Report the scale of the organization. F 10-K G4-10 Total workforce by employment type. P Annual Report G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by F 10-K collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. P Responsible Sourcing Factsheet G4-13 Significant changes regarding the F REIT Spin-off organization’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain. G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary P Annual Report approach or principle is addressed by the organization. GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report Indicator Description Level Location Notes G4-15 List externally developed economic, F Our Approach environmental and social charters, principles, Volunteerism and or other initiatives to which the organization Engagement Factsheet subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or F Diversity & Inclusion international advocacy organizations. Factsheet G417 List all entities included in the organization’s F Annual Report consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-18 Process for defining the report content. F This report covers . January 2015 to January 2016 information and data. Our last report was published in 2015. The content of this report is based on a materiality assessment where both internal and external stakeholders were engaged. G4-19 Material aspects identified. F Corporate Aspects include the topics of: Human Rights, Community, Responsibility Website Youth, Diversity & Inclusion, Energy, Water, Waste, Carbon, Responsible Sourcing. G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organization. F Content and data from LightStay metrics include owned, managed and franchised properties. this report include Reporting parameters of other owned and operated metrics are defined through properties, and our footnotes. To confirm the effective implementation and validity of independently owned LightStay, Hilton commissioned franchises unless DEKRA Certification Inc. to perform third-party audits otherwise indicated. and validate results. All metrics in the report refer to data from January 2015 to October 2016 unless otherwise indicated. G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the F Hilton reports on water, Aspect Boundary outside the organization. supply chain (upon request) and climate action through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), as well as the standard Ecovadis and Ecodesk for customers and suppliers. G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of F No restatements of information provided in previous reports, information provided and the reasons for such restatements. in previous reports. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous F No significant changes reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect from previous periods Boundaries. in scope and aspect boundaries. GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report Indicator Description Level Location Notes G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged F Our Approach by the organization. G4-25 Report the basis for identification and P Our Approach selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to F Our Approach Hilton engages with stakeholders on an ongoing basis. Including business stakeholder engagement, including SALT Scores partners, community organizations, frequency of engagement by type and by Human Rights Policy advocacy groups, industry leaders stakeholder group, and an indication of and guests. whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have F All Factsheets been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar F January 2015 to year) for information provided. January 1, 2016 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). F 2015 Report G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). F The Corporate Responsibility Report is published annually. This is our fifth report. G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions F corporateresponsibility regarding the report or its contents. @hilton.com G4-32 GRI content index. F For the fourth time, our report relies on the guidance provided by GRI. We are reporting in accordance with GRI-G4, the latest guidelines. G4-33 The organization’s policy and current practice F This report is aligned with regard to seeking external assurance for with GRI standards the report. and self-assured, but environmental data is third-party audited and all content is reviewed by legal. G4-34 The governance structure of the organization. F Corporate Governance We leverage our investment in Travel with Purpose across the full portfolio and with our President and CEO, Chris Nassetta. For further details, see link to Corporate Governance. G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority F Corporate Governance The Corporate Responsibility strategy, Travel with Purpose, is led for economic, environmental and social topics by the Vice President of Corporate from the highest governance body to senior Responsibility. The global team executives and other employees. monitors and reports the outcomes of all Corporate Responsibility efforts to the Executive team, who report to the Board of Directors. GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report Indicator Description Level Location Notes G4-36 Report whether the organization has F The Vice President appointed an executive-level position or of Corporate positions with responsibility for economic, Responsibility at Hilton environmental and social topics, and whether reports directly to post holders report directly to the highest the Global Head of governance body. Corporate Affairs who reports directly to the Chief Operating Officer. G4-37 Report processes for consultation between P Our Approach Our strategy and all information within our report is reviewed by the stakeholders and the highest governance Executive Committee, made up of body on economic, environmental and social our most senior leadership including topics. If consultation is delegated, describe our CEO, Chris Nassetta. The Executive Committee reports to the to whom and any feedback processes to the Board of Directors, who reviews and highest governance body. identifies risks with our Corporate Responsible strategy annually. G4-38 Composition of the highest governance. F Corporate Governance G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest F Corporate Governance Chris Nassetta serves as the President and CEO of Hilton governance body is also an executive officer Worldwide. (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). G4-40 Report the nomination and selection F Corporate Governance processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members. G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance F Corporate Governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and F A global council of 52 senior executives’ roles in the development, Senior Leaders was led approval, and updating of the organization’s by the CEO to review purpose, value or mission statements, the goals, strategy and strategies, policies, and goals related policies of the company. to economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and P Diversity & Inclusion enhance the highest governance body’s Factsheet collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. G4-44 Report the processes for evaluation of the F 10-K highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. G4-45 Report the highest governance body’s role F 10-K in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due-diligence processes. GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report Indicator Description Level Location Notes G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s F 10-K role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest F Hilton’s Vice President governance body’s review of economic, of Corporate environmental and social impacts, risks, Responsibility reviews and opportunities. the Travel with Purpose strategy and potential impacts, risks and opportunities with the Executive Committee on an annual basis (and quarterly if needed). G4-48 Report the highest committee or position F Sign-off by the Vice that formally reviews and approves the President of Corporate organization’s sustainability report and Responsibility and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. reviewed by CEO. G4-49 Report the process for communicating F Proxy Statement critical concerns to the highest governance Governance body. Documents G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical P 10-K concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, F Mission Statement Good governance and acting ethically are inherent in our six core standards and norms of behavior such as Code of Conduct values. Our Global Code of Conduct, codes of conduct and codes of ethics. to which all of our Hilton Team Members are bound, defines our responsibilities to our stakeholders and guides our decision-making. G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms F Annual Report Hilton provides standards, governance structures, training, for seeking advice on ethical and lawful communications and reporting, behavior, and matters related to and investigation procedures to organizational integrity, such as helplines promote legal compliance and ethical behavior globally. or advice lines. G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms F Annual Report Our Ethics Hotline is available globally, with the exception of six for reporting concerns about unethical or Hilton Hotline countries with works council/ unlawful behavior, and matters related to privacy registration requirements organizational integrity, such as escalation that are in progress. through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. EC1 Report the direct economic value generated P Investors’ Report Every quarter, Hilton releases a public account of the overall and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis Environment Website performance of the portfolio. including the basic components for the organization’s global operations as listed below. If data is presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision and report the basic components. GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report Indicator Description Level Location Notes EC2 Report risks and opportunities posed by F 10-K climate change that have the potential to Energy Factsheet generate substantive changes in operations, Water Factsheet revenue or expenditure. Waste Factsheet Carbon Factsheet EC3 Where the plan’s liabilities are met by the F Careers Website organization’s general resources, report the estimated value of those liabilities. EC5 When a significant proportion of the P Diversity & Inclusion workforce is compensated based on wages Factsheet subject to minimum wage rules, report the Careers Website ratio of the entry level wage by gender at significant locations of operation to the minimum wage. EC6 Report the percentage of senior P Diversity & Inclusion management at significant locations of Factsheet operation that are hired from the local community. EC7 Report the extent of development of P Waste Factsheet significant infrastructure investments and Responsible Sourcing services supported. Factsheet EC8 Report examples of the significant identified F 10-K We acknowledge and address that every decision we make can make a positive and negative indirect economic Waste Factsheet negative or positive impact. impacts the organization has. EN3 Report total fuel consumption from nonF Energy Factsheet renewable sources in joules or multiples, Carbon Factsheet including fuel types used. EN4 Report energy consumed outside of the P Energy Factsheet organization, in joules or multiples. EN5 Report the energy intensity ratio. F Energy Factsheet EN6 Report the amount of reductions in energy F Energy Factsheet consumption achieved as a direct result of Preserving conservation and efficiency initiatives, in Environment Website joules or multiples. EN7 Report the reductions in the energy F LightStay Wins Product requirements of sold products and services of the Year achieved during the reporting period, in joules Energy Factsheet or multiples. Hilton Achieves Superior Energy Performance Certification EN8 Significant indirect economic impacts, P Water Factsheet including extent of impacts. EN9 Report the total number of water sources P Water Factsheet significantly affected by withdrawal by type. Waste Factsheet Responsible Sourcing Factsheet EN10 Percentage and total volume of water P Water Factsheet recycled and reused. CDP Response (A-) GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report Indicator Description Level Location Notes EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, P Water Factsheet or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of Responsible Sourcing high biodiversity value outside protected Factsheet areas. Sustainable Seafood Commitment EN12 Description of significant impacts of P Water Factsheet activities, products, and services on Responsible Sourcing biodiversity in protected areas and areas of Factsheet high biodiversity value outside protected 10-K areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. P Water Factsheet Carbon Factsheet EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and P Responsible Sourcing national conservation list species with Factsheet habitats in areas affected by operations, by Environment Website level of extinction risk. Volunteerism & Engagement Factsheet EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions F Carbon Factsheet (scope 1). EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) F Carbon Factsheet emissions (scope 2). EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) P Carbon Factsheet emissions (scope 3). EN18 Greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity. F Carbon Factsheet EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. F Carbon Factsheet EN22 Total water discharge by quality and P Water Factsheet destination. EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal P Waste Factsheet method. EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. F Waste Factsheet (None reported) EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and P Responsible Sourcing biodiversity value of water bodies and related Factsheet habitats significantly affected by the Water Factsheet organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Environment Website EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental P Environment Website impacts of products and services. EN30 Significant environmental impacts of P Carbon Factsheet In 2014, we submitted a Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) response transporting products and other goods and Responsible Sourcing for Supply Chain activity in materials for the organization’s operations, Factsheet accordance with a large business and transporting members of the workforce. partner’s request. EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures F Carbon Factsheet and investments by type. Water Factsheet Responsible Sourcing Factsheet LightStay Overview GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report Indicator Description Level Location Notes EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were P Responsible Sourcing screened using environmental criteria. Factsheet Responsible Sourcing Policy EN33 Significant actual and potential negative F 10-K In this year’s 10-K we clearly explain the risks and environmental impacts environmental impacts in the supply chain Environment Website of our supply chain. and actions taken. LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that F Careers Website are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. LA3 Return to work and retention rates after F Careers Website parental leave, by gender. Parental Leave Policies LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in P 10-K formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of P Human Rights diseases related to their occupation. Factsheet LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal P Human Rights Policy agreements with trade unions. LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong F Hilton University learning that support the continued Careers Website employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular F Careers Website performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category. LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were P Human Rights Policy screened using labor practices criteria. Responsible Sourcing Policy LA15 Significant actual and potential negative P 10-K In this year’s 10-K, we disclose the risks that can be associated with impacts for labor practices in the supply chain Human Rights labor practices. and actions taken. Factsheet HR1 Total number and percentage of significant P Human Rights investment agreements and contracts that Factsheet include human rights clauses or that Code of Conduct underwent human rights screening. HR2 Total hours of employee training on human P Human Rights Policy rights policies or procedures concerning Human Rights aspects of human rights that are relevant to Factsheet operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which P Code of Conduct the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights. GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report Indicator Description Level Location Notes HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having P Human Rights Policy significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Human Rights measures taken to contribute to the effective Factsheet abolition of child labor. HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having P Human Rights significant risk for incidents of forced or Factsheet compulsory labor, and measures to contribute ECPAT Partnership to the elimination of all forms of forced or Responsible Sourcing compulsory labor. Factsheet HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in F Human Rights the organization’s human rights policies or Factsheet procedures that are relevant to operations. HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were F Responsible Sourcing screened using human rights criteria. Policy Human Rights Factsheet Responsible Sourcing Factsheet HR11 Significant actual and potential negative F Human Rights Policy human rights impacts in the supply chain Human Rights and actions taken. Factsheet SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented P Volunteerism & We do not report on the percentage but rather the number of projects local community engagement, impact Engagement Factsheet completed during our annual assessments, and development programs. Global Month of volunteer program along with projects happening throughout the Service Press Release year. SO2 Operations with significant actual and F Volunteerism & We understand that our industry can affect natural habitats and potential negative impacts on local Engagement Factsheet resources and take steps to communities. Annual Report minimize this impact and support local economies and communities. We do not currently track the number of operations that Hilton may have potential negative impacts on local communities. SO3 Total number and percentage of operations F Code of Conduct assessed for risks related to corruption and Human Rights the significant risks identified. Factsheet SO4 Communication and training on antiF Code of Conduct Code of Conduct includes anticorruption language, which is given corruption policies and procedures. Human Rights Policy to each new Team Member Human Rights throughout the global portfolio. Factsheet SO6 Total value of political contributions by P country and recipient/beneficiary. SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were F Diversity & Inclusion screened using criteria for impacts on society. Factsheet Responsible Sourcing Policy SO10 Significant actual and potential negative F Annual Report impacts on society in the supply chain and 10-K actions taken. Governance Documents Responsible Sourcing Policy GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report Indicator Description Level Location Notes PR3 Type of product and service information F Responsible Sourcing required by the organization’s procedures for Factsheet product and service information and labeling, Responsible Sourcing and percentage of significant product and Policy service categories subject to such Development Website information requirements. PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer F SALT Scores satisfaction.
