2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation i Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Advancing Together ii Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Cautionary Statement on Forward Looking Information Certain information contained or incorporated by reference in this document, including any information as to our economic contributions, sustainability strate¬gy and vision, projects, plans, or future financial or operating performance, constitutes “forward-looking statements”. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. The words “believes”, “expect”, “target”, “plan”, “objective”, “goal”, “aspires”, “aim”, “project”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “continue”, “estimate”, “potential”, “may”, “will”, “can”, “could”, “should”, “would”, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. In particular, this document contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, with respect to (i) Barrick’s social and economic development contributions; (ii) Barrick’s corporate social responsibility (including sustainable development, community relations and security matters), and human rights programs, policies and performance; (iii) the estimated timing to achieve environmental, social and energy reduction targets; (iv) projected capital, operating and exploration expenditures; (v) joint ventures and partnerships; (vi) the expected time of closing of certain announced transactions; (vii) production rates; and (viii) expectations regarding future performance and other outlook or guidance. Forward-looking statements are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by the Company as at the date of this document in light of management’s experience and perception of current conditions and expect¬ed developments, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies. Known and unknown factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements and information. Such factors include, but are not limited to: changes in national and local government legislation, taxation, controls or regulations, and/or changes in the administration of laws, policies, and practices, expropria¬tion or nationalization of property and political or economic developments in Canada, the United States, and other jurisdictions in which the Company does or may carry on business in the future; damage to the Company’s reputation due to the actual or perceived occurrence of any number of events, including negative publicity with respect to the Company’s handling of environmental matters or dealings with community groups, whether true or not; availability and increased costs associated with mining inputs and labor; risk of loss due to acts of war, terrorism, sabotage and civil disturbances; litigation; contests over title to properties, particularly title to undeveloped properties, or over access to water, power and other required infrastructure; risks associated with working with partners in jointly controlled assets; employee relations; the risk that previously announced transactions may not close when planned or at all, or on the terms and conditions originally agreed; the benefits expected from transactions being realized; our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions or complete divestitures; risks associated with the implementation of Barrick’s digital transformation initiative; increased costs and risks related to the potential impact of climate change; fluctuations in the spot and forward price of gold, copper, or certain other commodities (such as silver, diesel fuel, natural gas, and electricity); the speculative nature of mineral exploration and development; changes in mineral production performance, exploita¬tion, and exploration successes; diminishing quantities or grades of reserves; increased costs, delays, suspensions, and technical challenges associated with the construction of capital projects; operating or technical difficulties in connection with mining or development activities, including geotechnical challenges, and disruptions in the maintenance or provision of required infrastructure and information technology systems; failure to comply with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations; timing of receipt of, or failure to comply with, necessary permits and approvals; uncertainty whether some or all of the Best-in-Class initiatives and targeted investments and projects will meet the Company’s capital allocation objectives; and business opportunities that may be presented to, or pursued by, the Company. In addition, there are risks and hazards associated with the business of mineral exploration, development and mining, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, unusual or unexpected formations, pressures, cave-ins, flooding and gold bullion, copper cathode or gold or copper concentrate losses (and the risk of inadequate insurance, or inability to obtain insurance, to cover these risks). Many of these uncertainties and contingencies can affect our actual results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, us. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. All of the forward-looking statements made in this document are qualified by these cautionary statements. Specific reference is made to the most recent Form 40-F/Annual Information Form on file with the SEC and Canadian provincial securities regulatory authorities for a more detailed discussion of some of the factors underlying forward-looking statements and the risks that may affect Barrick’s ability to achieve the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements contained in this document. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new infor¬mation, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 1 In This Report Introduction Topic-Specific Disclosures Appendices About This Report 2 GRI 102 : General Disclosures 4 Appendix A: Barrick’s 125 GRI 201: Economic Performance 33 2016 Environmental, Barrick Gold 3 GRI 202: Market Presence 35 Social, and Governance Corporation United GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 37 (ESG) Data Tables Nations Global GRI 204: Procurement Practices 38 Compact End Notes 173 GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 39 Communication on GRI 301: Materials 42 Progress 2016 GRI 302: Energy 44 GRI 303: Water 46 GRI 304: Biodiversity 50 GRI 305: Emissions 55 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 59 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 65 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 66 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 66 GRI 401: Employment 68 GRI 404: Training and Education 68 GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 72 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 73 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 80 GRI 406: Non-Discrimination 80 GRI 407: F reedom of Association and 82 Collective Bargaining GRI 408: Child Labor 82 GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 82 GRI 410: Security Practices 84 GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 87 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 92 GRI 413: Local Communities 107 GRI 415: Public Policy 114 GRI 419: Socio Economic Compliance 116 Artisanal and Small-scale Mining 118 Resettlement 120 Closure Planning 121 Non-Managed Operations 123 2 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index About This Report Barrick believes that transparency – whether through disclosing payments to governments, reporting on our energy and water use, voluntarily opening ourselves to third-party scrutiny, or otherwise – is integral to our partnership culture. We have produced this GRI Content Index to provide interest(UNGC) Communication on Progress and the Sustainable ed stakeholders with a snapshot of our sustainability perforDevelopment Principles from the International Council on mance and progress as of December 31st, 2016. This report Mining and Metals (ICMM). is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. It contains all the relevant susThis Index complements Barrick’s online Responsibility tainability-related information on which Barrick reports and is Report, where we provide regular updates on our sustainorganized in accordance with the applicable GRI Disclosures ability performance and progress. This report is available at and Topics. It also refers to the relevant sustainability reporting www.barrick.com/responsibility. requirements for the annual United Nations Global compact LEGEND C GRI Standard Core Indicator  Material Issue – High Priority  Material Issue – Medium Priority  Fully Reported  Partially Reported UNGC United Nations Global Compact Principles ICMM International Council on Mining and Metals – 10 Principles of Sustainable Development AIF Annual Information Form AIC Annual Information Circular 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 3 Barrick Gold Corporation United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Barrick has long been committed to the principles articulated We hope you will find this Communication on Progress inforin the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We have been mative and invite you to view the Barrick website, our annual proud signatories to this international voluntary initiative since Responsibility Report, and the Beyond Borders stakeholder 2005. Barrick continues to integrate best practices in human publications for further detailed information on the Company’s rights, labor standards, community relations, environment, and commitment to corporate social responsibility and the princianti-corruption into its culture and day-to-day operations. For ples of the UNGC. the past nine years, Barrick has been ranked as a world leader in social and environmental responsibility by the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, and has been part of the North America Index since 2007. The following Communication on Progress provides an overview of Barrick’s key achievements in 2016 and objectives for Kelvin Dushnisky 2017, aligned with the UNGC principles and the indicators President corresponding to the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. As Barrick is a member of the ICMM, Barrick has also linked this annual update with ICMM’s Sustainable Development principles. 4 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI General Disclosures 102 Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization AIF p. 9 ICMM UNGC Barrick Gold Corporation 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services AIF p. 12 ICMM UNGC Barrick’s principle products and sources of earnings are gold and copper 102-3 Location of headquarters AIF p. 9 ICMM UNGC Barrick’s head and registered office is located at: Brookfield Place, TD Canada Trust Tower 161 Bay Street, Suite 3700 Toronto, Ontario, M4J 2S1 Canada 102-4 Location of operations AIF p. 10 ICMM UNGC Barrick has operating mines or projects in 7 countries covered in this Responsibility Report: Canada, the United States, the Dominican Republic, Peru, Chile, Argentina, Zambia. 102-5 Ownership and legal form AIF p. 9 ICMM UNGC Barrick is a corporation owned by shareholders. 102-6 Markets served AIF p. 35-36 ICMM UNGC Gold can be readily sold on numerous markets throughout the world. Governments, central banks and other official institutions hold significant quantities of gold as a component of exchange reserves. Since there are a large number of available gold purchasers, Barrick is not dependent upon the sale of gold to any one customer. At the Lumwana mine, copper concentrate is sold to Zambian smelters. Since there are a large number of available copper cathode and copper concentrate purchasers, Barrick is not dependent upon the sale of copper to any one customer. 102-7 Scale of the organization Annual Report p. 151 ICMM UNGC Total number of employees: 11,205 (Barrick-operated sites) Total number of operations: Barrick’s business is organized into operating segments for financial reporting purposes, comprising 13 individual mine sites, one publicly traded company (Acacia Mining plc) and one project (Pascua-Lama). In the 2016 Responsibility Report, only Barrick-operated sites are reported. For more information, please see Disclosure 102-45. Revenue: $8.558 billion Total Capitalization: Total Debt $7.9 billion; Total Equity $10.313 billion Quantity of Products: 5.517 million ounces of gold and 415 million pounds of copper 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 5 102-8 Workforce Employee ICMM UNGC Development 6 Workforce Composition – 2016 Employees Contractors Total Workforce Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Barrick 9,939 1,266 11,205 n/a n/a 11,178 n/a n/a 22,383 Total 89% 11% n/a n/a n/a n/a Argentina 1,313 62 1,375 2,546 63 2,609 3,859 125 3,984 95% 5% 98% 2% 97% 3% Canada 611 136 747 192 8 200 803 144 947 82% 18% 96% 4% 85% 15% Chile 211 40 251 1,250 102 1,352 1,461 142 1,603 84% 16% 92% 8% 91% 9% Dominican 1,846 237 2,083 n/a n/a 2,108 n/a n/a 4,191 Republic 89% 11% n/a n/a n/a n/a Peru 1,190 105 1,295 2,022 125 2,147 3,212 230 3,442 92% 8% 94% 6% 93% 7% United 3,260 501 3,761 n/a n/a 675 n/a n/a 4,436 States 87% 13% n/a n/a n/a n/a Zambia 1,508 185 1,693 1,816 271 2,087 3,324 456 3,780 89% 11% 87% 13% 88% 12% Employees by gender and employment type – 2016 Female Male Total Full-Time 1,175 9,072 10,247 11.5% 88.5% Part-Time 5 36 41 12.2% 87.8% Fixed term full-time 82 803 885 9.3% 90.7% Fixed term part-time 4 28 32 12.5% 87.5% Casual 0 0 0 0.0% 0.0% Barrick Total 1,266 9,939 11,205 102-9 Supply Chain Supply Chain ICMM UNGC 9 Barrick’s Supply Chain function purchases, stores and delivers $3.5-4.5 billion annually in supplies, equipment, and services to Barrick’s mines and offices. The group sources products ranging from diesel fuel and chemical reagents to IT equipment and haul trucks from more than 20,000 vendors worldwide. 6 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index 102-10 Significant Changes AIF p. 13-14 ICMM UNGC Barrick’s strategy is focused on growing free cash flow per study at the Turquoise Ridge mine and is advancing feasishare over the long term by maintaining and growing marbility studies on three other projects that have the potential gins, which are increasingly driven by innovation and digital to replace or accelerate gold production, one at each of the transformation; managing its portfolio and allocating capital Cortez property, Goldrush project and Lagunas Norte mine. with discipline and rigor; and leveraging the Company’s disIn 2017, Barrick initiated a prefeasibility study to evaluate the tinctive partnership culture as a competitive advantage. construction of an underground mine at the Pascua-Lama project. Barrick also expects to complete a scoping study at Capital allocation decisions are evaluated against the the Alturas project in Chile in 2017. All of Barrick’s projects Company’s 15% hurdle rate. As part of this strategy, the are evaluated against the Company’s 15% hurdle rate, using Company’s capital allocation options, including returns to a long-term gold price of $1,200 per ounce, as they advance shareholders, organic investment, acquisitions, and other through each stage of the development process. They are expenditures are ranked and prioritized against Barrick’s key then ranked, prioritized, and sequenced to optimize capital objectives, including generating returns to shareholders, respending over time, allowing Barrick to anticipate and plan ducing costs, strengthening Barrick’s balance sheet, optimizing for funding requirements. Capital estimates contained within Barrick’s asset portfolio by divesting assets that do not meet prefeasibility studies may increase or decrease as a result of the Company’s return criteria and investing in assets that do, changes incorporated at the feasibility study stage. For 2017, and reducing geopolitical risk. Barrick intends to reduce its tosubject to permitting and other matters, the timing of which tal debt by $2.9 billion, to $5 billion, by the end of 2018, half are not in Barrick’s control, Barrick expects to spend approxof which is targeted to be reduced in 2017, which it expects to imately $250 to $300 million of its total capital expenditures achieve by using cash flow from operations, selling additional on projects, as compared to $145 million in 2016. assets, and creating new joint ventures and partnerships. Barrick also carried out the following initiatives in 2014, 2015 Through its Best-in-Class approach, Barrick pursues attracand 2016 to strengthen its balance sheet: tive margins by continuously improving the productivity and efficiency of existing systems and operations. The Company • On January 31, 2014, Barrick completed the sale of its simultaneously pursues step changes in performance by re-dePlutonic mine in Australia for total cash consideration signing those systems and introducing new technologies. of A$25 million. On March 1, 2014, Barrick completed the sale of its Kanowna mine in Australia for total cash In 2016, Barrick announced a new partnership with Cisco consideration of A$75 million, subject to certain closing to drive Barrick’s digital transformation. Working with Cisco adjustments. On March 11, 2014, Barrick completed the and other technology partners, Barrick has begun to develop divestment of a portion of its equity interest in Acacia, its flagship digital operation at the Cortez mine in Nevada, raising gross proceeds of $186 million. Following this embedding digital technology throughout the mine. This partial divestment, Barrick’s equity interest in Acacia was transformation is intended to improve not only productivity reduced from 73.9% to 63.9%. On April 4, 2014, the and efficiency, but also environmental and safety perforCompany completed the sale of its minority interest in mance, which will allow Barrick to build and maintain greater the Marigold mine in Nevada for total cash consideration trust with communities, governments, non-governmental of $86 million. On December 3, 2014, Barrick formed organizations, and other partners. In 2017, Barrick intends to a joint venture with Saudi Arabian Mining Company expand digital solutions to other Barrick operations, starting (“Ma’aden”), which is 50% owned by the Saudi Arabian at Veladero, with a focus on digital environmental managegovernment, to operate the Jabal Sayid mine. Ma’aden ment systems. acquired its 50% interest in Ma’aden Barrick Copper Through a combination of acquisitions and its exploration Company, the joint venture company established to program, Barrick has several projects at varying stages of hold the Jabal Sayid mine, for cash consideration of development. The Company has completed a feasibility $216 million. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 7 • In 2015, Barrick reduced its total debt by $3.1 billion, finalized the working capital adjustments resulting in exceeding an original debt reduction target of $3 billion final consideration of $950 million. On December 17, for the year, through a combination of normal course 2015, Barrick completed the sale of the Ruby Hill mine repayments and early debt retirements. Barrick comand Barrick’s 70% interest in the Spring Valley project, pleted the following transactions in 2015 as part of both in Nevada, to Waterton Precious Metals Fund II this debt reduction strategy. On July 23, 2015, Barrick Cayman, LP for cash consideration of $110 million. completed the sale of the Cowal mine in Australia for • In 2016, Barrick reduced its total debt by $2.04 billion, cash consideration of $550 million. On August 31, 2015, or 20%, from $9.97 billion to $7.93 billion, exceeding Barrick completed the sale of 50% of its interest in its original target of $2 billion, through a combination the Porgera mine in Papua New Guinea to Zijin Mining of normal course repayments and early debt retireGroup Company for cash consideration of $298 million. ments, including completion of two cash tender offers. On September 29, 2015, Barrick closed a gold and silver On January 11, 2016, Barrick completed the sale of streaming transaction with Royal Gold, Inc. (“Royal the Bald Mountain mine and its 50% interest in the Gold”) for production linked to Barrick’s 60% interest in Round Mountain mine, both in Nevada, to Kinross Gold the Pueblo Viejo mine in the Dominican Republic. Royal Corporation (“Kinross”) for cash consideration of $610 Gold made an upfront cash payment of $610 million and million, subject to certain closing adjustments. will continue to make cash payments for gold and silver delivered under the agreement. On December 1, 2015, In 2016, the Company removed the following non-core Barrick completed the sale of 50% of its Zaldívar copper properties from its reportable operating segments: Porgera, mine in Chile to Antofagasta plc. In August 2016, Barrick Kalgoorlie, Zaldivar, and Lumwana. 102-11 Precautionary Approach ICMM UNGC 2 7 Since there may be significant impacts to the environment due to our operations, Barrick is committed to using a precautionary approach throughout the life of a mine. When contemplating changes to mine plans we first assess potential environmental impacts, and then evaluate how to avoid, control or mitigate these impacts, even when there is a lack of scientific certainty as to the likelihood or magnitude of the impacts. 102-12 External Initiatives External ICMM UNGC Commitments 1 2 8 Date of Adoption / Organization Membership Focus BSR 2007 BSR is a U.S.-based, not-for-profit organization focused on sustainability and business. BSR works with its global network of more than 250 member companies to develop sustainable business strategies and solutions through consulting, research, and cross-sector collaboration. Barrick is part of the Human Rights working group at BSR. Carbon Pricing 2016 The Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition is an international, voluntary partnership Leadership Coalition between businesses, governments, and civil society organizations. The Coalition aims to strengthen carbon pricing policies, facilitate the integration of existing carbon pricing policies, and provide platforms for carbon pricing discussion and collaboration. 8 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index CDP (Carbon 2005 The CDP is an independent not-for-profit organization holding the largest dataDisclosure Project) base of primary corporate climate change information in the world. Thousands of organizations from across the world’s major economies measure and disclose their greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies through CDP; and now water management strategies through CDP-Water Disclosure. Devonshire 2007 The DI is a forum for leading Canadian international development NGOs and minInitiative ing companies to come together in response to the emerging social agenda surrounding mining and community development. Members believe that a collaborative presence between the Canadian private sector and NGOs in emerging markets can be a force for positive change. The ultimate objective of the (DI) is improved social and community development outcomes wherever Canadian mining companies operate overseas. Extractive 2006 The EITI is a coalition of governments, companies, civil society groups, investors Industries Transparency and international organizations. It supports improved governance in resource-rich Initiative countries by the verification and full publication of company payments and government revenues from oil, gas and mining. Global Reporting 2005 GRI developed the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework. Initiative The framework sets out the principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure their economic, environmental and social performance. International 2006 The ICMM was formed by the world’s leading mining companies. ICMM members Council on Mining & Metals believe that be acting collectively the mining, minerals and metals industry can best ensure its continued access to land, capital and markets as well as build trust and respect by demonstrating its ability to contribute successfully to sustainable development. As members we are committed to implementing the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework. International 2005 The International Cyanide Management Code For The Manufacture, Transport Cyanide Management Code and Use of Cyanide In The Production of Gold (the Code) is a voluntary program for the gold mining industry to promote responsible management of cyanide use in gold mining, enhance the protection of human health, and reduce the potential for environmental impacts. Companies that become signatories to the Code must have their operations audited by an independent third party to demonstrate their compliance with the Code. International 1998 Acid drainage is one of the most serious and potentially enduring environmental Network for Acid Prevention problems for the mining industry. Left unchecked, it can result in such long-term water quality impacts that it could well be this industry’s most harmful legacy. Effectively dealing with acid drainage is a formidable challenge for which no global solutions currently exist. INAP is an industry group created to help meet this challenge. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 9 Trace 2011 Trace International Inc. is a non-profit membership association that pools resourcInternational Inc. es to provide practical and cost effective anti-bribery compliance solutions for multi-national companies and their commercial intermediaries. United Nations 2005 The UN Global Compact provides a framework for businesses to align their operaGlobal Compact tions and strategies with 10 universally accepted Principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Global Compact 2013 The Global Compact Network Canada (GCNC) is the local network chapter of Network Canada the United Nations Global Compact. As the 101st local network of the UN Global Compact, the GCNC supports Canadian signatories (both Canadian firms and subsidiaries of global signatories) in the implementation of the Ten Principles, while facilitating and creating opportunities for multi-sectoral and multi-stakeholder collaboration. Voluntary 2010 The Voluntary Principles were developed out of a multi-stakeholder process involvPrinciples on Security and ing companies and NGOs as a means of providing guidance to companies in the Human Rights extractive sector on maintaining the security of their operations in a manner that respects human rights and fundamental freedoms. World Gold 1987 The World Gold Council is the market development organisation for the gold inCouncil dustry. Working within the investment, jewellery and technology sectors, as well as engaging in government affairs, its purpose is to provide industry leadership, whilst stimulating and sustaining demand for gold. 102-13 Membership of Associations Government Affairs ICMM UNGC 2 10 8 9 Industry associations Barrick is a member of (national and international) include the following: • Cámara Argentina de Empresarios Mineros (Argentina) • Mining Association of Canada (Canada) • Cámara Minera de San Juan (San Juan, Argentina) • Nevada Mining Association (Nevada) • Cámara Minera y Petrolera de la República Dominicana • Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada (Dominican Republic) (Canada) • Consejo Minero (Chile) • Sociedad Nacional de Mineria (Chile) • Chamber of Mines (Zambia) • Sociedad Nacional de Mineria, Petroleo y Energia (Peru) • International Council on Mining and Metals • World Gold Council 10 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI General Disclosures 102 Strategy 102-14 Statement from President President’s Letter ICMM UNGC 2 10 Introduction Ownership carries with it a dimension that goes far beyond just a job. It is a whole different level of involvement. Owners, More than two years ago, Barrick set out to return the comas our Chairman, John L. Thornton, has often said, are “all pany to its original DNA: a high-performance, partnership in.” They are all in emotionally and financially, and we felt culture, characterized by disciplined capital allocation, operathis was a critical step towards replicating our original parttional excellence, and continual self-improvement. My letter nership culture, updated for the twenty-first century. in Barrick’s 2016 Annual Report describes in detail these changes and our financial and operational progress. As our most valued asset, nothing is more important than the safety, health and well-being of our people. I am therefore Our partnership culture is at the heart of these changes. pleased that we met our 2016 target for a total recordable What made Barrick unique and drove our early success were injury frequency rate (TRIFR) of 0.40 at our mines— the lowthe relationships our people developed among themselves est TRIFR in our history. and with host communities, governments, and others. However, this was overshadowed by the death of Meckson This could not be more relevant today and our new sustainKakompe, a haul truck driver at our Lumwana mine in ability vision reflects this: Zambia. Meckson was killed in a truck fire. He was just 32 We will partner with host governments and communities to years old and is survived by his wife and five children. Our transform their natural resources into sustainable benefits goal is for all of our people to go home safe and healthy evand mutual prosperity. We aim to be a welcome and trusted ery day. That is an expectation, not a target. That we did not partner of host governments and communities, the most meet this goal in 2016 is unacceptable. sought-after employer, and the natural choice for long-term We disappointed ourselves, and our partners, at our Veladero investors. mine in Argentina. Over the past two years, we’ve experiThrough this vision, we are intentionally challenging preconenced three incidents involving processing solution at the ceived ideas about mining — that our industry, by definition mine’s heap leach pad area in spite of continuing efforts to and by deed, can only extract value. We have a fundamentalimplement and monitor environmental protections. These inly different view. Barrick seeks out opportunities to add value cidents hurt our credibility with community and government and create prosperity for our employees, for our government partners and weakened the trust that we had spent more and community partners, and for our shareholders. than a decade developing. We do this in three ways: by managing our impacts on peoWe are now working hand-in-hand with local authorities to ple and the environment; by sharing the benefits of mining; implement a newly engineered plan designed with the intenand by working respectfully with others. In the paragraphs tion that Veladero operates to the highest possible standards. below, I share highlights of our progress and our challenges We have also installed high-definition cameras to monitor over the past year. the leach pad and other areas of the operation. Providing a live feed, and making it accessible to the general public, People and Environment enable real-time monitoring and put our commitment to We are a company of more than 11,000 people. In 2016, we transparency into action. Such technology will help improve created a program that made every employee at Barrick a our operational performance and can help in rebuilding trust. shareholder. In doing so, we became a company of owners. However, we know that this will take time. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 11 These incidents are a reminder that it will be an ongoing just over half come from the communities where we operjourney to re-establish Barrick’s original values. At the same ate. Our Supply Chain, Human Resources, and Community time — and this is not meant in any way to downplay our Relations teams continue to improve the opportunities for challenges in Argentina — we believe the situation is the exlocal people to participate either directly in our operations or ception and that, as a Company, we are on the correct path. as suppliers to our business. For example, the Company developed a new Water Strategy Prosperity also comes from the goods and services we purManagement Framework in 2016. The cornerstone of the chase from our more than 20,000 suppliers, both big and Framework is an enterprise-wide approach to water stewardsmall. In 2016, these in-country purchases totaled almost ship. As we roll out the Framework in 2017, it will focus on $2.7 billion, including $220 million from suppliers in our identifying water risks and opportunities, creating partlocal communities. While these are significant numbers, nerships, and being transparent in both our successes and they become even more meaningful when I think about the setbacks. The Framework is described in further detail here. individual people behind them. Like Javier Illanes, who repairs and recharges fire extinguishers for the Veladero mine, or In 2016, the Company also launched a cross-functional CEFORMOMAL, a non-governmental organization in the Climate Change Committee composed of senior leaders, Dominican Republic that has been working with women including our Chief Financial Officer, Chief Sustainability entrepreneurs to supply cleaning products to the Pueblo Viejo Officer and Chief Investment Officer. The Committee mine since 2008. will help us better manage climate change risks and opportunities that have the potential to impact our invesWorking Respectfully with Others tors, stakeholders, and operations. Barrick also joined Relationships are at the heart of our ability to operate – the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition — the first relationships between our employees, with communities and Canadian gold mining company to do so. The Carbon Pricing governments, with industry peers, civil society, and others. Leadership Coalition is an international, voluntary partnership between businesses, governments, and civil society orgaWe are finding more ways to leverage digital technology to nizations. It aims to strengthen carbon pricing policies and bring our operations and our host communities closer togethprovide a place for thoughtful discussion on carbon pricing er. One example is at our Pascua-Lama project, located on and collaboration. the border of Chile and Argentina. Knowing the importance of water quality to local communities and governments, we Sharing the Benefits of Mining now publicly share real-time water monitoring data from Our sustainability vision calls on us to develop partnerships Chile’s Estrecho River with everyone. In the near future, we with host governments and communities that transform their see a host of other performance metrics also being made resources into mutual prosperity. publicly available in real time, along with virtual mine site tours to bring information about our mining activities to as That prosperity comes in a number of forms such as the taxes many people as possible. and royalties that we pay, which totaled more than $1.1 billion in 2016. Governments use these funds to invest in imTraditional approaches are still important too. Community portant infrastructure like roads and to improve basic services environmental monitoring programs bring Barrick’s like health and education. Environment and Community Relations teams together with local community members to monitor water quality, Prosperous partnerships also generate jobs – both directly air quality, dust, and other environmental factors. And we and indirectly – and via the good salaries that we pay to our continue to open up our performance to third-party scrutiny, 11,000-plus employees; in 2016, those wages were almost including through the ISO 14001 re-certification process, $1.4 billion. I am pleased about the emphasis that we continInternational Cyanide Management Code audits, and ue to put on local hiring. Currently, more than 97 percent of annual third-party human rights impact assessments. our workforce comes from the countries where we work, and 12 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Our active role in multi-stakeholder groups is also importsuch progress is essential. From improved community relaant, such as in the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative, tions to innovations in water and energy management, manthe UN Global Compact and the Global Compact Network aging sustainability is at the heart of our ability to generate Canada, the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human value for our partners, so we can all advance, together. Rights, and the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition. Our affiliation with these groups not only exposes us to different perspectives, it has led to unique partnerships, including a collaboration between Barrick, UNICEF, and the Government of Canada in 2016 to help improve children’s rights (described in further detail here). Please read our Sustainability Report for more information Kelvin Dushnisky on our progress and performance over the past year. Making President, Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 13 GRI General Disclosures 102 Ethic and Integrity 102-16 Values and Code Responsible Mining ICMM UNGC Governance 1 2 4 1 2 6 10 Our commitment to responsible mining is supported by a • Urgency: Act with urgency. Seek out opportunities and robust governance framework, setting out the Company’s determine how to capitalize on them. expectations of employees, suppliers, and contractors in the • Responsibility and Accountability: Act as an owner. conduct of their daily work. Take initiative. Own up to mistakes and learn from them. At the core of this framework is the Code of Business Drive change. Always look for ways to make things better. Conduct and Ethics and its supporting management systems, • Partnerships: Earn trust and create transparency to build programs, and policies. These provide a common standard enduring partnerships between our people and with the by which all sites are expected to operate—from community, countries and communities in which we operate. health, environmental, safety, security, human rights, and ethical perspectives—and help bring Barrick’s Vision and • Operational Excellence: Lead the industry in safety and Values to life. environmental practices—all while unleashing the full potential of all our assets through ingenuity, drive, and The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and its supporting innovation. systems are complemented by Boardand executive-level oversight, as well as expert advice from our external CSR • Shareholder Value: Allocate money and people to opAdvisory Board, to help keep us true to our commitment to portunities that grow our free cash flow per share, while mining in a responsible manner. maximizing our net asset value. Barrick’s Board of Directors is responsible for the steward• Execution: Do what we say we are going to do. ship of the Company and for oversight of the management Barrick’s Sustainability Vision is derived from our corporate of its business affairs, while our senior management is Vision and Values and guides our responsible mining practices responsible for the management and day-to-day operaacross the Company. tion of the Company. Our obligations, expectations, and intentions are codified in our Vision and Values and the The Code Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and they are reinAs a company and as individuals, we must guide our conduct forced regularly at all levels of the Company. by the highest standards of honesty, integrity and ethical Our Vision and Values behavior. Barrick’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (“the Code”) embodies Barrick’s commitment to conduct business Our vision is the generation of wealth through responsible in accordance with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, mining—wealth for our owners, our people, and the counand the highest ethical standards throughout our organizatries and communities with which we partner. tion. The Code has been adopted by the Board of Directors We aim to be the leading mining company focused on gold, and applies to every Barrick employee at sites we operate, growing our cash flow per share by developing and operating including the President and other senior executive and fihigh-quality assets, through disciplined allocation of human nancial officers, and to our Board of Directors. We require all and financial capital, and operational excellence. employees and directors to read and comply with the Code and associated policies. Barrick provides mandatory training Our Values on the Code and related policies to all new employees, and • People: Attract and develop strong people who act with requires all management and supervisory personnel to conintegrity, are tireless in their pursuit of excellence, and inspire others to be their best. firm their compliance annually. All Barrick employees and 14 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index directors are accountable for adhering to the Code, and are formal, more closely connected to our core values, and more responsible for reporting behavior that violates the Code. user friendly by incorporating clear examples and a section of In 2017, the Code was revised and updated to make it less frequently asked questions. 102-18 Governance Structure Responsible Mining ICMM UNGC Governance, AIC p.32 1 2 4 10 Barrick’s Board of Directors is responsible for the stewardOur committee mandates set out the composition ship of the Company and for oversight of the management requirements of each committee. The mandate of its business affairs, while our senior management is of each of our committees is available at responsible for the management and day-to-day operawww.barrick.com/company/governance. tion of the Company. Our obligations, expectations, and The Board’s Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee is intentions are codified in our Vision and Values and the responsible for overseeing Barrick’s policies, programs and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and they are reinperformance relating to the environment, safety and health, forced regularly at all levels of the Company. corporate social responsibility (including sustainable developThe Board has established five standing committees, all of ment, community relations and security matters) and human which have a written mandate. Consistent with the applicarights. The Committee also makes recommendations to the ble standards of the Canadian Securities Administrators, the Board, where appropriate, on significant matters relating to TSX Rules, and the NYSE Standards, all the members of the the environment, safety and health, corporate social responsiAudit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate bility and human rights. Governance & Nominating Committee are independent diIn 2016, the Committee comprised of four directors and, rectors. The Corporate Responsibility Committee is comprised since April 26, 2016, all members of the CR Committee have entirely of independent directors and the Risk Committee is been independent directors. In 2017, Barrick appointed Pablo comprised of independent directors with the exception of Marcet to the Board of Directors and as a member of the Anthony Munk, who, under National Instrument 58-101 and Corporate Responsibility Committee. the NYSE Standards, is deemed not to be independent for a period of three years from the date his father, Peter Munk, ceased to be Chairman of Barrick (i.e., April 30, 2017). The Chair of the Risk Committee is an independent director. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 15 102-19 Delegating Authority Responsible Mining ICMM UNGC Governance 1 2 4 10 Each quarter, the Corporate Responsibility Committee receives presentations from management on the Company’s environmental performance and initiatives, reclamation and closure costs, safety and health performance and initiatives, permitting and government approvals at the Company’s mines and projects, security matters, human rights issues and corporate social responsibility (CSR) programs. LICENSE TO OPERATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE (MOST RELEVANT FUNCTIONS) Corporate Responsibility Board of Committee of Directors the Board CSR Advisory President Board Executive Vice Chief Chief Operating SVP and President, Talent Sustainability Officer General Counsel Management Officer VP Chief Innovation Chief Technical Operations Mine General Executive Corporate Officer Officer Officer Managers Directors Affairs VP Sr. Director VP Water Community Environment Relations VP Sr. Director Safety & Health CSR Director Security 16 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Management ICMM UNGC environmental, and social topics 1 2 4 10 Peter Sinclair was appointed Chief Sustainability Officer in September 2015. In this role, Mr. Sinclair focuses on long-term, strategic sustainability trends, helping management and the Board of Directors anticipate changes, and manage key external risks to our license to operate. He leads our head office Community Relations, Corporate Social Responsibility, and Government Affairs teams, ensuring we maintain leading company-wide sustainability policies and practices, and engagement with external partners, including NGOs, international institutions, and the growing responsible investment community. 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, CSR Advisory Board ICMM UNGC environmental, and social topics 1 2 4 10 Barrick’s CSR Advisory Board (the Advisory Board) was formed emerging trends and providing practical guidance on best in 2012 and acts as an external sounding board on a range of practice in social and environmental performance. They meet corporate responsibility issues, including community relations, with our Executive Chairman, President, Chair of the Board sustainable development, water, energy, climate change, Corporate Responsibility Committee and other senior leaders security, and human rights. in-person twice a year, as well as conduct annual visits to Barrick sites. We benefit from the insight of world-renowned experts in human rights, sustainability, and international development, These distinguished individuals bring diverse perspectives on currently including Aron Cramer, Robert Fowler and Gare the social and environmental issues and opportunities that Smith. John Ruggie, author of the UN Guiding Principles on face Barrick and the international mining industry. They enBusiness and Human Rights, serves as a Special Consultant to courage and challenge us with respect to our CSR programs the Advisory Board. and performance and help us continue to deliver on our commitment to responsible mining. The Advisory Board is a forum for external thought leaders to engage with senior management at Barrick in constructive discussion and lesson-sharing, providing intelligence on 102-22 Composition of the highest governance AIC p. 22-31 ICMM UNGC body and its committees 1 2 4 10 I. Executive: 2 directors (13%) are executive, 13 directors (87%) are non-executive directors. II. Independence: 12 directors (80%) of our Board are independent directors, 3 directors (20%) are non-independent directors. III. Tenure: Our directors are elected annually, individually, and by majority vote. The average tenure is 5.6 years. IV. Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments: No board member serves on more than four other public boards. Full biographical details are found in the Annual Information Circular pp. 22-31. V. Gender: 2 directors (13%) are female, 13 directors (87%) are male. VI. Membership of under-represented social groups: The visible minority status of Barrick’s Board Members is not described in Barrick’s regulatory filings. VII. Competencies relating to economic, environmental and social topics: Please see table below from p. 13 of Barrick’s Annual Information Circular. VIII. Stakeholder representation: N/A 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 17 Name (age) Director Experience and Expertise Primary Occupation Committee Memberships Since Audit Comp CG&N CR Risk Gustavo A. Cisneros (71) 2003 Chairman of the Cisneros Group Independent of Companies C Graham G. Clow (66) 2016 Chairman of Roscoe Postle Independent Associates Inc. Gary A. Doer (68) 2016 Corporate Director and former Independent Canadian Ambassador to the United States Kelvin P.M. Dushnisky (53) 2016 President of Barrick Non-Independent J. Michael Evans (59) 2014 President, Alibaba Group Independent Holding Ltd. C Brian L. Greenspun (70) 2014 Publisher and Editor of the Independent Las Vegas Sun J. Brett Harvey (66) 2005 Chairman Emeritus of CONSOL Independent, Lead Director Energy Inc. C Nancy H.O. Lockhart (62) 2014 Corporate Director and Retired Independent Chief Administrative Officer of C Frum Development Group NEW 2016 Corporate Director Pablo Marcet (53) Independent Dambisa F. Moyo (48) 2011 International economist and Independent author Anthony Munk (56) 1996 Senior Managing Director of Non-Independent Onex Corporation J. Robert S. Prichard (68) 2015 Chairman of Torys LLP, BMO Independent Financial Group, and Metrolinx Steven J. Shapiro (64) 2004 Corporate Director and Retired Independent Executive Vice President, Finance C and Corporate Development at Burlington Resources Inc. John L. Thornton (63) 2012 Executive Chairman of Barrick Non-Independent, Executive Chairman Ernie L. Thrasher (61) 2014 Founder, Chief Executive Officer Independent and Chief Marketing Officer of Xcoal Energy & Resources Mining Operations Health, Safety & Environmental Audit Audit Committee Comp Compensation Committee Capital Allocation & Financial Talent Development and Allocation CG&N Corporate Governance & Nominating Acumen & Partnership Culture Committee M&A Execution International Business Experience CR Corporate Responsibility Committee and Global Partnerships Risk Risk Committee Government and Regulatory Risk Management Committee Member Affairs & Community Relations C Committee Chair 18 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body AIC p. 98,103 ICMM UNGC 1 2 4 10 Our Executive Chairman, as representative of the Board and orities, which he continues to do one-on-one with senior the owners, and as a meaningful owner himself, continues partners throughout the week. to play a critical leadership role in our transformation. He enThe Executive Chairman also communicates with shareholdsures that the priorities set by the Board are executed to the ers, engages potential investors and, in concert with our highest possible standard by the partnership. The responsiPresident and other senior partners, works with our external bilities and activities of the Executive Chairman are subject to partners, including host governments and joint venture partthe oversight of the Board. ners. In addition, the Executive Chairman provides leadership The Executive Chairman actively oversees the partnership in a and direction to the Board, and facilitates the operations and weekly meeting he chairs of Barrick’s eight most senior partdeliberations of the Board to satisfy the Board’s functions ners, who we refer to as our Executive Committee. In these and responsibilities under its mandate. More specifically, the weekly meetings, each senior partner reports, one by one, on Executive Chairman chairs each meeting of the Board and Barrick’s key priorities: talent management with our Executive works in consultation with the Lead Director to, among other Vice President, Talent Management; Best-in-Class operations things, plan and organize the activities of the Board. Together with our Chief Operating Officer; portfolio optimization with the Lead Director, the Executive Chairman ensures that with our Senior Executive Vice President, Strategic Matters; the Board has all the information it needs to function effecfinancial prudence and strategy with our Executive Vice tively, at all times, including, as necessary, communication President and Chief Financial Officer; exploration initiatives between Board meetings. The Executive Chairman serves as with our Executive Vice President, Exploration and Growth; the principal liaison between the Board and the Executive and capital allocation and investment management with our Committee and meets with representatives of our shareholdChief Investment Officer. The discussion then ends with new ers and other partners on behalf of the Board. The Executive or outstanding priorities with our President and the Chief of Chairman is also responsible for conducting an annual perStaff. Throughout these meetings, our Executive Chairman formance evaluation of our Executive Committee with input monitors progress, clarifies direction, and emphasizes prifrom the Lead Director. 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest AIC p. 100-103 ICMM UNGC governance body 1 2 4 10 We identify director candidates through a rigorous search and Board Composition and Nomination of selection process overseen by our Corporate Governance & Directors Nominating Committee and carried out in accordance with Shareholders elect directors annually to hold office until our Barrick’s Diversity Policy. Barrick retains an external search next annual meeting or until their successors are elected firm to identify potential candidates. Candidates are also or appointed. Shareholders vote for individual directors. sourced through recommendations from various members of Between shareholder meetings, the Board may appoint the Board, and in consultation with business, political, and additional directors within the maximum number set out in other leaders in Canada, the United States, and around the the Articles of the Company and provided that, after such world. The Committee continuously evaluates the composiappointments, the total number of directors would not be tion of the Board, and assesses the ability of candidates to greater than one and one-third times the number of directors contribute to the effective oversight of the management of required to have been elected at the last annual meeting the Company. The Committee also considers each candidate’s of shareholders. The Articles of the Company provide for a background, experience, skills, and knowledge relative to the minimum of five and a maximum of 20 directors. needs of the Company and carries out comprehensive due diligence on each individual. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 19 The Corporate Governance & Nominating Committee is the Company. Consistent with Barrick’s Diversity Policy, the charged with identifying and reviewing potential candidates Committee and the Board also consider diversity criteria, such and recommending nominees to the Board for approval. The as gender, age, and ethnicity. Corporate Governance & Nominating Committee strives to Nominees for membership to the Board are recommended ensure that the Board possesses a broad range of experience to the Board by the Corporate Governance & Nominating and expertise so that it can effectively carry out its manCommittee. In identifying candidates, the Committee date and be an asset to the Company, both as a whole and consults broadly with the other members of the Board through its five standing committees. To promote this objecand retains external consultants to assist with sourcing the tive, the Corporate Governance & Nominating Committee best available candidates and/or consult with key stakeoversees a process by which the areas of experience and holders. Throughout the director nomination process, the expertise that the Board needs over the medium-term are Committee provides updates to the Board and solicits input identified. on candidates. Candidates are interviewed by members We believe our Board nominees must strike the right balance of the Committee and other directors as appropriate. The between those who have the skills and experience necessary Committee ultimately submits recommendations on Board to ensure our business can secure and maintain our license composition to the full Board, which approves the nominees to operate, and those who have technical and operating for submission to shareholders and election to the Board. expertise and financial and business acumen. Based on their In 2016, the Corporate Governance & Nominating assessment of the existing experience and strengths of the Committee, in conjunction with the Executive Chairman and Board and the needs of the organization, the Corporate the Lead Director, undertook a director recruitment program Governance & Nominating Committee and the Board deterand retained an independent search firm to identify candimine the competencies, skills, and qualities they should seek dates. Most recently, Mr. Pablo Marcet joined the Board in in new Board members. In recommending nominees, the December 2016. He is a seasoned mining professional with Corporate Governance & Nominating Committee assesses nearly 30 years of experience in the exploration, developthe ability to contribute to the effective management of the ment, and operation of mines across Latin America and in Company, taking into account the needs of the Company East Africa. and the individual’s background, experience, perspective, skills, and knowledge that are appropriate and beneficial to 20 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index 102-25 Conflicts of interest AIC p. 107 ICMM UNGC 1 2 4 10 Pursuant to the Code, all of our directors are required to act Section 132 of the OBCA addresses conflicts of interest of a in the best interests of the Company and to avoid conflicts director of an Ontario corporation, such as Barrick. Among of interest. Directors may not use their position to obtain any other things, the OBCA provides that a director of a corporaimproper benefit for themselves. Our directors may not serve tion who: (a) is a party to a material contract or transaction or as officers or directors of, or otherwise be engaged with, proposed material contract or transaction with the corpoa competitor or potential or actual business partner of the ration; or (b) is a director or an officer of, or has a material Company without the prior written approval of the Executive interest in, any person who is a party to a material contract Chairman and the Chairman of the Corporate Governance & or transaction or proposed material contract or transaction Nominating Committee. with the corporation, is required to disclose in writing to the corporation or request to have entered in the minutes Our Corporate Governance Guidelines provide that direcof meetings of directors the nature and extent of his or her tors are required to advise the Executive Chairman and interest. Such a director shall not attend any part of a meetthe Chairman of the Corporate Governance & Nominating ing of directors during which the contract or transaction is Committee prior to accepting a directorship of another public discussed and shall not vote on any resolution to approve the company or of any actual or potential competitor, business contract or transaction, unless the contract or transaction repartner, or significant investor in the Company and to ensure lates to the director’s remuneration as a director or indemnity that such service is consistent with Barrick’s conflict of interest or insurance for services as a director, or is with an affiliate of standards. the corporation. 102-35 Remuneration policies AIC p. 39-87 ICMM UNGC A. Remuneration Policies: Information on our remuneranti-corruption, human rights, community relations, and ation policies, including for the Board of Directors and compliance measures, accounting for 15% of the overall senior executives, is described in full detail in Barrick scorecard. Detailed information is available in the annual Annual Information Circular, pages 39-87. Proxy Circular. B. Performance Criteria in Remuneration Policies for Long-term incentives for Senior Executives are deterESG topics: Barrick’s performance-based compensation mined by a Company scorecard that tracks both financial system for senior executives provides incentives that are and non-financial measures, including a “Reputation and both short-term and long-term in nature. License to Operate” component. This category accounts for 15% of the overall scorecard and is assessed based Annual Performance Incentives for Senior Executives on both quantitative and qualitative measures. We meaare based on short-term functional and operationsure our performance trajectory over time for environal priorities. Each Senior Executive has an individual ment (e.g., incidences) and safety (e.g., fatalities, Total scorecard with measures that relate to Barrick’s strategic Reportable Injury Frequency Rate). Qualitative measures principles and priorities. Weightings and goals vary by include our overall compliance record, independent role, but most include a portion that relates to Barrick’s assessments of our corporate social responsibility related sustainability performance. In 2016, all non-executive performance (e.g., International Council on Metals and employees also had a portion of their annual incentive Mining Assurance review, Dow Jones Sustainability compensation tied to Barrick’s short-term Company Index listing), success in building and maintaining strong scorecard. This included a “Reputation and License to relationships with core stakeholders, and the quality of Operate” component, composed of safety, environment, license to operate risk assessments. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 21 102-36 Process for determining remuneration AIC p. 45-58 ICMM UNGC Process for determining remuneration: Please refer to The Compensation Committee reviews and approves all our Annual Information Circular (pages 45-58) for the full fees and terms of consulting services provided by compenprocess followed to determine remuneration. sation consultants that are mandated by the Compensation Committee or commissioned by management. As provided Remuneration Consultants and Independence: The in the Compensation Committee’s mandate, the Chair of the Compensation Committee has sought the views of an indeCommittee must pre-approve any non-compensation services pendent compensation consultant on executive compensaprovided by any compensation consultants to the Company tion-related matters from time to time. Following the 2015 anto ensure that the independence of such consultants is not nual meeting of shareholders, the Compensation Committee compromised. ended its engagement with Towers Watson. In May 2016, Pay Governance was selected by the Compensation Committee Remuneration consultant’s relationships: Pay Governance as its new independent consultant to assist with refining the provides advisory services exclusively to the Compensation Executive Chairman’s compensation structure, on the basis of Committee and does not advise management. its broad experience advising compensation committees of a number of S&P/TSX60 cross-listed companies. 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in AIC p. 9, 11 ICMM UNGC remuneration In 2016, we adopted our Shareholder Engagement Policy to Oh’s expertise in corporate governance and his experience at ensure greater communication and provide improved access BlackRock Inc., State Street Global Advisors, and Institutional to our independent directors. In February 2016, we hosted an Shareholder Services (ISS) will allow us to continue to Investor Day to review our long-term vision, progress against strengthen our practices, while improving our communication our strategic priorities, and our performance. We also held and performance on all corporate governance matters. our first Operations and Technical Update in February 2017. The shareholder engagement activities of our Board of We will be hosting an Investor Day and an Operations and Directors complement management’s regular shareholder Technical Update biennially to promote transparency and outreach program. A copy of the Shareholder Engagement ongoing engagement with our fellow owners. Policy is available on our website at www.barrick.com/comIn December 2016, J. Brett Harvey (our Lead Director and pany/governance. We will continue to consider the feedback Chair of the Compensation Committee), along with J. that we receive from our shareholders and the outcome of Michael Evans (the Chair of the Risk Committee), Nancy our future Say on Pay votes when making compensation deciH.O. Lockhart (the Chair of the Corporate Responsibility sions for our Executive Chairman and Named Partners. Committee and member of the Corporate Governance & Shareholders may provide feedback to our Board by writing Nominating Committee), and Pablo Marcet (our newest indeto our Executive Chairman, and may communicate with our pendent director) hosted a luncheon in New York City to diindependent directors by writing to our Lead Director. rectly solicit feedback from our shareholders on our corporate governance initiatives and approach to executive compensaSay on Pay Advisory Vote tion. The event, at which members of management did not The Board has adopted a non-binding advisory vote relatparticipate, was attended by shareholders representing 21% ing to executive compensation to solicit feedback on our of Barrick’s outstanding Common Shares. Our independent approach to executive compensation. The 2016 say on pay directors also met with shareholders throughout the year. advisory vote was supported with the approval of 90.9% of We also appointed Mr. Daniel Oh as Senior Vice President, those shareholders present at our 2016 annual meeting and Investor Engagement and Governance in July 2016 to drive voting in person or by proxy. Shareholders have the opportuimproved investor engagement at Barrick and to foster greater nity to vote “For” or “Against” the Company’s approach to transparency and communication with our fellow owners. Mr. executive compensation. 22 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI General Disclosures 102 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 Stakeholder groups Community ICMM UNGC Engagement 10 A stakeholder is any person or group that has an interest in the activities of Barrick, such as local community members, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), investor groups, host governments, Barrick employees, or others. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Labor Organizations ICMM UNGC Approximately 36% of our workforce is represented by unions or collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying stakeholders Community ICMM UNGC Engagement 10 Stakeholderand issues-mapping helps identify our stakeholders and their concerns and interests. Our mining activities can create both positive and negative impacts on these stakeholders, who, in turn, can also significantly affect our business success. Identifying, categorizing, and mapping the relationships between stakeholders helps us address the issues that matter, with the people that care most about them. Community stakeholders are identified by our local site community relations teams. Corporate and country stakeholders, including shareholders, home and host governments, academics, NGOs, Socially Responsible Investors (SRIs) and Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) research analysts, are identified through contacts within our investor relations team and other functional groups, contacts in our industry associations, outreach by our corporate social responsibility team, and direct contact by stakeholders interested in learning more about our social, environmental, and operational performance. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Community ICMM UNGC Engagement 10 By seeking open, transparent, and respectful relationships, our understanding of each other’s priorities, concerns, and interests is improved, thereby enhancing our ability to work constructively together on issues of mutual concern and interest. This puts us in a better position to contribute to what matters to our stakeholders while better managing the impacts of our activities. We hold both regular and ad-hoc meetings in all countries with members of our host communities, local and regional governments, local NGOs, and other interested stakeholders. We also engage with non-community stakeholders – including our shareholders, international NGOs, and sustainable development research groups – through one-on-one meetings, teleconferences, participation in multi-stakeholder initiatives, and our industry associations. 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised ICMM UNGC 10 Key topics and concerns raised by our community and government partners, investors, and civil society partners included: • Barrick’s human rights program and security practices • Environmental incidents, including spills • Joint-venture governance • Local employment and local procurement at mine sites • Water management The Company has reported on each of these topics in detail in the 2016 Responsibility Report. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 23 GRI General Disclosures 102 Reporting Practice 102-45 Organizational entities Non-Managed ICMM UNGC Operations 10 Summary of Mine Ownership and Operatorship – 2016 Ownership/Operatorship Mine (% Ownership) Project (% Ownership) Wholly Owned/ Operated* Cortez Pascua-Lama Golden Sunlight Alturas Goldstrike Goldrush Hemlo Lagunas Norte Pierina (in closure) Lumwana Veladero Joint Venture – Barrick-Operated* Pueblo Viejo (60%) Cerro Casale (75%) Turquoise Ridge (75%) Fedorovo (79%) Joint Venture – Independently-Operated Jabal Sayid (50%) Donlin Gold (50%) Porgera (47.5%) Joint Venture – Partner-Operated KCGM (50%) Zaldivar (50%) Affiliate-Operated Acacia (63.9%) Kabanga (50%) (Bulyanhulu, North Mara, Buzwagi) *Reported on in full in Barrick’s sustainability-related disclosures. 102-46 Defining report content and topic Materiality Process ICMM UNGC Boundaries 10 Under the Global Reporting Initiative Standard, organizations External Sources focus their sustainability reporting on matters that are spe• CSR Advisory Board cifically material to them and provide greater depth on those • Industry and societal trends subjects. This helps us report on issues that matter to and • Investor and ESG analyst requests could have a material impact on both our stakeholders and • Peer companies our businessi. We identify these issues through the following • Stakeholder engagement four-step process. • Community grievances 1. Issue Identification Internal Sources • Annual Information Form / Annual Report We first identify a range of potential issues in the context of • Issues reported to Board our social, economic and environmental impacts, based on • Issues Working Group input from internal and external sources. • Site risks identified in Business Plan Reviews (BPRs) • Subject matter experts 24 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index 2. Issue Boundaries 3. Prioritization & Validation A topic may be material and relevant for reporting as a result Each topic is assessed on a materiality matrix in terms of its of our own activity, including from our operations, closure importance to our stakeholders and the economic, environproperties or employee conduct, as well as from activities we mental, social or business impact of the topic. We rank the contribute to or are indirectly linked to. We therefore conissues based on the frequency with which they are identified sider our full value chain, both internal and external, when by internal and external sources. The ranking of each issue reporting on our impacts. is also reviewed and approved by senior decision-makers at Barrick. This process allows us to prioritize the issues in terms External of low, medium, and high importance. • Contractors • Governments 4. Reporting • Industry peers In 2016, eight material issues of high priority were identified • NGOs through this four-step process. An additional thirteen issues • Suppliers were identified as having medium priority. We report on all • Unions of these issues in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Internal option. We also partially report on additional topics identified • Closure properties to be of low reporting priority, in accordance with regulatory • Exploration or other reporting requirements. • Offices • Operations • Projects 102-47 List of material topics Materiality Process ICMM UNGC 10 In 2016, eight material issues of high priority were identified through this four-step process. An additional thirteen issues were identified as having medium priority. We report on all of these issues in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. We also partially report on additional topics identified to be of low reporting priority, in accordance with regulatory or other reporting requirements. High Priority • Market Presence • Emissions • Mine Closure • Environmental Compliance • Procurement Practices • Local Communities • Rights of Indigenous Peoples • Public Policy • Supplier Environmental Assessment • Security Practices Lower Priority • Socio-economic Compliance • Artisanal and Small Scale Mining • Occupational Health & Safety • Biodiversity • Water • Child Labor Medium Priority • Employment • Anti-corruption • Forced or Compulsory Labor • Diversity and Equal Opportunity • Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining • Economic Performance • Materials • Effluents and Waste • Non-discrimination • Energy • Resettlement • Human Rights Assessments • Training and Education • Labor/Management relations In addition, we identified Non-Managed Operations as an important issue to report on, though it is not a GRI Topic. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 25 102-48 Restatements of information ICMM UNGC 10 The 2013-2015 data for water recycled, water withdrawal and water consumption intensities across our sites have been updated based on a revision to their calculations. Barrick’s GHG emissions baseline in 2014 has been revised in accordance with our five-year energy plan in order to better align with GHG and energy reduction target setting. For GHG emissions data on divested assets from 2014-2015, please see our prior Responsibility Reports on our Transparency Hub. 102-49 Changes in reporting About This Report ICMM UNGC 10 This report and accompanying data tables contain informaongoing relationship between the two companies so that tion on all of our wholly owned operations and joint ventures Acacia is capable of carrying on its business independently of where we are the operator, as well as on our country and Barrick. Consistent with this agreement, Acacia independentcorporate offices, projects and closure sites, where this was ly manages its corporate social responsibility (CSR) programs identified as material in our materiality assessment. We report and issues its own annual CSR Report. As such, effective as on 100 percent of the data and significant issues from our of year-end 2013, our annual Responsibility Report no longer joint-venture operations where we are the operator. includes Acacia. We also provide limited information on our closure properties As of 2016, we do not report on joint ventures that are indeand advanced exploration and development projects. We pendently operated or partner-operated. These sites include provide information, when material, on subsidiaries, provided KCGM, Porgera, Jabal Sayid, and Zaldivar. they have been under our operational control for at least Additionally, in 2016, the project “Pascua-Lama” is now one year. reported as two separate projects, “Pascua” located in Chile, We do not report on data from Acacia Mining plc (formerly and “Lama” located in Argentina. Data from 2013-2015 has African Barrick Gold). Barrick and Acacia are parties to a been revised to separate these projects given their different relationship agreement that regulates various aspects of the operating contexts. 102-50 Reporting period About This Report ICMM UNGC 10 The Responsibility Report is an annual report; it covers the 2016 calendar year, which corresponds to Barrick’s financial year. Reference may be made in this report to an activity that occurred in 2017 if it helps to clarify a particular issue. 102-51 Date of previous report About This Report ICMM UNGC 10 Barrick’s previous Responsibility Reports have also been annual reports; the 2015 Responsibility Report was published in July 2016. These reports are available on the Barrick website. 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report ICMM UNGC 10 Annual 26 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index 102-53 Contact point About This Report ICMM UNGC 10 For additional information regarding the 2016 Responsibility Report, please contact: Peter Sinclair, Chief Sustainability Officer Barrick Gold Corporation Brookfield Place, TD Canada Trust Tower 161 Bay Street, Suite 3700 Toronto, ON M5J 2S1 Canada Telephone: 416.861.9977 Toll Free: 800.720.74.15 Email: responsiblemining@barrick.com 102-54 GRI Standards claim About This Report ICMM UNGC Barrick reports to the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards, in accordance with the Core option. 102-55 GRI content index ICMM UNGC 10 In our GRI Content Index, we have included a reference index for the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact and the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) Sustainable Development Principles in the table. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 27 102-56 Assurance Assurance Letter ICMM UNGC 10 Bureau Veritas North America 2016 Independent Assurance Statement Bureau Veritas North America (BVNA) was engaged by Barrick Gold Corporation to provide independent external assurance for Barrick’s 2016 Responsibility Report. The assurance process also included an assessment of Barrick’s performance and progress on a range of corporate social responsibility (CSR) issues. Building on the previous seven years, the assurance process is designed to further our understanding of how Barrick identifies its material risks and emerging issues in a changing environment, and to assess Barrick’s performance against the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) Sustainable Development Framework. Objectives of the Assurance Process 1. Provide reasonable assurance over the stated content of the 2016 Responsibility Report including representations on the Barrick website; 2. Provide impartial commentary on Barrick’s alignment with ICMM’s 10 Sustainable Development Principles and eight Position Statements; 3. Assess implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights; 4. Provide reasonable assurance over the 2016 Conflict-Free Gold Report; 5. Provide reasonable assurance over the 2016 greenhouse gas emissions inventory reported to CDP; 6. Provide reasonable assurance over the 2016 water withdrawal reported to CDP; 7. Provide reasonable assurance over Barrick’s Mining Association of Canada (MAC) Toward Sustainable Mining (TSM) self-assessments for their Hemlo Mine Operations for the year 2016; 8. Acknowledge improvements from previous reporting years; 9. Propose recommendations for future development. Barrick recognizes the need for a robust, transparent assurance process to ensure continued credibility with stakeholders and to act as a tool to drive continual performance improvement. Therefore, in addition to our commentary on the reporting processes, we provide further recommendations based on this period’s assurance in a separate detailed report to Barrick’s functional leads and corporate senior leadership team. Scope of Assurance 1. Review relevant activities undertaken by Barrick over the reporting period January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016; 2. Review the robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes used to collect, analyze and report relevant information; 28 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index 3. Evaluate the 2016 Responsibility Report against the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Framework as defined in the GRI-G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement; 4. Evaluate evidence provided to support Barrick’s alignment with ICMM’s 10 Sustainable Development Principles and eight Position Statements; 5. Assess conformance of the Veladero Mine in Argentina with the ICMM’s Position Statement on Climate Change; 6. Interview employees and external stakeholders with respect to Barrick’s CSR performance during the reporting period; 7. Assess implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) at one mine site; 8. Provide independent verification of Barrick’s MAC TSM self-assessments for their Hemlo Mine Operations for the year 2016 in accordance with MACs requirements for completing TSM Verification Audits; 9. Assess implementation of the World Gold Council (WGC)’s Conflict-Free Gold Standard as described in the 2016 Conflict-Free Gold Report for Barrick; 10. Verify Barrick’s water withdrawal reported to CDP for 2016; 11. Verify Barrick’s reported GHG emissions inventory reported to CDP for 2016. To conduct the assurance, we undertook the following activities: • Detailed review of the 2016 Responsibility Report including source verification of performance data and factual information contained within the Report and the supplemental information on the Barrick website; • Review of processes for identification and collation of relevant information, report content and performance data from mining operations; • Interviews and follow-up communication with the corporate senior leadership team and functional leads in Toronto (Canada), Elko and Henderson, Nevada (USA), and with mine managers and staff at the two mines we visited (see below); • Interviews and follow-up communication with environmental team at the Veladero Mine; • Site visits to two operating mines, including Hemlo (Canada) and Lumwana (Zambia); • Interviews with local stakeholders at each visited mine. Our work was planned and executed in a manner designed to produce a reasonable level of assurance and to provide a sound basis for our conclusions. Our assurance process is aligned with and informed by the following international protocols: • ICMM Sustainable Development Framework – Assurance Procedure • GRI-G4 Reporting Guidelines and Mining and Metals Sector Supplement • International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information • ISO 14064-3:2006: Greenhouse gases Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of greenhouse gas assertions • WGC’s Conflict Free Gold Standard – Guidance for Assurance Providers • MAC TSM Self-Assessment Reporting Protocols and Verification Audit Protocol 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 29 Limitations and Exclusions: Excluded from the scope of our work is information relating to: • Activities outside the defined reporting period and scope; • Statements of commitment to, or intention to undertake future actions by Barrick; • Statements of position, opinion, belief and/or aspiration by Barrick; • Financial data audited by an external third party. Our Findings On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, we provide reasonable assurance that: • The 2016 Responsibility Report provides a clear and straightforward presentation of Barrick’s material issues and their underlying management systems and controls. • The information and data in the Report is accurate, reliable and free from material misstatements. It is clearly presented and understandable. • Material issues have been appropriately identified in a comprehensive risk assessment process that is fully described. • The Report provides a fair representation of Barrick’s CSR performance over the reporting period and provides readers with a balanced perspective of its material issues and operations. • The Report advances Barrick’s ongoing public communication about its operations, environmental and social impacts, and related programs to manage these impacts. • Barrick has appropriate systems in place for the collection, aggregation and analysis of relevant information and has implemented adequate internal assurance practices. • The corporate senior leadership team and country and site leadership teams continue to support a company-wide commitment to responsible mining practices at operations and projects. ICMM Sustainable Development Framework Barrick maintained its alignment with the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework, including ICMM’s 10 Sustainable Development Principles and the applicable mandatory requirements of the eight Position Statements. Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights Barrick maintained its commitment to the implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. The high-risk site in our sample, Lumwana, has instituted appropriate systems and procedures to ensure adherence to the principles. 30 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index WGC Conflict-Free Gold Standard Barrick has prepared and presented a Conflict-Free Gold Report for 2016 in accordance with the requirements of the Conflict-Free Gold Standard. We conclude that Barrick does not produce gold from conflict-affected or high risk areas as defined by the Standard. Global Reporting Initiative GRI-G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines The 2016 Responsibility Report has been prepared in accordance with the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement of the GRI-G4 Guidelines, including appropriate consideration of the Reporting Principles, profile disclosures, management approach disclosures and performance indicators to meet the requirements of GRI-G4, Core Criteria. CDP Barrick’s greenhouse gas assertion for its 2016 company-wide emissions inventory was verified to be correct and complete within the bounds of materiality. A separate verification statement was issued for CDP. Barrick’s company-wide water withdrawal assertion for 2016 was verified to be correct and complete within the bounds of materiality. A separate verification statement was issued for CDP. MAC TSM Self-Assessment Verification BVNA agreed with all of Hemlo Mine’s and Barrick corporate ratings, with the exception of two ratings (Safety and Health – Indicator 5, Performance; and Aboriginal and Community Outreach – Indicator 3, Communities of Interest Response Mechanism) which were increased by BVNA upon review and verification of self-assessment supporting documentation. Observed Improvements • A continued focus on human rights was observed. This includes continued training on human rights with a modern slavery training component and an increased focus on sexual harassment and women’s rights. • The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights are fully integrated with site security personnel and procedures. There is evidence of growing awareness about the principles among local stakeholders. • Development of Sustainability Vision and Principles indicates an increased corporate emphasis on sustainable development and provides a framework for mine General Managers and Executive Directors to make decisions from a sustainability perspective. • All mine sites have appointed Energy Champions and sites continue to implement energy efficiency and cost reduction programs in line with Barrick’s Energy Management Policy and Five-Year Energy Plan. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 31 • Establishment of a Climate Change Working Group and appointment of a Director of Energy and Climate Change indicates an increased focus on climate change and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. • Ongoing digitization of various systems has led to, and should continue to lead to, more transparency with stakeholders. For example, there is public web access to real time cameras and water quality data at the Veladero mine. • The Global Onboarding Standard has been implemented at all mine sites. This standard provides a consistent protocol for ensuring vendor understanding and acknowledgement of Barrick’s Supplier Code of Ethics. • Increased emphasis on water management and conservation was observed through the appointment of a Vice President of Water and the planning for and implementation of water management initiatives and strategies. • Increased emphasis on tailings management was observed through revision of the Tailings Management Standard, the addition of heap leach pads to the Standard, and implementation of a Tailings Stewardship Program. • Weekly Business Plan Review (BPR) meetings continue and have made for more transparent, effective and streamlined communication between mines and corporate. • Continued emphasis on safety led to 2016 having the lowest Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate in the company’s history. • Continued and increasing emphasis on sustainability, environment and safety and health and how these functional areas affect Barrick’s License-to-Operate. Recommendations • Consider additional and continual communication with stakeholders regarding mine expansion plans, life-of-mine, and eventual mine closure plans. Interviews with stakeholders indicate an uneven awareness of these plans and the life-of-mine. • In light of both the 2015 and 2016 incidents at Veladero, continue to ensure that local stakeholders, at all mines, are aware of procedural and engineering approaches taken to avoid cyanide solution releases. Our 2016 visit to Veladero indicated that stakeholders were not aware of approaches in place to avoid cyanide solution releases. • Continue to seek and consider local stakeholder input on community development and education projects. This is especially important at mature mines where projects should align closely with community member expectations for post-closure long-term sustainable development. 32 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Statement by Bureau Veritas of independence, impartiality and competence Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specializes in quality, health, safety, social and environmental management advice and compliance with over 180 years of history in providing independent assurance and certification services. Bureau Veritas has implemented a Code of Ethics across its business which ensures that our staff maintains high standards in their day to day business activities. We are vigilant in the detection and prevention of any actual or perceived conflict of interest. Our assurance team is not involved in any other Barrick projects outside those of the independent assurance scope and we do not consider there to be a conflict for any other services provided by Bureau Veritas. The independent assurance team completing the work for Barrick has extensive knowledge of conducting assurance over environmental, social, security, safety, health and ethical information and systems, and through its combined experience in this field, an excellent understanding of good practice in corporate responsibility reporting and assurance. Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. May 2017 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 33 GRI Economic 201 Performance 201 Management Approach1 Social and Economic ICMM UNGC Development 1 6 10 Barrick has an opportunity to contribute significantly to social • Barrick requires site Community Relations and Human and economic development in the communities and countries Resources teams to develop Local Employment Plans, where we operate. which help create more opportunities for local people to work at our mines. Communities and host governments rightly expect to share in mining’s benefits. When we live up to their expectations, we • Our Local Content Framework also helps sites use more are partners with host governments and communities in their local labor and buy more local goods and services. The own development, contributing to a more stable and prosperframework is a guide, outlining the steps to develop ous society and a more secure license to operate. local employment and local procurement programs and referencing best international practice. It helps sites Our Approach be better partners in community and socio-economic We contribute in a number of ways to the social and ecodevelopment, which ultimately helps build a more secure nomic development of the communities and countries where license to operate. we operate, including through buying and hiring locally, in• The significant taxes and royalties derived from minvesting in education and health, helping diversify livelihoods, ing operations are important sources of government and paying our fair share of taxes. revenue, used for infrastructure projects, health care, edBarrick has established company-wide systems and standards ucation and other important public services. Everywhere to help us live up to the expectations that our community and we operate, we pay our fair share of taxes and royalties government partners have of us. to all levels of government. We publicly report on these payments as part of our commitment to transparency, • Barrick has a Local Procurement and Contracting as a signatory to the Extractive Industries Transparency Standard, which requires our Community Relations and Initiative (EITI) and as required by Canada’s Extractives Supply Chain teams to develop the capacity of local and Sector Transparency Measures Act. regional suppliers and help them improve their access to mine contracts and supplier opportunities. 1 Barrick’s management approach to economic performance and market presence are detailed together in Barrick’s online 2016 Responsibility Report. 34 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index 201-1 Direct economic value generated ESG Data Tables ICMM UNGC and distributed 1 6 10 Economic Contributions – 2016 Barrick Dominican United Total Argentina Canada Chile Republic Peru States Zambia Total $5,748,970,000 $ 608,690,000 $ 806,330,000 $ 124,230,000 $ 992,850,000 $ 510,520,000 $2,202,880,000 $ 503,470,000 Contributions Taxes and $1,100,790,000 $ 108,590,000 $ 10,680,000 $ 5,380,000 $ 394,390,000 $ 118,450,000 $ 373,520,000 $ 89,780,000 Government Royalties Payments to $1,388,990,000 $ 93,390,000 $ 387,070,000 $ 40,060,000 $ 96,630,000 $ 79,610,000 $ 616,980,000 $ 75,250,000 Employees Community $ 21,900,000 $ 1,420,000 $ 1,620,000 $ 130,000 $ 1,230,000 $ 6,660,000 $ 9,680,000 $ 1,160,000 Investments Other $ 77,970,000 $ 1,030,000 $ 19,330,000 $ – $ – $ – $ 56,550,000 $ 1,060,000 Payments Purchases of $3,159,320,000 $ 404,260,000 $ 387,630,000 $ 78,660,000 $ 500,600,000 $ 305,800,000 $1,146,150,000 $ 336,220,000 Goods and Services Local $ 220,290,000 $ 6,080,000 $ 38,850,000 $ 2,280,000 $ 19,690,000 $ 14,120,000 $ 134,640,000 $ 4,630,000 Purchases iii Regional $ 456,020,000 $ 164,700,000 $ 255,850,000 $ 27,140,000 $ – $ – $ – $ 8,330,000 Purchases National $2,012,240,000 $ 185,850,000 $ 31,000,000 $ 48,010,000 $ 230,840,000 $ 282,720,000 $ 974,730,000 $ 259,090,000 Purchases Inter$ 470,770,000 $ 47,630,000 $ 61,930,000 $ 1,230,000 $ 250,070,000 $ 8,960,000 $ 36,780,000 $ 64,170,000 national Purchases 201-3 Coverage of the organization’s defined Annual Report p. 115 ICMM UNGC benefit plan obligations We have qualified defined benefit pension plans that cover certain former United States and Canadian employees and provide benefits based on employees’ years of service. Our policy is to fund the amounts necessary on an actuarial basis to provide enough assets to meet the benefits payable to plan members. Independent trustees administer assets of the plans, which are invested mainly in fixed-income and equity securities. As well as the qualified plans, we have non-qualified defined benefit pension plans covering certain employees and former directors of Barrick. No funding is done on these plans and contributions for future years are required to be equal to benefit payments. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in OCI in the period in which they arise. Our valuations are carried out using the projected unit credit method. We record the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the present value of the plan obligations as an asset or liability on the consolidated balance sheets. 201-4 Financial assistance received from ICMM UNGC government Barrick did not receive financial assistance from governments in 2016. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 35 GRI Market 202 Presence 202 Management Approach2 Social and Economic ICMM UNGC Development 1 6 10 Barrick has an opportunity to contribute significantly to social access to mine contracts and supplier opportunities. When and economic development in the communities and countries we integrate local suppliers into our procurement systems, where we operate. we are helping diversify local economies, and we also have the potential to drive down the costs of goods and services Communities and host governments rightly expect to share in used at our mines. mining’s benefits. When we live up to their expectations, we are partners with host governments and communities in their Barrick also requires sites to develop plans to guide local own development, contributing to a more stable and prosperemployment efforts over the life of the mine. Our Human ous society and a more secure license to operate. Resources teams develop and lead these local employment plans, supported by the Community Relations group. In genLocal Content eral, these plans integrate recruitment and retention of local Local content refers to both the employees and the goods and employees into the broader human resources approach. This services that come from the local area and that are employed includes an assessment of the skills and capabilities available and used by a mine site. Managed well, the use of local conin the local community, the development of recruitment and tent increases opportunities for communities to share in the retention programs targeted specifically at local communities, benefits of mining, while contributing to indirect economic guidance on helping address skills shortages, and the creation benefits that can further stimulate development. Local content of a culturally appropriate work environment. can help us have a more stable workforce and supply base, In addition to the Local Procurement and Contracting help us meet permitting or regulatory requirements, and reStandard, we have also developed a Local Content Framework duce our costs. Because of this, we purchase local goods and to further support the efforts of our procurement and human services and employ local people whenever possible. resources teams. The Framework details the steps that sites The Local Procurement and Contracting Standard requires can take to develop effective local employment and local proCommunity Relations and Supply Chain teams to develop curement programs, which reflects international best practice. the capacity of local and regional suppliers and increase their 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired Social and Economic ICMM UNGC from the local community at significant Development locations of operation 6 Senior Site Management from the Local Community – 2016 ii, iii Barrick Total 23% Argentina 33% Chile 26% Canada 83% Dominican Republic 19% Peru 0% United States 95% Zambia 0% 2 Barrick’s management approach to economic performance and market presence are detailed together in Barrick’s online 2016 Responsibility Report. 36 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index MM Proportion of total workforce from the Social and Economic ICMM UNGC local community Development 6 Employees from the Local Communityiii (2016) Barrick Total 51% Argentina 15% Chile 14% Canada 64% Dominican Republic 37% Peru 11% United States 91% Zambia 40% 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 37 GRI Indirect 203 Economic Impacts3 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services Social and Economic ICMM UNGC supported Development 9 Type of Community Investments – 2016 Barrick Total $ 21,900,000 Arts, Culture & Sports $ 1,120,000 Community Engagement $ 1,430,000 Economic Development $ 5,030,000 Education $ 7,580,000 Environment $ 860,000 Health $ 900,000 Infrastructure $ 2,650,000 Other Activities $ 2,330,000 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Social and Economic ICMM UNGC Development 9 Indirect economic impacts are the result of the interactions we have with stakeholders and are an important part of our overall economic contribution. While difficult to precisely quantify, these include the impacts of our employees, contractors and the employees of supplier industries spending their payments, wages, and salaries. They also reflect economic impacts associated with improvements in community health and livelihoods (e.g., access to clean water, medical support and education facilities). A 2012 study by the World Gold Council in Peru found that a multiplier of 1.9 to 3.8 could be factored into mining’s contribution to a country’s gross domestic product. The same study identified a 1.9 employment multiplier. This means that every job we create at one of our Peruvian mines, for example, contributes to an additional 1.9 jobs in Peru. In other countries, this employment multiplier can be as high as 3 (e.g., in Argentina, according to recent research by KPMG). 3 Barrick does not have a separate management approach for indirect economic impacts. Our approach to economic contributions to the countries where we operate more broadly is described in GRI Indicators 201, 202 and 204. 38 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI Procurement 204 Practices 204 Management Approach Supply Chain ICMM UNGC 1 We believe that responsible economic development can and country Executive Directors, construction managers and should improve the lives of stakeholders in the regions where Project Directors. This framework outlines the steps needed we operate. When done responsibly, economic development to develop local employment and local procurement prois a contributor to a broad spectrum of positive impacts. grams, referencing best international practice and embedThrough local procurement, for example, the presence of our ding lessons learned from other Barrick sites. An important operations can directly help host communities and individuals emphasis is on engaging with internal end users on the enjoy the rights to work, to food and property, and to an mine site and making sure local content programs align adequate standard of living. with their needs and concerns. For more information on our activities regarding local procurement practices, see We developed a Local Procurement Standard in 2013. The Social and Economic Development. Standard was implemented in 2014 under the direction of the Community Relations group. Along with buying locally when possible, Barrick often works with regional government economic development comTo support these efforts, Barrick has also put in place a mittees, where they exist, to help our suppliers diversify so local content framework. The development of the framethat the eventual closure of a mine will not impose undue work was a collaboration with all groups impacted by local hardships on local businesses. See Mine Closure for more content policies, including Supply Chain leads, Community information. Relations, Human Resource leads, mine General Managers, 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Social and Economic ICMM UNGC Development 2 9 10 Economic Contributions – 2016 Dominican United Barrick Argentina Canada Chile Republic Peru States Zambia Total $ 3,159,320,000 $ 404,260,000 $ 387,630,000 $ 78,660,000 $ 500,600,000 $ 305,800,000 $ 1,146,150,000 $ 336,220,000 Purchases Local 7% $ 220,290,000 2% $ 6,080,000 10% $ 38,850,000 3% $ 2,280,000 4% $ 19,690,000 5% $ 14,120,000 12% $ 134,640,000 1% $ 4,630,000 Purchasesiii Regional 14% $ 456,020,000 41% $ 164,700,000 66% $ 255,850,000 34% $ 27,140,000 2% $ 8,330,000 Purchases National 64% $ 2,012,240,000 46% $ 185,850,000 8% $ 31,000,000 61% $ 48,010,000 46% $ 230,840,000 92% $ 282,720,000 85% $ 974,730,000 77% $ 259,090,000 Purchases Inter15% $ 470,770,000 12% $ 47,630,000 16% $ 61,930,000 2% $ 1,230,000 50% $ 250,070,000 3% $ 8,960,000 3% $ 36,780,000 19% $ 64,170,000 national Purchases 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 39 GRI 205 Anti-Corruption 205 Management Approach Ethical Business ICMM UNGC Conduct 1 10 With thousands of employees, suppliers, and contractors, anti-corruption policy. In total, 1,400 employees reworking in highly diverse countries, the possibility of exposure ceived live anti-corruption training and an additional to potential incidents of bribery and corruption is real, which 3,000 employees received online training. can present risks to companies like ours that operate around »» Vendor Onboarding: Over 95% of new mining the globe. operations third-party vendors (more than 1,100 Not only is corruption contrary to our values of integrity and vendors) were onboarded as per the Vendor responsibility, it also erodes the social fabric of the communiOnboarding Standard, which included anti-corrupties where we operate. tion due diligence. At Barrick, we insist that all of our interactions are conducted »» Intermediaries and Government-affiliated in an ethical, honest and accountable manner and in accorVendors: Over 99% of new intermediaries and govdance with all applicable laws and regulations. ernment-affiliated vendors identified (110 in total) received enhanced due diligence in 2016. Our Approach • In 2017, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics was We have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which revised and updated to make it less formal, more closely identifies our obligations, as a company and as individuals, connected to our core values, and more user friendly by directors, officers, employees, and contractors, to comply incorporating clear examples and a section of frequently with all applicable laws and to avoid and report bribery and asked questions. corruption wherever we work. • Barrick continues to participate in a number of Barrick also has a global Anti-Corruption Policy and multi-stakeholder groups, including the Business for Peace Compliance Program that helps our conduct adhere to Initiative, the UN Global Compact’s Global Supply Chain Canada’s Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, the U.S. Working Group, and the Human Rights & Labor Working Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and applicable anti-bribery and Group. We also led the creation of an e-book on anti-coranti-corruption laws in other countries where we operate. ruption compliance for the Global Compact Network Our Progress Canada, participated in an anti-corruption working group for the mining industry with TRACE International, acted as • In 2016, the Company met or exceeded internally set a Subject Matter Expert for the Canadian Centre on AntiKey Performance Indicators (KPIs) related to anti-corrupCorruption, and actively participated in additional panels tion. These included: and conferences. Collective action with industry peers, »» Tone from the Top: More than 450 ethics messages local governments, and civil society is an important way to from senior corporate and site leaders were delivered make progress on challenging societal issues. to employees in 2016. In “effectiveness” testing • Code of Conduct Violations: Barrick expects employthrough Sarbanes-Oxley scores, 98% percent conees and Board directors to take all responsible steps to firmed basic knowledge of our anti-corruption policy. prevent a violation of this Code, to identify and raise po»» Anti-Corruption Live Training: 100% of relevant tential issues before they lead to problems, and to seek employees, identified on a risk-tiered basis, received additional guidance when necessary. In the past year our live anti-corruption training. In “effectiveness” employees raised concerns about potential violations of testing through Sarbanes-Oxley scores, 98% percent the Code either through local channels or through our forof employees confirmed basic knowledge of our mal reporting channels, including the confidential hot-line. 40 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index • Code of Conduct Training: To communicate our high Reporting expectations of ethical behavior as clearly as possible, Barrick expects all employees, officers, and directors to Barrick continued to provide mandatory training on identify and raise concerns about unethical business conduct, the Code to all new employees in 2016. In addition, all including potential bribery or corruption issues. When coremployees in administrative offices, and supervisors or ruption concerns are raised, independent investigations are above at mine or project sites, are required to undertake conducted. In support of this, we have established a clear and annual refresher training on the Code. In total, approxconfidential reporting framework that: imately 4,500 employees received focused anti-corruption training in 2016. • Allows for employee concerns to be raised properly; Anti-Corruption Compliance Program • Includes internal procedures surrounding potential Code violations reporting to appropriate levels of management Our comprehensive global Anti-Corruption Compliance and the Audit Committee of the Board as appropriate; Program helps us adhere to Canada’s Corruption of Foreign and Public Officials Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in other • Includes a strong anti-retaliation statement for those countries where we operate. The program seeks consistency who do raise concerns in a timely and good faith manwith the stated expectations of U.S. and Canadian regulatory ner. authorities, and is overseen by the Audit Committee of the Under our procedures, we may voluntarily report information Board of Directors. regarding corruption or fraud concerns and the results of an The program includes: investigation we carry out to law enforcement, regulatory authorities or others, and cooperate with investigations that • Detailed procedures governing government agreements, public authorities may undertake. We also will undertake apgovernment support, and higher-risk transactions, propriate disciplinary action up to and including termination including political donations, charitable contributions, of employees and third parties involved in unethical business and government-related direct and in-kind support, per conduct. diems, meals, gifts, entertainment, and travel; • Guidance materials in key areas (including risk assessTransparency ments, invoice red flags, onboarding and monitoring Barrick believes that revenue transparency and reportintermediaries, asset acquisitions and joint ventures, and ing on our relevant programs, whether through the government-related support); Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), the Extractive Sectors Transparency Measures Act (ESTMA) or • Focused training and education activities; the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), can be a powerful tool • Due diligence of potential and actual employees and against corruption and in support of ethical business conduct. relevant vendors; Barrick was the first Canadian mining company to be a signa• Scrutiny of government intermediaries and agents; tory to EITI. Since 2006 we have voluntarily reported detailed country-by-country information, including environmental • Treatment of charitable contributions as higher-risk payand social data and the taxes and royalties we have paid to ments subject to enhanced processes; governments around the world. We also participate in the an• Frequent communications from Company leaders; nual CDP Climate Change and Water Disclosure process, providing investors and other interested stakeholders with • Risk assessments and systems and process testing, focusinformation on our water and energy use and emission data. ing on higher-risk geographies; and • Diligence associated with joint ventures and acquisitions. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 41 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Ethical Business ICMM UNGC corruption Conduct 1 10 Each year, Barrick conducts a global risk assessment of all (100%) of Barrick sites for risks related to corruption; we then conduct periodic in-depth site-level assessments for mediumand high-risk sites. In 2016, the Company completed anti-corruption self-assessments at Lumwana and Veladero. These and other assessments identified areas where communication between functional units and compliance can be strengthened. 42 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI 301 Materials 301 Management Approach Materials ICMM UNGC 1 8 Our sites use a wide range of materials – including explosives, Electricity processing reagents, and fuels – in their day-to-day operaBarrick’s operations consume and/or generate energy in the tions. If not properly managed, these materials can pose a form of electricity. Most of our electricity is purchased from risk to the environment and the health of our employees and utilities or other generators, or from regional and national local communities. grids. A few of our more remote mines generate their own electricity using either dieselor natural gas-fired generators. Our Approach We are engaged in ongoing programs to optimize energy We work to manage chemicals and materials at our operaefficiency and are committed to increasing our use of renewtions in a safe and responsible manner. We are guided in our able energy, such as solar and wind energy generation, where approach by the Standards included in our Environmental practical. Management System and Safety and Health Management Fuels System. As part of management systems, we regularly assess We use a variety of different fuels at our operations around and rank risks, including those posed by use of hazardous the world, including diesel, gasoline, propane, natural gas materials, and then institute controls to manage those risks. and fuel oil. We have measures in place to prevent fuel The use of sodium cyanide, explosives, electricity, other chemspills and to contain fuels should spills happen, in order to icals or reagents and fuels at our mining operations is moniprotect people and the environment. These measures include tored based on national regulations and global best practices, designing and constructing appropriate storage and piping, including the International Cyanide Management Code. the use of multiple levels of spill containment, appropriate training of employees and contractors, and routine inspection Process Materials and monitoring of storage facilities. Preventive maintenance We use consumables and reagents in the extraction of gold programs for vehicle fleets and stationary power equipment and copper from the ores we mine. Key consumables include also reduces the risk of spills. As a result, spills and leaks are fuels, explosives, sodium cyanide, nitric and sulfuric acids, detected quickly, the fuels are most often captured within sodium hydroxide, and lime, among others. Our key process containment, and long-term environmental impacts are prematerials are consumed in our mining and processing applicavented or mitigated. tions; therefore, we buy them new and are not able to recycle them. Our Environmental Management System requires that Cyanide we have controls in place to manage these materials responCyanide and an oxidant (such as oxygen) in solution are gensibly throughout the mining process and from “cradle to erally required to dissolve gold from ore. After 100 years of grave”, which includes transportation, storage, usage and use and research, cyanide remains the predominant means by final disposal if required. Environmental Health and Safety which gold is extracted from ore. It is a hazardous substance Regulations also dictate how these substances are managed. that can be harmful to people and animals above certain levels. Therefore, at each of our operations, we have rigorous Explosives procedures in place for the safe transport, storage, handling In any construction or mining activity, explosives are used to and disposal of cyanide. As of 2016, all Barrick-operated sites break rock. Safety procedures and controls are in place at our that use sodium cyanide are Cyanide Code certified. operations related to storage, transportation, handling and use of explosive materials such as ammonium nitrate fuel oil Sodium cyanide is used at seven of our owned or operated (ANFO) and emulsions. gold mining operations. The remaining two operations do 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 43 not use cyanide: one does not process ore and the other is a Transportation, Recycling & Reuse copper mineiv. Materials are transported to and from our mines most often The Cyanide Code, developed by the by contractors. Our Supplier Code of Ethics requires supInternational Cyanide Management Institute (ICMI), pliers to mitigate the risk for environmental and safety and of which Barrick is a member, provides best practices for health impacts. Transporters must have emergency procetransporting, storing, using and disposing of cyanide. dures in place to anticipate, assess and respond to emergency Developed under the auspices of the United Nations situations in order to minimize any environmental impacts Environment Program (UNEP), the Cyanide Code is the and protect people. product of multi-stakeholder input and is supported by enviThe company’s focus on materials conservation has led to ronmental advocacy groups around the world. The ICMI monthe establishment of recycling and reuse programs at our itors adherence to the Cyanide Code through independent operations. A variety of materials are recycled, depending third-party audits. Sites are required to be re-certified by ICMI on the recycling facilities available near each location, and every three years. Audit documents and other information on can include scrap metals, used oil, batteries, tires, antifreeze, Barrick’s compliance with the Cyanide Code is available on wooden pallets, drums, paper products, plastic and glass. the ICMI’s website. Re-use programs, such as tire re-treading and burning used Three Barrick-operated sites were audited and found to oil for energy, are in place at several operations. Our business be in compliance with the Cyanide Code in 2016: Hemlo, is resource extraction and does not involve manufacturing. Goldstrike, and Cortez. Therefore, we do not have the opportunity to use materials that are wastes from external sources to create our products. 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume ESG Data Tables ICMM UNGC 6 8 Materials Used (metric tonnes) – 2016 Cyanide 11,583.68 Calcium Hydroxide (Lime) 498,079.30 44 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI 302 Energy 302 Management Approach4 Energy Use & ICMM UNGC Climate Change 1 8 9 Mining is an energy-intensive business. From blasting and • In 2016, Barrick developed a real-time Energy hauling to crushing and processing, energy is used at every Management Information System (EMIS) pilot project stage of the mining process and represents a significant porat Pueblo Viejo that leverages our internal systems to tion of our overall costs. provide dynamic dashboards on energy use, costs, GHG emissions, Mass-Energy Balances, drill-down capability to We also understand the important link between energy use asset level information, and measurement and verifiand climate change. Barrick considers climate change to be cation (M&V) capabilities to validate the actual savings a Company, community, and global concern. By effectively from energy projects and data analytics. Lessons learned managing our energy use, we are able to reduce our greenfrom this realtime pilot EMIS project can now be aphouse gas (GHG) emissions, achieve more efficient producplied to other mines as part of the Digitization Initiative. tion, reduce our draw from local energy grids, and save a significant proportion of our direct mining costs. Managing • Barrick increased our total energy use to 44,228,302 GJ our energy use is therefore a business imperative. in 2016, compared to our 2014 baseline (44,183,211 GJ). In terms of intensity, Barrick actually reduced its Our Approach energy intensity from 5.33 GJ/oz (2014 baseline) to 5.11 Conservation, energy efficiency and alternative energy GJ/oz in 2016. In other words, Barrick was 4% more sources form our core energy strategies. Barrick’s Energy energy-efficient in producing gold in 2016 compared Management Policy establishes requirements for the effective to 2014. administration and control of all energy sources (fuel, power, • In 2016, approximately 36% percent of our electrical explosives) used by the Company. Throughout the mining power, both self-generated and purchased, was sourced process, our approach to managing energy use and climate from renewables. Barrick is fortunate that in many of change is informed by our Environmental Management the areas (Zambia, Nevada, Peru, and Ontario) in which System and associated Standards. it mines, the grid-supplied power has a high level of As part of the Company’s energy strategy, Barrick has put in renewable integration. For self-generating mines like place a Five-Year Energy Plan with a goal of reducing energy Pueblo Viejo and Veladero, Barrick continues to look at costs by at least 10 percent. By the end of 2017, Barrick plans efficiency improvements, fuel switching, connecting to to conduct a climate change risk assessment and establish the grid and renewables as a way to reduce the costs targets around climate change. The year 2014 will be used as and carbon footprint associated with our power needs. the new global baseline for GHG and energy reduction target Our Priorities setting.5 • We will continue our efforts to reduce energy costs by at Our Progress least 10 percent, in line with our Five-Year Energy Plan. • In 2016, we made significant progress towards our goal Barrick’s Five-Year Energy Plan of reducing energy costs by 10% by 2019, by reducing our spending on energy by 45% from our 2014 • In 2014, Barrick developed a Five-Year Energy Plan with baseline1, from $880 million in 2014 to $489 million in the goal of reducing energy costs by at least 10 percent. 2016. 4 Barrick’s online 2016 Responsibility Report reports on the Company’s approach to energy use and climate change as one issue. We have duplicated the relevant content in for inclusion in the energy and emissions sections of this index. 5 These initiatives are still in the early stages of development and there are currently no specific targets in the Five Year Energy Plan other than reducing energy costs by 10%. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 45 To accomplish this, the company is exploring a range of Fuel switching is another strategy we are exploring that will energy initiatives for the short, medium and long term, enable a site to reduce costs with little to no capital investincluding fuel substitution, renewable energy opportunities, ment. For example, the Quisqueya I power plant, at the lighting upgrades (such as moving to LEDs), the use of variPueblo Viejo mine in the Dominican Republic, is a dual-fuel able-frequency drives (VFDs), energy contracts, ore movement system that can operate on heavy fuel oil, diesel, biofuels, or options, compressed air, smart grids, mine electrification, natural gas. We are currently evaluating a switch from heavy biofuels and waste heat recovery. fuel oil to liquid natural gas, which would reduce operating cost while lowering our GHG emissions. In addition to these initiatives, Barrick has implemented a Monthly Energy Reporting System (available to all staff via Similar efforts are being made in regard to switching haul Barrick’s intranet) that provides detailed insights into our entrucks from diesel to natural gas (liquid natural gas [LNG] or ergy usage, costs, areas of opportunity, key performance indihigh-density compressed natural gas [HDCNG]) at our Nevada cators, and the ability to track and validate energy savings. operations to reduce operating costs, and GHG and particulate matter emissions. Energy Initiatives Detailed Energy Workshops held at our mine sites have idenOver the past several years, all of our operations have tified and quantified many new opportunities ranging from conducted energy self-assessments to identify areas for LED lighting, variable frequency drives and compressor plant improvement in energy efficiency and conservation. We have improvements to heat recovery for power production, renewidentified a wide variety of opportunities that range from inable energy opportunities and improved material movement creased energy awareness education, to improved ventilation systems. fan monitoring, to enhanced fuel-management programs. In the long term, we are looking for opportunities to develop Many of the opportunities that have been identified will energy efficient, “low-carbon” mines, which can similarly be able to be implemented without additional capital. For drive down costs and emissions. For example, current diesel example, Barrick has begun negotiating non-capital–based haul truck technology for moving materials has a high-energy strategies and entering partnerships that will allow us to intensity compared to electric-based options like conveyuse the energy savings stream from a project to finance the ors and rail (up to 75 percent in potential energy savings). project. This will reduce the need for capital, expedite the imElectric-based material movement opportunities also open up plementation of projects, provide new resources and increase new renewable energy and regeneration-based complementhe number of projects that can be implemented to reduce tary strategies, as well. energy costs and GHG emissions. 302-1 Energy consumption within the Energy Use & ICMM UNGC organization Climate Change 6 9 8 9 Energy Consumption within the organization – 2016 GJ MwH A) Non-renewable Fuel 32,637,596.36 9,065,998.99 B) Renewable Fuel 211,165.88 58,657.19 C) Electricity Consumption 878,053.69 3,160,993.05 D) Electricity Sold – – E) Total Energy Consumption 33,726,815.87 12,285,649.23 302-3 Energy Intensity Energy Use & ICMM UNGC Climate Change 6 9 8 9 In 2016, Barrick consumed 5.11 GJ of energy (fuel and electricity consumed within the organization) for every ounce of gold produced. 46 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI 303 Water 303 Management Approach Water Management ICMM UNGC 1 8 9 Water is a shared, vital, and often scarce resource. As mining plan, when will it be implemented, and what are the key is a water-intensive industry, our activities, if not properly milestones? managed, have the potential to negatively impact the quality • Collaboration: We engage continuously across our and availability of water for other users. business to provide to all water-accountable people At Barrick, we strive to use only what we need and to reduce at Barrick the tools to share information, collaborate, our impact on other water users in the countries and commuinnovate and build institutional knowledge. We will also nities with whom we partner. This is not only the responsible engage continuously with other water users in our host and ethical thing to do, it makes good business sense. If we countries and communities, and beyond, seeking their do not live up to our commitment to manage water responsiinput and feedback on our plans and sharing informably, we know that it weakens our partnerships with govtion about how we use and manage water. ernments and communities. That is why we must maintain Our Progress strong water-management capabilities and risk-management practices everywhere we operate. • In 2016, Barrick developed a Water Management Framework. The Framework is designed to facilitate Our Approach site-based water stewardship that brings value to the Our water use, through all stages of the mining life cycle, Company while protecting our people, our partners and is guided by Barrick’s Water Management Framework. The the environment. It is being introduced in early 2017 and Framework is designed to facilitate site-based water stewwill guide our water management strategy going forward. ardship that brings value to the Company while protecting • Barrick achieved a Leadership score of Ain our 2016 our people, our partners, and the environment. It is based on CDP Water response. The response details our actions to three pillars: manage water and mitigate water risk. • Assess: We first assess our water-related risks and water • In 2016, Barrick created the position of Vice President, conservation opportunities through rigorous analysis. Water Management to assist our projects, operations, Water stewardship will be integrated into life-of-mine and closed sites in putting in place the right talent, plans, planning in a systematic way, factoring in considerations and resources to effectively manage water-related risks, like long-term water balance and cumulative impacts. both current and emerging. We try to proactively identify water risks across the mine lifecycle and we put in place the right talent, the right • Barrick has water-monitoring programs with commuplans and the right resources to effectively manage and nities located near our operations in Peru, Argentina, mitigate these risks at all of our sites. Zambia, Canada and the Dominican Republic. • Assure: We responsibly manage water resources by up• Following an incident at our Veladero mine in 2016 dating our standards, guidelines, assurance reviews and (described below), Barrick has made water management audits to mitigate our risks and continuously improve in South America a priority: our performance. Though every site has distinct char»» On September 8, 2016, ice rolling down the slope acteristics and circumstances, these procedures provide of the leach pad at Veladero damaged a pipe carryconsistency to our assessment and assurance processes. ing process solution, causing some material to leave At its core, this follows a simple structure and each site the leach pad. This material, primarily crushed ore must address a number of key considerations: what are saturated with process solution, was contained on your risks, what is your mitigation plan, what are your the mine site and returned to the leach pad. resources, how much will it cost to implement your 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 47 Extensive water monitoring in the area conducted At some of our operations, water used for processing or enby the Company has confirmed that the incicountered in mining is thoroughly treated and put back into dent did not result in any environmental impacts. the environment. This is done according to strict standards, For further information on this incident and the and we continuously monitor the quality and quantity of any incidents at Veladero in 2015 and 2017, see discharged water. Permit limits or legal standards govern the Significant Incidents. concentrations of certain constituents that can be discharged in the water. We also monitor groundwater and surface waPriorities In 2017 terways downstream to confirm that negative impacts on the • Zero severe water-related environmental incidents. local environment have been minimized by our mitigations. • Digital transformation. Barrick will continue to impleAs part of the mine closure plan at Pierina, the site constructment technology to automate water monitoring and ed water treatment plants and a large sedimentation pond to decision making, increase the efficiency and effectivesafeguard water resources downstream. ness of our systems, and improve transparency with our If water quality parameters were to exceed permissible limits, stakeholders. As our digital transformation progresses, we would report it to the relevant government agencies we plan to expand our digital water-monitoring program immediately. Our management leadership teams and envifrom Pascua to other sites; we believe this is the level of ronmental specialists share monitoring data routinely with transparency that our partners expect. the appropriate local authorities at all our operations. We • Update standards. A key element of the water-managealso invite and welcome local authorities and stakeholders to ment framework will be to revise our Water Conservation regularly inspect our mine and water-management facilities. Standard to bring clarity to water-related requirements and Water Conservation align the requirements with the framework and current global water standards. As part of this effort, we will build Barrick operates in a number of arid and semi-arid regions guidelines to support our updated Water Conservation where we preferentially use brackish or saline water to meet Standard that guides sites as to how water resources our water needs. Along with reducing costs and maximizing should be characterized, managed, and reported. the availability of fresh water for other community users, using saline water also reduces soil salinity, which can be a • Integrate water resource planning in our business planserious problem for farmers and ranchers in arid areas. ning process. As part of these efforts, we will develop a risk-screening tool that can be used for each site to We utilize the “fit for use” principle to conserve fresh water assess major risks and critical controls. We will then work by prioritizing the use of water with poor quality wherever with the sites to digitize these critical processes. possible instead of fresh water, and by recycling and reusing as much water as we can. An example of this is when a • Develop internal metrics to track Barrick’s performance water outflow from one activity is used for another – such as benchmarked against industry peers. We will then define wash-bay water being used for dust suppression following key performance metrics to drive internal performance. necessary treatment – or when gold-laden processing water is • Develop an internal water community within Barrick. We stripped of the gold and the water is then re-circulated back will connect water-accountable Barrick people across the through the processing system. Barrick has made significant organization to share, collaborate, innovate, and build advances in metallurgical technologies for the gold and institutional knowledge and competency. copper concentration process to reduce freshwater demand and reduce costs associated with water. We understand that Water Quality fresh water is a valuable resource and only consume it when In order to safeguard and protect basin water resources, we necessary for demands such as reagent mixing and domestic must understand and report our water performance. All of water supply. The majority of our water demand is met by our mines have established water-monitoring networks to brackish or recycled sources. monitor the quantity and quality of the basin water resources. 48 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick also engages and collaborates with other water Barrick’s Community Relations Standard requires all high risk users, such as agricultural producers, to pursue sustainable sites to annually complete a Social Risk Assessment based management of water resources. In communities that lack on Barrick’s Formal Risk Assessment Process. Sites with high clean water, we have programs in place to help maintain social risks related to water are able to assess inherent risks, fresh water supplies. For example, through public-private review the effectiveness of current controls and develop partnerships, Barrick has supported the construction of additional controls, if necessary. The Social Risk Assessment 41 aqueducts, which are increasing water access for about informs the Community Relations annual work plan which 12,000 people in 26 communities near Barrick’s Pueblo Viejo is documented in a Site Social Management Plan. Outcomes mine in the Dominican Republic. from the Social Risk Assessment are reported to site and corporate senior management quarterly. High risks are also Water Risk reported to the Board of Directors through the Community Barrick employs a variety of tools to assess water-related risks. Relations and Corporate Social Responsibility Board Report. • The Company applies the World Business Council for We also recognize that a wide range of supplies, from heavy Sustainable Development’s Global Water Tool to equipment and tires to explosives and chemical agents, are identify high and medium risk sites at country level; needed for our operations. The production of these involves complex processes, various industries and multi-level supply • We plot our operations on the Global Monthly Water chains, all of which have requirements for good quality freshScarcity map which is linked to the Water Footprint water on which we are indirectly reliant. Recognizing this Network to assess stress at watershed level; dependency, as part of our risk assessment process, we also • We evaluate social water risk using the assess our supply chain for water-related risks. WWF Water Risk Filter; and Transparency • We assess biodiversity water risk with IBAT4 Transparency is the currency of trust, and integral to how we (Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool) database. manage water. Our environmental specialists share monitoring In addition, Barrick’s Water Conservation Standard requires data with appropriate local authorities, and the mine’s water projects, operations, and closure sites to: treatment facilities are inspected regularly by local authorities. We also publish detailed Company-wide water data online and 1. Develop and implement a water management plan, are long-time participants in the CDP’s annual Water Program. identify key water risks and opportunities, and support As part of its water initiative, the ICMM is developing a water planning; consistent and simple, yet robust, water reporting 2. Establish minimum criteria for monitoring, analysis and approach for the mining and metals industry based on reporting of water data; the Mineral Council of Australia’s Water Accounting Framework. Barrick fully intends to report to this framework 3. Establish a consistent approach for maintaining a susonce it is complete. tainable site water balance; and In 2016, Barrick introduced live water monitoring at the 4. Establish a consistent approach to conduct water manPascua project as part of our efforts to strengthen community agement risk assessments annually, and to analyze comtrust at the site. munity relations, and social and biodiversity information. Barrick also actively engages with local communities on We also monitor regional or local drought conditions if water-related matters through community participatory waapplicable. For example, Barrick closely follows the National ter-monitoring programs and other forms of communication. Integrated Drought Information System for Nevada, USA, In participatory monitoring, Barrick’s environment and comas part of site level water risk analysis. We also look for any munity relations teams partner with local community mempotential linkage to mine water usage. bers to collaboratively monitor water quality. By gathering 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 49 data and viewing results side by side, these programs increase At Pueblo Viejo, Barrick has conducted 20 participatory transparency in our processes, underscore our confidence in environmental monitoring sessions with the local community the measures and systems in place to maintain water quality, since the program began. and, ultimately, help build trust with our partners who share this essential resource with us. 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water Management ICMM UNGC 6 9 8 9 Water Withdrawal1 (MM3) – 2016 Fresh Surface Water 27,734.046 Brackish/Saline Surface Water 1,005.492 Fresh Groundwater 15,631.731 Brackish/Saline Groundwater 3,362.494 Municipal Water 46.831 Total 43,780.595 1 Barrick currently does not purposely harvest rainwater for water supply or track rainwater use. The Company also does not currently receive wastewater from other organizations 303-2 Percentage and total volume of water Water Management ICMM UNGC recycled and reused 6 9 8 9 Approximately 78% of the water Barrick used (142,818,730L) was recycled in 2016. 50 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI 304 Biodiversity 304 Management Approach Biodiversity ICMM UNGC 1 8 Biodiversity forms the basis of many ecosystem services. Our Progress These include the provision of fresh water and of raw materials such as food and fuel, climate regulation, soil formation, • Barrick’s updated Biodiversity Standard went into force as of January 1, 2016. Though applicable to all projects, it and recreational services, which keep people, and the natural focuses on new projects achieving beneficial outcomesv. environment, alive and healthy. We recognize that our mining activities can have an impact • On March 15, 2015, Barrick signed a Bank Enabling Agreement with the Department of the Interior through on local biodiversity and the provision of these essential the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and the services. We see biodiversity loss as both a regulatory risk and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to voluntarily mitia risk to our relationships with host communities. One of our gate impacts to sage grouse habitats near our mines in fundamental responsibilities is to remediate, as effectively as Nevada. All parties to the agreement agreed to use The possible, our impacts to the environment. Nature Conservancy’s Conservation Forecasting Tools Our Approach to build a Habitat Conservation Bank to compensate for significant residual impacts of future mining activThroughout the mining process, we follow the guidance ities. Our 2016 activities were focused on developing provided by our internal Environmental Management System programs within Barrick’s Mitigation Bank to preserve and associated Standards, along with guidance provided by and restore sage grouse habitats. In addition to our the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), commitment to restore habitats for sage grouse, Barrick to determine how to manage our impacts on biodiversity. We established a Conservation Council of company leaders are committed to engaging with local communities, including in Nevada and proudly celebrated 25 years of partnerIndigenous Peoples, regarding these impacts. ship for wildlife conservation through: To put this into practice, Barrick has in place a Biodiversity Standard, which establishes minimum standards for the man»» Partnership with wildlife conservation organizations (e.g. The Nature Conservancy’s Nevada Chapter, agement of biodiversity at all exploration, project, operating Nevada Bighorns Unlimited, Rocky Mountain Elk and closure sites. Foundation, Ducks Unlimited); We aspire to safeguard, manage, and eventually reclaim lands, with a focus on protecting biodiversity. »» Partnership for habitat improvement field projects; We have determined that a “no net loss” approach would »» In-kind support of habitat improvement field projects; and be difficult to demonstrate at our older, established mine sites, where original baseline data is not always available. »» Volunteerism by our employees and their families on Recognizing this limitation, the Biodiversity Standard and habitat improvement field projects. our management approach are focused on ways to achieve beneficial outcomes for potentially impacted key biodiversity • As part of our commitment to look for opportunities to improve conservation at our sites and the landscapes in features at new projects and major expansions of existing which we operate at a global level, we continue to supproperties. This includes combining the elements of the port, both financially and through active participation, Mitigation Hierarchy of avoidance, mitigation and restoration groups such as the Cross-Sector Biodiversity Initiative, programs with biodiversity offsets and/or other conservation ICMM’s Biodiversity Working Group and Proteus (the actions, so landscapes in the regions benefit over time from United Nations Environment Programme’s World our presence. Nonetheless, all of our mines are managed Conservation Monitoring Centre). Each partnership and with the goal of minimizing impacts on biodiversity. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 51 working group supports the continued growth of good tailings impoundments, and has also won industry and govpractice among industry leaders and exposes us to the ernment awards for its reclamation activities. We recognize most current thoughts to consider as we work towards that it is not usually possible to restore a mine site exactly as our improvement goals. it was prior to mining, but it is possible to restore a healthy, thriving ecosystem, with lands that support productive Land Management post-mining land use. Land disturbance is a consequence of mining. Our aim is to Wildlife Management minimize our footprint, mitigate our impacts and, once mining is finished, leave behind land that will support productive We have implemented controls at our operations to safeuses for future generations. guard wildlife from mine processes and chemical exposure. Careful planning during development and operations helps These controls include barriers such as fencing and netting, the to reduce the area affected by mining activities, as well as the use of “bird balls” and other covers for ponds and tanks, and environmental effects of disturbance. Barrick also has a Mine cyanide destruction processes at operations that use cyanide. Closure Standard that requires that we close our properties in At many sites, we have projects specifically designed to proa manner that is timely and cost-effective and that restores an tect rare or key wildlife; at others, we strive to enhance habiecosystem that can support productive post-mining land use. tats. For example, at the Pueblo Viejo mine in the Dominican The total area of surface land owned, leased or managed Republic, we have been working for several years with locally by Barrick at the end of 2016 was approximately 1.3 million and internationally renowned scientists to protect several frog hectares. Of the 1.3 million hectares, just over two percent species that have been identified on the project site. has been disturbed over the years by our operations. The In Nevada we support fire management programs to protect rest has been left in its natural state or utilized for other sage grouse and mule deer habitats, among other habiactivities, including agriculture and livestock grazing. At the tat and wildlife restoration programs, through the Barrick end of 2016, our current disturbance for active mining was Conservation Council. In addition to fire protection, in just under 26,800 hectares. Also, over the course of Barrick’s 2015, Barrick signed a Bank Enabling Agreement with the operations, over 6,000 hectares have been reclaimed to the Department of the Interior through USFWS and the BLM agreed post-mining land use. to voluntarily mitigate for impacts to sage grouse habitats Reclamation in Nevada. Parties agreed to use the Nature Conservancy’s Conservation Forecasting Tools to build a Habitat An important element of our environmental management Conservation Bank to compensate for significant residual approach is the development of closure and reclamation impacts of future mining activities. In 2016, activities were plans as a part of initial project planning and design. These focused on developing programs within Barrick’s Mitigation plans are routinely updated during the life of each operation Bank to preserve and restore sage grouse habitat. Greater to effectively address environmental impacts identify financial sage grouse are wide ranging and can be found across much obligations for closure. of the western United States. Where practical, we have implemented native seed collection Impacts on Wildlife and soil management projects even prior to mine developIn 2016, one major wildlife mortality eventvi occurred at a ment. Barrick has also established nurseries at a number of Barrick site. Approximately a dozen birds died on a pond at sites to grow local plant species for reforestation and replantthe Grants closure site in California in November 2016. This ing once mining is complete. During operations, whenever event was reported to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and possible, disturbed areas are contoured and revegetated after the site committed to undertake a number of measures in they are no longer required for active mining. response, including the evaluation of hazing techniques to Barrick has taken a leading role in the design and construcdeter future bird landings. tion of evaporative covers for both waste rock dumps and 52 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index MM1 Amount of land disturbed or Biodiversity ICMM UNGC rehabilitated 6 7 8 Land Balance – 2016 Hectares Total land disturbed and not rehabilitated at the beginning of the year 26,603.40 Total amount of land newly disturbed (in reporting period) 206.76 Total amount of land newly rehabilitated (in reporting period) 10.72 Total Land disturbed and not yet rehabilitated at end of year 26,799.44 MM2 Sites identified as requiring biodiversity Biodiversity ICMM UNGC management plans 6 7 8 In 2016, four sites (three operating mines and one project) were considered to require biodiversity management plans due to their proximity to protected areas and the detection of threatened speciesvii. Of these sites: • One site (Pueblo Viejo) and one project (Lama) have biodiversity management plans in placeviii; • Two other sites (Lumwana and Veladero) are managing and monitoring specific biodiversity features as required, as part of their environmental management plans. In addition, most Barrick sites, regardless of their proximity to protected areas, include some level of protection and programs to monitor terrestrial and aquatic flora and fauna in their environmental management plans. 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, manLand Management ICMM UNGC aged in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 6 7 8 outside protected areas Sites near Protected Areas or Areas of High Biodiversity Value – 2016 Site Protected Areas Areas of High Biodiversity Hemlo 10-15 km from White Lake Provincial Park (IUCN Cat II) Lagunas Norte Within Global 200 – Northern Andean Paramo Bordering Tropical Andean biodiversity hotspot Lama and Veladero Both are in the multi-use area of the San Guillermo Within a key biodiversity area Man and Biosphere Reserve Lumwana Within 10 km of the Acres Forest Reserve (IUCN Within Global 200 – Central and Eastern Miombo unclassified Protected Area) Woodlands Pierina Between 5 & 10 km away from the Huascaran Within Global 200 – Atacama-Sechura Deserts National Park and World Heritage Site Bordering Tropical Andean biodiversity hotspot Pueblo Viejo Infrastructure crosses Aniana Vargas National Park Within Caribbean Island biodiversity hotspot declared in 2009 Turquoise Ridge Between 5 & 10 km of the Osgood Mountain Milkvetch (IUCN Cat V) 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 53 Protected and Other Sensitive Areas are places where UNESCO seeks to reconcile conservation and cultural diversity with economic and social development Barrick has one property (Pierina) located near a World through partnerships between people and nature. The San Heritage Site, two (Veladero and Lama) within the multiGuillermo MAB has a nucleus, buffer and multi-use area. use area of a UNESCO Man and Biosphere Reserve, one Mining is one of the many human uses permitted in the site (Alturas) located within 15km of a UNESCO Man multi-use area of the San Guillermo MAB. Barrick supports and Biosphere Reserve, and three operations (Hemlo, the creation of a management plan for the San Guillermo Turquoise Ridge, and Lumwana) near International Union for MAB, which is an important requirement to maintaining bioConservation of Nature (IUCN) protected areas. In addition, sphere reserve status according to the UNESCO principles. our Pueblo Viejo mine is located near sensitive habitats in the Dominican Republic. Barrick has set up a $7.5 million fund to support monitoring and controls within the San Guillermo MAB. The money is In Peru, the 1,300-hectare Pierina mine (now in closure) is intended for a number of projects and has so far been used located 10 kilometers southwest of the Huascaran National to purchase vehicles to support biological monitoring and Park and World Heritage Site. World Heritage Sites are propwater management programs, as well as for the construction erties that have outstanding universal cultural or natural value of two mountain shelters in the biosphere reserve area. as identified by the World Heritage Committee. Members of the Committee are elected from countries that are parties Our sites near IUCN protected areas include our operation to the World Heritage Convention (established by UNESCO). in Zambia, which is located within 10 kilometers of a Forest Barrick follows the International Council on Mining and Reserve (unclassified IUCN protected area), and PVDC in the Metals (ICMM) position statement on mining and Dominican Republic, where one of our pipelines crossed protected areas. Therefore, we neither explore nor initithrough a protected area declared in 2009 by the Dominican ate mining within World Heritage Sites, and we respect the government. In North America, some of our sites are located requirements of legally designated protected areas. within 15 km of protected areas and sites identified as sensitive by local entities, such as sage grouse and Lahontan The 21,000-hectare Veladero mine, as well as the Lama side cutthroat trout habitats. of the Pascua-Lama project, are located within the multi-use area of the San Guillermo Man and Biosphere Reserve (San The tailings storage facility of the Hemlo mine in Ontario, Guillermo MAB) in Argentina. The San Guillermo MAB, comCanada, is within 15 kilometers of White Lake Provincial prising 990,000 hectares, is a thriving ecological micro-rePark (IUCN Cat II) and Turquoise Ridge is close to the Osgood gion, home to diverse migrating species such as condors, Mountain milkvetch plant habitat (IUCN Cat V), but no imvicuñas, llamas, pumas, flamingos, and many others. MABs pacts are expected from either operation. 304-4 Total number of IUCN Red List species Wildlife ICMM UNGC and national conservation list species Management 6 7 8 with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Threatened Species with habitats in areas affected by operations – 2016 IUCN Red-List Category Through EIAs Through IBAT Critically Endangered 1 3 Endangered 3 29 Vulnerable 21 31 Near Threatened 18 58 Least Concern 50 Not reported in the IBAT Total 93 121 54 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Many national conservation organizations, along with the by field work when required to determine if habitat on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), have ground would be suitable for the flagged sensitive species. developed inventories of plant and animal species listed by Based on the latest information available through the IBAT, conservation status. The main purpose of the IUCN’s Red List we estimate that approximately 121 species, with IUCN and other national and international conservation lists is to conservation assessments ranging from critically endangered catalogue and highlight those plants and animals that are to near threatened,2 could be possible at our sites if the habfacing a high risk of local and/or global extinction or are close itat were suitable. We then checked environmental impact to meeting the threatened-status thresholds. assessment data for each site, where possible, and identified Barrick’s support in the development and use of additional 93 species on the IUCN Red List potentially present in habitat conservation data tools, such as the Integrated Biodiversity near our operations. These categories ranged from those of Assessment Tool (IBAT), is now providing easier access to least concern (50) to those endangered or critically endanprotected area information and the potential presence of gered (two species). At a local level, some species are also Red-Listed species for our operations and projects to consider identified as sensitive; by identifying these species we are able in mine development. The IBAT provides a broad scope of to develop appropriate management plans to avoid harm habitat and species potential in an area, which is followed up where necessary. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 55 GRI 305 Emissions 305 Management Approach6 Air Emissions; ICMM UNGC Energy Use and 6 10 8 9 Climate Change Energy Use & Climate Change Our Progress Mining is an energy-intensive business. From blasting and • Barrick has established an internal Climate Change hauling to crushing and processing, energy is used at every Committee to build on its existing energy management stage of the mining process and represents a significant porplan and develop a comprehensive climate change tion of our overall costs. strategy. The Committee is a cross-disciplinary group of leaders at Barrick established to manage climate We also understand the important link between energy use change risks and opportunities that have the potential and climate change. Barrick considers climate change to be to impact our investors, stakeholders and operations. a Company, community, and global concern. By effectively The Committee meets quarterly and includes Barrick’s managing our energy use, we are able to reduce our greenChief Financial Officer, Chief Innovation Officer, Chief house gas (GHG) emissions, achieve more efficient producSustainability Officer and participants from Finance, tion, reduce our draw from local energy grids, and save a Operations, Environment, Government Affairs, Legal and significant proportion of our direct mining costs. Managing Evaluations. our energy use is therefore a business imperative. • In 2016, Barrick joined the Carbon Pricing Leadership Our Approach Coalition – the first Canadian gold mining company to Barrick understands the fundamental link between enerdo so. The Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition is an gy use and climate change and sees climate change as a international, voluntary partnership between businesses, Company, community, and global concern. We have engovernments, and civil society organizations. It aims to dorsed the International Council on Mining and Metals strengthen carbon-pricing policies, facilitate the integra(ICMM) Position Statement on Climate Change and tion of existing carbon-pricing policies, and provide platsupport placing a market price on GHG emissions. forms for carbon-pricing discussion and collaboration. Conservation, energy efficiency and alternative energy • Barrick increased our total GHG emissions to 3,462,064 sources form our core energy strategies. Barrick’s Energy tCO2e from our 2014 baseline (3,326,834 tCO2e). Management Policy establishes requirements for the effective In terms of carbon intensity, it decreased from 662.6 administration and control of all energy sources (fuel, power, kgCO2e/oz in 2014 to 660.9 kgCO2e/oz in 2016. The explosives) used by the Company. Throughout the mining change in emissions and carbon intensity is largely linked process, our approach to managing energy use and climate to increased material moved at the Pueblo Viejo mine, change is informed by our Environmental Management declines in grades at Turquoise Ridge increasing the System and associated Standards. amount of material moved and processed, increased material moved at Lumwana, and increased grid power As part of the Company’s energy strategy, Barrick has put in carbon intensity (tCO2e/MWh) in the Northwest Power place a Five-Year Energy Plan with a goal of reducing energy Pool (NWPP) region’s eGrid factor. costs by at least 10 percent. By the end of 2017, Barrick plans to conduct a climate change risk assessment and establish • In 2016, Barrick received an ALeadership score for its targets around climate change. The year 2014 will be used as CDP Climate Change Response. Through this questionthe new global baseline for GHG and energy reduction target naire, Barrick discloses climate change data including how setting. it manages carbon-related issues, such as governance, strategy, initiatives, and greenhouse gas emissions. 6 Barrick’s online 2016 Responsibility Report reports on the Company’s approach to energy use and climate change as one issue. We have duplicated the relevant content in for inclusion in the energy and emissions sections of this index. 56 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Priorities in 2017 their air emissions in accordance with local laws, regulations and permit requirements. We also believe in supporting vol• Barrick’s newly formed Climate Change Committee is untary initiatives to innovate and advance emission controls. composed of multi-disciplinary senior-level executives working together to broaden Barrick’s Energy Strategy Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions and integrate more effectively the potential impact on Barrick understands the fundamental link between energy climate change. As part of this work, Barrick will introuse and climate change, and views climate change as a duce a revised Climate Change Strategy Framework and company, community and global concern. We realize that efClimate Change Policy. This strategy will address both fective energy management, including energy efficiency proGHG reductions from energy management initiatives and grams, will result in GHG reductions, so our climate change adaptation to climate change risks. efforts are also focused on energy management. • Barrick is working to set targets around climate change Dust in 2017. As part of the target-setting exercise, the comDust is the most common air emission at our mine sites. We pany is developing scenarios outlining the mine plans, suppress dust emissions from roads, crushers and conveyor processing requirements and expected energy use and belt systems through the application of water to roads, the greenhouse gas emissions. From these scenarios, we will operation of water sprays and dust collection systems at work to identify initiatives that can be put in place to point sources, and the application of natural or synthetic dust lower our carbon emissions and our targeted emissions. suppression products where suitable. • We will continue our efforts to reduce energy costs by at Sulfur & Nitrogen Oxides least 10 percent, in line with our five-year energy plan Sulfur and nitrogen oxide (SOx and NOx) emissions are most commonly controlled by the use of filters and scrubbers. Air Emissions Information on SOx and NOx emissions is routinely collectBarrick’s mining and processing activities have the potential to ed in Canada and the United States and submitted to the emit a number of emissions into the air, including particulate national databases identified above. In other jurisdictions, our matter (dust), sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxmines may not routinely collect this data where there are no ide, and mercury. permit requirements to do so. We recognize that such emissions can have an impact on Mercury people and the environment, and we work to control and At a number of our operations, the ore we process naturalreduce our emissions through facility design and the use of ly contains mercury that can be released as a vapor during emission controls, including dust suppressant, dust collection processing. Barrick is actively engaged in closely monitoring systems, and scrubbers. and managing mercury emissions, as well as finding ways to reduce them. Depending upon mercury concentration in ore We also report on releases of our emissions through appliand other risk factors, Barrick employs a variety of controls, cable government reporting programs, such as Canada’s including scrubbers and condensation towers, wet gas conNational Pollutant Release Inventory and the United densers, and activated carbon filters to trap mercury vapor States’ Toxic Release Inventory. Barrick also volunbefore it can be discharged to the atmosphere. tarily reports its greenhouse gas emissions through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). NOTE: We calculate and report all emissions using the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories We design facilities and conduct our operations in ways that Volume 2. control and reduce emissions. All Barrick operations manage 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 57 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions Air Emissions; ICMM UNGC Energy Use and 6 10 8 9 Climate Change GHG Emissions – Scope 1 (Metric Tonnes CO2e) 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 2,954,885 2,945,030 2,896,758 Barrick’s GHG emissions baseline of 2014 has been revised to only include assets the Company currently operates. This is in accordance with our Five-Year Energy Plan as to better align with GHG and energy reduction target setting. For GHG emissions data on divested assets from 2014-2015, please see previous years Responsibility Reports on Barrick’s Transparency Hub. 305-2 Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions Air Emissions; ICMM UNGC Energy Use and 6 10 8 9 Climate Change GHG Emissions – Scope 2 (Metric Tonnes CO2e) 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 371,948 427,225 565,306 Barrick’s GHG emissions baseline of 2014 has been revised to only include assets the Company currently operates. This is in accordance with our Five-Year Energy Plan as to better align with GHG and energy reduction target setting. For GHG emissions data on divested assets from 2014-2015, please see previous years Responsibility Reports on Barrick’s Transparency Hub. Scope 2 emissions data is provided on a market based approach. When calculating Scope 2 emissions on a location based approach, total emissions were 3,539,788 metric tonnes in 2016. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions Air Emissions; ICMM UNGC Energy Use and 6 10 8 9 Climate Change; CDP GHG Emissions – Scope 3 (metric tonnes of CO2e) 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 673,998 710,470 687,326 Includes transmission and fuel losses calculated by country and grid factors. Data not available for all countries of operation. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Air Emissions; ICMM UNGC Energy Use and 6 10 8 9 Climate Change In 2016, Barrick’s GHG intensity for mining was 661 kgCO2e per ounce of gold produced. 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Air Emissions ICMM UNGC 6 10 8 9 Barrick operations do not manufacture ozone-depleting substances (ODS) or equipment that would use them. We also do not use materials that contain ozone-depleting substances, except fire extinguishers, some refrigerants and machine shop solvents; therefore, emissions of these substances are minimal. 58 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index 305-7 Nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) Air Emissions ICMM UNGC and other significant air emissions 6 10 8 9 Total Air Emissions (tonnes) – 2016 PM10 Emissions1 314.66 NOx Emissions 1,543.87 Sox Emissions 234.10 Mercury Air Emissions 0.274 1 Only includes sites where reporting is required by government regulation. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 59 GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 306 Management Approach Tailings and ICMM UNGC Waste Management 1 8 9 Mining involves the removal and processing of ore – the rock We conduct daily routine inspections at our operations, and containing economically recoverable amounts of desired annual dam safety inspections are conducted by the Engineer metals. of Record. Independent third-party reviews are conducted at a minimum of every two to four years at high-risk TSFs, and To access the ore deposits, waste rock must be removed independent assurance audits of TSFs are conducted every and stored in waste rock dumps and, after processing, mine one to three years. tailings may be produced and stored in engineered tailings storage facilities (TSFs). Alternatively, the crushed ore may be Our Progress placed in heap leach facilities (HLFs) for irrigation with process • Barrick did not experience any TSF or HLF geotechnical solutions and recovery of the desired metals. incidents in 2016. If not properly managed, TSFs can fail and lead to harmful • In 2016, Barrick updated its Tailings and Heap Leach impacts on the environment and nearby communities. This Management Standard. The updated Standard incorpois why we have established internal requirements based on rates heap leach management and establishes a more foraccepted best practices, and why these facilities are carefully malized inspection and review schedule. Barrick’s updated designed and monitored by internal and external experts. Standard aligns with the Canadian Dam Association Barrick has put in place a Tailings and Heap Leach (CDA) Dam Safety Guidelines, the CDA Technical Bulletin: Management Standard to help our sites comply with applicaApplication of Dam Safety Guidelines to Mining Dams, ble laws and regulations and help us to align with accepted and the recently revised Part 10 of the Health, Safety and international practice. Reclamation Code for Mines in British Columbia. Tailings and Heap Leach Management • Barrick conducted ten formal internal assurance audits of our sites’ adherence to the updated Tailings and Heap As part of the mining process, large volumes of mine tailings Leach Management Standard in 2016. The company also may be produced and stored in engineered tailings storage had third-party reviews conducted on the TSFs at Pueblo facilities (TSFs). The TSF can include a tailings dam(s), the Viejo, Goldstrike, and Cortez. impoundment, access roads, diversion channels, downstream seepage collection ponds and other facilities. Priorities in 2017 If not properly managed, TSFs can fail and lead to harmful • Target zero tailings or heap leach management incidents. impacts on the environment and nearby communities. This • Barrick is continuing to work to implement its tailings is why we have established internal requirements based on stewardship program in 2017. Through a tailings stewinternational best practices, helping these facilities to be careardship program, we aim to further improve, compafully designed and monitored by internal and external experts. ny-wide, our in-house capability to undertake basic TSF Barrick has put in place a Tailings and Heap Leach monitoring, planning and reporting work while ensuring Management Standard to help our sites comply with applithe quality of results; further develop the overall technical cable laws and regulations and to be aligned with accepted and reporting capability of our site staff; promote ideninternational practice. The Standard establishes the minimum tification and sharing of best practices among sites; and geotechnical, hydrological, hydrogeological and environmenbetter demonstrate to the public and regulators our comtal design, construction, operation and closure criteria and mitment to ensuring TSF safety. As part of the program, procedures for Barrick’s TSFs and HLFs. Barrick will work to engage and regularly communicate with senior management on the status of our TSFs. 60 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Tailings & Heap Leach Management Standard controls must be provided for all phases to prevent unA revised Tailings and Heap Leach Management Standard acceptable erosion by wind and water. Potential physical was introduced in early 2016 to help Barrick sites design, and chemical degradation of structural elements such as construct, operate and close its TSFs and HLFs in compliance TSF embankment fills and HLF ore must be considered. with applicable laws and regulations and in alignment with • Reclamation and post-operation performance requireaccepted international best practices. ments must be incorporated in the design and operating The Standard is built upon the previous Tailings Management plans to reduce closure construction costs and long-term Standard and its accompanying Tailings Management liabilities. Where regulatory and property-ownership conGuidance document, which provided the technical criteria for ditions allow the possibility of returning a closed TSF or the Standard that the company introduced in August 2012. HLF site to the state, the design, permitting agreements Management requirements and technical criteria were also and reclamation strategy should avoid perpetual care. included for HLFs. • Each active TSF and HLF must be monitored and subjectAccording to the Standard, an Engineer of Record (EoR) ed to routine technical inspections and reviews. must be identified for all design and construction work, and Facility Inspection & Review must remain engaged during operation and into closure. A Among other performance obligations, the Standard requires Responsible Person (RP) is also identified for each TSF and that the results of daily inspections by trained site staff be HLF, whether in design, construction, operation or closure reported the same day to the RP. All operating TSFs are also care and maintenance. inspected at least once a year by the EoR responsible for the We also require that each RP establish and maintain a design of the TSF or by a suitably qualified and experienced dedicated management system. This includes preparing and geotechnical engineer outside of Barrick with a comprehenupdating key management documents such as life-of-mine sive understanding of the TSF design and operating phase. tailings generation and storage requirements; closure plans; a Barrick also conducts formal internal audits of sites’ adhercompliance plan; an organizational chart; an operation, mainence to the Standard by our corporate assurance group. tenance and surveillance manual; a formal risk assessment; In addition, Barrick conducts Dam Safety Reviews (DSR) and an emergency preparedness and response plan. carried out by an Independent Engineer at a minimum of The Standard also establishes the following minimum geoseven years and five years for high-risk facilities. DSRs involve technical, hydrological, hydrogeological and environmental detailed analysis of the design, construction and operation design, construction, operation and closure criteria and proof the TSF, which the Independent Engineer will compare to cedures for Barrick’s TSFs and HLFs. They must be: accepted international practice. • Designed, constructed, operated, closed and reThe company also contracts independent, internationalclaimed with the consideration of protection of: huly recognized geotechnical experts to conduct third-party man health, water and air quality, domestic livestock reviews at many of its planned, operating, and closed TSFs and aquatic, avian and terrestrial wildlife. Where at a frequency based on perceived risk, site conditions, and cyanide solutions are present, the requirements of the other factors (at a minimum, every two to four years at operInternational Cyanide Management Code must be ating TSFs assigned a High or Extreme Failure Consequence followed. Classification under Barrick’s Standard). Barrick began its third-party TSF review program in 1998, and has completed • Designed, constructed, operated, closed and reclaimed over 80 reviews. While these third-party reviews normally so as to prevent the uncontrolled release of solids and/ focus on the technical aspects of tailings management, they or fluids, and the compromise of (i.e. unacceptable may also include (or in some instances be dedicated to) the damage to) buried elements including filter zones and/or geotechnical and hydrological performance of waste rock geosynthetic liners, resulting from large-scale structural dumps, heap leach operations and water management instability such as slope failure or deformation. Adequate structures. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 61 Riverine Tailings Management crushed ore in HLFs remains after the copper or gold has The Porgera mine in Papua New Guinea is operated by been extracted and the leach solution has been recovered. Barrick Niugini Limited (BNL), an independent operating entity At the end of operations, the heap-leached ore is rinsed by which is jointly owned by Barrick and Zijin Mining. The mine recirculating solution and then is allowed to drain down, deposits the majority of tailings material into a nearby river ensuring both maximum gold or copper recovery and enviunder government permit and regulation and BNL’s own ronmental protection. Any residual seepage, captured by the internal oversight. liner system after closure, is treated to meet water-quality When Barrick acquired the Porgera mine in 2006, we extenstandards before being released to the environment. We sively investigated alternative waste management methods then work to re-integrate the closed HLF with the existing, to replace the existing riverine tailings disposal process. No surrounding environment. For example, at some sites we practicable alternatives were found due to a number of have re-contoured the HLF and capped it with a multi-layered factors, including the steep and unstable terrain, high rainfall, soil cover that minimizes rainwater infiltration and allows frequent landslides and seismic activity surrounding the revegetation. Porgera mine. Management of Barrick’s HLFs is covered under the Tailings Ongoing monitoring results show that the river system is and Heap Leach Management Standard. The Standard estaboperating as expected and that, downstream of the mixing lishes the minimum geotechnical, hydrological, hydrogeologzone, water quality and sediment are consistent with the ical and environmental design, construction, operation and stringent metal limits established by the Australia and New closure criteria and procedures for these facilities. Zealand Environment and Conservation Council. To date, the Waste Rock Management mine has not exceeded environmental permit water quality Mining involves the extraction of ore – the rock containing compliance levels. economically recoverable amounts of desired metals – from Despite this, in the future, Barrick will build mines that rely on the host rock. The waste rock – the rock that does not other methods of disposal of mining and processing material, contain economically recoverable amounts of desired metals and avoid riverine tailing disposal methods. – must also be removed, though mining plans minimize as much as possible the amount of waste rock relative to More information about Porgera and riverine tailings disposal extracted ore. In 2016, Barrick deposited 151 million tonnes is available here. of waste rock. Heap Leach Management Because waste rock naturally contains concentrations of At some sites, gold ore is processed using heap leaching. potentially harmful elements, the material must be properly With heap leaching, ore is crushed to approximately the managed to reduce the risk of contamination associated with size of large gravel particles and placed on an impermeable acid rock drainage (ARD) and/or metals leaching (ML). Across geomembrane liner system. The ore is then irrigated with a Barrick’s operations, approximately 31% of the mineral waste chemical solution that dissolves the desired metals; this soluproduced in 2016 had the potential to generate ARD/ML. To tion is typically sodium cyanide (for gold recovery) or sulfuric manage this risk, Barrick has implemented mitigation manageacid (for copper recovery). The composite liner – a combinament at operations where the waste rock, heap leach and/or tion of clay soils and impermeable synthetic membranes – is tailings have demonstrated the potential to generate ARD/ML. designed so that no solution escapes the leach pad. Equally Waste rock is generally placed into engineered waste rock important, the composite liner system also allows Barrick to storage facilities which, once full, can be re-contoured, recover the leach solution carrying the dissolved metals for covered with soil, and revegetated. In some cases, waste further processing. In critical areas, we often double the synrock can also be used to backfill open pits or underground thetic liner system. Leak detection, down-gradient monitoring tunnels. Waste rock that has high potential to generate ARD/ and other safety features are also typical of our designs. The ML can be encapsulated by non-reactive waste rock or co62 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index disposed in tailings storage facilities where it is submerged to construction of the federal mercury repository. Mercury comsignificantly limit geochemical reaction rates, thus minimizing pounds are disposed of at a licensed hazardous waste facility ARD/ML. At times, non-reactive waste rock – material that in compliance with applicable law. Strict handling, packaging, does not have the potential to generate ARD/ML – may be and transportation procedures are in place to help protect used to construct road beds or tailings dams. both people and the environment against mercury exposure during shipping. Mercury Waste Management In the case of operations at Latin American sites, mercury is curMercury is a naturally occurring element that is present, at some operations, in the ore we process. As a result of prorently securely stored on site in compliance with applicable law. cessing, mercury is separated from the ore. Depending upon Barrick continues to evaluate long-term disposal options for mercury concentration in ore and other risk factors, Barrick mercury. employs a variety of controls, including scrubbers and condensation towers, wet gas condensers, and activated carbon Non-Processing Waste Disposal filters, to trap mercury vapor before it can be discharged to A number of non-process wastes are generated each year at the atmosphere. our operations. These wastes may differ by country and by Mercury wastes generated from these air pollution control operation, but typically include scrap metals, waste oils, cans devices must be responsibly managed to minimize potential and bottles, spent tires, and office and camp waste. While risks to human health and the environment. Barrick promotes we try to recycle these wastes as much as possible, this is responsible management of mercury by following not always feasible at some of our remote sites or at operour Environmental Management System and the ations located in countries where recycling is not available. ICMM position statement on mercury risk management. Non-hazardous waste that is not recycled is usually landfilled In 2016, Barrick captured and stored 275 tonnes of mercury. (either in municipal landfills or landfills constructed on the mine property) or incinerated, on or off the site. As required by the Mercury Export Ban Act (MEBA), Barrick ceased the export of elemental mercury from U.S. facilities We also generate a relatively small amount of hazardous in January 2013. MEBA mandated that the United States waste each year. These wastes include batteries, fluorescent Department of Energy construct a federal mercury reposilights, certain oils, solvents, electronic waste and laboratory tory to accept elemental mercury generated by mining and assay wastes. As with process materials, the types of hazardother activities, but to date the repository has not been built. ous wastes vary among our sites; however, all are recycled Therefore, elemental mercury captured from air pollution or disposed of according to the appropriate regulation in the controls at our U.S. operations is currently stored pending the countries where we operate. MM3 Total amount of Overburden, rock, ESG Data Tables ICMM UNGC tailings, and sludges and their associated risks 6 8 8 9 In 2016, Barrick: • deposited 48,859,309 metric tonnes of tailings material • deposited 151,144,880 metric tonnes of waste rock • produced 273.554 metric tonnes of mercury as a by-product/co-product A full description of how we manage risks associated with these wastes is described in the Management Approach above. 306-1 Water discharge by quality and Water Management ICMM UNGC destination 6 8 8 9 In 2016, Barrick discharged 65.306 Mm3 of water back to the environment once it met water quality permit limits. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 63 306-3 Significant spills Significant Incidents ICMM UNGC 6 8 8 9 Incidents at the Veladero Mine consultation with both federal and provincial officials and regulators. The provincial government’s review involved the Over the past two years, the company has experienced three relevant federal authorities, including the national Ministry of separate incidents involving processing solution from the Environment and Sustainable Development. Initial work on leach pad at the Veladero mine, the latest one being in March the proposed modifications to the heap leach facility is un2017. While these incidents posed no impact on human derway, concurrent with the review by provincial and federal health or the environment, we recognize that they have seauthorities. verely damaged our license to operate in San Juan Province. September 2016 Incident Prior to these incidents, we had spent ten years at Veladero On September 8, 2016, ice rolling down the slope of the building the kind of partnerships that epitomize our new leach pad at the Veladero mine damaged a pipe carrying Sustainability Vision. As is to be expected, the incidents seprocess solution, causing some material to leave the leach verely damaged those relationships and weakened trust. They pad. This material, primarily crushed ore saturated with proare, quite simply, unacceptable and we profoundly regret that cess solution, was contained on the mine site adjacent to the they happened. We have taken numerous remedial actions to leach pad and returned to the leach pad. prevent a recurrence and increase transparency, including the installation of high-definition cameras to monitor the leach While cyanide solution was released from the ruptured pipe pad and other areas of the operation. These cameras provide it was retained in secondary containment, but displaced an a live feed on a continual basis that is available to the general estimated 45 m3 of material out of secondary containment. public. Barrick will continue to leverage digital technology to After the material was returned to containment, no residual help prevent a recurrence and will work tirelessly to rebuild cyanide solution was detected in subsurface soils. the trust of the people of San Juan Province, where Veladero Extensive water monitoring in the area, conducted by the is located, and all of Argentina. company, has confirmed that the incident did not result in We understand that this will take time and hope that our any environmental impacts. actions will demonstrate our ability to deliver on our commitA temporary suspension of operations at the Veladero mine ments. was ordered by the Provincial mining authority and a San March 2017 Incident Juan Provincial court on September 15, 2016, and September On March 28, 2017, a coupling on a pipe carrying gold-bear22, 2016, respectively. On October 4, 2016, following, ing solution at the Veladero mine heap leach facility failed. among other matters, the completion of certain urgent works Solution released from the rupture was contained within required by the Provincial mining authority and a judicial inthe operating site and did not result in any impact on the spection of the mine, the San Juan Provincial court lifted the environment or people. The Company promptly notified San suspension of operations and ordered that mining activities Juan provincial authorities, who inspected the site on March be resumed. 29. On March 30, the Government of San Juan province • Sept 15 / 16: Temporary Suspension of Operations at temporarily restricted the addition of cyanide to the Veladero Veladero Mine, available here mine’s heap leach facility, pending the completion of works to strengthen and improve the mine’s operating systems. • Oct 4 / 16: Barrick Announces Resumption of Operations at Veladero Mine, available here Barrick presented its proposed work plan to San Juan provincial authorities on April 21, 2017, following extensive 64 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index September 2015 Incident at Veladero 3rd, 19th, 20th and 22nd of October 2015 detected On September 13, 2015, a valve on a leach pad pipeline the presence of total cyanide above the limit (LC 0.0015 failed, resulting in a release of cyanide-bearing process solumg/ L).” tion into a nearby waterway through a diversion channel gate The United Nations Office Project Services(UNOPS), who that was open at the time of the incident. made four monitoring campaigns throughout the project area The Company notified regulatory authorities of the situation. in October 2015, concluded the following: Environmental monitoring was conducted by the Company “Based on the analyses, the results have been and independent third parties following the incident. This reported by the laboratory to date, no evidence of monitoring demonstrates that the incident posed no risk to impact on zones 4, 3 and 2, i.e., those farthest from human health at downstream communities. A temporary the mine, can be attributed to the environmental court order restricting the addition of new cyanide to the incident. In zone 4, comprising the stretch upstream mine’s processing circuit was lifted on September 24, 2015, of the Cuesta del Viento dam and the Jáchal river and mine operations subsequently returned to normal. downstream of the dam, there were no changes in • Sept 25 / 15: Processing restrictions at Veladero liftwater quality or the identified presence of cyanide ed, available here compounds. In zone 3, corresponding to the waters of the Blanco River and outlets corresponding to the • Sept 30 / 15: Background on Veladero incident, towns of El Chinguillo, Malimán and Angualasto available here water, whose sources correspond to different • March 11 / 16: Update on Argentina Legal Action, geomorphological environments of the Blanco river, available here there has been no evidence of variations in the quality of its waters and the presence of cyanide. Impacts of 2015 Incident In zone 2, corresponding to the section of the river The assessment that this incident did not pose any risk to Las Taguas from its confluence with the Turbio River human health is based on independent experts in the field, to its joint with the La Palca and the La Palca to its including provincial and national authorities, the National confluence with the Blanco, we have not found Water Institute (INA) and United Nations Office Project variations in quality of water or found presence of Services (UNOPS), as well as Barrick’s own assessment: cyanides. Moreover, generally speaking, there may • The Ministry of Environment and Sustainable be noted impacts associated with the environmental Development of the Province of San Juan stated that incident in Zones 0 and 1ix. These are physical in it “had knowledge that there was no impairment to nature, associated with the presence of a significant the people, both in the mine and beyond this, nor to amount of sediment in the area 0, and chemical resources flora and fauna”. nature as the presence of traces of cyanide and its degradation products, and certain metals.” • The National Water Institute (INA), after a detailed and robust investigation of the project area, including samIn 2016, Barrick paid a $10 million fine in connection to the pling of water in the Potrerillos, Las Taguas, Palca, Blanco 2015 incident at Veladero. To obtain copies of the reports refand Jáchal rivers, concluded that “none of the samples erenced above or if you have further questions please contact collected and analyzed on the monitors conducted the responsiblemining@barrick.com. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 65 GRI Environmental 307 Compliance 307 Management Approach Environment ICMM UNGC 1 A mine can affect the physical environment, including the company operating in the 21st century. To this end, we have land, air, water, and other important resources that we share put in place an Environmental Policy that outlines our comwith others. This is why Barrick is committed to minimizing mitment to environmental stewardship, pollution prevention, and mitigating our impacts on the environment in the first educating our employees and communities about our enviplace, and where they do occur, to put in place appropriate ronmental commitments, and applying proven management reclamation and remediation measures. practices. In practice, this means finding ways to reduce our water and energy use or developing new processing methOur partners—including our employees, host governments ods that rely on more environmentally friendly materials. and communities, shareholders, civil society and others— The Policy is supported by our Environmental Management expect that we will manage and minimize any impacts our System (EMS), which is aligned with ISO 14001, a variety of operations may have on the environment. We have the same leading environmental standards and guidelines, and regular expectation and see it as a fundamental responsibility of any internal and third-party assurance reviews. 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws Environment ICMM UNGC and regulations 6 Environmental incidents at our operations tend to involve small spills of oils, fuel and chemical or process solutions. Rapid spill response includes clean-up and recovery, rehabilitation of the impacted areas, and investigation and action to prevent subsequent incidents. Barrick has also experienced three separate processing solution leaks at the leach pad at Veladero, with incidents taking place in September 2015, September 2016 and, most recently, in March 2017. For further information on these incidents, see here. In 2016, Barrick paid a $10 million fine in connection with a 2015 incident at Veladero. 66 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 414 Supplier Social Assessment Management Approach7 Supply Chain ICMM UNGC 1 Barrick recognizes that the conduct and behavior of our Our Progress suppliers, vendors and contractors can affect – both positively and negatively – the quality of our workplace and the envi• In 2016, approximately 95% of new mining operations suppliers (more than 1,100 vendors) received ronment, the lives of people in local communities, as well as due-diligence screening under the Vendor Onboarding our reputation and ability to operate effectively. Standard. The onboarding process covers the Supplier We expect and demand that our supply chain partners Code of Conduct, Barrick’s human rights program, and uphold Barrick’s principles of ethical business conduct and anti-corruption, as well as adherence to the company’s respect for human rights. As a company we strive to do busisafety and environmental standards. Our goal is to bring ness only with those suppliers who share these principles. all of the existing supply base onto the vendor onboarding system by the end of 2017 and to achieve 100% Our Approach compliance to our vendor onboarding system including Barrick’s approach to working with suppliers is based on the additional screening activities for high-risk vendors. We principle of partnership: we believe that, by engaging with continue to be on track to this commitment. our supply chain partners, we can create mutual and lasting value. To this end, we work closely with our supply chain to • In 2016, the Supply Chain group updated all procurement standard and associated processes. Based on these pursue fair-minded competition, continuous improvement improvements, the group will work to automate and and a mutual focus on ethical conduct. digitize many of these processes in 2017. As part of this approach, we have adopted a Supplier Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The Code is designed to • Significant progress was made in supporting local procurement at Barrick’s mine sites, with all Barrick sites create value for both our stakeholders and for Barrick by meeting internal targets for local procurement spending. governing the conduct of suppliers and contractors doing There is strong collaboration with the CSR group, both business with us. It covers important issues such as anti-bribat corporate and at sites, to build strong local programs ery, anti-corruption, and human rights – principles Barrick and share knowledge across the organization. holds dear and expects our partners to share. It is our intent to deal with suppliers who have accepted and self-certified Our Supply Chain against the Code. Barrick’s Supply Chain function purchases, stores and delivOnce Barrick agrees to do business with a supplier, relevant ers $3.5–$4.5 billion annually in supplies, equipment and contracts will contain human rights compliance provisions; services to Barrick’s mines and offices. The group sources we may also provide focused training to certain suppliers. products ranging from diesel fuel and chemical reagents to IT Under our Human Rights Policy, suppliers are expected to equipment and haul trucks from more than 20,000 vendors report human rights issues if and when they become aware worldwide. of them. We will also ask relevant suppliers to periodically As part of Barrick’s drive for operational efficiency, we are provide certifications that they are not aware of any unretaking steps to improve procurement efficiency and supply ported human rights allegations. Where appropriate, we will chain practices, which will free up working capital by reducinvestigate the behavior of existing suppliers and contractors ing inventories. We expect to generate additional cash flow related to human rights issues. 7 Barrick’s Management Approach to Supplier Environmental Assessment and Supplier Social Assessment is the same and reported together in our sustainability-related disclosures, including our online 2016 Responsibility Report. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 67 through improved integration of site maintenance programs process covers the Supplier Code of Business Conduct and and our global procurement and logistics system. Ethics, Barrick’s human rights program, and anti-corruption, as well as adherence to the company’s safety and environSupplier Conduct mental standards. As part of our commitment to human rights, Barrick develIn 2016, 95% of new suppliers were onboarded under oped and implemented a Supplier Code of Business Conduct this new Standard. The process itself may include internal and Ethics in 2008 and added enhancements to it in 2014. It and external questionnaires, a search of the World Checkxi covers important issues such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption, database, a request that the vendor register with TRACE human rights, health, safety, and environmental protection. It International’s due diligence system, TRACxii, and vendor is our intent to deal onlyx with suppliers who have accepted self-certification of its willingness to comply with Barrick’s the Supplier Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Supplier Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Once a vendor Barrick has also put in place a Vendor Onboarding System is assessed by our supply chain group, it may be added to and Standard to help us do business with those who share Barrick’s Approved Vendor Register. Under the system, all new our values. Under the Standard, we conduct due diligence vendors are to be assessed according to the Standard and on entities receiving funds from Barrick – including suppliers, current vendors are to be assessed every three years. High-risk service providers and civil society groups. The onboarding vendors are to be assessed every year. 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Supply Chain ICMM UNGC environmental criteria 6 In 2016, approximately 95% of new mining operations suppliers (more than 1,100 vendors) received due-diligence screening under the Vendor Onboarding Standard. 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using Supply Chain ICMM UNGC social criteria 9 In 2016, approximately 95% of new mining operations suppliers (more than 1,100 vendors) received due-diligence screening under the Vendor Onboarding Standard. 68 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI 401 Employment 404 Training and Education8 Management Approach Employee ICMM UNGC Development 1 3 6 Our business is driven by the diverse skills, expertise and • The Company has created a program to support the passion of our more than 11,000 employees. When we invest development of the CFOs at each of Barrick’s mine sites. in their skills and leadership, we are investing in both their The CFO comprehensive development framework will success and ours. equip new and existing CFOs with the necessary functional, business, and leadership skills that focus on their For this reason, we are a learning organization, working with distinct and evolving role. our people around the world to help them develop their existing capabilities and discover and acquire new skills as • Barrick is proud to give back to those who have served well. Doing so not only contributes to their career potential, their countries in military service and has introduced a but also means we are investing in the talent we need to be a global program to recruit veterans. The purpose of leading 21st-century company. this program is to acknowledge the service of veterans, and access the abundant and underutilized talents that Our Approach veterans can bring to Barrick as they start their second Due to the geographic and cultural diversity of our workcareers. force, we have developed a blend of global, country-based, • In 2016, we expanded on the offering of the operator and site-based human resources policies and programs. We assessment process. This will increase the number of take a global approach to senior leadership development, non-management employees who receive regular career performance, and talent management. We take a tailored apand development reviews. proach to compensation and benefits, training, and employee relations, to address the unique labor markets and social con• At the Pueblo Viejo mine, the team continued the ditions in the countries where we operate. This approach has operator technical training program that was launched allowed us to implement targeted local programs that attract, in late 2015. The program is built around assessing exretain and motivate our staff while reflecting local norms. isting individual skills and building customized technical training which then enables operators to have the right Our Progress capabilities to operate equipment at the mine. Operators • In 2016, over 900,000 hours of career training were are able to continue accessing the training center provided to our employees. throughout their career, thereby expanding their skill sets and allowing us to link the progression of their training • In 2016, Barrick continued to develop career-mapping with their compensation. As part of this program, the and skills development programs for functional groups; mine opened a new training center with equipment and programs for maintenance, metallurgy, and mining have simulators to help expedite the training process in the been built, designed, and rolled out. This complements summer of 2016. the safety and health, community relations, and exploration programs that have previously been developed. • In 2016, the Lumwana mine in Zambia adopted the In 2017, the Company will be focusing on reviewing, technical training program developed at Pueblo Viejo. upgrading, and leveraging technology to make training Twenty-five Zambian nationals have taken a four-week more robust and accessible by adopting a new learning course and are now certified in training and evaluation approach with an emphasis on “bite-sized” and “just-inof the operator training program. time” learning. 8 Barrick’s Management Approach to Employment and Training & Education are reported together in our sustainability-related disclosures, including our online 2016 Responsibility Report. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 69 Access to Talent Recognition & Performance Feedback We have processes and programs to provide on-the-job learnAt Barrick, we recognize and reward people for good work ing, coaching and mentoring, education, and other developand for the contributions they make to the organization. ment opportunities for employees throughout their careers Barrick offers awards to recognize excellence in specific at Barrick. We leverage technology such as webinars and areas that are directly aligned with our priorities. Moreover, e-learning modules to improve the learning experience and the Company promotes Visible Felt Leadership as a way to to mitigate the challenges of remote operating environments. provide employees with ongoing feedback, coaching, and We also use our talent management process to identify and recognition. We understand that fair and proper recognition develop high-potential, globally mobile employees, providing drives engagement and strengthens our culture. them with a variety of assignments to help them advance Each year, executives and senior and middle managers undertheir careers. Approximately 19% of open operator positions take an annual, formal performance assessment process at and 31% of open professional positions have been filled by the head office and country offices. At sites, supervisors and internal talent. non-management individuals participate in a similar perforEmployee Engagement & Retention mance review process for professional and skilled employees. Employees in work crews at our operations have regular There are a number of factors that drive employees’ sense of assessments driven by key performance indicators, often in well-being and therefore their sense of engagement in the a team format. Each of these performance review scenarios workplace. Among the most significant are feeling recogprovide an opportunity for employees at all levels both to be nized and valued for work performed, receiving fair pay, and recognized for good performance and to set goals to help developing skills and knowledge that will facilitate employimprove performance. ability for a lifelong career. We work to address these factors through performance feedback, employee development programs and education opportunities, and through the wages and benefits we provide. 401-1 New employee hires and employee Employee ICMM UNGC turnover Development 3 3 6 Employee Turnover – 2016 Total employee turnover rate as a percentage of total employees 14.7% Voluntary employee turnover rate as a percentage of total employees 4.5% Total number of employees laid-off in the last fiscal year 159 70 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Employee ICMM UNGC that are not provided to temporary or Development part-time employees 3 3 6 Wages & Benefits • Dominican Republic: All employees receive fringe benefits such as a pension plan, workers’ compensation and We provide wages and benefits relative to country economsocial security. Temporary employees are not eligible for ics, matching or exceeding median wages in the countries elements such as a transportation bonus, food bonus, or where we operate. Men and women employed in the same benefits program provisions for childbirth, marriage or job category receive similar remuneration, according to their the death of a family member, and they do not qualify level of experience and length of employment, using the for paid time off. As well, private health insurance apsame remuneration range. Our benefits programs are counplies only to the employee, not their direct dependents. try-focused and are primarily determined by local practices and employee needs, but they may also include access to • United States: In order to be eligible for benefits, an Company programs. Benefits provided include a core group employee needs to be regularly scheduled to work at of health care benefits at all operations as well as non-core least 30 hours per week. If they are working less than country-specific benefits. Non-core benefits may include 40 hours, some of their benefits, for example, vacation, pension and other retirement programs, maternity or parental would be pro-rated but the rest of the eligibility would leave, life and accidental death insurance, wellness programs, be the same as a regular full-time employee. and employee assistance programs. »» A part-time regular employee is one who is reguIn general, full-time employees receive our full complement larly scheduled to work more than 25 but less than of benefits available in their country locations, while part-time 30 hours per week. They are not eligible for health and contract employees may receive a smaller number of insurance (medical dental or vision) or life insurance these benefits. The availability and type of benefits offered to benefits (basic life, supplement life, accidental death part-time and contract workers vary by country. In all cases, or dismemberment or dependent life insurance) employees receive benefits required by law and these may be or any disability coverages. The only benefits they supplemented by additional benefits. receive are 401k and pro-rated vacation. Below is a list of these benefits, by country: »» A part-time employee who is regularly scheduled to work less than 25 hours per week is not eligible for • Argentina: Temporary or part-time employees receive any of the benefits programs. the same benefits as full-time employees. • Zambia: The same benefits are provided to temporary • Canada: Temporary or part-time employees working employees, the only difference being contract duration. more than 20 hours per week at the Toronto Head Office qualify for the same benefits as full-time employees. Barrick has a number of instruments that provide retirement Temporary employees at our Hemlo mine site do not and savings benefits to employees. We have non-qualified, qualify for benefits. defined-benefit pension plans covering certain employees and former directors of the company. As well, certain employees • Chile: Vacation bonus does not apply to temporary or take part in defined-contribution employee savings plans (expart-time employees. amples include 401(k) plans, 403(b) plans, RRSPs, employee share-purchase plans and deferred profit-sharing plans). 404-1 Average hours of training per year per Employee ICMM UNGC employee Development 3 5 Each Barrick employee receives on average almost 65 hours of training and development each year. In 2016, over 900,000 hours of career training were provided to our employees. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 71 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills Employee ICMM UNGC and transition assistance programs Development 3 5 Skills Development & Training ership development strategy combines core and specialized programs, as well as experiential assignments and ongoing We are becoming a talent-obsessed firm as any leading assessment, for all leadership levels in the organization. organization should be, and strongly believe in professional Programs such as the Frontline Supervisor Training Program development and life-long learning. To that end, skills develand the Operations Leadership Program are designed to opment, vocational training, and apprenticeship programs are strengthen the skills of our supervisors and mine managers often available at our operations. Barrick has also developed and to maintain the required depth of leadership capability role-based, in-house skills development programs to advance for some of Barrick’s most critical roles. These programs build employee capabilities. Most of our programs are self-directed, the necessary skills for leaders at multiple levels to develop often online as e-module programs, and utilize on-the-job the capability of their employees, monitor the development assignments and mentoring. Other programs complement and coaching of future leaders, and manage employee perour global curriculum and are designed to address local formance. We review and revise our programs on a regular market capabilities and legislative requirements. Examples of basis and provide refresher training, when required. country-specific programs include Supervisors for Success in North America and the Intermediate Management Program in Another example is the Compass program, which is an South America. apprenticeship development program designed for early career professionals to equip themselves with the knowledge We also have several partnerships in place with universiand practical skills necessary for their technical roles. It offers ties around the world to facilitate the development of our cross-functional modules in areas like exploration geology, people. One example is our relationship with the University mine geology, metallurgy, mining, processing, and safety and of Nevada, Reno. This program provides management-skills health, to increase the technical proficiency of graduates and training to supervisors and managers from our sites across entry-level staff. The program is experiential, with participants northern Nevada. Future plans include expansion of this advancing their capabilities by completing structured, on-thepublic-private partnership to cover other subjects and new job assignments coupled with mentoring guidance to support groups of students. In addition, professionals who participate their career progression in the industry. in continuing professional development programs, offered through universities or professional organizations, are eligible Transition Assistance for Company reimbursement. Employees everywhere may In many countries, Barrick provides outplacement support to be eligible for Company-sponsored short courses, business employees whose employment has been severed. Services seminars, and technical or vocational training to advance vary by country, but are designed to provide employees with their career paths. the tools and resources needed to support their job search Leadership Development effort and may include transition counseling, résumé writing, job search assistance, and life skills training. Barrick also invests significant effort in developing our employees into future Company leaders. Our global lead404-3 Percentage of employees receiving reguEmployee ICMM UNGC lar performance and career development Development reviews 3 5 2016 Employees receiving performance and career development review MALE FEMALE Executives 100% 100% Managers 100% 100% Non-management employees N/A N/A 72 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI Labor/Management 402 Relations 402 Management Approach Labor ICMM UNGC Organizations 1 3 6 Barrick respects employees’ rights to freedom of association • In 2016, we did not experience any work stoppages reand collective bargaining. lated to labor disputes longer than one week’s duration This includes the right of each individual employee to join a at any of our sites. union or other labor association. We have a number of sites • 100% of agreements with unions cover safety and around the world where our employees are members of labor health topics. unions or collective bargaining associations. • We engaged in ten consultations with unions regarding Our Approach organizational changes in Barrick in 2016. We work closely with labor unions and collective bargaining • At Pueblo Viejo, we are currently in dispute regarding associations to develop and manage effective labor relations the required number of workers for representation to programs. Sites with union membership have safety and meet the Dominican Republic Labor Code requirements health topics included in labor agreements. Activities and acfor union recognition. We have also being in mediations conducted by site safety and health committees are estion with the participation of the Ministry of Labor. The sential to embedding a culture of safety within the Company. mediation has been suspended pending court decision. Our Progress Unfortunately, there have been disruptive actions during this process, which has led to disciplinary actions and • In 2016, employees in four countries were covered by terminations. In line with the statutory regulations, we collective bargaining agreements. This represents approxcontinue to support our employees’ right to freedom of imately 36% of Barrick employees. association. MM4 Number of Strikes and Lock-outs exceedLabor ICMM UNGC ing one week’s duration, by country Organizations 3 3 6 In 2016, we did not experience any work stoppages related to labor disputes longer than one week’s duration at any of our sites. 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operLabor ICMM UNGC ational changes Organizations 3 3 6 Good communication with our employees is essential for effective management of our global organization. Our employees can access our Company intranet – the Core – for daily and quarterly updates on Company affairs. During major changes to our operations, we keep our employees informed through global webcasted town halls, targeted announcements, online information sessions, the Company intranet, and face-to-face meetings at sites and offices as necessary. For those operations where there are collective bargaining agreements in place, we respect minimum notice periods regarding communicating operational changes as indicated in the agreement. We believe that keeping the lines of communication open between management and labor is the most effective way to have an engaged workforce and to avoid a work stoppage. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 73 GRI Occupational 403 Health and Safety 403 Management Approach Safety & Health; ICMM UNGC Occupational Health & Wellness 1 1 Mining can be dangerous. Exposure to mining equipment, injured in Lumwana during a haul truck fire. He was harsh weather conditions, loud noises, potential rock falls, just 32 and is survived by a wife and five children. A dangerous chemicals, confined spaces, slips, trips and operBarrick Goldstrike employee suffered a significant injury ator error can all contribute to workplace injuries. Therefore, during a safety training simulation. After many months safety is a significant concern for the mining business. Barrick is of recovery, he is back at home and has been cleared for committed to achieving a zero-incident work environment with sedentary duty. a safety culture based on teamwork and leadership. Nothing is • A culture of teamwork and courageous safety leadership more important than the safety, health and well-being of our contributed to an eleven-year trend of improving our workers and their families. Operating a safe workplace is our total reportable injury frequency rate (TRIFR). Since 2005, commitment to our employees and the way we do business. It there has been an 86 percent improvement in the TRIFR goes hand in hand with operational success. (from 2.79 to 0.40 in 2016). Our safety vision: Every person going home safe and • In 2016, 11 of our 25 workplaces, including operations, healthy every day. projects, offices, and exploration sites, completed the Our Approach entire year with no lost-time injuries. Ten of these locations also celebrated the entire year with zero reportable Barrick’s Safety & Health Policy and Safety & Health injuries. Management System are the primary tools that guide our efforts towards achieving zero incidents. They require safety • All Barrick sites have occupational health and safety and occupational health evaluation, planning and design to committees representing 100% of Barrick’s workers. be integrated into our business development strategies. Safe • In 2016, the focus of our Safety and Health Strategy production is always our goal, and these tools help sites stay continued to be on our Fatal Risk Management Plan committed to continuous improvement in safety performance. based on the ICMM critical control management We have implemented important safety and health programs guidance. This is a fundamental change in thinking and activities, training for all employees, special training for whereby sites work to have processes in place to effecemergency response teams, performance measurement, tively monitor the identified controls that prevent fatalirisk-assessment processes, recognition programs for safeties. The Company published its Fatal Risk Management ty achievement, and a steady flow of information to keep Plan guidance in early 2016 and required all sites to people focused on continuous safety improvement. Regular implement the Plan in the context of mobile equipment corporate assurance reviews at our operations help identify by the end of the year. In 2017, all sites will be asked to safety and occupational health hazards and confirms that complete the implementation for all fatal risk categories. effective controls are in place and monitored for continued • In 2016, the Company undertook safety and health improvement and effectiveness. When safety and health assurance reviews at all sites. In line with Barrick’s focus assurance reviews identify deficiencies, we pinpoint the root on Life Saving Controls, comprehensive field inspections causes so that preventive actions can be implemented. were conducted during these reviews to assess the imOur Progress plementation of critical controls at an operational level. • In 2016, we regret to report a fatality and a severe safety incident at Barrick. Meckson Kakompe was fatally 74 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index • Collision avoidance technology was successfully piloted • Reduce and mitigate exposure to air emissions at all at Cortez in 2016. We will continue to monitor the effecsites with the goal of eliminating workers’ need to wear tiveness of the technology in 2017 before recommendrespiratory protective devices, where possible. ing its use at other sites. As part of our work on collision • Expand sleep monitoring to Barrick’s North American avoidance, Barrick is a member and part of the advisory sites as another step to manage fatigue. group of the Earth Moving Equipment Safety Roundtable (EMESRT) and has been working directly with equip• Assess Barrick’s Safety and Health Management System ment and technology original equipment manufacturers against the forthcoming ISO 45001 Safety and Health (OEMs) to accelerate the development of collision avoidManagement System Standard and work towards obance technology for mining equipment. taining certification at all sites. • In North America, Barrick has taken a closer look at Fatalities many of the Company’s physically demanding jobs and We regret to report that we had one fatality in 2016. has worked to make these less challenging. As part Meckson Kakompe was fatally injured in Lumwana during of this work, a physical demands assessment for each a haul truck fire. He was just 32 and is survived by a wife position has been conducted and new hires are now and five children. Our goal is to send all of our people home evaluated to determine that they are physically capable safe and healthy every day. That we did not meet this goal in to do the required work. In 2017, Barrick will imple2016 is unacceptable. ment physical demands assessments for intra-company transfers. In the future, the Company hopes to conduct As a result of this incident, Barrick has partnered with its periodic evaluations to determine that all workers remain equipment vendors, equipment manufacturers and other physically capable of performing their jobs. mining companies to share the lessons from our investigation and address deficiencies found in the equipment design and • In South America, Barrick has made significant strides in the deployment of fire suppression systems. It is our goal that fatigue management. Through the use of smart watches, such a workplace tragedy never occurs again. the Company is piloting the monitoring of individuals’ sleep quality in order to identify those who, due to lack Occupational Health & Wellness of sleep, are highly likely to have a sleep event during We aim to optimize employee health and well-being because a shift. This pilot program will be extended to North poor health may increase the risk of injury and illness and can America in 2017. decrease both productivity and our people’s quality of life. • In 2016, the Lumwana mine in Zambia partnered with We seek to identify and manage the risks arising from physthe Kalumbila District Organizing Committee and the ical, chemical, and other workplace hazards by anticipating, Lumwana Community AIDS Task Force to sponsor World identifying, evaluating, and controlling these health hazards AIDS Day at the local Primary School. The event was and exposures. To accomplish this, our sites carry out specific attended by approximately 1,800 people and supported occupational health activities and programs, depending on the testing of more than 250 people for HIV. the exposure at each site. Priorities in 2017 Barrick’s Safety & Health Policy and Safety & Health • Commitment to zero fatalities. Commitment to zero Management System are the primary tools that guide our severe safety and occupational health incidents. efforts towards achieving zero incidents. They require safety and occupational health evaluation, planning and design to • Achieve a Total Reportable Incident Frequency Rate be integrated into our business development strategies. (TRIFR) of 0.32. Barrick monitors all sites to verify they are meeting industrial • Complete the implementation of the Fatal Risk hygiene standards, including regulations on dust, noise Management Plan for all of Barrick’s priority fatal risks. control, and ergonomics. Barrick also promotes wellness, 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 75 including stop-smoking programs, fatigue management, travThrough our Health and Wellness program, we evaluate job el security training, and other initiatives. Through data colpositions within the Company for physical requirements. Each lection and monitoring, we have identified respiratory illness, of our sites has identified the ten most physically demanding improper body positioning that contributes to sprains and jobs, as well as those that are associated with the most sprains strains, fatigue, and poor lifestyle health as the top health and strains. Each site has an annual target of reducing the risks within the Company. We have put in place a number of heavy physical demands of the job in order to reduce the risk programs to address these risks, described below. of injury. This process has also helped the Company identify areas where we can improve processes to mitigate physical deElimination of occupational illness and injuries continued to mands for our workers. Along with physical demand studies, be a focus at Barrick during 2016. Priority objectives includwe are focused on ergonomics awareness and training for our ed health exposure determinations and mitigation actions, employees in order to reduce sprains and strains. mitigation of physical demands for top high-risk tasks, and providing functional capacity evaluations for newly hired and Fatigue Studies transferred employees. Our 2017 strategy will continue to Fatigue is inherent in any operation in which employees work focus on these areas and sites will continue to report their late into the night, start early in the morning, or work long progress. hours. It is generally believed that fatigue can negatively affect an operation in many ways: fatigued employees are Respiratory Illness less productive, more prone to health problems, more likely Respiratory illness is a concern within the mining industry to quit and, most important, more likely to be in an accident. and, without proper controls in place, it is difficult to detect We turned our attention to fatigue in 2011 and began to since symptoms are often not present until years after expodevelop a Fatigue Risk Management Standard (FRMS) using sure. Because of this, Barrick has industrial hygiene programs the science of circadian physiology. This Standard is now that detect exposure agents such as dust, gases, and fumes, implemented across the Company and provides a consistent which are tracked in a database management system. This structure and approach to program components such as helps us to better identify exposure to agents and allows us training, work scheduling and monitoring. At the same time, to develop measures to mitigate these exposures. We do so we investigated how we could identify fatigue episodes on with engineering controls such as dust collection systems and the job. ventilation systems. When systems are being installed or repaired, or where engineering controls simply are not enough, In South America, Barrick has made significant strides in Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) such as respirators, are fatigue management that we plan to roll out to other mine used to protect our workers. sites. Through the use of smart watches, the Company is piloting the monitoring of individuals’ sleep quality in order to Barrick implemented a Respiratory Protection Standard across identify those who, through lack of sleep, are highly likely to the Company in 2012, and we conduct periodic assurance rehave a sleep event during a shift. views against the Standard, at a minimum of every two years at each site. In addition, through our Health and Wellness This information can help workers identify ways to help comprogram, we conduct periodic medical checks for employees bat fatigue and improve their overall health. To support this who have a high risk for respiratory illness (such as employees work, Barrick has a specific training course for shift workers who are frequently exposed to silica or lead). called Managing a Mining Lifestyle. This four-hour course focuses on personal changes a worker can make in his or her Sprains & Strains lifestyle to improve both family time and work time. It also Sprains and strains are a leading type of injury within Barrick. looks at sleeping and waking times and hours of sleep during We recognize that placement of employees in positions the day and night, and includes an employee survey to better that they are not physically or mentally capable of fulfilling understand commute times, sleep schedules, and worker can cause many of these injuries. To keep people safe, our preferences. Through the Managing a Mining Lifestyle course workers must be physically able to do the job they have been and working with our management teams, our aim is to dehired to do. velop a culture where employees are comfortable reporting 76 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index fatigue. The Company is working to expand the use of sleep and that no adjustment to our current sampling and analysis monitoring and fatigue monitoring technology to other mine was necessary. sites. Emergency Response Biometric Screening The ultimate goal of Barrick’s Safety and Health Management Poor lifestyle health can increase the risk of injury and illness. System and supporting programs is to prevent all incidents That is why, a few years ago, we began to look at what from occurring in the first place. we could do to help employees in North America become healthier. We developed a biometric screening program, At the same time, the Company maintains a high degree of offered free to employees and their families, which includes emergency preparedness with appropriate plans, resources, on-site health check-ups and review of results, along with and training to minimize the impact on workers, families, the advice from a wellness coach, if desired. The program tries community, and operations should an emergency occur. to combat such health-related issues as increased obesity Based on site risk assessments, Barrick sites develop approand cardiovascular diseases brought on by aging and lifestyle priate plans and provide the resources and training required choices, such as lack of exercise, smoking, and poor nutrition. to respond effectively to potential emergencies. Regular drills Incentives are offered to employees to take advantage of this and simulations test emergency readiness. Visitors to sites program, which has resulted in increased participation. The must take part in a safety induction program so that they are focus of the biometric program is to encourage employees to informed about safety precautions and emergency measures take ownership of their own and their families’ health before during their visit. serious health issues arise. The program has been growing each year as more employees and their families participate. In addition, Barrick maintains trained emergency response teams at every site. These highly trained, skilled professionals Industrial Hygiene are the first responders to any mine emergency. They are recIndustrial hygienists use environmental monitoring and anognized experts at first aid, firefighting, dealing with hazardalytical methods to detect the extent of worker exposure to ous chemicals and emergency rescues. contaminants and employ engineering work practice controls and other methods to control potential health hazards. Our Emergency Response Plans & Procedures hygienists have developed a global database to collect expoBarrick emergency response teams complete intensive sure data, which is helping us identify areas where controls training to make sure they are well prepared to respond in are lacking or inadequate. the event of an emergency. Each year, these response teams exceed the minimum requirements of emergency response At the end of 2014, Barrick initiated a study of our internal training, both at Barrick sites and at specialty emergency Occupational Exposure Limits through a third-party profesresponse and firefighting schools. We also provide emersional consultant. The objective was to review peer-reviewed gency response training to contractors. To support their scientific studies related to hazardous substances exposure. training, our teams regularly compete in various mine rescue Through recommendations and toxicological models, we have competitions with other mining companies. Many of our established the most appropriate Exposure Limit Values to emergency response teams have earned awards at these prevent our workers from suffering adverse effects associated competitions. with exposure to these substances. In addition to establishing an Exposure Limit (in workplace air), the review provided All sites have emergency response plans and procedures “good practice” guidance on the most up-to-date procedures in place. In addition, Emergency Preparedness audits are for biological monitoring of certain blood or urine metaboperformed at least every two years. Incident Command and lites associated with the substance so that we can know that Crisis Management systems are in place at each Barrick mine the substance either does not exist or is at a safe level that site and operating unit office. would not cause any adverse effect. The review was completOur site-specific emergency response plans cover the followed in June 2015; among the findings was confirmation that ing, among others: our biological sampling for arsenic conformed to best practice 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 77 • Regular testing of emergency procedures ations and projects, as well as at our office locations. This is a requirement of the Barrick Safety and Health Management • Identification of emergency scenarios System and is included in the assurance review process. • List of population and residential centers at risk Courageous Leadership – Courage To Care • List of environmental and wildlife populations at risk Any mining activity carries an element of risk, and we have • List of functions of key people worked diligently to develop a culture of leadership through our Courageous Safety Leadership program. Courageous • Procedure for internal communication Safety Leadership has been the foundation of achieving our • Procedure for external communication vision of “Every person going home safe and healthy every day” since 2004. There has been an 86% improvement in • Criteria for determining levels of alerts the injury frequency rate at our mines since the program was • On-site and external resources available (e.g. mutual aid introduced. agreements) We recently enhanced our Courageous Safety Leadership • Toxicity testing facilities (gas, water) training, now known as “Courage to Care”, and rolled out the revamped program in 2015. This is the next step • Post-emergency evaluation of effectiveness of plan and in Barrick’s journey to achieve zero incidents. Courage to response Care is taking us from “I make a difference” to “We make • Ongoing communications plan in relation to progress of a difference” and building an interdependent culture, in clean-up and remediation. which we foster strong relationships, care for others, and empower our people to make the right decisions at all levels There were incidents during 2016 that required emergency of the Company. Our one-day Courage to Care workshop is response resources. Post-incident reviews of these events designed for all employees at every level of the Company, as provided us with assurance that our emergency response well as for our long-term business partners. capabilities meet both our expectations and the needs for high-level response. In 2017, Barrick will continue to build on the success of Courage to Care and embed a new module emphasizing Safety Committees, Safety Meetings, Safety situational awareness into the training (scheduled for release Training mid-2017). Barrick believes that everyone is responsible for workplace Visible Felt Leadership safety. Therefore, we have safety committees at all sites and hold regular safety meetings to help address the needs of Barrick’s safety culture is the driving force in our everyday each site. Many of our operations conduct daily safety meetactivities. The Visible Felt Leadership (VFL) program is a critical ings, while others conduct weekly meetings. aspect of this. This Company-wide program encourages managers and supervisors to be active in the field daily, coaching Joint representation of managers, supervisors and workers and mentoring employees and discussing safety to reinforce on our safety committees helps us hold each other accountthe message that “no job is worth doing in an unsafe way”. able for superior safety and health practices and provides the leadership and resources needed to achieve our vision. Safety Reducing Fatal Risk Incidents interactions, using tools such as Visible Felt Leadership and Over the past decade, we have seen a substantial improvetask observation programs, are also conducted by functional ment in our total reportable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) and areas within each operation to involve all workers in eliminatother safety statistics. Although we are encouraged by this ing unsafe conditions in the work environment. trend, we know we must continue to increase our efforts Along with safety committees, safety training programs are so that we can improve even further. Our goal remains zero conducted for contractors and employees at all Barrick operincidents. 78 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Through our annual risk analysis, we have identified 15 fatal Building on this analysis, we developed a Fatal Risk risk categories that continue to be our focus for improvement Management Plan in 2016 based on the ICMM critical control going forward. The top five risk categories include: Mobile management guidance. This is a fundamental change in Equipment (Heavy), Mobile Equipment (Light Vehicle), Stored thinking whereby sites are required to have processes in place Energy, Fires (fixed and mobile), and Cranes and Lifting to effectively monitor the identified controls that work to Devices. The internal assurance review process and trending prevent the identified fatal risks. analysis help to identify emerging risks, as well as to show where progress is being made towards improving controls and reducing fatal risk-related incidents. 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint Safety & Health ICMM UNGC management-worker health and safety committees 4 5 All Barrick sites have occupational health and safety committees, representing 100% of Barrick’s workers. 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occuSafety & Health ICMM UNGC pational diseases, lost days, and number of work-related fatalities 4 5 Safety & Health Performance – 2016 Dominican Barrick Argentina Canada Chile Republic Peru USA Zambia Total Reportable TOTAL 0.40 0.26 0.45 1.16 0.30 0.32 0.78 0.35 Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) Employee 0.36 0.14 0.34 0 0.32 0.35 0.66 0.1 Contractor 0.44 0.32 0.82 0 0.32 0.54 1.35 0.52 Loss Time TOTAL 0.14 0.05 0.09 0.00 0.09 0.17 0.32 0.07 Injury Rate (LTI) Employee 0.15 0 0.11 0 0.14 0.14 0.29 0.05 Contractor 0.12 0.07 0 0 0.08 0.24 0.42 0.07 Total Medical TOTAL 0.40 0.26 0.45 1.16 0.31 0.32 0.78 0.35 Treatment Injury Rate (TMTIR) Employee 0.36 0.14 0.34 0 0.32 0.35 0.66 0.1 Contractor 0.44 0.32 0.82 0 0.32 0.54 1.35 0.52 Restricted TOTAL 0.11 0.00 0.18 0.00 0.02 0.07 0.33 0.15 Duty Rate Employee 0.12 0 0.11 0 0.04 0.14 0.32 0.05 Contractor 0.1 0 0.41 0 0.01 0.12 0.42 0.17 Medical Aid rate TOTAL 0.15 0.22 0.18 0.00 0.20 0.10 0.13 0.14 Employee 0.09 0.15 0.11 0 0.14 0.07 0.05 0 Contractor 0.22 0.25 0.41 0 0.22 0.36 0.52 0.28 Lost Work Days TOTAL 6.16 2.64 4.90 0.00 11.67 13.21 2.97 2.57 Rate Employee 7.69 4.15 6.26 0 22.94 9.03 3.81 0 Contractor 4.43 1.9 0 0 6.03 24.53 0.62 5.12 Occupational TOTAL 4 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 Disease Cases Employee 4 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 Contractor 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 79 Fatalities: We regret to report that we had one fatality in 2016. Meckson Kakompe was fatally injured in Lumwana during a haul truck fire. Types of Injuries: Through data collection and monitoring, we have identified respiratory illness, improper body positioning that contributes to sprains and strains, fatigue, and poor lifestyle health as the top health risks within the Company. 403-3 Workers with high evidence or high risk Occupational ICMM UNGC of diseases related to their occupation Health and Wellness 4 5 HIV/AIDS and malaria remain a health problem for employees and community members in Zambia. We have programs in place, often in collaboration with NGO partners, to address these illnesses, including HIV/AIDS Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT), HIV/AIDS awareness, peer educators, anti-retroviral therapy (ART), and mosquito abatement. These programs have both on-site and community components. One hundred percent of at-risk employees and their families (with regard to HIV/AIDS and/or malaria) are currently eligible to access preventive initiatives or treatment. Affected employees and their families are receiving treatment, highly subsidized or free of charge. 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in Labour ICMM UNGC formal agreements with trade unions Organizations 4 5 100% of agreements with unions cover safety and health topics. 80 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 406 Non-Discrimination9 Management Approach Non-Discrimination ICMM UNGC 1 1 2 6 Mining continues to be a male-dominated industry. Employment Practices Numerous studies – including our own internal reporting, Barrick is committed to fair employment practices and a assessments, and investigations – have confirmed that gender workplace in which all individuals are treated with dignity equality, sexual harassment, and gender-based violence are and respect. We do not tolerate discrimination. Our Code of very real risks in the mining industry. Business Conduct and Ethics and Human Rights Policy both We also operate in environments where treatment of women cover harassment and discrimination, and require Barrick to may not always reflect international norms. Indeed, Barrick’s deal fairly with employees and third parties. We believe that own past experience regarding sexual violence when we every individual within the Company must be accorded equal operated the Porgera Joint Venture reflects that unfortunate treatment, and we are each responsible for a workplace reality. Barrick is committed to providing equal opportunity that is free from all forms of discrimination, harassment and and freedom from discrimination for all our employees. We retaliation. also extend these commitments to our third parties through The Company expects that all relationships among employees our corporate policies. in the workplace will be professional and free of bias and haOur Approach rassment. We are committed to promoting equal opportunity in the workplace and treating all people – both employees Barrick’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, our and potential employees – based on their merit. The funHuman Rights Policy, and our Policy with Respect to the damental criteria for career advancement are work perforDeclaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at mance, qualifications, competence, abilities, skills, knowledge Work set the tone for the maintenance of a safe and ethical and experience relevant to the job. workplace at all Barrick operations and offices. We require that our work environment be free from discrimination and We consider men and women equally in our search for new harassment. employees, and people of either gender are encouraged to apply for employment in all job categories. Men and women Our Progress employed in the same job category receive the same remu• In 2016, 3,000 employees were trained in preventing neration, according to their level of experience and length harassment, including sexual harassment. of employment. However, there may be a gender bias that is predominant in different labor categories. For example, out• In 2016, 11% of Barrick’s workforce was female, includdoor manual labor may have a higher hourly pay than inside ing 16% of management, 13% of executives and 13% office workers, and there may be a bias of males in the first of the Board of Directors. category and females in the second. Where this occurs, there • In 2016, the ratio of male to female employees’ salaries may be a perceived gender bias in salary. This may actually at Barrick was 0.94. reflect a gender bias in the choice of work categories rather than in the rates of pay. • In 2016, Barrick joined the 30% Club Canada. The 30% Club aims to develop a diverse pool of talent for all busiAny employee, supervisor or manager who is found, after apnesses through the efforts of its Chair and CEO members propriate investigation, to have engaged in unlawful discrimiwho are committed to better gender balance at all levels nation, victimization, or harassment of another employee of their organizations. 9 Barrick’s Management Approach to Diversity and Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination are the same. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 81 will be subject to appropriate disciplinary action, which, violations in our local communities, as on our properties, and depending on the circumstances, may include dismissal. In all we are actively considering programs and initiatives to help cases, the action will be designed to avoid repetition of the meet that responsibility. conduct. Diversity To underscore our steadfast position against sexual harassA diverse workforce encourages creativity and innovation. We ment in the workplace, we have created a global anti-harassdraw our workforce from many countries around the world, ment standard. We also have created dedicated programs at including each country where we operate, with the result that a number of sites to address sexual harassment, which has our global workforce is extremely diverse in terms of national included training, reporting, monitoring and other steps to and ethnic backgrounds. We are also committed to the localreduce the likelihood of harassment and assist victims when it ization of our workforce. To this end, Barrick requires sites to occurs. We have engaged in an ongoing partnership with the develop plans to guide local employment efforts over the life NGO White Ribbon to provide training and otherwise help of the mine and in 2016 the majority of our workforce was address sexual harassment at a number of our sites. from the local areas near our operations. While we recognize that we still have much work to do on By bringing together women and men from diverse backour sites and in our offices, we also are considering additiongrounds and giving each person the opportunity to contribal programs in local communities focused on gender rights ute his or her skills, experience and perspectives, we believe and gender-based violence. We acknowledge that we have we are able to deliver the best solutions to our challenges. a responsibility to help prevent and mitigate human rights 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Non-Discrimination ICMM UNGC employees 3 6 Employees by category and diversity – 2016 Total % Gender % Minority Age Group % Group Male Female <30 30-50 >50 Executives 1.1% 87.5% 12.5% 2.5% 0.0% 50.8% 49.2% Management 4.5% 84.1% 15.9% 8.5% 1.0% 60.1% 38.7% Level Non94.5% 88.8% 11.2% 8.0% 17.6% 63.3% 19.2% Management Employees Total 100.0% 88.6% 11.4% 8.0% 17% 63% 20% 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Non-Discrimination ICMM UNGC women and men 3 6 Ratio of Male to Female Salary – 2016 Barrick Total 0.94 Argentina 0.90 Canada 1.04 Chile 1.24 Dominican Republic 1.00 Peru 0.94 United States 1.07 Zambia 1.19 82 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 408 Child Labor 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor Management Approach10 Working Conditions ICMM UNGC 1 3 1 2 3 Mining is a sector in which employees may not always have create a checklist related to the Voluntary Principles on the right to just and favorable conditions of work. Business and Human Rights and children’s rights. Our industry operates in environments where the use of forced • In 2016, 95% of new suppliers received due-diligence and child labor, particularly in local communities and in supply screening under the Vendor Onboarding Standard. chains, persists. In these locations, freedom of association, The onboarding process covers the Supplier Code of and the right to participate in labor associations, also may be Conduct, Barrick’s human rights and anti-corruption strained. Barrick is committed to upholding the elimination of programs, as well as adherence to the Company’s safety all forms of forced and compulsory labor, and to supporting and environmental standards. the effective abolition of child labor. Barrick also supports the Freedom of Association rights of workers to join a union or other labor association. We extend these commitments to our third parties. Barrick respects the rights of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. This includes the right Our Approach of each individual employee to join a union or other labor Barrick’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (“the association. We have a number of facilities around the world Code”), our Human Rights Policy, and our Policy with with unions or bargaining associations, and roughly 36% of Respect to the Declaration of Fundamental Principles our workforce is represented by unions or collective bargainand Rights at Work set the tone for the maintenance of ing agreements. a safe and ethical workplace at all Barrick operations and Due to our practice of communicating regularly with these offices. At Barrick, we support freedom of association, have associations, we have not had many significant labor relazero tolerance for forced labor or child labor, and enforce a tions issues involving our unions. Indeed, we strive to work minimum-age requirement for our employees. closely with labor unions or collective bargaining associations Our Performance to develop and manage effective labor relations programs. Depending on the requirements of the labor union or associa• Barrick has not identified evidence of slave or forced tion, sites with union membership often have safety topics inlabor, child labor or human trafficking on any Barrickcluded in labor agreements. We consider activities and actions operated site. In 2017, Barrick’s human rights assessconducted by site safety and health committees to be essential ments will include an enhanced assessment of human to embedding a culture of safety within the Company. trafficking. Barrick respects employees’ rights to freedom of association • In 2016, 3,000 employees received e-training that and collective bargaining. This includes the right of each included specific material regarding child labor and individual employee to join a union or other labor association. modern slavery and human trafficking, including how We have a number of sites around the world where our emto identify them on-site and in local communities, and ployees are members of labor unions or collective bargaining where to report concerns where suspicions of child labor associations. and modern slavery and human trafficking may exist. We work closely with labor unions and collective bargaining • In July 2016, we organized, with UNICEF Canada and the associations to develop and manage effective labor relations Government of Canada, a multi-sector working group to 10 Barrick’s Management Approach to Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining, Child Labor, and Forced and Compulsory Labor are reported on together. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 83 programs. Sites with union membership have safety and mation on child labor in our human rights training, providing health topics included in labor agreements. Activities and acinformation to employees on how to identify and report tions conducted by site safety and health committees are esconcerns regarding child labor. sential to embedding a culture of safety within the Company. Forced Labor Child Labor Forced and compulsory labor is any work or service, not volChild labor is the employment of children that is economiuntarily performed, that is extracted from an individual under cally exploitive, likely to be hazardous or to interfere with the threat of force or penalty. This includes bonded or indentured child’s education, or likely to be harmful to the child’s health labor, slavery or similar coerced labor arrangements. Barrick or physical, mental, spiritual, moral, or social development. does not engage in any type of forced or compulsory labor at The legal age at which young people may work varies from any of our operations or offices. In 2016, we introduced into jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Barrick does not knowingly employ our global human rights training a module on how our ema person who is under the legal age of employment or where ployees can identify and report concerns regarding modern that employment would contravene the International Labor slavery and human trafficking, whether internally or in our Organization’s convention for age of employment. Barrick’s communities. In 2017, Barrick’s human rights assessments will minimum age for employment is 18; therefore, our hiring include an enhanced assessment of trafficking. practices preclude child labor at our sites in all countries We readily acknowledge there are more steps we can take. where we operate. These include thinking about additional approaches to identiBarrick’s most significant contributions to the effective abofy modern slavery in our supply chain, and further educating lition of child labor are our global investments in education, our workforce on how to spot evidence of modern slavery such as our partnerships with One Laptop per Child, the in local communities. We also will continue to work with Public Education Foundation in Nevada, and our community civil society and other experts to identify new approaches to infrastructure development projects that support schools, address this global problem. community centers and recreational areas. We include infor408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant Working Conditions ICMM UNGC risk for incidents of child labor 1 3 1 2 5 Barrick has not identified evidence of slave or forced labor, child labor or human trafficking on any Barrick-operated site. In 2017, Barrick’s human rights assessments will include an enhanced assessment of human trafficking. Please see our Management Approach to Child Labor (above) for a full discussion on the measures Barrick takes to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant Working Conditions ICMM UNGC risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 1 3 1 2 4 Barrick has not identified evidence of slave or forced labor, child labor or human trafficking on any Barrick-operated site. In 2017, Barrick’s human rights assessments will include an enhanced assessment of human trafficking. 84 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI Security 410 Practices 410 Management Approach Security ICMM UNGC 1 3 1 2 Barrick explores and operates in diverse locations around the Finally, in all locations, we contract with and employ private world where security contexts vary greatly. We also produce security personnel. While private security personnel at our a precious commodity – gold – and our mine sites house sites generally do not carry hard munitions, they nonetheless valuable equipment, vehicles, commodities and materials can be implicated in serious human rights abuses. Many have that must also be safeguarded. In light of this, we recognize prior experience in local police or military forces in which the need for an effective security program to protect people, respect for human rights may be wanting or uneven, or are products, assets and reputation. from local communities where violence is prevalent. Fully reliable vetting can be a challenge, and despite company Often that means having to rely on public and private securitraining, messaging and monitoring, improper practices ty. As a result, we may have no choice but to enter into relarelated to the use of force, detention or investigations may tionships with security forces that have questionable human occur. Indeed, local private security providers perpetrated the rights records, over which we have no control. The need to gender-based violence at Porgera, demonstrating vividly and enter into these security relationships may arise because of terribly how substantial the risks of negative impacts can be violence in local communities, threats to the site and employand how attentive we and other companies must be to those ees, or because the government insists on public security to risks. protect an important national resource. Because of these issues and others, multiple studies have Human rights–related issues in the mining sector that have confirmed that companies in the extractive sector, including involved public security personnel include: Barrick, often face salient risks arising from their reliance on • Discouraging union activity public or private security forces. • Enforcing or extracting forced labor Our Approach • Enforcing workforce discipline Barrick has developed a Security Policy and Security Management System designed to respect human rights while • Clearing or resettling people from their land protecting persons and property associated with our mines. • Using excessive force to make arrests or reduce security We categorize our operations according to the security risk risks and, based on the security threat and the location of the operation, we determine which procedures and what type of • Responding with violence to peaceful protests protective equipment and infrastructure are required. • Intimidating local communities, NGOs and activists The UN Voluntary Principles on Business and Human Rights • Engaging in extortionate behavior, including taking (VPs) guide and dictate our overall approach to providing money or equipment and sexual assaults security on a global basis and are integrated into our Security Policy and operationalized by our Security Management In addition, in developing countries, it is becoming increasingSystem. This includes our engagement with public security ly common for governments to assign military personnel to providers (e.g., host nation military and police representatives) perform policing activities, which has occurred at Porgera and who may provide external security and response assistance, elsewhere. Some of the challenges for companies can arise as well as private security providers. The VPs also help us based on the distinct training regimens for military and police formulate guidelines and train security personnel on the use personnel, and access to appropriate equipment for policing of force and respect for human rights. activities. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 85 Over the past several years, there are many ways we have with credible human rights violation accusations assigned to sought to abide by the VPs, including: provide security around our sites. We further will continue to work with leading civil society organizations, companies, and • Focusing on the use of less-than-lethal munitions as part governments to identify best practices and practical solutions of our security approach; to the continued risks that security forces pose. • Helping to arrange for an independent observer of public Our Progress security operations; • In 2016, Barrick did not experience any severe securi• Conducting background checks on security employees ty-related incidents at the sites it operates. or contractors, including developing a pre-employment procedure whereby we can use expanded searches and • In 2016, over 850 security personnel (100% of security different forms of identity documentation if needed; employees) received dedicated, in-person human rights training, including use-of-force training, comprising more • Facilitating human rights training for public security than 3,000 hours of total instruction. All security perat several locations, including in partnership with the sonnel receive human rights training on an annual basis. International Committee of the Red Cross; All of Barrick’s training requirements apply to third-party • Providing substantive input into public security training organizations providing security personnel. materials; • We have Memorandums of Understanding with security • Encouraging local stakeholder consultations related to agencies in Zambia, Peru and the Dominican Republic, public security arrangements with a range of governreflecting the terms of the VPs. ments; • We have created a template reflecting our security and • Participating in local working groups to discuss practices human rights expectations for joint ventures and affilas to implementation; iates in which we have an interest but do not control, and seek to use our leverage to help implement those • Reporting human rights incidents related to public seexpectations. curity to appropriate authorities, sharing related internal information, and urging investigations; and • In 2016, we served on the Steering Committee of the UN Global Compact’s Business for Peace Platform and • Participating in and leading working groups with a range the Steering Committee of the VPs. We also worked of stakeholders to develop tools and identify best pracwith the Mining Association of Canada to institute a tices to assist in implementation. requirement that members agree to follow the VPs. We assess our compliance with the VPs regularly through multiple internal and external review channels, develop • We continue to conduct audits of both our compliance action plans for follow-up, and consider the outcomes of the with the VPs (both internal audits and third-party audits) reviews in developing and strengthening our programs. and our compliance with all related policies and procedures, such as the Security Code of Conduct, Use of Although these steps help mitigate the risks posed by public Force procedure, pre-employment screening and related and private security, we recognize that substantial chalrequirements. In 2016, we conducted audits of seven lenges remain. We will continue to consider approaches security-related standards across four sites (Pierina, to vetting and training private security providers, including Lagunas Norte, Veladero and Lumwana), and worked to through collective action; the International Code of Conduct for Private Security Contractors Association (ICOCA) and implement recommendations and follow-up activities. activities within the VPs are both potential avenues. We also • Since 2011, we have engaged Bureau Veritas to conduct will consider ways, through the VPs, home governments and annual external ICMM assurance audits on the VPs at other approaches, to help enhance the human rights training some sites, resulting in a public Assurance Letter. As part for public security, and avoid having public security officers 86 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index of that process, Bureau Veritas completed a VP assess• Continue to improve the Barrick Security Strategy and ment at Veladero in Argentina in 2016 and conducted a Security Policy through the accurate identification of VP assessment of Lumwana in early 2017. significant security risks at operations and appropriate mitigation plans, with a strong focus on human rights • In March 2016, we helped lead a workshop with the and security for gold. Government of Canada related to implementation of the VPs. • Conduct assurance reviews at seven sites. These reviews will emphasize the role of critical security controls and • In July 2016, we organized, with UNICEF Canada and overall effectiveness of security program. the Government of Canada, a multi-sector working group to create a checklist related to the VPs and chil• Conduct external benchmarking and research into dren’s rights. The checklist was launched in March 2017. step-change opportunities for the Company’s security performance. Our Priorities • Develop improved annual security performance targets • Zero severe security-related incidents at Barrick-operated by which the effectiveness of the function will be judged mine sites. in 2017. 410-1 Security personnel trained in human Security ICMM UNGC rights policies or procedures 1 3 1 2 In 2016, over 850 security personnel (100% of security employees) received dedicated, in-person human rights training, including use-of-force training, comprising more than 3,000 hours of total instruction. All security personnel receive human rights training on an annual basis. All of Barrick’s training requirements apply to third-party organizations providing security personnel. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 87 GRI Rights of 411 Indigenous Peoples 411 Management Approach Indigenous Peoples ICMM UNGC 1 3 1 2 Indigenous Peoples often have profound and special connecwork towards obtaining consent from significantly impacted tions to the environment where Barrick operates. Indigenous Peoples for new projects and major changes to existing projects, aligned with the ICMM Position Statement. These connections are tied to their physical, spiritual, cultural, and economic well-being. Considering the values, needs, and Western Shoshone In Nevada concerns of Indigenous Peoples in site activities is fundamenMost of Barrick’s mining operations in northern Nevada exist tal to our partnership approach and the way we do busiwithin what was the traditional territory of the Western ness. Doing so can support the development of long-term, Shoshone people. mutually beneficial relationships with those affected by our activities. Successful partnerships with Indigenous Peoples While ownership of nearly all of this traditional territory can contribute to more sustainable land management and a now resides with the United States government, Barrick has stable operating environment. committed to ensuring that the Western Shoshone tribes and bands that are located near our operations realize long-term Our Approach benefits from the development of mineral resources on these All sites where Indigenous Peoples have rights over or special lands. For this reason, Barrick entered into a “Collaborative connections to the land where mining-related activities are Agreement” with a group of Western Shoshone Tribes and located are required to develop and implement an Indigenous Bands. The Collaborative Agreement is aimed at maintaining Peoples Plan that outlines specific actions to engage, address regular, ongoing engagement between Barrick and these impacts and provide opportunities to Indigenous Peoples. Western Shoshone communities and sharing a spectrum of benefits derived from Barrick’s operations with this important In May 2013, the ICMM Council of CEOs approved an stakeholder group. Indigenous Peoples and Mining Position Statement. It articulates a progressive set of commitments that applies to all Collaborative Agreement ICMM member companies, most notably a commitment to The Collaborative Agreement between Barrick and the work towards obtaining the consent, as defined by the ICMM leaders of four Western Shoshone Tribes (Duckwater, Ely, Position Statement, of Indigenous Peoples “for new projects Yomba and Duck Valley) was signed in 2008. The South Fork (and changes to existing projects) that are located on lands and Wells Bands of the Te-Moak Tribe subsequently signed in traditionally owned by or under customary use of Indigenous 2011, the Elko Band signed in 2012, and the Te-Moak Tribe Peoples and are likely to have significant adverse impacts on signed in 2013. While the Battle Mountain Band has not yet Indigenous Peoples.” The commitments in the position statesigned the Agreement, this community is included in virtually ment came into effect for new projects or major expansions all of the Western Shoshone programs that Barrick implein May 2015. ments or supports. All of the signatories agreed to an Update of the Agreement, which was finalized in 2014. New projects and significant expansions of operations located on lands traditionally owned by, or under the customary The Collaborative Agreement establishes a common vision rights of, Indigenous Peoples must align their activities with of long-term engagement and collaboration between Barrick the ICMM Position Statement on Indigenous Peoples and and the eight Western Shoshone communities near Barrick’s Mining. Barrick sites must also develop and implement an Nevada operations. Under the Agreement, Barrick shares Indigenous Peoples Plan that outlines specific actions to benefits with these communities through support of soengage, address impacts on and provide opportunities to cio-economic development programs that benefit community Indigenous Peoples. As a company, Barrick has committed to members. The Agreement does not require signatory tribes 88 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index and bands to give up their rights to challenge or oppose shared understanding between Barrick management and any of Barrick’s current or proposed mining operations. the Western Shoshone. As part of its work, the WSCAG has Additionally, the Collaborative Agreement does not give developed a Western Shoshone Cultural Awareness Training Barrick any rights to exploration, development or operation of module and a program to provide this training to Barrick semineral deposits or mines, or access related to these activinior management and to Barrick supervisors, superintendents ties. Barrick does not conduct any activities on tribally owned and managers at our mine sites in Nevada. In 2016, Barrick lands in Nevada. worked with the WSCAG and Tribal Councils to develop a plan for development of a Western Shoshone Cultural Center Ongoing Engagement in Elko on the property of the Elko Band of the Te-Moak Barrick maintains a program of frequent engagement with Tribe. Agreement on this plan was reached with all eight the eight Western Shoshone communities in its area of influWestern Shoshone partner communities, and a Board of ence. This includes formal quarterly dialogue meetings hosted Trustees was being formed at year-end. by one of the tribes or bands; these are open meetings that include council members and general community members Community Development Initiatives from Western Shoshone communities, and Barrick staff, Barrick supports a broad range of community development including senior company management. Barrick Community initiatives benefiting Western Shoshone communities, includRelations staff also engage informally with the eight Western ing programs focused on education, health, family welfare Shoshone communities on a frequent basis. This includes and economic advancement. attendance at open council meetings to provide updates Educational programs include summer youth employment and discuss concerns or interests, meetings with council programs for tribal youth, computer equipment, library leadership, meetings with managers of and beneficiaries of facilities, after-school programs that include tutoring and tribal programs that Barrick supports, participation in and mentoring, supplementary nutrition, family counseling on edattendance at community programs and functions, working ucational opportunities, internship programs for scholarship with Western Shoshone scholarship recipients and other tribal recipients, youth leadership events, and support for educaactivities. tional infrastructure in the communities. Western Shoshone Scholarship Foundation Health initiatives focus on diabetes, nutrition, elder care, The Collaborative Agreement established the Western sports, exercise and recreation. Shoshone Scholarship Foundation, a registered non-profit foundation funded by regular donations derived from Family welfare support has included programs aimed at child Barrick’s Nevada operations. The foundation currently has welfare, seniors, domestic violence, substance abuse and assets of over $6.4 million and funds higher-education scholcommunity healing. arships for a large number of Western Shoshone students Economic development initiatives include business managewho attend universities, colleges and vocational schools ment mentoring and consulting for tribal businesses, commuthroughout the United States. The Foundation has granted nity comprehensive planning, upgrading of tribal infrastrucnearly $2.8 million for over 1,250 scholarships since it was ture including tribal buildings, housing, roads, water systems, established and will continue to assist future generations of communications and internet access, and the development of Western Shoshone achieve their educational goals. additional infrastructure. Western Shoshone Cultural Advisory Group Barrick supports traditional cultural activities undertaken (WSCAG) by the eight partner communities, including Pow Wows, Under the Collaborative Agreement, Western Shoshone Fandangos and other traditional practices. Cultural support communities and Barrick established a cultural advisory group also includes Shoshone language programs within the comto provide input on exploration and mining projects and munities. operations. The WSCAG is composed of elders and cultural leaders of the eight Western Shoshone communities and Barrick partnered with the Friends of the British Council in meets bi-monthly. This group also acts as another forum for 2014 to bring their internationally recognized Active Citizens 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 89 program to its Western Shoshone partner communities. Pascua-Lama is located 80 kilometers from the nearest Developed internationally by the British Council, the UK’s culDiaguita settlement, making them some of the project’s clostural relations organization, the program teaches participants est neighbors. Barrick continues to engage with the Diaguita leadership and project management skills, empowering them and other local communities around the Pascua-Lama project to build trust and understanding and spearhead sustainable to sustain dialogue and build greater trust; our emphasis is on development in their communities. To date, the program has transparent and open communication. trained 370 members of Barrick’s Western Shoshone partner Memorandum of Understanding communities. Barrick took the temporary suspension of the Pascua-Lama Shoshone Youth Language Apprenticeship project in 2013 as an opportunity to rebuild relationships, and Program (SYLAP) ultimately trust, with the local community. Barrick provided the impetus for the establishment, and On May 29, 2014, Barrick announced a Memorandum of continues to provide support for the operation, of a Understanding (MoU) with a group of 12 Diaguita comground-breaking program for language revitalization in munities and three Diaguita associations in Chile’s Huasco Western Shoshone communities, known as the Shoshone province. While a number of these Diaguita communities Youth Language Apprenticeship Program (SYLAP), implehave supported legal challenges against the project in Chile, mented through the University of Utah’s Shoshone Language the MoU marked a significant step forward in establishing Project (http://shoshoniproject.utah.edu/). dialogue and working to build trust with this important stakeThis program brings high school–aged youth from Western holder group. Shoshone communities to the university every summer for As part of the agreement, Barrick made technical and a six-week residency program of language instruction and environmental information about the Pascua-Lama project related cultural activities. In addition, the youth work with available to the communities and provided financial resources university staff to create Shoshone language resources and materials required to support an independent analysis such as children’s books illustrating traditional stories in of this information. This approach is in line with the compathe Shoshone language, a talking dictionary, a Shoshone ny’s commitment to engage with stakeholders in an open language video game, and short videos telling traditional and transparent manner while allowing the communities to stories in Shoshone. These resources are made available to study and better understand the project, its impacts and its Western Shoshone communities for their use in communienvironmental controls. Under the agreement, a Technical ty-level language and cultural programs. SYLAP staff also Committee was formed to oversee the work, composed of provide teacher training for those teaching Shoshone in the representatives selected by the MoU signatories. An indecommunities. pendent mediator was also appointed. Under the MoU, the The SYLAP program was awarded the 2013 William Demmert Diaguita communities used resources funded by Barrick in Cultural Freedom Award by the National Indian Education order to hire more than 30 independent technical experts to Association for the accomplishments of the program since complete due diligence of Pascua-Lama. its formalization in 2009. In late 2016 plans were finalized to While this marked a positive step forward in our relationmove the youth language program to Elko to make it more ship with Diaguita communities, roughly 30 percent of the practical for community members to assist with, and contribDiaguita people organized in communities in the province did ute to, the program. not participate in the MoU. Diaguita Communities On April 8, 2015, the Technical Committee of the MoU The Diaguita are the main Indigenous group in the area of approved the final report and common diagnosis on the Chile where the Pascua-Lama project is located. They comPascua-Lama project. In April 2015, the company and the prise nearly six percent of the regional population, amounting participating Diaguita communities (including two additionto some 10,000 Diaguita in the region. al communities) executed a new Environmental and Social Collaboration Agreement (the “Collaboration Agreement”). 90 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index This Collaboration Agreement established an environmenof the project site. We have also made attempts to engage tal fund to further review specific aspects of the project the Diaguita communities in a dialogue table. These steps of special relevance to the Diaguita people, including the reflect our good-faith effort to rebuild trust with communities glacier-monitoring program, water-management system, around the Pascua-Lama project. anthropological and archeological information and ancestral First Nations and Métis Communities Near territory. The Collaboration Agreement also established a Hemlo social fund to contribute to the communities impacted by significant flooding that occurred in March 2015. Barrick’s Hemlo mine in northern Ontario is within close proximity of both the Pic Mobert and Biigtigong Nishnaabeg In the fall of 2015, as the Pascua-Lama transitioned to (formerly Pic River First Nations). care and maintenance, meetings were initiated with the Diaguita leaders to discuss the impact of this transition on Barrick has developed strong relationships with both commuthe Environmental and Social Collaboration Agreement nities and actively engages with them on a number of issues, (i.e., phase 2 of the MoU). The company decided to end the including skills development and environmental stewardship. Collaboration Agreement with the Diaguita communities The relationship provides both First Nations with opportuniearly in September 2015. The social fund investment was ties for labor contracts, consultation on site closure planning, completed and a final report was approved by both parties. training and educational opportunities. While the remaining environmental studies have not been Community Agreements substantially advanced, the Company is continuing to work We have agreements in place with Pic Mobert First Nation with Diaguita leaders to pursue a long-term agreement, takand Biigtigong Nishnaabeg (formerly Pic River First Nations), ing into account the current state of the project. which provide a foundation of positive working relationships, Throughout this process, the project team has been working specifically with regard to information sharing, environmental to improve and enhance its community engagement practicimpacts, community/cultural support, youth support, capacity es, including with those communities that did not sign the building, training and employment. An Implementation MoU or the Collaboration Agreement. The local community Committee has been formed with both First Nations consistrelations (CR) team has submitted regular monitoring reports ing of representatives from the First Nation and the mine. on impacts and mitigation plans to the Chilean authorities, The groups meet every six weeks to facilitate dialogue and including: maintain interactive relationships. • Quarterly monitoring reports on traffic, water, glaciers In October 2015, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) and social investment; was signed with the Métis Nation of Ontario; the MoU’s • An annual Public Account to local communities and auobjective is to establish a mutually beneficial, cooperative, thorities on social and environment performance; and productive, and ongoing working relationship between the mine and the Métis Nation of Ontario (MNO). • Regular reporting on compliance with commitments to regulators, including grievances and engagement activiEnvironmental Monitoring ties with communities. Barrick provides ongoing funding for both First Nations to employ environmental monitors, one from each local First The CR team also uses a variety of methods, including a Nation community. Monitors work primarily in the First grievance mechanism and regular engagement visits to the Nation, with only limited time spent at the mine site where local communities, and having an office and staff present in they engage first-hand with Hemlo’s environment department the area of influence, to directly and better engage with local in our sampling program and environmental monitoring stakeholders. The site has expanded its site-visit program and program, when needed. launched online water monitoring so that everyone has access to information on the quality of water downstream 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 91 MM5 Total number of operations taking place Indigenous Peoples ICMM UNGC in or adjacent to indigenous peoples’ territories, and number and percentage 3 1 2 of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with indigenous peoples’ communities Four of Barrick’s operations (Hemlo, Cortez, Goldstrike and Turquoise Ridge) are located near the traditional territories of Indigenous Peoples. Barrick has formal agreements with the communities near these sites. The Lumwana mine is located adjacent to three Royal Establishments. The site has an agreement that defines the shared benefits provided to the chiefdoms. 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of Indigenous Peoples ICMM UNGC indigenous peoples 3 1 2 No recorded incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples in 2016. 92 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI Human Rights 412 Assessment 412 Management Approach Human Rights; ICMM UNGC Human Rights Assessments 1 2 3 10 As a fundamental operating principle, we try to respect identified a number of risk areas and actual or potential human rights wherever we do business and recognize the negative human rights impacts, including some repeat equality and dignity of the people with whom we interact findings from prior assessments. Details on these findevery day. Respect for our employees, local community memings are available here. In addition, in 2016, all of our bers, and local governments is part of our core values, which sites underwent internal and external audits that bear guide us in all we do. some relation to human rights considerations. Carrying out that respect every day, in every situation, every• Approximately 5,000 employees received human rights where we operate, poses challenges for a global company training in some format in 2016, including all Security like ours. We have interests in mining operations on five employees and contractors, and all Community Relations continents, employ more than 11,000 workers, have some personnel. In total, this comprised more than 8,000 11,000 contractors, and work with some 10,000 vendors hours of human rights training across the Company. each year. Our mines operate in highly diverse social, ecoTraining included: nomic and political environments, including locations where »» Over 850 security personnel (100% of security emhuman rights may not be fully recognized or protected. Each ployees) received dedicated, in-person human rights location has a different cultural context, faces different risks training, including use of force training, comprising of negative human rights impacts, and encounters different more than 3,000 hours of total instruction. expectations from their respective host communities, governments and key stakeholders. »» More than 1,000 employees were onboarded in 2016 and received human rights training. Barrick’s human rights compliance program is designed to help embed ethical behavior and a respect for our employees »» Approximately 3,000 employees received e-training and partners throughout our diverse operations. On a philothat included specific material regarding child labor sophical level, the compliance program is not a risk mitigation and modern slavery and trafficking, including how effort for the company. Rather, it is a reflection of the compato identify them on-site and in local communities, ny’s values, and an outgrowth of our commitment to respect and where to report concerns where suspicions of human rights and avoid negative human rights impacts for child labor and modern slavery and trafficking may rights holders. exist. Our Progress • In response to growing concerns about global harassment, we introduced a new harassment standard, to • Barrick did not cause or contribute to, and was not help provide greater workplace protections. directly linked to, any severe human rights incidents in 2016 at any mine it operates. • In March 2016, Barrick helped lead a workshop with the Government of Canada related to implementation of the • In 2016, as part of our global human rights compliance VPs. The company also organized, with UNICEF Canada program, Avanzar, an independent consulting organiand the Government of Canada, a multi-sector workzation, conducted human rights assessments at three ing group to create a checklist related to the Voluntary mine sites: the Pierina and Lagunas Norte mines in Peru, Principles on Business and Human Rights (VPs) and chiland the Lumwana mine in Zambia. The assessments dren’s rights. The checklist was launched in March 2017. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 93 Our Priorities our human rights aspirations into practice. We accept, as we must, that even with the program, we still may cause, • To not cause, contribute to, or be directly linked to any contribute to, or be directly linked to negative human rights severe human rights incidents at any mine we operate. impacts. Nor will the program always provide ready solutions • In 2017, Barrick will continue to implement its human to the dilemmas and challenges that we continually face. rights assessment program and will include an enhanced What the program does is to compel us to take a coherent assessment of trafficking. and holistic approach, driven by clear guidelines and requirements, and with the necessary tools to operationalize • Barrick will tie aspects of our Human Rights Compliance it across our organization. And when we get this right, we Program to executive compensation, as reflected in move closer to fulfilling the simple commitment we set for our annual Proxy Circular. The company will also tie ourselves: to respect human rights wherever we do business compensation to our global bonus scorecard, which and to recognize the equality and dignity of the people with can impact employees across the company. In 2017, the whom we interact every day. bonus scorecard will include key performance indicators related to messaging, employee onboarding, vendor due Principle 1: Grounded in Global Standards diligence and implementation of the VPs. Our human rights program is grounded in international human rights norms, including the International Bill of Human • In 2017, the company will also emphasize our Rights and the eight core conventions of the International Harassment Standard, which was recently introduced, Labor Organization, and guided by the UN Guiding Principles along with the modern slavery segment. We also expect on Business and Human Rights, the 10 Principles of the UN to emphasize our security training content related to chilGlobal Compact, and similar standards. Internally, we treat dren’s rights and those of other vulnerable populations. human rights norms as obligatory and non-optional, like the Human Rights Compliance Program laws we are subject to, wherever we operate. We believe that only through a globally integrated human rights compliance Barrick’s Human Rights Compliance Program is a systematprogram can we meet our responsibility to respect the human ic global approach to help all employees, contractors, and rights of all our stakeholders. business partners respect the human rights of all internal and external stakeholders impacted by our operations. Principle in practice: As a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), we are committed We know that no program can eliminate all negative impacts to conducting business in accordance with the ICMM’s that we may cause, contribute to, or be linked to through our Sustainable Development Principles, which include a commitoperations. We believe, however, that through a logical and ment to upholding fundamental human rights and respecting embedded program, we can mitigate those risks, and provide culture, customs, and values in dealing with employees and appropriate remedies when breaches take place. others affected by our activities. We have defined five core principles that underpin our huPrinciple 2: Leadership from the Top man rights compliance program and six systematic elements We believe that every employee in every functional unit plays that help us implement the program effectively. The complia role in respecting the human rights of our employees, ance program, in turn, assists us in preventing or mitigating contractors and community members. At the same time, risks to rights-holders in six salient risk areas. leadership from the top is essential to the program’s success, Core Principles of Barrick’s Human Rights including emphasizing the importance of the Program and the Program values that underlie it, and reflecting those values in practice. Through the five principles of the human rights compliance Principle in practice: The Board of Directors approved our program, we strive to meet the responsibilities identified Human Rights Policy and Code of Business Conduct and for companies in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Ethics. The Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board Human Rights (UNGPs), and maintain a structure that puts oversees our Human Rights Program, receiving quarterly 94 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index briefings. Executive Management seeks to reinforce the Principle in practice: Barrick serves on the Steering Committee importance of respecting human rights by championing the for the UN Global Compact’s Business for Peace Initiative and Program and ethical behavior more generally, and there is participates in the Global Compact Human Rights and Labor frequent internal messaging regarding the values associatWorking Group, as well as the UN Global Compact Supply ed with the program, including through our weekly global Chain and Sustainability Working Group. In 2013, after recogBusiness Program Review (BPR) meetings. In 2012, we also nizing that Canada lacked a local Global Compact network, established a Corporate Social Responsibility Advisory Board we helped inaugurate the Global Compact Network Canada to provide Barrick’s senior executives with external advice and (GCNC), and have been on its Board of Directors since that guidance, and we tie human rights to executive compensatime. We have led GCNC working groups to create a security tion and our global bonus scorecard. and human rights assurance guide, a supply chain sustainability report, an ongoing podcast series on the Global Compact’s Principle 3: Embedded Throughout the ten principles, and an e-book on anti-corruption compliance. Organization Respecting human rights is a shared global responsibility. Principle 5: Partnership and Collaboration We have worked hard to integrate human rights considWe continue to face human rights dilemmas that defy easy erations into Barrick’s values, governance frameworks and answers. Addressing them is only possible in partnership and the corporate management systems of different functional collaboration with our peers, business partners, and other units. From Supply Chain and Human Resources to Security stakeholders. While we may not always agree with our critics, and Community Relations, when human rights elements are we are committed to listening to their concerns and learning entrenched within day-to-day job performance to the point from their ideas. Through global multi-stakeholder initiatives that they are indistinguishable from other aspects of work such as the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights activities, they are truly operationalized and sustainable. (VPs), and through our community engagement at the local level, we work to advance respect for human rights both in our Principle in practice: In our hiring practices and vendor own operations and among the broader business community. onboarding, we have embedded pre-screening questions for prospective employees and vendors, essentially treating huPrinciple in practice: Barrick has played an active role in the man rights concerns as a basic qualification. Our security proVPs, the leading multi-stakeholder initiative for security and cedures related to use of force, investigations, and detention, human rights, including serving on its Steering Committee our environmental procedures related to water and pollution, (2012-13, 2016-18), and chairing the Corporate Pillar (2013). and our safety procedures related to occupational health all In 2012, we volunteered to lead a working group to create a have been reviewed to account for potential human rights series of key performance indicators that are now followed risks and impacts. One major improvement has also been by a number of companies, including us, in their reporting strengthening of grievance mechanisms to include a category within the initiative. More recently, recognizing a lack of of human rights; greater responsiveness, corporate accountuniformity among companies and governments in their seability and analysis of trends result in procedural changes. curity support agreements, we participated in a VPs working group to create model clauses to use in support agreements Principle 4: Shared Learnings between companies and governments. To improve our own practices and to advance business respect for human rights, we are committed to sharing our successThe Six Systematic Elements of the Human es, failures, and program features. We have formed, joined, Rights Compliance Program and led initiatives and working groups focused on dialogue Barrick’s Human Rights Compliance Program is a systematand mutual learning, such as the BSR Human Rights Working ic global approach to help all employees, contractors, and Group and the UN Global Compact, actively trying to advance business partners respect the human rights of all internal and human rights in the business community and offering examexternal stakeholders impacted by our operations. We know, ples of how it can be done and pitfalls to be avoided. of course, that no program can eliminate all negative impacts that we may cause, contribute to, or be linked to through our 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 95 operations. But we also believe that through a logical and The Policy applies to Barrick corporate offices and to every embedded program, we can mitigate those risks, and provide aspect of the mines and projects that Barrick operates, includappropriate remedies when breaches take place. ing all employees (on or off duty) and third-party contractors. It further declares that a human right is one recognized by Our Human Rights Compliance Program tries to maintain the International Bill of Human Rights. It also mandates that consistency with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and we follow the International Labour Organization’s Declaration Human Rights (UNGPs) and other international norms. It also on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and we mainattempts to maximize efficiencies with other company comtain a separate policy specifically dedicated to implementing pliance programs and activities wherever possible, enabling the Declaration. a coherent company approach composed of a culture of compliance, clear human rights guidelines and requirements, and Putting it into practice effective global operationalization. While creating policies is important, meeting our commitment is the bigger test. We try to meet that test by emTo meet our objectives, there are six systematic elements that bedding human rights considerations into Barrick’s values, help define the program: governance frameworks and corporate management systems. • Policies and Procedures From Supply Chain and Human Resources to Security and Community Relations, Barrick considers it our responsi• Governance and Oversight bility to respect human rights throughout the business. • Due Diligence Indeed, the Policy is supported by and incorporates numerous function-specific policies. These include: the Supplier • Training and Advice Code of Ethics, the Policy with Respect to the Declaration • Disciplinary Action and Remedy of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Security Management System, the Community Relations Management • Monitoring and Reporting. System (CRMS), the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Element 1: Policies And Procedures Policy, the Safety and Health Management System, and the Environmental Management System. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Human Rights Policy reflect the key requirements of our program, which are Procedures buttressed by a range of policies, procedures and standards. We also try to buttress our Human Rights Policy with a number of dedicated policies, standards and guidelines. Policies Internally, we place great importance on reporting concerns Critical to any effective compliance program is a clear and investigations. substantive policy and effective implementing documents. In 2011, we modified our Code of Business Conduct and Likewise, for external stakeholders, securing and maintaining Ethics to include an explicit commitment to respecting huour license to operate depends on our ability to listen actively man rights. Also in 2011, we adopted a standalone Human and be responsive when they raise issues of importance to Rights Policy, which contains the philosophical premise them. behind our human rights approach: that we will respect the Putting it into practice human rights of all stakeholders impacted by our operations. In recent years, a priority in Barrick’s CRMS, overseen by the It unequivocally states, “Barrick does not tolerate violations Community Relations functional group, has been to require of human rights committed by its employees, its affiliates or that all operations have an effective grievance mechanism in any third parties acting on its behalf or related to any aspect place. Consistent with the UNGPs, Barrick’s CRMS provides of a Barrick operation.” Barrick does not tolerate violations of all communities where we operate access to a simple and human rights committed by its employees, its affiliates, or any culturally sensitive process through which they can provide third parties acting on its behalf or related to any aspect of a feedback and seek resolution to legitimate concerns. The disBarrick operation. cussion on grievance mechanisms and remedies provides 96 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index additional information about this, including the number and will continue to look for ways to improve our systems and nature of grievances received in 2016. processes. Another key procedure relates to reporting and investigating Element 2: Governance and Oversight human rights-related allegations. A global internal procedure Day-to-day responsibility of the Human Rights Program is requires immediate reporting and escalation of informavested within the Office of the General Counsel (OGC) under tion related to potential negative human rights impacts. All Barrick’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel. In adinformation about potential human rights violations must dition, the General Counsel maintains a direct reporting line be reported, regardless of whether it seems credible to the to relevant committees of the Board of Directors on compliemployee or the amount of detail that the employee might ance-related issues, including human rights and investigaknow. The procedure also contains details on how informations. The General Counsel also oversees our anti-corruption tion should be reported, and it includes an anti-retaliation program and maintains authority over other international provision. We also require that all allegations of negative huregulatory requirements at the company, helping create effiman rights impacts must be investigated, though the nature ciencies with the human rights program. and extent of the investigation may vary depending on the circumstances. Typically, for serious potential human rights We believe that vesting the Program in the OGC is consistent breaches, we strive to create independence in our investiwith the UN Guiding Principles and how we view human gations. That may be through external investigators that we rights. Guiding Principle 23(c) states that companies should, retain. It also may be through our corporate investigations “Treat the risk of causing or contributing to gross human unit, which is housed at our headquarters and is independent rights abuses as a legal compliance issue wherever they of the site or location where a breach may have occurred; operate.” As we interpret it, that means we should consider the investigations unit is supervised by the Office of General human rights norms to reflect a set of international legal Counsel and Operations Officer, and the results are reported obligations, to be followed in the same way as with other to a committee of the Board of Directors. international and local regulatory requirements. Finally, we have created internal guidance documents to help Putting it into practice employees in implementing our program. Examples of this The Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board of include guidance on how to: Directors, composed of four independent Board members, is charged with overseeing our human rights program. The • Help detect and respond to allegations of retaliation for Committee receives a quarterly update on salient human whistleblowers rights risks, key issues, trends and projects. These may include • Map employees for appropriate training significant allegations of human rights violations, transparency and reporting efforts, investigations, remediation • Conduct due diligence on prospective employees and efforts, human rights assessment findings and outcomes, institute relevant controls and collective action projects. For instance, in 2016, quarterly • Provide human rights remediation. presentations to the Committee included our approach to human rights issues at joint ventures, how we are adjusting our While our policy framework has grown substantially, we are human rights reporting to satisfy the Human Rights Reporting still working to identify ways to strengthen it. In 2016, for and Assurance Initiative, the results of our human rights instance, in response to growing concerns about global haassessments, and details regarding an independent report on rassment, we introduced a new harassment standard to help the remedy framework at the Porgera Joint Venture. provide greater workplace protections. We also felt we could do more to emphasize the importance of reporting concerns As the program is primarily implemented on a local basis, in good faith, and introduced new non-retaliation guidance accountability rests largely with our country leaders. Country for human resources and legal personnel. In 2017, we also legal heads are expected to provide local guidance, oversight enhanced our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to make and implementation of the program in their respective jurisit easier to understand and apply. As we move forward, we dictions. At the same time, we undertake a risk-tiered 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 97 approach, placing emphasis and resources on those locations Chaired by Barrick’s President, the board convenes twice per and functions where human rights risks are most acute. year, and as part of its mandate it receives updates on issues related to human rights matters at Barrick. Critical to embedding human rights awareness across our operations is senior management visibly emphasizing the Executive Compensation. We tie aspects of the program core principles covered by the program. This helps underscore to executive compensation, as reflected in our 2016 and the importance of the program, promotes acceptance, and 2017 Information Circulars. We also tie it to our global bonus helps create a culture where employees strive to meet and scorecard, which can impact employees across the company; not evade the requirements of the program. Indeed, while we in 2017, the bonus scorecard includes key performance indihave a robust training program (elaborated in Core Element cators related to messaging, employee onboarding, vendor #4 – Training & Advice), it is not possible to provide training due diligence and implementation of the VPs. on every potential situation that may arise. A culture of comFrequent Messaging. There is frequent internal messaging pliance helps employees abide by the values governing the regarding the values associated with the program and compliprogram, and interpret events consistent with it. ance with the program itself through company newsletters, in There are several ways that we seek to achieve leadership dedicated human rights posters that have been posted at all from the top for the Program, including: sites and projects, in flyers and handouts related to the program, via our social media channels, and through other means. Executive Leadership. Our Human Rights Policy and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics were approved by our Board As with other areas of our program, we are continuing to of Directors, demonstrating the significance of these prothink about ways to improve its governance and oversight. grams to the company. Executive management seeks to reinOne area we are working on is how to improve our influence force the importance of respecting human rights by chamover, and visibility into, entities in which we own an interest, pioning the human rights compliance program and ethical but do not control. Another area we are considering is whethbehavior more generally through different avenues, such as er to add additional personnel to help implement the proexecutive addresses, town halls, and global emails. gram. For 2017, we also are making slight adjustments to our presentations to the Corporate Responsibility Committee of Business Plan Reviews. We also have a Business Plan Review the Board, to allow for more organized and in-depth reports. (BPR) meeting every week, a reporting session that includes senior leaders of corporate functional units and sites. The How does Barrick address human rights at joint ventures and BPRs are overseen by Barrick’s President and the company’s entities it does not control? Like other companies in our sector, Chief Operating Officer. Once per month, the OGC reports we have entered into joint ventures and other arrangements in at the BPR on how the human rights program is progressing which we may hold a significant ownership interest, but where against its relevant goals and on issues that might prevent the our mines are operated by independent entities and third parprogram from achieving its objectives. Each site and advanced ties. While our human rights program does not formally extend project also must report in the BPR on license-to-operate to those sites and operations, we attempt to influence manissues, which by definition include the human rights program. agement action through contractual rights and Board memThe BPRs enhance transparency, reminding all global leaders bership. That may be through conducting or advocating for about key areas of the program, as well as identifying progaudits and assessments, pressing for compensation structures ress, challenges and concerns. to reflect human rights goals, seeking reports on incidents, engaging over aspects of their human rights programs, seeking CSR Advisory Board. In 2012, we established a Corporate regular progress updates, asking for details on training and Social Responsibility Advisory Board to provide Barrick’s senior stakeholder engagements, and through other efforts. executives with external advice and guidance on emerging CSR issues and trends, as well as feedback on our perforIn addition, in early 2017, we conducted assessments on mance. The Advisory Board includes highly respected figures Human Rights and on the Voluntary Principles on Security and from different disciplines: Aron Cramer, Robert Fowler, and Human Rights at Jabal Sayid, a site in Saudi Arabia in which Gare Smith, with John Ruggie serving as a special consultant. Barrick owns 50% with Ma’aden, a Saudi Arabian mining 98 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index company. Likewise, at Porgera, in 2017, we pressed for New Acquisitions and Mine Projects reports from the site and police in response to a police opWe recognize that it is important for our program to extend in eration to evict squatters from temporary shelters, including full to new operations that may be developed or acquired. In advocating for a formal police report. the mining industry, acquisitions and dispositions of assets are common. In addition, when sites evolve from exploration to Element 3: Due Diligence construction to operation, their character, personnel and risks Given Barrick’s size and diverse operational contexts, no sinchange as well. We approach these areas in different ways. gle process can provide a full picture of the company’s human Pre-acquisition (and disposition). Under our program, we rights impacts at any given location, much less around the strive to conduct human rights due diligence as part of acquisiworld. We therefore take a holistic approach to understand tions to identify existing risks and impacts. To that end, we have our overall human rights footprint. created an internal guidance document, the Guidelines for Asset Putting it into practice Acquisition and Disposition, to assist in conducting human rights Human rights impact assessments: One of the cornerstones due diligence for potential asset purchases (and sales). of our due-diligence efforts is a stand-alone, independent huPost-acquisition. Following an acquisition, it is importman rights assessment program for Barrick-operated properant that we rapidly apply, and that the acquired company ties. The program is discussed in detail here. The assessments integrate, the human rights program (and other international are conducted by Avanzar, a respected independent third-parregulatory and compliance programs) into its systems. ty consultancy, and focus on actual, potential and perceived impacts. Each site is assessed on a periodic cycle of two to Pre-construction. Before mine projects are constructed, we three years, depending on risk. The focus is on continuous strive to conduct human rights assessments and include them improvement, not a one-time identification of all risks in, say, in the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Reports. a single six-month assessment. A well-regarded NGO, Fund As operations develop. As our operations develop, we confor Peace, serves as an external independent advisor on the tinue to assess their human rights impacts, risks, and needs, program, and Professor John Ruggie also provides advice and and adjust the program accordingly. guidance on discrete issues associated with the assessments. In-depth assessments of applicable country-level risks have Internal and external audits: In addition to our human been provided by the Danish Institute for Human Rights. rights assessments, we conduct a variety of internal and external audit and assurance activities that bear upon the The human rights assessment program began in 2011, and human rights program. The results are examined over a multito date, all highand medium-risk sites have been assessed year period to identify trends and changes. We also consider at least once. In 2015, an assessment was conducted at the findings in conjunction with information generated by the Pueblo Viejo mine in the Dominican Republic. In 2016, other processes, such as through our enterprise risk manageassessments were conducted at the Pierina and Lagunas ment process, internal audits, grievances, hotline reports, our Norte mines in Peru and Lumwana in Zambia. The findings third-party annual social assurance process, community and are incorporated into our overall assessment of enterprise stakeholder engagement programs, engagements with site risks under our enterprise risk management system, and may and functional leads, and our investigations into incidents. In be discussed during our weekly BPRs. Summary reports of the 2016, all of our sites underwent internal and external audits 2012, 2013 and 2014 assessments are available by request to that bear some relation to human rights considerations. s.jimenez@barrick.com. Employee screening: Important for any compliance program Our approach is distinguishable from one-time “stand-alone” is screening potential employees whose background suggests assessments. It is also different from functional unit manthey pose risks to the substantive principles at issue. All poagement system assessments, although (as noted below) we tential Barrick employees receive pre-screening questions that seek to create synergies with other assessments that relate to could result in disqualification for employment based on past human rights to help to more effectively identify our human human rights violations. All employees undergo rights impacts and risks. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 99 basic due diligence through a third-party research platform different technology solutions to streamline our processes before being hired, and background checks are conducted and allow for better record keeping and monitoring. We also for employees in positions of trust. Employees in positions are continuing to work with UNICEF and UNICEF Canada to where human rights risks may be most prevalent, such as develop a Child Rights and Security Checklist, to help improve security, also receive heightened vetting and due diligence. In the approach for us and others regarding children’s rights in addition, job applications and/or accepted employment letters the security context and think about how to better protect and agreements contain statements expressing our human vulnerable populations more generally. rights expectations. Element 4: Training And Advice Supplier screening and onboarding: Negative human rights We always try to be clear to our employees and contractors impacts can occur as a result of behavior from our suppliers about our human rights expectations and requirements. We and their subcontractors. Therefore, as with potential emstart by conveying our expectations even before a new employees, we educate potential suppliers on our human rights ployee joins the company. The pre-screening for prospective expectations before we enter a relationship with them. Before employees not only helps us hire the best candidates, but also contracting with a supplier, we require that the supplier abide makes clear the primacy we place on ethical colleagues. In by our Supplier Code of Ethics, which incorporates the 10 addition, employment letters and agreements contain statePrinciples of the UN Global Compact and key concepts of ments expressing our human rights expectations, again makBarrick’s Human Rights Policy and Policy with Respect to the ing clear that our human rights standards are unwavering. Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We Upon joining the company, all of our employees, regardless also include human rights considerations in our global Vendor of location or position, receive basic human rights training Onboarding Standard. This includes basic due diligence on all during their induction. More than 1,000 new employees direct suppliers related to human rights before contracting with received this training in 2016. Certain relevant employees, them, and it may include enhanced due diligence on suppliers including all security personnel, also receive focused in-person who may have elevated risks of negative human rights impacts human rights training pertaining to their areas. or who provide goods or services on-site. Putting it into practice Once Barrick agrees to do business with a supplier, Barrick’s On an annual basis, every employee with a computer receives Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Human Rights refresher training on human rights. Many other employees Policy applies to them in their work for us, just as it does to who do not have computers receive training through other our own employees. Our contracts with third parties typically means, such as DVDs. In addition, in 2014, the Office of the have provisions requiring suppliers to abide by key human General Counsel, created a Guidance for Employee Mapping, rights norms and Barrick policies, and we sometimes provide to help sites identify employees who may be more exposed to focused training to suppliers who have particular risks of certain human rights risks and who therefore should receive negative human rights impacts. Under our Human Rights enhanced, in-person human rights training on an annual Policy, suppliers are expected to report human rights issues of basis. Consistent with that guidance, approximately 5,000 which they become aware, and we may ask suppliers to periemployees received human rights training in some format in odically provide certifications that they are not aware of any 2016, including all security employees and contractors, and unreported human rights allegations in their work. To date, all Community Relations personnel. Our “train the trainer” some 6,000 suppliers have undergone baseline due diligence. model empowers country-level employees to implement Where appropriate, we investigate allegations involving existour training program and deliver relevant, accessible, and ing suppliers and engage with them in providing remediation effective human rights training. For certain functional areas, for negative human rights impacts. such as security and Community Relations, Barrick tracks We are continuing to look at ways to make our diligence prothe effectiveness of this training through internal assurance cess more efficient and effective. In 2017, we incorporated processes and other means. into our human rights assessments additional, more in-depth indicators related to trafficking. We are actively considering 100 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Finally, thousands of employees are required to sign annual vidual has committed past breaches, and whether the breach certifications stating that they are not aware of any potenwas intentional. tial unreported violations of our Human Rights Policy, and For third-party suppliers, discipline for committing human agreeing to report any they may learn of. This also serves as a rights violations, failing to report violations, and hindering inreminder of the importance of the program. vestigations may include termination of existing relationships, While our training program is comprehensive, we are thinking requests for focused training, and other measures. We also of ways to improve it. The training could be more engagare unequivocal in advising employees and third parties that, ing for employees and contractors, and we are considering where we conclude that they have committed or contributed different training approaches. In 2017, we also are going to serious human rights violations, we will cooperate with to emphasize our Harassment Standard, which was recently the police in prosecution efforts, and we may assist victims in introduced, along with the modern slavery segment. We also seeking redress directly against perpetrators. expect to emphasize our security training content related to Compliance Hotline children’s rights and those of other vulnerable populations. Barrick has internal global procedures that outline the Element 5: Disciplinary Action And Remedy mechanisms that employees and third parties can use to notify local and corporate management of potential human Despite our efforts, we know our policies and procedures will rights violations. These procedures also specify how alleged be breached. We think it is important to provide clear inforviolations are to be investigated. Employees and third parties mation to employees and third parties on the ramifications of are routinely encouraged to use Barrick’s Compliance Hotline breaching our Human Rights Policy, and other policies, as well to report any potential human rights violations they might as our approach to how remediation will be addressed. see or hear about. Details on the hotline are available on Putting it into practice Barrick’s website and intranet. Our Code of Business Conduct At Barrick, our message to employees is clear: violation of and Ethics emphasizes that employees and third parties who our Human Rights Policy and related procedures may lead to make reports in good faith will not be retaliated against, and discipline, up to and including termination. Those policies and we have an internal guidance document to assist supervisors procedures relate not only to avoiding human rights violaand other operational leaders in monitoring and responding tions, but also to reporting information about known human to potential retaliation against those who make reports. rights violations, and cooperating with investigators reviewing Grievance Mechanism & Remedy human rights allegations. Employees have been disciplined We recognize that our human rights compliance program and dismissed, and suppliers have been terminated, where inwill not prevent all negative impacts on rights holders, and dividuals have committed human rights violations, have failed we have policies and procedures so that every community in to report human rights violations, or have hindered investigawhich we operate has simple, accessible grievance mechations into potential human rights violations. nisms to provide feedback and request remediation for legitThe potential disciplinary measures for employees range from imate concerns. Grievance channels vary by site, and include individual counseling, to focused training, to oral or written message boxes, telephone hotlines, town hall meetings, warnings, to financial penalties, to termination in cases of supervisors (for employees), and direct contact with Barrick serious breaches. In assessing the appropriate disciplinary employees. Our annual human rights assessments include a measures, numerous factors are considered, including: the review of how effectively the grievance mechanisms escalate significance of the procedural breach (and thus of the human potential human rights concerns. Our grievance mechanisms rights violation), whether the individual received prior training are also internally audited for implementation and effecin the area, the length of time the individual has served in tiveness during regular audits of our Community Relations the position, whether the individual was on or off duty, local Management System (CRMS), and externally assessed against law, the level of cooperation with investigators, showings of the UNGPs effectiveness criteria. remorse and individual remediation efforts, whether the indi2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 101 When we identify negative human rights impacts that we We believe there are ways we can continue to improve our cause, contribute to, or are directly linked to, we strive to approach to disciplinary actions and remedies. One way is to take a culturally appropriate and thoughtful approach to help make more transparent our consideration of factors that remediation and communication, and we seek to avoid may increase or decrease the severity of discipline; we hope obstructing access to other remedies in a manner consistent our enhanced Code of Business Conduct and Ethics will help in with the UNGPs. For instance, in the course of implementing that respect. We can work to make the operational grievance the Porgera Remedy Framework, there was extensive debate mechanisms at all of our sites more accessible and attentive to over when and whether a company, in providing a remedy to youths and children and their representatives. We also see room someone under a grievance mechanism, can request that the for improvement in our approach to influencing the grievance person forgo future claims against the company for the same mechanisms at sites we do not operate but where we own a harms. Barrick welcomed this debate and sought the advice significant interest, and are considering different strategies. of a range of actors, including Professor Ruggie, the Office Element 6: Monitoring And Reporting of the High Commissioner on Human Rights, leading human rights attorneys, and prominent human rights consultants An important part of our program is persistent monitoring of and advisors. These experts helped shape Barrick’s approach our activities, particularly around our salient risks (discussed and confirmed that it was consistent with international stanbelow). In addition, while we strive to be transparent with dards. our external stakeholders, we often must balance competing risks associated with disclosures, including legal risks, potenWe are sensitive to the importance of collaborative staketial harm to stakeholders, and confidentiality needs. The UN holder and victim input in the development of appropriate Guiding Principles themselves acknowledge that tension. remedy, and the potential need for independence in circumstances where remediation may be appropriate. For serious Putting it into practice negative human rights impacts, we have developed corpoOur monitoring activities take different forms. For instance, rate guidelines regarding the internal personnel involved in we engage in a variety of local programs related to water assessing how remediation of negative human rights impacts monitoring and environmental impacts. Our audits and will be handled. assessments also help assess the status of our programs and their impacts. Local communities, employees and third parties In assessing when remediation may be appropriate and the also perform important monitoring of our activities, and can nature of the remediation to be provided, we are particularly provide feedback through active engagement, our grievsensitive to the importance of victim participation, stakeholdance mechanisms and hotline. And of course, our Board of er input, as well as the potential need for independence from Directors, including our Corporate Responsibility Committee the operational unit that may be involved in the negative imof the Board, provides important monitoring of our activities. pact. While remedies for negative human rights impacts will naturally differ depending on the circumstances, in-kind reWe also try to be transparent in the reporting of our program mediation is often preferred to cash, and sites have adopted and performance. Consistent with the UNGPs, we publicize guidelines that consider such factors, including: the degree our human rights commitments to local communities and and nature of the harm suffered, whether mine personnel other stakeholders. This includes through consultations with were involved and on duty, whether third-party perpetrators our Community Relations personnel, who are best positioned used mine resources or committed an act related to their conto provide such information in a culturally appropriate way tracted duties, the nature of the evidence in support of the to potentially affected stakeholders in communities near our claim, the individual’s age and personal circumstances, and operations. As part of the VPs, we also engage with and local laws. Where negative human rights impacts are caused consult local communities about security arrangements and or contributed to by entities in our value chain, we try to use our expectations around human rights. With those potentially leverage to have them provided with appropriate remedy and affected, we strive to discuss candidly our systems and prodesign processes to prevent recurrence. cesses for mitigating negative human rights impacts that 102 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index we may cause or contribute to. We are open in our approach Responsibility Committee of the Board is briefed on a quarterly when negative impacts are caused by our suppliers, conbasis. The program is also frequently discussed through other tractors or other third parties. And we try to report formally avenues of communication, and elements are incorporated into when there are severe human rights impacts or risks of such compensation metrics. When incidents occur or human rights– impacts. We have also directly contacted and engaged with related allegations are made, an escalation procedure requires key external stakeholders about human rights incidents, progimmediate reporting to the Office of the General Counsel. ress in remediation efforts, and the relative effectiveness of Looking forward, among the six key elements of the human our systems and processes. rights compliance program, we believe our monitoring and Much of our global external reporting occurs on our website, reporting is perhaps the area where the most work can be which we update to reflect new information or events, or done. We are considering, such as through our Human Rights through our annual Sustainability Report. Additional reportReport, ways to improve our reporting on the elements of ing is done at conferences, roundtables and workshops. our program, where it can be improved and how it can grow. Reporting also takes place through initiatives or groups We also know we can be more effective in how we quantify in which we participate such as the annual reports to the and report on the effectiveness and impacts of our programs. VPs and to the International Council on Mining and Metals To increase visibility into our operations in real time, we have (ICMM). For the latter, an external letter of assurance related established cameras available to the public at some of our to our systems and processes is submitted each year and sites; through technology and digitization, we are identifying referenced in our Sustainability Report. Other avenues of other ways to increase that level of transparency. transparency may occur with our increasing number of partSalient Human Rights Risks nerships with civil society organizations. A report by UNICEF on a pilot project regarding human rights due diligence at our As an extractive company with global operations, we know Lagunas Norte mine in Peru is one example, available here. there are many ways our activities may directly or indirectly, Furthermore, for the historical sexual assaults at the Porgera and positively or negatively, impact human rights. Our human mine, which Barrick previously operated, we supported the rights program, and our engagement with internal and exterpublication of an expert independent assessment of the nal experts and stakeholders, provides many of the importformal remedy program that was instituted. That report is ant inputs and processes to help us identify these potential available here. Other recent examples include: impacts. In identifying our salient risks, we undertook three sets of activities: • Distributing booklets regarding human rights to local community members and government entities; 1. Analyzing the past results of our internal processes. These include results from third-party human rights as• Conducting community surveys on the prevalence of sessments, internal and external audits and assessments, violence to gain feedback on how to improve security hotline reports and investigations, grievances and our arrangements; enterprise risk management process. • Engaging public officials and community authorities on 2. Analyzing sectoral risks and the risks in the countries how to promote respect for law and order, reduce conflict, and communities where we operate. Our participation in and enhance and strengthen justice service delivery; and multi-stakeholder initiatives like the Voluntary Principles, • Providing education on the impacts of land purchase and in cross-sector working groups like BSR’s Human Rights sales. Working Group, and in industry associations like the Mining Association of Canada and the International In addition to this public reporting, there are several importCouncil on Mining and Metals (ICMM) are important ant internal reporting channels. As noted above, our human sources of information. These and other forums help rights program is discussed on a monthly basis with all globbroaden our understanding of where the risk of adverse al leaders in our BPRs and reported weekly by our sites in human rights impacts is most significant for mining their license-to-operate-report. In addition, the Corporate companies. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 103 3. Formal and informal consultation with external experts a partnership with the Danish Institute for Human Rights, and civil society organizations, and ongoing engagement from which we received detailed assessments of applicable with internal and external stakeholders, at our mine country-level laws and the extent to which those laws are sites, in our host countries and communities, at the implemented, which has further informed our assessment corporate level, and through workshops and meetings as approach. well as one-on-one conversations. The Methodology Used As a result of that analysis, we have identified six key areas The third-party assessments of Barrick-operated properties that may pose risks to rights-holders: use an assessment tool that covers all potentially relevant human rights and hundreds of individual indicators. The tool • Security focuses on seven categories where extractive companies • Water management commonly face the prospect of causing, contributing to or being linked to negative human rights impacts: (1) labor and • Safety and health working conditions; (2) indigenous peoples; (3) economic, • Non-discrimination social and cultural rights; (4) environment and health and safety; (5) land rights; (6) security; and (7) anti-corruption. • Working conditions Issues related to supply chain, third parties, and vulnerable • Resettlement. peoples also are embedded throughout these seven categories. Each of the categories includes several sub-categories, Human Rights Assessments composed of multiple individual indicators, which feed into A cornerstone of our human rights program is a standa three-part question for the sub-category. These questions alone, independent human rights assessment program for are: does management have a procedure to address the Barrick-operated properties. Started in 2011, the program has risk? What actions demonstrate that the procedure has been assessed all highand medium-risk sites operated by Barrick followed? Do stakeholders believe the company is respecting at least once and the highest-risk operations more than once. the human right at issue? The assessments are conducted by Avanzar, a highly respectAvanzar’s methodology consists of documentary and desktop ed independent consulting organization that focuses on hureviews to identify areas of greatest risk and concern at a man rights–related assessments. Avanzar assesses the actual, country and site level (including consideration of geographic, potential, and perceived human rights risks and impacts at social and economic-related risks); determining the assessevery high-risk Barrick operation and advanced project. In ment scope for each site; semi-structured interviews with 2015, an assessment was conducted at the Pueblo Viejo mine Barrick employees (on-site and by phone); semi-structured in the Dominican Republic. In 2016, impact assessments were interviews with key external stakeholders (on-site and by conducted at the Lagunas Norte and Pierina mines in Peru phone); and draft report preparation for the Office of the and the Lumwana mine in Zambia. General Counsel (OGC). The process includes substantial Fund for Peace, a well-regarded NGO that works to prevent internal and external stakeholder engagement to gather conflict and human rights abuses, has served as an external information regarding perceived human rights impacts and and independent advisor to the company in this project. Their to verify human rights risks and impacts identified. Avanzar’s role has included reviewing and editing the assessment tool engagement methodology applies recognized qualitative reused by Avanzar, providing guidance on the assessment plan, search methods, including interviews, focus groups, and obreviewing the reports, and discussing follow-up priorities. servation, to capture stakeholder concerns and issues related Professor John Ruggie, former UN Secretary General Special to Barrick’s operations. Key providers of information include Representative for Business and Human Rights, may also specific external rights-holders whose rights may be impacted provide advice and guidance on discrete issues associated by the mine, such as nearby communities, individuals who with the assessments. Finally, several years ago, we developed 104 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index have been resettled, employees of mine contractors, and at mine sites. However, consistent with our holistic approach, individuals who have lodged grievances with human rights we try to create synergies with other assessments that relate implications. to human rights to help enhance our ability to accurately identify our human rights impacts and risks. Our compliance Drafting the Report and Integration of Findings with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, After information is gathered and assessed against the tool, for instance, is assessed regularly through multiple internal Avanzar provides a draft report to the OGC, incorporating and external review channels, with the outcomes considered and following our enterprise risk management matrix. The by the company and Avanzar. Internal assurance work for OGC shares a draft report with the external independent functional areas whose activities present salient human rights reviewer, and then with local management and relevant risks, including Community Relations, Safety and Health, and functional unit employees who may be involved in managing Environment, also occur regularly. salient issues. Those comments are reviewed and integrated, and the OGC issues a final report and proposed action 2015 & 2016 Assessments plan. This plan is then reviewed, adjusted and adopted by In 2015, Avanzar conducted a human rights assessment at local management and other relevant personnel who may the Pueblo Viejo mine, in the Dominican Republic (a highbe involved in managing the pertinent issues. Once finalized, risk site). As in prior years, the assessment was conducted the process calls for action plan items to be included in a simultaneously with – and to some extent in conjunction with data system that automatically follows up with the assigned – internal Community, Health and Safety, Environment, and personnel to create accountability for executing the plan. Security audits, which were conducted by auditors from the Presentations on the reviews and follow-up are reported on a corporate office. The assessment identified several areas of monthly basis during BPR sessions with senior company leadpotential negative human rights impacts, including in relation ers, and quarterly to the Corporate Responsibility Committee to monitoring contractor working conditions and their comof the Board of Directors. Avanzar also assesses whether pliance with domestic labor laws and international standards, issues identified in prior assessments have been effectively gaps in noise monitoring by the site, impacts on a local river, remediated. Where issues are not effectively remediated, we and sexual harassment. The assessment also identified steps have learned, the causes can be lack of adequately dedicated the site has been taking to address, mitigate and prevent resources, lack of training or understanding, or simply a lack these and previously identified risks, which include: of prioritization. • Due diligence, including human rights–related due The findings, along with other perceived risks of negative diligence, on new and renewing vendors, and self-certifiimpacts, are incorporated into our overall assessment of encation of Barrick’s Supplier Code of Ethics; terprise risks under our enterprise risk management system, • Investigations and audits of contractors where comwhich is presented to and overseen by the Risk Committee plaints are lodged (including complaints by contractor of the Board of Directors. Responses to issues and conemployees); cerns identified by local external stakeholders are generally addressed by Community Relations personnel, management, • Dismissing contractors who fail to comply with our poliand others at each individual site. To the extent tensions arise cies or the law; between mitigating impacts and other business objectives, • A risk assessment in the supply chain; those tensions may be resolved through dialogue at the Board Committee level, during the BPRs, or in discussions • Environmental monitoring, along with policies, procebetween the OGC and relevant business units. dures and a management system that includes audits and assessments; and This assessment approach is distinguished from one-time “stand-alone” assessments, such as predictive assessments • Enhanced human resources policies, procedures and conducted during the feasibility and pre-feasibility stages of a training related to sexual harassment and discrimination project, and functional unit management system assessments more generally. designed to measure compliance with policies and procedures 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 105 In 2016, Avanzar conducted human rights assessments at the trespassers. The assessment identified several improvePierina and Lagunas Norte mines in Peru and the Lumwana ments at Lumwana, including: workshops on harassment mine in Zambia. As in Pueblo Viejo, these assessments also and discrimination for all managers and supervisors, were conducted, to a large extent, simultaneously and in resulting in a reduction in perceived workplace discrimconjunction with audits related to relevant functional units. ination by supervisors; most job descriptions including The assessments identified a number of risk areas and actual “community engagement and ensuring a positive impact or potential negative human rights impacts, including some on local communities”; and an effective local employrepeat findings from prior assessments. These included: ment program, with a Local Employment Register that the site and all its contractors must use, that tracks all • for Lagunas Norte: potential indirect contributions local hires by the company and its contractors. to promoting unsafe working and living conditions, as well as child labor, through donations for local commuIn addition, assessment findings from past years (some of nity purchasing of coal; and negatively impacting the which relate to sites Barrick no longer operates) have includpopulation of trout in a river used by a local community. ed concerns around use of force by security personnel, variThe Lagunas assessment also noted that a variety of prior ous issues related to contractors and suppliers (including their identified risks and impacts had in fact been mitigated or lack of awareness of site grievance mechanisms and their corrected, including in relation to allegations of discrimirespect for the rights of workers to form unions), unequal nation by contractors and employees, purchases of land treatment between nationals and expatriates, and industrial from local landowners, and the removal of squatters hygiene programs. Overall, for the sites Barrick presently from company land. operates, the negative risks and impacts identified in 2016 and prior years do not seem to indicate broader policy or pro• for Pierina: potential impacts on rights to information cedural weaknesses, but rather help identify our salient risks about water quality based on reporting, and needs and the challenges associated with them, along with discrete around water quality management more generally, along implementation issues and issues arising from in-migration at with a potential risk to one community around long-term several locations. access to water quantity. The assessment identified several positive contributions at Pierina, including programs Past assessments have also identified examples of good to respect workers’ rights during workforce reductions, practice and improvements in areas related to Barrick’s salient and a contractor management program to help prevent risks, including in relation to resettlement and consultations, infringement on labor rights of contract employees. training and vetting of security personnel, participatory water monitoring initiatives, and working with governments to • for Lumwana: inadequate monitoring of working conincrease access to potable water. ditions and potential adverse impacts on worker rights by contractors (a repeat finding that was uncorrected); Other previously identified steps that Barrick has undertaken personal questions being asked during job interviews to address noted risks are extensive. Examples include: that could lead to potential discrimination allegations, • Automating corrective action plans so that appropriate and some contractors asking prospective and current personnel receive timely notifications if the action plans employees for medical tests for pregnancy and sexually are delayed; transmitted infections; some employees and contractors claiming they could not refuse overtime, creating risks • Strengthening the supplier due diligence programs and of forced overtime issues; project-induced migration in onboarding process; nearby communities impacting access to basic services, • Enhancing awareness and trust in the implementation of including education, water and sanitation systems; site grievance mechanisms; potential impacts on loss of access to forests and destruction of an archaeological site; allegations of private • Providing human rights training for grievance officers; security using excessive force during apprehension of • Conducting certain health impact assessments; 106 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index • Continuing a partnership with the White Ribbon • Improving the training of security guards in ways that Campaign to address gender-based violence at our include steppedup use of scenarios; mine sites; • Strengthening the culture of whistle blowing, transpar• Providing third-party training for public security forces; ency and responsibility; and • Working with international partners to help strengthen • Improving the approach of the Community, Health, the judicial system; Environment, Safety, Security (CHESS) assurance work related to health and safety. • Increasing the use of alternative screening methods during employment onboarding; 412-1 Operations that have been subject Human Rights ICMM UNGC to human rights reviews or impact Assessments assessments 1 2 3 10 In 2016, as part of our global human rights compliance program, Avanzar, an independent consulting organization, conducted human rights assessments at three mine sites: the Pierina and Lagunas Norte mines in Peru, and the Lumwana mine in Zambia. In addition, in 2016, all of our sites underwent internal and external audits that bear some relation to human rights considerations. 412-2 Employee training on human rights Element 4: ICMM UNGC policies or procedures Training and Advice 1 2 3 10 Upon joining the company, all of our employees, regardless of location or position, receive basic human rights training during their induction. More than 1,000 new employees received this training in 2016. Certain relevant employees, including all security personnel, also receive focused in-person human rights training pertaining to their areas. On an annual basis, every employee with a computer receives refresher training on human rights. Approximately 5,000 employees received human rights training in some format in 2016, including all security employees and contractors, and all Community Relations personnel. Finally, thousands of employees are required to sign annual certifications stating that they are not aware of any potential unreported violations of our Human Rights Policy, and agreeing to report any they may learn of. This also serves as a reminder of the importance of the program. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 107 GRI Local 413 Communities 413 Management Approach Community Relations; ICMM UNGC Community Engagement; 1 Grievance Mechanisms; Environmental & Social Impact Assessments; Community Safety Barrick’s operations can lead to both positive and negative »» For example, the September 2016 incident at impacts on the people and communities near our mines. Veladero renewed strained relations with the community of Jachal. In response, the site has worked to A mine can bring increased economic activity, create local strengthen the engagement and social investment jobs, develop much-needed infrastructure, and provide tax strategy. The company is also working to optimize revenue that helps support local governments in delivering local employment and procurement opportunities in services. Mining can also contribute to social change, use the communities of Jachal and Iglesia near Veladero. scarce resources and contribute to an unsustainable influx of people into a community. At Barrick, we know that our ability »» Another incident, near the Pascua-Lama project, to operate depends on our relationship with host commusaw environmental groups in Alto del Carmen print nities and governments. As such, effectively engaging with material alleging the company discharged contamlocal communities is as important to us as any other part of inated water following an avalanche that affected the business and is vital to the success and sustainability of the project’s water management system. The project our business. team conducted an intensive engagement campaign with local governments, communities and the meOur Approach dia to clarify that the water was not contaminated. At Barrick, we believe strong relationships with communities The site has since expanded its site-visit program are about getting the simple things right: managing our imand launched online water monitoring so that pacts (such as dust, noise and traffic), doing what we say we everyone has access to information on the quality of will, resolving grievances, and buying and hiring locally. water downstream of the project site. This approach is driven by a Community Relations Policy, • In 2016, Barrick revised the Community Relations which is supported by a Community Relations Standard along Standard so that it is aligned with the decentralized comwith procedures, guidelines, toolkits and comprehensive pany structure. The revised Standard shifted the focus audits. Together, these form Barrick’s Community Relations from systems and processes to helping sites assess their Management System (CRMS). The CRMS creates explicit outcomes and effectiveness. performance requirements for community relations at Barrick • A License-to-Operate (LTO) Scorecard has been launched projects and operations. It helps our sites get the simple – as a first step in developing “Best-in-Class” practices in and important – things right and live up to our commitment the LTO group. The Scorecard measures the ability of of creating long-term mutual benefit in the communities sites to operate within their external context, provides where we operate. early warning signals of potential risks and whether Our Progress key risks are being adequately managed. Through this tool, sites will be able to quantitatively demonstrate • While we had no severe community incidents in 2016, how building community support directly contributes to we did experience minor social incidents, including proBarrick’s business objectives. tests and NGO campaigns near a number of our sites. 108 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index • The company completed community relations audits and Metals (ICMM), an independent, third-party consultant at three sites (Lumwana, Lagunas Norte and Pierina) in completes site-level stakeholder interviews in at least two 2016. A common theme across the audits was the imporof the countries where we operate. Site-level stakeholders tance of long-term strategic planning and the challenges include community members, local landowners, local business around increasing the amount of local content at sites. people, Indigenous Peoples, local government officials, and women’s groups. Results of these stakeholder interviews, Priorities In 2017 along with a detailed assurance report and recommendations, • Zero severe incidents involving local communities at the are reviewed at a senior level within the company each year. sites Barrick operates. Barrick’s Community Relations Management System (CRMS) • Revise the Community Relations audit protocol to align helps sites build and sustain strong relationships by providing with the revised Community Relations Standard. Six the guidance and tools on engagement best practices, idenaudits focusing on site effectiveness and outcomes will tifying the key outcomes we seek to achieve and measuring be undertaken in 2017. the effectiveness of our engagement activities. • Update the CR Strategy in line with the new These best practices include: Sustainability Vision. • Mapping stakeholders and assessing their priorities and • As part of the rollout of the LTO Scorecard, conduct at least concerns; two stakeholder perception surveys at 90% of our sites. • Establishing a culturally appropriate way for people to Community Engagement communicate directly to the company; Effectively engaging with local communities is as important to • Developing two-way dialogue in order to build trust; us as any other part of the business. • Providing methods for stakeholders to raise concerns and Open, honest and respectful communication is essential to grievances; and developing long-term, mutually beneficial partnerships. Local • Documenting engagement activities for internal and communities expect and deserve the opportunity to have a external audiences. voice in decisions that affect them. This means having access to information about the operations, including their social, As community engagement is a dynamic process, the CRMS economic and environmental impacts, and access to compais designed to enable sites to adjust their approach as local ny officials who will listen and act on community concerns. relationships change and evolve over the life of the mine. By showing respect to local stakeholders, we can facilitate Assurance and verification are important parts of our appermitting and approvals, promote a more stable operating proach, providing sites with feedback and opportunities for environment and form lasting partnerships. improvement. Our community partners expect and deserve the opportunity Embedding community engagement within a corporate manto have a voice in decisions that affect them. This means proagement system gives us confidence that we are doing our viding accessible information about our operations, including best to work with communities in a consistent, comprehensocial, economic and environmental impacts, as well as prosive and transparent manner everywhere we operate. viding access to company officials who will listen and act on Stakeholder Engagement Plans community concerns. Showing respect to local stakeholders Comprehensive stakeholder engagement throughout the life is essential in developing long-term and trust-based relationof our mines is the cornerstone to establishing and maintaining ships, which in turn can facilitate permitting and approvals long-term community support for the company’s operations. and promote a more stable operating environment. To help create a consistent approach across all our mine sites, Each year, as part of the annual assurance process associated Barrick’s CRMS requires all sites to develop and implement with our membership in the International Council on Mining stakeholder engagement plans. These plans must, at a 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 109 minimum, be based on stakeholder identification, mapping ances. The grievance mechanisms must be accessible to a and analysis; include a clear engagement action plan outwide range of stakeholders, including women and vulnerable lining engagement approach and frequency; and track and people, and be culturally appropriate. document all engagement activities. Since 2012, all our sites have had operating grievance mechaOur CR teams are especially aware that engagement must be nisms. We are now focused on strengthening and improving culturally appropriate and involve the whole community. For the effectiveness of these grievance mechanisms. example, most of our sites explicitly document the proportion 2016 Grievances of women and men attending community meetings or visitIn general, the types and number of grievances vary significanting the offices. Based on these statistics, specific engagement ly between sites. At the majority of our sites, grievances are programs for women may be developed. primarily related to contractor behavior and demands for local As a company, Barrick expects all stakeholders to be conemployment, local procurement, and contracting opportunities. sulted and informed, in a timely manner, about site activities In 2016, our sites received 207 grievances and resolved 216 throughout the life of a mine. For example, communities grievances, including cases carried over from 2015. At the must be informed of potential social impacts of a change in end of 2016, 22 grievances remained outstanding. the mine plan, as well as our plans to mitigate them. Sites must also have processes in place to facilitate stakeholder The success of a grievance mechanism – or of a site’s relations participation in the decisions or matters that affect them. with local communities – should not be measured by the number of grievances received. A lack of complaints may Exploration & Community Engagement indicate a mechanism or company that is not trusted or Respectful engagement is critical at all stages of a mine’s opdeemed approachable by local stakeholders. Conversely, large eration, particularly in the initial exploration phase. Not only numbers of grievances can indicate open lines of communicadoes it help us receive a license to explore, it also establishes tion and robust community engagement activities. a positive relationship with the local community if mine development occurs. To this end, we have created guidance for However, by tracking the number and type of grievances, we community engagement tailored specifically for our exploraare able to identify issues that are important to communities tion teams. Our Exploration Community Relations Guidebook before they become social risks. For example, one of our sites provides the exploration teams with the tools and knowledge in Peru identified an increase in the number of contractor-rethey need to engage with communities in a professional and lated grievances. This allowed the site to take immediate transparent manner. actions to address the problems. This included engaging with the main contractor to have them hire a supervisor to address Grievance Management the social issues at their company and with their subconWe know that our activities have the potential to cause imtractors, and commencing regular coordination meetings pacts on our community partners. between supply chain, community relations and contractors to review any emerging community issues. An effective grievance mechanism allows local communities to communicate their concerns and issues directly to Barrick Similarly, in the past the company has seen a general increase so that they may be resolved. This allows our sites to take in the number of grievances related to local employment and early action to resolve any issues before they grow into a procurement across many sites. Each site was able to use serious social incident. this information to re-examine their programs and processes. As a company, this provided clear evidence for the need to Barrick has mandatory requirements related to the implemenre-think how we manage these programs. Ultimately, it led tation and management of grievance mechanisms. to the development of a local content framework to better All sites must have a mechanism approved by the Executive support sites’ use of local labor, goods and services. Director and General Manager for receiving, documenting, tracking, reporting and responding to complaints and griev110 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Grievances Received and Closed – 2016 Type Grievances Carried New Grievances Grievances Closed in Outstanding over into 2016 Received in 2016 2016* Grievances at end of 2016 Total 31 207 216 22 Land 3 8 7 3 Property Damage 8 16 18 7 Noise/Light/Vibrations 2 3 4 1 Resettlement 0 0 0 0 Local Procurement 0 13 13 0 Local Employment 1 25 26 0 Contractor Issues 9 104 109 4 Water 4 14 13 5 Dust/Emissions 0 4 4 0 Other 4 20 22 2 *including any historical grievances from previous years. Community Investments the Mining Ministry on a program to develop potato and onion growing in the communities of Jachal and Iglesia. Community development programs undertaken in collaboraBarrick is supporting local producers in accessing training tion with – and reflecting the interests of – host communities, and seeds, while Aramark has committed to purchase governments, civil society, suppliers and others can help the produce the farmers grow. mitigate social risk, improve our ability to sustain a license to operate, and generate long-term, sustainable value. • In the Dominican Republic, Barrick is partnering with INFOTEP, a government agency, to develop vocational Barrick’s community development programs are designed and technical courses designed to strengthen the skills of to fulfil social obligations, mitigate social impacts and social local communities. In 2016, this initiative saw more than risks, and support community priorities. Our community 800 people from 14 local communities graduate from 36 development activities are also planned with closure in mind. different types of training programs. The company spent almost $22 million on community investments in 2016. Barrick invested nearly $8 million in education • In Chile, near the Cerro Casale project, Barrick is partin 2016, including providing nearly 1,500 scholarships. nering with the Prodemu Foundation to implement a program to address skills gaps and improve employment We take a partnership approach to our community investamong women in the local communities. The President ments, which relies on knowing what matters to our partners of Chile created Prodemu to promote and develop the – including communities, governments, NGOs and others – skills of Chilean women. To date, the partnership has and reflecting those interests in our programs, partnerships, supported 40 women from the town of Copiapo and and initiatives. This means clearly defining roles, responsibilthe community of Tierra Amarilla. To date, approximateities and resources, and spelling these out in Memoranda of ly two-thirds of the women who participated in the Understandings (MoUs). Below are several examples of recent program have reported improved livelihoods and a better partnerships: quality of life as a result of a better job or more success • Veladero has developed a number of economic develas an entrepreneur. opment programs, in partnership with local agricultural • As the Pierina mine closes, the site continues to work organizations, to help diversify the local economy and closely with local suppliers to further enhance their skills. support agriculture. Most recently, the company is partAs part of this program, 84% of leaders from 19 local nering with Aramark (a food services contractor), local companies have been trained in production, finance, and municipalities, the San Juan Provincial Government, and 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 111 • sales. Moreover, all 19 local companies that the mine All Barrick projects and operations complete Environmental works with have been trained in marketing, commercial Impact Assessments or Environmental and Social Impact communications, tenders, and commercial tools. Assessments, prior to either developing a project or making any significant change to an existing mining operation. • In 2016, Barrick worked with the Western Shoshone Cultural Advisory Group and Tribal Councils to develop Impact Assessments a plan for a Western Shoshone Cultural Center in Elko Depending on the requirements of regulatory authorities and on the property of the Elko Band of the Te-Moak Tribe. the scope of proposed activities at an operation or a developAgreement on this plan was reached with all eight ment project, a variety of different assessment documents may Western Shoshone partner communities and a Board of be used to assess potential impacts before the activity is underTrustees is now being formed. When this center is comtaken. These can include an Environmental Impact Assessment plete, Barrick will be able to repatriate cultural artifacts (EIA), Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), Environmental from its private land to this facility – a priority for our Assessment (EA) or Social Impact Assessment (SIA). Western Shoshone partners. EIAs, EISs, and EAs are detailed studies used to identify the • The Lumwana mine in Zambia entered into a partnerpotential environmental impacts of a project or an expansion ship with Musika, an NGO, to fund a project under the to an operation. They describe how project or expansion Nsabo Yetu Women Empowerment program. Under the activities will interact with the local environment and present partnership, Musika will provide 51% of the funding the proposed actions for managing these impacts to decirequired to develop a packaging and grading center for sion-makers and the public. Mangala beans; Barrick will provide the remaining 49%. Leaving a positive and sustainable legacy also requires a Mangala beans are an important crop grown by women strong understanding of the social and economic relationin the area and this center, will expand their ability to ships between the mine and the surrounding communities. generate income and reduce the women’s economic We therefore undertake SIAs early in a mine development vulnerability. process to assess the potential social impacts. We take the Environmental and Social Impact Assessments findings from these assessments into account during mine planning, operations and closure. Building a new mine or significantly expanding an existing mine is an increasingly complex undertaking, due to more At Barrick, many EIAs, EISs, EAs, and SIAs are completed stringent regulations and a more inclusive and transparent as combined Environmental & Social Impact Assessments process, involving significantly more stakeholders. (ESIAs) to concurrently identify potential environmental and social impacts and provide in-depth analysis on managing We welcome this, as it can help lead to broader and more both the intended and unintended environmental and social sustained support for our operations. Before building a new consequences of our projects. The ESIA process includes mine or significantly expanding an existing mine, Barrick consultation with community stakeholders, local businesses undertakes detailed impact studies and consults extensively and non-government organizations (NGOs), and gathering with communities through environmental and social impact baseline information – both quantitative, such as community assessments. The process can take years, but it is essential for demographics, employment, wildlife counts and soil analysis, us to build a foundation for good local dialogue and commuand qualitative, such as host government and community nication. perceptions of the project and the company. The scope of an Knowing and managing our impacts is vital to the success ESIA includes ancillary facilities as well, so the environment and sustainability of our operations. It helps us take steps to and communities located on transport routes or near power prevent or reduce negative impacts in the first place, while plants, for example, are also included. finding ways to take better advantage of opportunities, both during the mine’s operations and after it closes. 112 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index The ESIAs may address the following resources for potential that may affect the safety of surrounding communities, impact: including increased traffic. Safety is part of Barrick’s culture, and we are committed to reducing these impacts and ensur• Air quality, water quality, wildlife, and local vegetation, ing the safety and security of local community members and including threatened, or endangered species; our employees. • Ecosystem services upon which stakeholders’ livelihoods Where there are significant potential risks to the safety of are dependent; host communities, Barrick requires all sites to collaborate • Community exposure to water-related, vector-borne and with these communities in developing a community safety communicable diseases that could result from site activiprogram. ties or the influx of temporary or permanent labor; and A community safety program identifies the activities required • Individuals and groups that may be directly or disproporto mitigate all significant potential safety risks, including, at a tionately affected by the site because of disadvantage or minimum, those related to road safety, access to emergency vulnerability. response and preparedness, and hazardous material transport. These programs are developed and implemented collabThe ESIA must include an environmental management plan oratively with local external stakeholders, including the local that incorporates monitoring, compliance, enforcement, and community. In addition, obligations for community safety are environmental verification programs. often included in permitting and regulatory requirements. The ESIA process is supported by Barrick’s Community Safety Programs Relations Standard, which requires all sites to develop mitiThe company has developed guidance materials that help gation plans to address all significant social impacts and to sites and communities identify and manage together local review these on an annual basis so that we are addressing safety risks, through the development of a community safety changing and emerging impacts on host communities. management plan. We have implemented these guidance Community Safety materials at sites where community safety has been identified as a high risk, such as Pueblo Viejo (in the Dominican Although many of Barrick’s mining operations are located Republic), Lumwana (in Zambia), and Veladero (in Argentina). in uninhabited areas, other operations are on or near lands already occupied or used by other people. At our Lumwana mine, where traffic has been identified as a particular concern by the community, we have developed a While our presence near these communities can have many program with local stakeholders to provide road safety and positive impacts, including jobs, economic activity, training traffic awareness classes for community members. and improved infrastructure, it can also carry adverse impacts MM6 Number and description of significant Community Relations ICMM UNGC disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and 2 3 4 9 indigenous peoples We had no severe community incidents in 2016. MM7 The extent to which grievance Grievance ICMM UNGC mechanisms were used to resolved Management disputes relating to land use, customary 2 3 4 9 rights of local communities and indigenous peoples, and the outcomes Not applicable. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 113 413-1 Operations with local community Community ICMM UNGC engagement, impact assessments, and Engagement; development programs Environmental and 2 3 4 9 Social Impact Assessments; Grievance Management 100% of sites. 413-2 Operations with significant actual and Community Relations ICMM UNGC potential negative impacts on local communities 2 3 4 9 100% of sites. 114 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI Public 415 Policy 415 Management Approach Government Affairs ICMM UNGC 1 10 Successful mining relies on a partnership with host governDialogue With Government ments to extract their resources, creating benefits for the In 2016, our public policy activities focused on working with countries and communities in which we operate and for our our industry associations so that Barrick’s position on importshareholders. ant issues was represented. All lobbying activities are compliFrom exploration to construction, operation, and closure, our ant with regulations and reported to authorities as required. activities are significantly impacted by the political and reguKey areas of activity included: latory environments of our host countries. We recognize that our mines can play a significant role – economically, socially • Engaging with new administrations in our countries of and politically – in the jurisdictions where we operate. operation, including Canada (October 2015), Argentina (November 2015), the Dominican Republic (May 2016), Our Approach Peru (June 2016), Zambia (August 2016), and the United We take a partnership approach with all our stakeholders, States (November 2016). including with our home and host governments. This means we work to align our interests and priorities with those of our • Barrick, in partnership with industry, engaged extensively with the government of Zambia on amendments to government partners to provide real and sustained value from the Mineral Royalty Tax. The changes adjusted the rate our operations. to a sliding scale based on the price of copper, from Barrick’s executive directors, their teams in-country, and the 4% when copper is below $2.04/lb to 6% when above head office government affairs team work to build construc$2.72/lb. tive relationships and regularly engage with regulators, public-policy makers and non-governmental organizations, either • Barrick worked closely with Chilean authorities and local communities to receive approval for partial amendment on a face-to-face basis or through our industry associations. of Pascua-Lama’s environmental permit to better reflect Through an open and transparent approach, we build the water quality baseline from 2009. enduring, mutually beneficial relationships that will lead to sustained value and stability in the long term. Part of this • Following the September 8, 2016, incident at Veladero, Barrick engaged extensively with national, provincial approach includes collaborating with civil society and develand local governments in Argentina after the temporary oping responsible mining standards and guidelines for our suspension of operations at the Veladero mine was orindustry. For example, Barrick joined with our industry peers, dered by the Provincial mining authority and a San Juan NGOs and the Canadian government to advocate for and Provincial court on September 15, 2016, and September develop comprehensive legislation governing transparency in 22, 2016, respectively. On October 4, 2016, following, payments to governments. among other matters, the completion of certain urgent Political Contributions works required by the Provincial mining authority and a judicial inspection of the mine, the San Juan Provincial In general, we do not contribute funding for politicians or court lifted the suspension of operations and ordered political parties, except on a limited basis as allowed by law that mining activities be resumed. Engagement with the and Barrick’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our government has remained ongoing following the subseAnti-Corruption Program. quent March 2017 incident. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 115 415-1 Political Contributions Government Affairs ICMM UNGC 1 10 In 2016, Barrick made a total of $226,000 in political contributions in the United States and $32,200 in political contributions in Canada, all in the province of Ontario. 116 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GRI Socio Economic 419 Compliance 419 Management Approach Responsible Mining ICMM UNGC Governance 1 Our commitment to responsible mining is supported by a practices across our business and translates this commitment robust governance framework, setting out the Company’s into on-the-ground performance. expectations of employees, suppliers, and contractors in the A full inventory of our publicly disclosed policies is available conduct of their daily work. on Barrick’s Transparency Hub. At the core of this framework is the Code of Business Sustainability Metrics in Performance-Based Conduct and Ethics and its supporting management systems, Compensation programs, and policies. These provide a common standard by which all sites are expected to operate—from community, Barrick’s performance-based compensation system for senior health, environmental, safety, security, human rights, and ethical executives provides incentives that are both short-term and perspectives—and help bring Barrick’s Vision and Values to life. long-term in nature. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and its supporting Annual Performance Incentives for Senior Executives are based systems are complemented by Boardand executive-levon short-term functional and operational priorities. Each el oversight, as well as expert advice from our external Senior Executive has an individual scorecard with measures CSR Advisory Board, to help keep us true to our committhat relate to Barrick’s strategic principles and priorities. ment to mining in a responsible manner. Weightings and goals vary by role, but most include a portion that relates to Barrick’s sustainability performance. In 2016, all Barrick’s Board of Directors is responsible for the stewardship non-executive employees also had a portion of their annual of the Company and for oversight of the management of incentive compensation tied to Barrick’s short-term Company its business affairs, while our senior management is responscorecard. This included a “Reputation and License to sible for the management and day-to-day operation of the Operate” component, composed of safety, environment, anCompany. Our obligations, expectations, and intentions are ti-corruption, human rights, community relations, and complicodified in our Vision and Values and the Code of Business ance measures, accounting for 15% of the overall scorecard. Conduct and Ethics, and they are reinforced regularly at all Detailed information is available in the annual Proxy Circular. levels of the Company Long-term incentives for Senior Executives are determined by a Barrick has in place specific policies that direct employees as Company scorecard that tracks both financial and non-financial they interact with their colleagues, people in communities, measures, including a “Reputation and License to Operate” government officials, the physical environment and others. component. This category accounts for 15% of the overall To implement these policies, the Company has put in place scorecard and is assessed based on both quantitative and qualmanagement systems—from community relations to environitative measures. We measure our performance trajectory over ment to security—setting expectations, defining performance time for environment (e.g., incidences) and safety (e.g., fatalities, standards, and providing the necessary tools to manage our Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate). Qualitative measures social and environmental impacts. include our overall compliance record, independent assessments Every employee and director must also comply with applicable of our corporate social responsibility related performance (e.g., portions of Barrick’s Anti-Fraud Policy, Disclosure Policy, International Council on Metals and Mining Assurance review, Insider Trading Policy, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Dow Jones Sustainability Index listing), success in building and Policy, Human Rights Policy, Policy with respect to the maintaining strong relationships with core stakeholders, and the Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, quality of license to operate risk assessments. Safety and Occupational Health Policy, Environmental In 2016, 15% of performance-based compensation was at risk Policy, and his/her particular country’s policies. Together, if Reputation and License to Operate performance was not met. these help embed our commitment to responsible mining 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 117 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and ICMM UNGC regulations in the social and economic area 1 Barrick did not have any significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws or regulations in the social and economic areas in 2016. 118 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Artisanal and Small-scale Mining 419 Management Approach Artisanal Mining ICMM UNGC 1 5 9 Millions of people around the world maintain their livelihoods This differs from artisanal miners, who generate income from through artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM). Barrick has labor-intensive mining activities, often alongside large-scale operations that are adjacent to thriving ASM communities, mining operations. primarily in Peru. The individuals and groups engaged in ASM Safety is a very important issue associated with illegal mining. near our operations are important local stakeholders, and we By entering unsafe areas of the mines (such as open pit walls, work with them towards a safer, healthier and more profitore stockpiles, and active mining areas), illegal miners put able relationship. their own lives and the lives of our employees at risk. Our reOur Approach sponse to illegal mining is primarily driven by safety concerns – for both our employees and the trespassers themselves. At Barrick, we have an opportunity to contribute to the soThe level of criminal and violent behavior often displayed cial, economic and institutional development of the commuby illegal miners can threaten both the local community nities in which we operate. ASM miners and their dependents and our employees, the vast majority of whom are also constitute a unique part of these communities. However, the from local communities. When incursions by illegal miners presence of ASM operations sometimes involves significant occur, our security personnel, who have been trained in the challenges, including poor environmental, health and safety Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, are practices; heightened security risks to neighboring commuthe first to engage in a dialogue with them to encourage nities and operations; child and forced labor; inequitable them to leave. distribution of benefits in communities; and an illegal trade in minerals. Given these complexities, our approach is to supWe also believe there is a clear need to adopt community port efforts to legitimize what is sometimes an illegal activity development strategies alongside and in coordination with – often conducted in poor and unsafe working conditions – improved security measures. The ultimate goal is to eliminate but which drives the local economy. confrontation and work in harmony with local communities by supporting viable, sustainable livelihoods. Illegal Mining Illegal miners are people who enter a mine property without permission with the intention of stealing gold-bearing ore. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 119 MM8 Number of company operating sites Artisanal Mining ICMM UNGC where artisanal and small-scale mining takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; 1 5 9 the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks Lagunas Norte It has been estimated that approximately 50,000 families are involved in ASM in Peru, most of them in rural areas, including the area near our Lagunas Norte mine. Historically, artisanal mining in Peru has often been unregulated. As part of our community engagement activities, we supported the artisanal mining formalization process launched by the Peruvian government. The development and legalization of artisanal miners through this formalization process will provide access for the ASM community to credit and markets, along with safer working conditions. To start this process, Barrick developed a socio-economic baseline with the ASM communities near Lagunas Norte and, in 2013, signed an Exploitation Agreement. Following extensive engagement with both the coal miners and the regional government, in 2015 the formalization process was concluded and the coal miners were granted certificates from the government for mining operations. In 2016, a second group of artisanal coal miners working near Lagunas Norte, the Asociación Regional de Carboneros de La Libertad (ARCALIB), started to coordinate with the site with the intent to formalize as well. These discussions remain ongoing. 120 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Resettlement Management Approach Land Acquisition ICMM UNGC & Resettlement 1 1 2 At times, the construction or expansion of a mine may require ment is unavoidable will help limit negative outcomes, help land acquisition and, in some cases, resettlement of local us respect human rights, and support our license to operate. communities. Our Approach This can entail the physical displacement of people and a Our approach to resettlement is set out in our Community disruption of their livelihoods, and represents a salient risk for Relations Management System (CRMS) and Community Barrick. Many companies, including ours, have been criticized Relations Standard. Barrick has also developed guidance for for resettlement activities. sites contemplating resettlement to help them align with best Barrick seeks to avoid resettlement whenever we can by practice. exploring alternative project designs. When faced with resettlement, sites are required to develop We recognize that poorly planned and managed land a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). RAPs are developed with acquisition, including physical resettlement and economic input from the affected communities and local authorities. A displacement, can adversely impact communities and our comprehensive RAP includes an entitlement framework, comrelationships with them. When resettlement cannot be avoidprehensive compensation standards, livelihoods development ed, Barrick’s Community Relations teams work together with programs, and ongoing monitoring and evaluation. These affected households, communities and host governments to activities, complemented by continuous engagement, help us manage resettlement in a manner consistent with local laws to deliver on our commitment to improve or, at least, restore and international best practice. Effectively, responsibly, and the livelihoods and living standards of displaced families and respectfully managing the impacts and risks where displacecommunities. MM9 Sites where resettlements took place, the Resettlement ICMM UNGC number of households resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected 5 9 1 2 in the process In 2016, Barrick voluntarily supported the relocation of 40 households of Kahumuna Village by the Solwezi Municipal Council near the Lumwana mine. The municipality undertook the project to facilitate the implementation of the community’s integrated development plan (IDP). The Company did not have any authority or direct control over the project. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 121 Closure Planning Management Approach Mine Closure ICMM UNGC 1 2 6 9 8 10 Every mine has a finite operational life, and the eventual clo• In 2016, the closure group introduced the brownfield sure of a mine can contribute to significant social, economic, redevelopment program to investigate and execute projand environmental changes, especially in nearby communities. ects that would generate income for Barrick, reduce site risks, and enhance Barrick’s license to operate. Barrick is We believe that properly closing a mine has to involve currently investigating the development of utility-scale managing and addressing our partners’ social and economic solar plants at two closure sites and of recreational and concerns, as well as the environmental impacts and obligaresidential developments at several other closure sites. tions created by Barrick. • Currently, two of our mines are closing or are nearing We start planning for mine closure even before construction beplanned closure within three to five years: Pierina and gins. We have developed a Mine Closure Management System Golden Sunlight. At these sites, work is already un(MCMS) and integrate this planning into our decision making derway to prepare the local communities for eventual by embedding closure considerations into both our Community closure. Relations and Environmental Management Systems. • In 2016, Barrick continued to study a number of differMine Closure Management System ent innovative programs at closure sites, including: Our mine closure planning — both the social and environ»» We are studying the application of new water treatmental aspects — begins early in the mine life cycle. During ment technologies to treat mine impacted water at project development, mine closure planning is considered and closure sites in British Columbia and Nevada. conceptual Mine Closure Plans are developed. In support of this, we have developed a Mine Closure Management System »» In late 2016, we commissioned a vendor to install (MCMS) that incorporates the requirements of a number remote water-quality sampling and analysis equipof foundational Barrick policies, procedures and guidement for certain constituents of concern at a closure lines, including the Corporate Social Responsibility Charter, site in Colorado. The balance of remote sensors and Environmental Policy, Mine Closure Standard, Environmental equipment will be installed in 2017, which will allow Management System, Community Relations Management the remote apparatus to sample and analyze all System, and Community Relations Standard. constituents of concern at the site on a continuous basis. Barrick will continue to take all water-qualiOver the life of a mine, reclamation, and closure technologies ty samples required by its permits, and ship those evolve, regulations can expand, stakeholder expectations can samples for analysis to an accredited laboratory until change, and our knowledge expands with lessons learned such time as it is able to amend its permit to allow from around the world. Therefore, the MCMS has been defor remote sampling and analysis. signed to reflect and adapt to changing conditions, including by requiring periodic audits, corrections, and risk assessments. »» As part of the closure plan at Pierina, the mine is stabilizing the open pit by constructing an in-pit Our Progress central backfill, while recovering incidental ounces • We currently manage 33 sites (including Pierina). In of gold in the leach pad. Pierina has also construct2016, Barrick signed sale agreements for the sale of ed more robust water management ponds in the three sites (two of which closed in 2016 and one closed open pit drainage basin. Barrick has commissioned in early January 2017) and one farmed-out site in early an Acid-Rock Drainage treatment plant for the effluMarch 2017. ent from the pit and waste rock facilities. 122 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Environmental Closure from the design stage, and throughout the life of a mine, helps us to better understand community perspectives, identiMine closure planning is an important part of our commitfy opportunities to mitigate potential impacts, and make sure ment to environmental protection. During project developadequate resources are available to mitigate negative impacts ment, closure planning is considered and conceptual Mine where practical. Barrick’s Community Relations Management Closure Plans are developed. One hundred percent of our System and the Community Relations Standard set explicit operating sites have mine closure plans in place, which are requirements for the consideration of social closure in all reviewed and revised regularly. Closure cost estimates are deplanning, from the project’s design phase through the life of veloped, which include funds for concurrent reclamation acthe mine. tivities (progressive reclamation of disturbed lands during the operations stage when they are no longer needed for active To mitigate social, economic and other impacts on these commining) along with, in some jurisdictions, financial assurance munities, Barrick standards require that, three years prior to instruments for final reclamation after closure. Barrick has anticipated closure, all sites undertake a Social Closure Impact also developed corporate guidance for closure cost estimation Assessment (SCIA), a Social Closure Risk Assessment (SCRA), in an effort to accurately estimate closure costs. and a Social Closure Plan (SCP). SCIAs focus on identifying the potential social risks and impacts to a community from At closure, in order to return disturbed lands to a stable state mine closure and require the development of mitigation plans for post-mining land use, we remove, relocate, demolish or to address any identified risks and impacts. transfer ownership of buildings and physical infrastructure; remove and dispose of contaminated soils; close pits and Most social closure planning activities take place during shafts; stabilize underground workings; treat mine-impacted development and operation and focus on promoting local waters appropriately; and slope, contour, cap or cover, and capacity building. We support education and skills develop(where practicable) re-vegetate our waste rock, heap leach ment, and work in close collaboration with local economic and tailings facilities. We also protect water resources and diversification programs, where they exist, so that a healthy, other environmental media. The post-mining land use of a sustainable community can continue to flourish once closure property may differ from its prior condition and is the result is complete. of negotiation and agreement with regulators and stakeholdAs well as addressing the needs of local communities, Barrick ers. In all cases, it is our goal to protect the long-term viability provides employee assistance during closure to identify new of the land once mining ceases. potential career opportunities. Where possible, our goal is to Social Closure offer continuing employment opportunities at other Barrick operations. We also offer out-placement services for employMine closure can be disruptive to the social and economic ees who are not able to relocate. activity of the communities near a mine. Planning for closure MM10 Number and percentage of operations Mine Closure ICMM UNGC with closure plans 1 2 6 9 8 10 We currently manage 33 sites (including Pierina). In 2016, Barrick signed sale agreements for the sale of three sites (two of which closed in 2016 and one closed in early January 2017) and one farmed-out site in early March 2017. 100% of our operating sites have environmental closure plans in place. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 123 Non-Managed Operations Management Approach Non-Managed ICMM UNGC Operations Barrick holds interests in a number of companies and joint ventures (JV) which it does not operate. As part of our commitment to partnership, we believe in working with our JV partners and affiliates to foster, support, and encourage sustainable business practices. While our programs and policies do not always extend to those sites and operations we do not operate, we seek to influence management action, for example, through contractual rights and Board membership. That may mean conducting or advocating for audits and assessments, pressing for compensation structures to reflect our priorities, seeking reports on incidents, engaging over aspects of their human rights programs, seeking regular progress reports, asking for details on training and stakeholder engagements, and through other efforts. Summary of Mine Ownership and Operatorship – 2016 Ownership/Operatorship Mine (% Ownership) Project (% Ownership) Wholly Owned/ Operated* Cortez Pascua-Lama Golden Sunlight Alturas Goldstrike Goldrush Hemlo Lagunas Norte Pierina (in closure) Lumwana Veladero Joint Venture – Barrick-Operated* Pueblo Viejo (60%) Cerro Casale (75%) Turquoise Ridge (75%) Fedorovo (79%) Joint Venture – Independently-Operated Jabal Sayid (50%) Donlin Gold (50%) Porgera (47.5%) Joint Venture – Partner-Operated KCGM (50%) Zaldivar (50%) Affiliate-Operated Acacia (63.9%) Kabanga (50%) (Bulyanhulu, North Mara, Buzwagi) *Reported on in full in Barrick’s sustainability-related disclosures. 124 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Independently Operated Joint Ventures Partner-Operated Joint Ventures Barrick has a stake in a number of operations and projects Barrick also has stakes in mines that are operated by a JV in which a separate entity manages the site on behalf of the partner. These include a 50 percent stake in the Kalgoorlie owners. These include: Mine in Australia (operated by Newmont Mining Corporation) and a 50 percent stake in the Zaldivar mine (operated by • Porgera: Barrick (Niugini) Ltd. (“BNL”) is the 95% owner Antofagasta PLC). In such arrangements, Barrick uses its of the Porgera Joint Venture and is the manager of the presence on the Board of Directors of the JV to convey its exoperation. Barrick Gold Corporation and Zijin Mining pectations to management and seek to exercise its influence Group each own 50% of BNL and hence each own for responsible mining practices. 47.5% overall. Affiliates (Acacia Mining Plc) • Donlin: Barrick and NOVAGOLD Resources Inc. have formed a jointly owned limited liability company, Donlin Acacia is a fully independent company, listed on the London Gold LLC, which is advancing the project on their behalf. Stock Exchange (LSE), operating with its own management team and a Board of Directors comprised of a majority of • Jabal Sayid: Barrick formed a joint venture company, Directors who are independent of Barrick. Barrick owns Ma’aden Barrick Copper Company (“MBCC”), with 63.9% of Acacia Mining Plc. Saudi Arabian Mining Company (“Ma’aden”) to operate the Jabal Sayid project. Ma’aden is 50% owned by the The LSE requires that premium-listed companies (like Acacia) Saudi Arabian government. Barrick and Ma’aden own be independent of majority shareholders (like Barrick, in equal shares in MBCC. this case), with all dealings being independent, at arm’slength, and otherwise in compliance with the UK Corporate In independently operated JVs, Barrick uses its presence on Governance Code. The LSE established these rules to protect the Board of Directors of the managing company to convey the interests of minority shareholders. These rules do give its expectations to management and seeks to exercise its Barrick rights to information, and we can appoint three of influence for responsible mining practices. For example, we the eight Board members to exercise influence accordingly used our influence to encourage BNL to establish a susthrough Board participation. tainability committee of the Board, modelled after Barrick’s Corporate Responsibility Committee. We have encouraged However, the rules explicitly prohibit Barrick from exercising BNL to institute appropriate policies and practices regardstrategic control or directing Acacia’s day-to-day activities ing ethics and compliance, health and safety, environment, and outcomes, and require a relationship agreement to community relations, and human rights, among other issues specifically discuss how consistency with the LSE and UK at the independently operated JVs in which we have an Corporate Governance Code requirements are met. Within ownership interest. We also request immediate reporting of the context of this arm’s-length relationship, Barrick seeks to significant incidents to the BNL Board and regular reporting use influence on a number of matters, including its policies on its programs. and programs related to human rights, and its environmental practices around tailings impoundments. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 125 Appendix A Barrick’s 2016 Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Data Tables The following ESG data tables provide historical, country-wide, and site-specific data relevant for applicable GRI-standard indicators. This information is available in Excel format on Barrick’s Transparency Hub (here). Environment ENERGY Energy 2014 2015 2016 Consumed (GJ) Direct Indirect Direct Indirect Direct Indirect Energy Energy Total Energy Energy Total Energy Energy Total Barrick 37,622,762 6,374,397 43,997,158 37,360,867 7,357,406 44,718,274 36,770,383 7,457,918 44,228,302 Total1 Argentina 3,518,025 – 3,518,025 3,598,903 – 3,598,903 3,353,255 – 3,353,255 Veladero 3,518,025 – 3,518,025 3,598,903 – 3,598,903 3,353,255 – 3,353,255 Canada 551,365 691,344 1,242,709 461,034 707,810 1,168,844 464,274 722,254 1,186,528 Hemlo 551,365 691,344 1,242,709 461,034 707,810 1,168,844 464,274 722,254 1,186,528 Chile 196,340 – 196,340 170,915 – 170,915 7,860 – 7,860 Power 196,340 – 196,340 170,915 – 170,915 7,860 – 7,860 Facilities Dominican 17,876,300 – 17,876,300 19,075,042 – 19,075,042 18,714,359 – 18,714,359 Republic Pueblo 6,012,537 – 6,012,537 5,998,019 – 5,998,019 6,834,017 – 6,834,017 Viejo Power 11,863,764 – 11,863,764 13,077,022 – 13,077,022 11,880,342 – 11,880,342 Facilities Peru 1,420,285 451,287 1,871,572 1,518,585 569,398 2,087,983 1,686,811 635,620 2,322,431 Lagunas 1,120,816 365,128 1,485,944 1,173,972 412,326 1,586,297 1,158,724 411,336 1,570,060 Norte Pierina 299,468 86,160 385,628 344,613 157,072 501,685 528,087 224,283 752,370 USA 11,967,666 4,304,767 16,272,433 10,742,610 5,018,018 15,760,628 10,633,615 5,013,750 15,647,364 Cortez 3,046,218 914,483 3,960,701 2,855,061 922,350 3,777,410 2,857,953 928,334 3,786,287 Goldstrike 6,272,955 2,937,129 9,210,084 4,683,750 3,617,540 8,301,290 4,913,902 3,683,543 8,597,445 Turquoise 115,242 180,694 295,936 122,776 212,137 334,912 141,693 261,083 402,776 Ridge Golden 249,310 272,460 521,770 245,599 265,992 511,591 81,437 140,790 222,227 Sunlight Western 2,283,942 – 2,283,942 2,835,425 – 2,835,425 2,638,629 – 2,638,629 102 Power Plant Zambia 2,092,780 926,999 3,019,780 1,793,778 1,062,180 2,855,958 1,910,210 1,086,295 2,996,505 Lumwana 2,092,780 926,999 3,019,780 1,793,778 1,062,180 2,855,958 1,910,210 1,086,295 2,996,505 1 Barrick’s energy consumed baseline of 2014 has been revised to only include assets Barrick currently operates. This is in accordance with our Five-Year Energy Plan to better align with GHG and energy reduction target setting. For energy consumed data on divested assets from 20142015, please see previous years Responsibility Reports on Barrick’s Transparency Hub. 126 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Energy Energy Intensity (GJ/ oz) 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 5.3 5.1 5.1 Argentina 3.3 4.0 4.2 Veladero 3.3 4.0 4.2 Canada 6.0 5.3 5.1 Hemlo 6.0 5.3 5.1 Dominican Republic 5.4 6.3 5.9 Pueblo Viejo 5.4 6.3 5.9 Peru 3.1 3.4 4.4 Lagunas Norte 2.6 2.8 3.6 Pierina 23.4 9.3 8.2 USA 6.5 5.4 5.1 Cortez 4.4 3.8 3.6 Goldstrike 10.2 7.9 7.8 Turquoise Ridge 1.1 1.2 1.1 Golden Sunlight 6.0 7.5 6.5 Zambia 15.0 10.5 11.1 Lumwana1 15.0 10.5 11.1 1 Lumwana is a copper mine and, as such, its energy intensity metrics are not directly comparable to Barrick’s other properties. Lumwana data is given in GJ/thousand lbs. Barrick total does not include Lumwana. Fuels Used (GJ) 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 33,991,490 33,760,281 32,848,762 Natural Gas 5,947,249 5,178,655 5,399,990 Diesel 14,488,823 13,962,761 14,302,022 Propane 447,953 360,721 339,070 Heavy Fuel Oil 12,060,113 13,247,948 11,888,211 Biodiesel 197,191 198,410 211,166 Anfo 315,352 308,288 281,908 Emulsion 127,115 120,355 117,810 Gasoline1 – – – Sulphur 407,694 383,142 308,586 1 Gasoline data not available via Barrick's energy tool Electricity Consumption from Renewable Energy Assets (MWH) 2014 2015 2016 Total Electricity Consumed 2,779,362 3,043,897 3,160,993 Consumed Electricity from Renewable Energy 1,107,985 1,284,299 1,127,513 Sources Percentage of electricity consumed from renew39.86% 42.19% 35.67% able energy 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 127 GHG EMISSIONS GHG Emissions (Metric tonnes CO2e) 2014 2015 2016 Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Barrick 2,954,885 371,948 3,326,834 2,945,030 427,225 3,372,255 2,896,758 565,306 3,462,064 Total1 Argentina 230,452 – 230,452 234,692 – 234,692 221,312 – 221,312 Veladero 230,452 230,452 234,692 – 234,692 221,312 – 221,312 Canada 38,255 21,124 59,379 32,523 15,729 48,252 32,956 10,031 42,987 Hemlo 38,255 21,124 59,379 32,523 15,729 48,252 32,956 10,031 42,987 Chile 15,247 – 15,247 13,272 – 13,272 610 – 610 Power 15,247 – 15,247 13,272 – 13,272 610 – 610 Facilities Dominican 1,362,642 – 1,362,642 1,476,159 – 1,476,159 1,442,445 – 1,442,445 Republic Pueblo 441,376 – 441,376 460,679 – 460,679 519,891 – 519,891 Viejo Power 921,266 – 921,266 1,015,480 – 1,015,480 922,554 – 922,554 Facilities Peru 104,854 31,783 136,638 112,298 40,101 152,399 125,104 44,941 170,045 Lagunas 82,514 25,715 108,229 86,564 29,039 115,603 85,740 29,083 114,823 Norte Pierina 22,340 6,068 28,408 25,734 11,062 36,796 39,364 15,858 55,221 USA 1,047,607 318,521 1,366,127 942,740 370,799 1,313,539 932,376 504,902 1,437,278 Cortez 225,242 63,148 288,391 210,962 62,066 273,028 211,106 84,810 295,916 Goldstrike 669,557 219,942 889,499 547,608 271,979 819,587 558,849 379,726 938,575 Turquoise 8,151 12,423 20,573 8,720 14,292 23,012 10,103 24,005 34,108 Ridge Golden 17,668 23,008 40,676 17,462 22,462 39,924 5,403 16,361 21,764 Sunlight Western 126,988 – 126,988 157,989 – 157,989 146,915 – 146,915 102 Power Plant Zambia 155,829 520 156,349 133,345 596 133,941 141,955 5,431 147,387 Lumwana 155,829 520 156,349 133,345 596 133,941 141,955 5,431 147,387 1 Barrick’s GHG emissions baseline of 2014 has been revised to only include assets the Company currently operates. This is in accordance with our Five-Year Energy Plan as to better align with GHG and energy reduction target setting. For GHG emissions data on divested assets from 2014-2015, please see previous years Responsibility Reports on Barrick’s Transparency Hub. NOTE: Scope 2 Emissions data is provided on a market based approach. When calculating Scope 2 emissions on a location based approach, total emissions were 3,539,788 metric tonnes in 2016. 128 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index GHG EMISSIONS GHG Emissions – Scope 3 (metric tonnes of CO2e) 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 673,998 710,470 687,326 Argentina 47,952 48,940 44,231 Veladero 47,952 48,940 44,231 Canada 14,527 14,192 15,239 Hemlo 14,527 14,192 15,239 Chile 2,931 2,551 118 Punta Colorada 2,931 2,551 118 Dominican Republic 220,376 239,199 227,557 Pueblo Viejo 43,276 43,988 49,039 Monte Rio 59,545 79,724 50,051 Quisqueya I 117,555 115,487 128,467 Peru 30,114 33,958 36,597 Lagunas Norte 23,784 25,554 24,541 Pierina 6,331 8,404 12,056 USA 275,370 285,985 274,816 Cortez 77,031 74,373 71,696 Goldstrike 160,413 168,076 166,309 Turquoise Ridge 8,116 9,409 11,050 Golden Sunlight 12,306 12,396 5,414 Western 102 Power Plant 17,504 21,730 20,347 Closure Zambia 82,143 83,924 86,645 Lumwana 82,143 83,924 86,645 Corporate Flights 584 1,721 2,123 NOTE: Includes transmission and fuel losses calculated by country and grid factors. Data not available for all countries of operation. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 129 GHG EMISSIONS GHG Intensity for Mining (kgCO2e/ oz) 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 663 675 661 Argentina 319 390 407 Veladero 319 390 407 Canada 288 221 183 Hemlo 288 221 183 Dominican Republic 1,229 1,547 1,236 Pueblo Viejo 1,229 1,547 1,236 Peru 228 248 323 Lagunas Norte 186 206 264 Pierina 1,726 681 602 USA 636 545 565 Cortez 320 273 280 Goldstrike 986 778 856 Turquoise Ridge 79 80 96 Golden Sunlight 471 588 634 Zambia 731 467 544 Lumwana1 731 467 544 1 Lumwana is a copper mine and, as such, its GHG intensity metrics are not directly comparable to Barrick’s other properties. Lumwana data is given in kgCO2e/thousand pounds. Barrick total does not include Lumwana. 130 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index MATERIALS USED Cyanide use (Metric Tonnes) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 29,971.91 27,001.04 15,309.00 13,459.83 Argentina 668.21 783.95 692.35 1,066.90 Veladero 668.21 783.95 692.35 1,066.90 Australia 10,273.14 8,879.16 Cowal 3,149.09 3,822.16 KCGM 5,576.00 5,057.00 Other Divested Assets 1,548.05 – Canada 450.17 421.00 434.05 504.89 Hemlo 450.17 421.00 434.05 504.89 Chile 0.02 0.00 Zaldivar 0.02 0.00 Dominican Republic 2,748.06 4,697.21 3,696.10 3,106.02 Pueblo Viejo 2,748.06 4,697.21 3,696.10 3,106.02 Papua New Guinea 685.00 750.35 773.00 Porgera Joint Venture 685.00 750.35 773.00 Peru 3,655.84 1,707.04 2,839.77 4,266.47 Lagunas Norte 1,789.90 1,447.13 1,938.58 2,390.31 Pierina 1,865.94 259.92 901.19 1,876.16 Tanzania 4,833.42 Bulyanhulu 503.20 Buzwagi 3,939.77 North Mara 340.56 Tulawaka 49.89 USA 6,658.05 9,762.33 6,873.73 4,515.56 Cortez 1,515.60 4,500.04 3,754.98 2,787.24 Goldstrike 1,710.77 1,470.91 1,366.30 1,392.12 Turquoise Ridge – – – – Golden Sunlight 1,109.11 1,518.48 1,752.45 336.20 Bald Mountain 1,539.07 1,646.92 Ruby Hill 783.51 625.98 Zambia – – – – Lumwana – – – – 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 131 MATERIALS USED Calcium Hydroxide (Lime) Use (Metric Tonnes) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 487,601.96 653,721.48 603,984.65 498,079.30 Argentina 15,872.21 6,682.69 7,795.76 10,435.30 Veladero 15,872.21 6,682.69 7,795.76 10,435.30 Australia 47,576.82 30,758.74 Cowal 2,663.06 2,681.74 KCGM 33,585.00 28,077.00 Other Divested Assets 11,328.76 – Canada 1,414.81 1,188.68 1,604.00 1,336.59 Hemlo 1,414.81 1,188.68 1,604.00 1,336.59 Chile 204.00 117.10 Zaldivar 204.00 117.10 Dominican Republic 260,067.00 444,967.71 464,889.00 388,335.03 Pueblo Viejo 260,067.00 444,967.71 464,889.00 388,335.03 Papua New Guinea 54,300.00 53,180.00 45,187.00 Porgera Joint Venture 54,300.00 53,180.00 45,187.00 Peru 63,217.58 36,921.26 40,782.01 60,038.14 Lagunas Norte 33,425.28 33,124.44 33,438.60 35,171.76 Pierina 29,792.30 3,796.82 7,343.41 24,866.38 Tanzania 8,643.61 Bulyanhulu 1,851.00 Buzwagi 4,618.00 North Mara 2,052.54 Tulawaka 122.07 USA 36,305.94 79,905.29 43,726.89 37,934.24 Cortez 22,023.02 57,557.91 32,526.67 36,037.75 Goldstrike – – – – Turquoise Ridge – – – – Golden Sunlight 6,095.81 9,085.98 11,200.21 1,896.49 Bald Mountain 5,684.00 13,048.21 Ruby Hill 2,503.11 213.19 Zambia – – – – Lumwana – – – – 132 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index MATERIALS USED Mercury produced as a by-product/co-product (Metric Tonnes) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 122.353 120.713 142.272 274.554 Argentina 55.130 52.292 59.482 135.375 Veladero 55.130 52.292 59.482 135.375 Australia 0.000 0.000 Cowal 0.000 0.000 KCGM 0.000 0.000 Canada 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Hemlo 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Chile 0.000 0.000 0.000 Zaldivar 0.000 0.000 0.000 Dominican Republic 2.791 5.640 0.379 0.313 Pueblo Viejo 2.791 5.640 0.379 0.313 Papua New Guinea 0.000 0.001 0.001 Porgera Joint Venture 0.000 0.001 0.001 Peru 11.702 8.936 15.811 11.995 Lagunas Norte 11.010 8.681 15.441 11.300 Pierina 0.692 0.255 0.370 0.695 Saudi Arabia 0.000 0.000 0.000 Jabal Sayid 0.000 0.000 0.000 Tanzania 0.000 Bulyanhulu 0.000 Buzwagi 0.000 North Mara 0.000 Tulawaka 0.000 USA 52.730 53.845 66.600 126.872 Cortez 2.060 0.445 0.120 0.232 Goldstrike 50.670 53.400 66.480 126.640 Turquoise Ridge 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Golden Sunlight 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Bald Mountain 0.000 0.000 Ruby Hill 0.000 0.000 Zambia 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Lumwana 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 133 Water Water Withdrawal (cubic meters) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 101,961,368.64 95,595,615.47 75,467,371.02 43,780,595.43 Argentina 2,001,118.70 1,592,365.46 1,083,898.95 1,272,912.00 Lama 527,736.00 84,039.16 0.00 3,824.00 Veladero 1,473,382.70 1,508,326.30 1,083,898.95 1,269,088.00 Australia 18,405,170.00 12,791,709.00 Cowal 3,329,131.00 3,178,924.00 KCGM 9,742,717.00 9,612,785.00 Other Divested Assets 5,333,322.00 Canada 1,042,409.33 741,785.73 337,528.82 360,610.70 Closure 2.93 3.33 1,965.70 1.70 Hemlo 1,042,406.40 741,782.40 335,563.12 360,609.00 Chile 7,369,449.00 6,871,932.70 362,604.23 616,230.81 Alturas 0.00 0.00 0.00 5.97 Cerro Casale 9,386.00 0.00 405.00 260.00 Closure 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.16 Pascua 440,403.00 705,222.70 362,199.23 615,964.68 Zaldivar 6,919,660.00 6,166,710.00 0.00 0.00 Dominican Republic 18,484,285.20 20,867,735.57 21,060,952.44 18,773,913.22 Pueblo Viejo 18,484,285.20 20,867,735.57 21,060,952.44 18,773,913.22 Papua New Guinea 32,409,627.92 32,177,940.00 28,571,962.00 Porgera Joint Venture 32,409,627.92 32,177,940.00 28,571,962.00 Peru 732,218.49 1,275,736.10 1,125,505.41 1,109,302.81 Lagunas Norte 591,587.32 1,157,168.54 989,466.45 995,406.77 Pierina 140,631.17 118,567.56 136,038.96 113,896.04 Saudi Arabia 0.00 0.00 220,305.80 Jabal Sayid 0.00 0.00 220,305.80 Tanzania 3,329,540.13 Bulyanhulu 1,476,349.13 Buzwagi 1,734,299.00 North Mara 0.00 Tulawaka 118,892.00 134 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Water USA 15,458,790.32 16,689,151.32 18,979,108.36 17,969,690.89 Bald Mountain 852,794.47 1,112,913.57 Closure 300,488.26 505,573.13 2,597,193.85 1,137,864.49 Cortez 2,348,700.84 4,003,015.01 4,180,108.36 3,814,703.60 Donlin Gold 0.00 0.00 72.00 Golden Sunlight 1,076,590.06 956,982.20 1,001,053.35 485,866.94 Goldstrike 9,911,935.16 8,897,419.06 10,286,038.00 11,584,382.40 Ruby Hill 325,556.45 85,081.85 Turquoise Ridge 642,725.07 1,128,166.50 914,642.80 946,873.46 Zambia 2,728,759.55 2,587,259.60 3,725,505.00 3,677,935.00 Lumwana 2,728,759.55 2,587,259.60 3,725,505.00 3,677,935.00 Notes: As part of our ongoing environmental improvement plan to manage legacy impacted waterways at Pueblo Viejo, we withdraw fresh water from the Hatillo Reservoir and return treated clean water to the reservoir via the historically contaminated Margajita stream to form a closed water circulation. With this closed loop, the net annual water extraction by the operation is no more than 0.4% of the annual average inflow of the Hatillo Reservoir. The volume of total water withdraw reported here does not include the treated clean water returned to the Margajita-Hatillo water system. Barrick currently does not purposely harvest rainwater for water supply or track rainwater use. The Company also does not currently receive wastewater from other organizations. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 135 Water Water Consumption Intensity (cubic meters per tonne of ore processed) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 0.4721 0.4869 0.6501 0.3793 Argentina 0.0406 0.0416 0.0291 0.036 Veladero 0.0406 0.0416 0.0291 0.036 Australia 1.6085 0.5870 Cowal 0.4734 0.4320 KCGM – 0.6852 Canada 0.3242 0.2425 0.0990 0.0990 Hemlo 0.3242 0.2425 0.0990 0.0990 Chile 0.1407 0.1504 Zaldivar 0.1407 0.1504 Dominican Republic 4.1198 3.0889 3.000 2.460 Pueblo Viejo 4.1198 3.0889 3.000 2.460 Papua New Guinea 5.7316 5.4580 5.6781 Porgera Joint Venture 5.7316 5.4580 5.6781 Peru 0.0200 0.0521 0.0452 0.0524 Lagunas Norte 0.0232 0.0482 0.0401 0.0524 Pierina 0.0116 1.2931 in closure in closure Tanzania 0.3670 Bulyanhulu 1.4221 Buzwagi 0.3723 North Mara – Tulawaka – USA 0.2681 0.4338 0.5114 0.4960 Cortez 0.1164 0.1535 0.1860 0.1509 Goldstrike 1.4383 1.6546 1.5100 1.5562 Turquoise Ridge 1.4121 2.4227 1.7479 1.3462 Golden Sunlight 0.4742 0.3952 0.4643 1.0279 Bald Mountain 0.1933 0.0817 Ruby Hill 0 0.8027 Zambia 0.0946 0.1293 0.1445 0.1404 Lumwana 0.0946 0.1293 0.1445 0.1404 136 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Water Freshwater Consumption Intensity (cubic meters per tonne of ore processed) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 0.3500 0.3736 0.5736 0.3432 Argentina 0.0000 0.0000 – – Veladero 0.0000 0.0000 – – Australia 1.0078 0.0840 Cowal 1.0078 0.2175 KCGM – 0.0000 Canada 0.3352 0.2425 0.9976 0.0990 Hemlo 0.3352 0.2425 0.9976 0.0990 Chile 0.0000 0.0000 Zaldivar 0.0000 0.0000 Dominican Republic 4.1198 3.0889 2.9930 2.4380 Pueblo Viejo 4.1198 3.0889 2.9930 2.4380 Papua New Guinea 5.7316 5.4580 2.6781 Porgera Joint Venture 5.7316 5.4580 2.6781 Peru 0.0094 0.0135 0.0191 0.0090 Lagunas Norte 0.0103 0.0105 0.0140 0.0090 Pierina 0.0070 0.9396 in closure in closure Tanzania 0.2111 Bulyanhulu 1.1054 Buzwagi 0.1550 North Mara – Tulawaka – USA 0.4057 0.3093 0.4797 0.4661 Cortez 0.1159 0.1531 0.1858 0.1518 Goldstrike 1.4438 1.6545 1.5100 1.5740 Turquoise Ridge 1.4122 0.0000 0.0000 – Golden Sunlight 0.4212 0.3496 0.4194 0.6400 Bald Mountain 0.1933 0.0817 Ruby Hill 0.0000 0.8027 Zambia 0.0946 0.1293 0.1722 0.1404 Lumwana 0.0946 0.1293 0.1722 0.1404 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 137 Water Water discharged to the Environment (cubic meters) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 122,818,651.70 136,552,808.01 127,241,105.60 65,306,055.94 Argentina 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,482,192.00 Lama 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,482,192.00 Veladero 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Australia 2,371,184.00 0.00 Cowal 0.00 0.00 KCGM 0.00 0.00 Other Divested Assets 2,371,184.00 Canada 11,051,668.25 21,372,426.45 22,945,882.02 14,206,299.09 Closure 7,014,682.25 17,536,636.45 19,500,951.02 12,049,000.09 Hemlo 4,036,986.00 3,835,790.00 3,444,931.00 2,157,299.00 Chile 4,663,543.68 4,727,122.20 3,995,938.18 4,576,235.00 Alturas 0.00 Cerro Casale 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Closure 4,663,543.68 4,657,867.20 3,755,306.88 3,910,464.00 Pascua 69,255.00 240,631.30 665,771.00 Zaldivar 0.00 0.00 Dominican Republic 17,537,439.00 16,783,274.66 6,458,146.00 20,382,325.00 Pueblo Viejo 17,537,439.00 16,783,274.66 6,458,146.00 20,382,325. 00 Papua New Guinea 62,154,925.00 60,310,500.31 65,589,301.68 Porgera Joint Venture 62,154,925.00 60,310,500.31 65,589,301.68 Peru 7,406,855.85 9,074,492.58 8,030,727.64 5,984,769.92 Exploration 0.00 0.00 Lagunas Norte 4,893,669.85 5,538,823.22 6,163,985.64 4,678,906.99 Pierina 2,513,186.00 3,535,669.36 1,866,742.00 1,305,862.93 Saudi Arabia 0.00 0.00 0.00 Jabal Sayid 0.00 0.00 0.00 Tanzania 0.00 Bulyanhulu 0.00 Buzwagi 0.00 North Mara 0.00 Tulawaka 0.00 138 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Water USA 736,189.17 769,040.82 686,735.06 417,886.94 Bald Mountain 0.00 0.00 Closure 736,189.17 769,040.82 686,735.06 417,886.75 Cortez 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Donlin Gold 0.00 0.00 0.00 Golden Sunlight 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Goldstrike 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Office / Other 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.19 Ruby Hill 0.00 0.00 Turquoise Ridge 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Zambia 16,896,846.75 23,515,951.00 19,534,375.00 18,256,348.00 Lumwana 16,896,846.75 23,515,951.00 19,534,375.00 18,256,348.00 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 139 Water Water Recycled (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 90% 67% 70% 78% Argentina 0% 0% 96% 95% Veladero 0% 0% 96% 95% Australia 96% 33% Cowal 98% – KCGM 49% 50% Canada 87% 86% 93% 94% Hemlo 87% 86% 93% 94% Chile 94% 92% Zaldivar 94% 92% Dominican Republic 0% 8% 23% 32% Pueblo Viejo 0% 8% 23% 32% Papua New Guinea 0% 0% 0% Porgera Joint Venture 0% 0% 0% Peru 3% 0% 98% 98% Lagunas Norte 1% 0% 97% 98% Pierina 10% 56% 99% in closure Tanzania 42% Bulyanhulu 0% Buzwagi 65% North Mara 100% Tulawaka – USA 94% 70% 72% 71% Cortez 93% 87% 89% 90% Goldstrike 45% 40% 41% 40% Turquoise Ridge 0% 0% 0% 0% Golden Sunlight 61% 66% 61% 6% Bald Mountain 0% 0% Ruby Hill 100% – Zambia 91% 87% 85% 89% Lumwana 91% 87% 85% 89% 140 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index AIR Emissions Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) Emissions (Metric Tonnes) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 194,951.10 167,897.31 278.32 234.10 Argentina 28.80 38.96 48.75 83.26 Veladero 28.80 38.96 48.75 83.26 Australia 194,537.11 167,496.59 – – Cowal 0.41 0.41 KCGM 170,766.49 167,496.18 Divested Assets 23,770.21 – Canada – – – – Hemlo – – – – Chile – – Zaldivar – – Dominican Republic – 22.71 80.88 65.77 Pueblo Viejo – 22.71 80.88 65.77 Papua New Guinea 259.43 237.00 31.95 Porgera Joint Venture 259.43 237.00 31.95 Peru – – – – Lagunas Norte – – – – Pierina – – – – USA 99.31 81.76 101.93 70.87 Cortez 2.81 2.72 2.57 0.19 Goldstrike 46.11 45.57 60.69 56.95 Turquoise Ridge 0.10 0.03 0.01 0.03 Golden Sunlight 31.85 25.00 29.78 5.50 Western 102 Power Plant 7.64 7.24 8.88 8.20 Bald Mountain 1.10 1.10 Ruby Hill 9.70 0.10 Zambia 26.45 20.30 14.80 14.20 Lumwana 26.45 20.30 14.80 14.20 NOTE: SOx emissions declines between 2014 and 2015 reflect divestment of properties and changes in Barrick's reporting boundaries. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 141 AIR Emissions Nox Emissions – Stationary and Mobile (Metric Tonnes) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 16,412.09 15,531.84 10,062.26 1,543.87 Argentina 446.21 323.00 357.01 339.53 Veladero 446.21 323.00 357.01 339.53 Australia 3,007.88 2,366.82 Cowal 665.06 648.03 KCGM 1,805.72 1,718.80 Other divested assets 537.10 – Canada 39.02 35.94 37.20 35.30 Hemlo 39.02 35.94 37.20 35.30 Chile – – Zaldivar – – Dominican Republic – 56.48 106.33 80.15 Pueblo Viejo – 56.48 106.33 80.15 Papua New Guinea 3,871.57 3,733.00 2,948.65 Porgera Joint Venture 3,871.57 3,733.00 2,948.65 Peru 0.14 0.14 0.13 0.51 Lagunas Norte 0.13 0.14 0.13 0.51 Pierina 0.01 – – – USA 7,300.52 7,343.71 5,625.93 159.38 Cortez 5,278.55 5,790.53 5,243.15 3.09 Goldstrike 98.71 94.45 117.47 130.38 Turquoise Ridge 0.76 0.24 0.44 0.24 Golden Sunlight 294.10 232.17 245.01 7.78 Western 102 Power Plant 17.13 16.00 19.86 17.88 Bald Mountain 1,203.09 1,201.29 Ruby Hill 408.19 9.03 Zambia 1,746.75 1,672.75 987.00 929.00 Lumwana 1,746.75 1,672.75 987.00 929.00 NOTE: NOx emissions declines between 2014 and 2015 reflect divestment of properties and changes in Barrick’s reporting boundaries. Declines between 2015 and 2016 also reflect clarification in reporting to include only stationary sources. 142 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index AIR Emissions PM10 Emissions (Metric Tonnes) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 2,511.81 2,527.82 461.82 314.66 Argentina – – – – Veladero – – – – Australia 268.89 295.73 Cowal 43.90 42.73 KCGM 199.26 253.00 Divested Assets 25.73 – Canada 42.60 31.90 32.50 30.98 Hemlo 42.60 31.90 32.50 30.98 Chile 1,753.46 1,834.46 Zaldivar 1,753.46 1,834.46 Dominican Republic – – – – Pueblo Viejo – – – – Papua New Guinea 114.58 102.00 127.29 Porgera Joint Venture 114.58 102.00 127.29 Peru 3.19 1.00 3.04 0.25 Lagunas Norte 2.98 0.70 0.77 0.25 Pierina 0.21 0.30 2.27 USA 198.58 163.76 231.59 220.13 Cortez 18.14 26.31 52.87 35.70 Goldstrike 130.75 126.12 153.54 158.13 Turquoise Ridge 2.25 1.08 2.95 8.26 Golden Sunlight 5.30 5.10 17.75 11.73 Western 102 Power Plant 5.13 4.46 4.48 6.31 Bald Mountain 1.08 0.69 Ruby Hill 35.92 0.00 Zambia 130.52 98.98 67.40 63.30 Lumwana 130.52 98.98 67.40 63.30 NOTE: PM10 emissions declines between 2014 and 2015 reflect divestment of properties and changes in Barrick’s reporting boundaries. Chart only includes sites where reporting is required by government regulation. 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 143 AIR Emissions Mercury Air Emissions (Metric Tonnes) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 3.267 4.254 0.326 0.274 Argentina 0.007 0.095 0.006 0.044 Veladero 0.007 0.095 0.006 0.044 Australia 3.001 3.803 Cowal – – KCGM 2.943 3.803 Other Divested Assets 0.058 – Canada 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Hemlo 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Chile – – Zaldivar – – Dominican Republic 0.029 0.044 0.069 0.083 Pueblo Viejo 0.029 0.044 0.069 0.083 Papua New Guinea 0.047 0.049 0.053 Porgera Joint Venture 0.047 0.049 0.053 Peru 0.004 0.147 0.065 0.011 Lagunas Norte 0.000 0.000 0.011 Pierina 0.004 0.147 0.065 USA 0.179 0.116 0.133 0.136 Cortez 0.005 0.000 0.003 0.001 Goldstrike 0.173 0.113 0.127 0.132 Turquoise Ridge 0.000 0.000 0.002 0.002 Golden Sunlight – 0.001 0.000 0.000 Western 102 Power Plant – – – – Bald Mountain 0.001 0.002 Ruby Hill – – Zambia – – – – Lumwana – – – – NOTE: Mercury emissions declines between 2014 and 2015 reflect divestment of properties and changes in Barrick’s reporting boundaries. 144 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index MINE WASTES Total amount of tailings material deposited (Metric Tonnes) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 83,150,574 65,392,926 52,403,444 48,183,090 Argentina – – – – Veladero – – – – Australia 21,643,784 18,850,234 Cowal 7,032,047 7,357,942 KCGM 11,815,301 11,492,292 Other Divested Assets 2,796,436 – Canada 2,737,586 2,369,248 2,706,806 2,993,011 Hemlo 2,737,586 2,369,248 2,706,806 2,993,011 Chile 692,642 423,533 Zaldivar 692,642 423,533 Dominican Republic 7,472,549 10,711,137 10,661,823 10,634,556 Pueblo Viejo 7,472,549 10,711,137 10,661,823 10,634,556 Papua New Guinea 5,618,492 5,398,294 5,016,011 Porgera Joint Venture 5,618,492 5,398,294 5,016,011 Peru – – – – Lagunas Norte – – – – Pierina – – – – Tanzania 9,158,934 Bulyanhulu 491,030 Buzwagi 5,795,650 North Mara 2,643,360 Tulawaka 228,894 USA 14,165,867 12,373,399 13,148,543 13,295,537 Cortez 4,108,578 3,727,563 3,475,926 4,209,456 Goldstrike 7,673,095 6,247,232 7,598,061 8,557,094 Turquoise Ridge – – – – Golden Sunlight 2,384,194 2,398,604 2,074,556 528,987 Bald Mountain – – Ruby Hill – – Zambia 21,660,720 15,267,081 20,870,261 21,259,986 Lumwana 21,660,720 15,267,081 20,870,261 21,259,986 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 145 MINE WASTES Total amount of waste rock deposited (Metric Tonnes) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 476,387,812 433,089,156 235,112,080 151,144,880 Argentina 50,031,464 38,040,891 54,001,142 34,661 Veladero 50,031,464 38,040,891 54,001,142 34,661 Australia 80,775,351 77,773,386 Cowal 19,096,077 18,904,617 KCGM 61,679,274 58,868,769 Canada 5,015,914 5,540,711 4,642,810 4,599,102 Hemlo 5,015,914 5,540,711 4,642,810 4,599,102 Chile 25,477,808 36,044,988 Zaldivar 25,477,808 36,044,988 Dominican Republic 2,971,476 16,900,000 16,097,088 17,411,032 Pueblo Viejo 2,971,476 16,900,000 16,097,088 17,411,032 Papua New Guinea 13,050,711 4,302,349 17,124,910 Porgera Joint Venture 13,050,711 4,302,349 17,124,910 Peru 19,686,375 29,869,063 34,662,109 24,257,131 Lagunas Norte 11,059,192 23,328,872 28,201,562 24,257,131 Pierina 8,627,183 6,540,191 6,460,547 – Tanzania 43,058,754 Bulyanhulu 463,381 Buzwagi 24,177,984 North Mara 18,407,911 Tulawaka 9,478 USA 185,660,584 162,645,301 56,008,527 68,572,929 Cortez 113,749,409 118,822,445 50,189,896 62,014,686 Goldstrike 6,577 – – 6,332,463 Turquoise Ridge 166,601 176,744 148,812 139,162 Golden Sunlight 7,375,189 5,352,782 5,669,819 86,618 Bald Mountain 53,120,933 38,293,330 Ruby Hill 11,241,875 – Zambia 50,659,375 61,972,467 52,575,494 36,270,024 Lumwana 50,659,375 61,972,467 52,575,494 36,270,024 146 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index MINE WASTES Mercury produced as a by-product/co-product (Metric Tonnes) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 122.353 120.713 142.272 274.554 Argentina 55.130 52.292 59.482 135.375 Veladero 55.130 52.292 59.482 135.375 Australia 0 0 Cowal 0 0 KCGM 0 0 Canada 0 0 0 0 Hemlo 0 0 0 0 Chile 0 0 Zaldivar 0 0 Dominican Republic 2.791 5.640 0.379 0.313 Pueblo Viejo 2.791 5.640 0.379 0.313 Papua New Guinea 0.000 0.001 0.001 Porgera Joint Venture 0.000 0.001 0.001 Peru 11.702 8.936 15.811 11.995 Lagunas Norte 11.010 8.681 15.441 11.995 Pierina 0.692 0.255 0.37 0 Tanzania 0 Bulyanhulu 0 Buzwagi 0 North Mara 0 Tulawaka 0 USA 52.730 53.845 66.600 126.872 Cortez 2.060 0.445 0.120 0.232 Goldstrike 50.670 53.400 66.480 126.640 Turquoise Ridge 0 0 0 0 Golden Sunlight 0 0 0 0 Bald Mountain 0 0 Ruby Hill 0 0 Zambia 0 0 0 0 Lumwana 0 0 0 0 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 147 MINE WASTES Ore Processed (Metric Tonnes) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 205,975,707 189,444,228 118,676,667 111,605,333 Argentina 29,086,000 29,500,000 28,385,000 28,028,000 Veladero 29,086,000 29,500,000 28,385,000 28,028,000 Australia 21,786,835 18,976,000 Cowal 7,032,000 7,358,000 KCGM 11,848,000 11,618,000 Other Divested Assets 2,906,835 Canada 3,110,000 2,916,000 3,120,000 3,408,000 Hemlo 3,110,000 2,916,000 3,120,000 3,408,000 Chile 47,732,000 39,827,000 Zaldivar 47,732,000 39,827,000 Dominican Republic 4,430,000 6,711,667 6,916,667 7,545,000 Pueblo Viejo 4,430,000 6,711,667 6,916,667 7,545,000 Papua New Guinea 5,635,789 5,877,895 5,006,000 Porgera Joint Venture 5,635,789 5,877,895 5,006,000 Peru 28,490,000 22,183,000 21,880,000 17,253,000 Lagunas Norte 21,089,000 22,110,000 21,880,000 17,253,000 Pierina 7,401,000 73,000 0 Saudi Arabia 0 0 0 Jabal Sayid 0 0 0 Tanzania 7,914,750 Bulyanhulu 871,448 Buzwagi 4,400,541 North Mara 2,642,760 Tulawaka 0 USA 35,880,333 47,704,667 31,737,000 33,677,333 Bald Mountain 4,378,000 13,583,000 Cortez 19,999,000 25,957,000 22,406,000 25,112,000 Golden Sunlight 2,202,000 2,305,000 2,059,000 507,000 Goldstrike 6,829,000 5,307,000 6,752,000 7,361,000 Ruby Hill 2,019,000 106,000 Turquoise Ridge 453,333 446,667 520,000 697,333 Zambia 21,910,000 15,748,000 21,632,000 21,694,000 Lumwana 21,910,000 15,748,000 21,632,000 21,694,000 148 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Safety and Health 2016 Safety and Health Total Medical Performance – Total Treatment Injury Rate Workforce (TMTIR) Restricted Duty Rate Medical Aid Rate Lost Work Days Rate Barrick Total 0.40 0.11 0.15 6.16 Argentina 0.26 0.00 0.22 2.64 Veladero 0.28 0.00 0.25 3.08 Lama 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 1.04 0.00 0.00 0.00 Canada 0.45 0.18 0.18 4.90 Hemlo 0.77 0.31 0.31 8.47 Toronto / AuTec 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Closure 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Chile 1.16 0.00 1.16 0.00 Cerro Casale 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Pascua 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Alturas 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Office / Other 1.74 0.00 1.74 0.00 Dominican Republic 0.31 0.02 0.20 11.67 Pueblo Viejo 0.32 0.02 0.20 11.67 Peru 0.32 0.07 0.10 13.21 Lagunas Norte 0.39 0.00 0.17 16.43 Pierina 0.26 0.20 0.00 9.67 Lima 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 1.07 0.00 0.00 5.33 USA 0.78 0.33 0.13 2.97 Golden Sunlight 0.70 0.00 0.70 0.00 Closure 3.10 1.55 0.00 21.73 Office / Other 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Nevada 0.83 0.36 0.13 3.11 Cortez 0.52 0.12 0.06 1.28 Goldstrike 0.95 0.39 0.17 5.28 Turquoise Ridge 1.21 0.91 0.15 0.30 Goldrush 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Zambia 0.35 0.15 0.14 2.57 Lumwana 0.35 0.15 0.14 2.57 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 149 Safety and Health Total Total 2016 Safety Reportable Medical & Health Injury Loss Time Treatment Occupational Performance – Frequency Injury Rate Injury Rate Restricted Medical Aid Lost Work Disease Employees Rate (TRIFR) (LTI) (TMTIR) Duty Rate rate Days Rate Cases Barrick Total 0.36 0.15 0.36 0.12 0.09 7.69 4 Argentina 0.14 0.00 0.14 0.00 0.15 4.15 Veladero 0.16 0.00 0.16 0.00 0.16 4.51 Lama 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Canada 0.34 0.11 0.34 0.11 0.11 6.26 Hemlo 0.70 0.23 0.70 0.23 0.23 12.88 Toronto / AuTec 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Closure 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Chile 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Cerro Casale 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Pascua 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Alturas 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Office / Other 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Dominican 0.32 0.14 0.32 0.04 0.14 22.94 Republic Pueblo Viejo 0.32 0.14 0.32 0.04 0.14 22.94 Peru 0.35 0.14 0.35 0.14 0.07 9.03 Lagunas Norte 0.35 0.23 0.35 0.00 0.12 14.90 Pierina 0.43 0.00 0.43 0.43 0.00 0.00 Lima 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 USA 0.66 0.29 0.66 0.32 0.05 3.81 4 Golden Sunlight 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Closure 2.14 0.00 2.14 2.14 0.00 21.41 Office / Other 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Nevada 0.72 0.33 0.72 0.33 0.05 3.70 4 Cortez 0.42 0.35 0.42 0.07 0.00 1.55 1 Goldstrike 0.89 0.42 0.89 0.42 0.05 6.39 2 Turquoise Ridge 0.89 0.00 0.89 0.71 0.18 0.00 1 Goldrush 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Zambia 0.10 0.05 0.10 0.05 0.00 0.00 Lumwana 0.10 0.05 0.10 0.05 0.00 0.00 150 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Safety and Health Total Total 2016 Safety Reportable Medical & Health Injury Loss Time Treatment Occupational Performance – Frequency Injury Rate Injury Rate Restricted Medical Aid Lost Work Disease Contractors Rate (TRIFR) (LTI) (TMTIR) Duty Rate rate Days Rate Cases Barrick Total 0.44 0.12 0.44 0.10 0.22 4.43 Argentina 0.32 0.07 0.32 0.00 0.25 1.90 Veladero 0.35 0.04 0.35 0.00 0.30 2.30 Lama 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 1.21 1.21 1.21 0.00 0.00 0.00 Canada 0.82 0.00 0.82 0.41 0.41 0.00 Hemlo 0.88 0.00 0.88 0.44 0.44 0.00 Toronto / AuTec 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Closure 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Chile 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Cerro Casale 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Pascua 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Alturas 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Office / Other 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Dominican 0.32 0.08 0.32 0.01 0.22 6.03 Republic Pueblo Viejo 0.32 0.08 0.32 0.01 0.22 6.03 Peru 0.54 0.24 0.54 0.12 0.36 24.53 Lagunas Norte 0.41 0.20 0.41 0.00 0.20 17.32 Pierina 0.19 0.09 0.19 0.09 0.19 13.88 Lima 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 1.38 1.38 1.38 0.00 0.00 6.92 USA 1.35 0.42 1.35 0.42 0.52 0.62 Golden Sunlight 1.08 0.00 1.08 0.00 1.08 0.00 Closure 5.65 5.65 5.65 0.00 0.00 22.58 Office / Other 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Nevada 1.37 0.37 1.37 0.50 0.50 0.25 Cortez 1.00 0.33 1.00 0.33 0.33 0.00 Goldstrike 1.25 0.25 1.25 0.25 0.75 0.00 Turquoise Ridge 2.96 0.99 2.96 1.97 0.00 1.97 Goldrush 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Zambia 0.52 0.07 0.52 0.17 0.28 5.12 Lumwana 0.52 0.07 0.52 0.17 0.28 5.12 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 151 Safety and Health Fatalities 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 4 1 3 1 Argentina 1 Veladero 1 Lama Exploration Australia Cowal KCGM Canada Hemlo Toronto/AuTec Closure Chile 2 1 Zaldivar 1 1 Cerro Casale Pascua 1 Office / Other Exploration Dominican Republic Pueblo Viejo Papua New Guinea 1 Porgera Joint Venture 1 Peru Lagunas Norte Pierina Office / Other Exploration Saudi Arabia 1 Jabal Sayid 1 Tanzania Bulyanhulu Buzwagi North Mara Tulawaka 152 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Safety and Health USA 1 Donlin Gold Golden Sunlight Closure Office / Other Exploration Nevada 1 Cortez 1 Goldstrike Turquoise Ridge Ruby Hill Bald Mountain Zambia 1 1 Lumwana 1 1 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 153 Safety and Health Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 0.64 0.58 0.46 0.40 Argentina 0.61 0.34 0.32 0.26 Veladero 0.61 0.34 0.37 0.28 Lama 0.33 0.24 0.00 0.00 Exploration 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.04 Australia 1.17 1.02 Cowal 2.05 1.37 KCGM 0.82 0.97 Canada 0.33 1.00 0.75 0.45 Hemlo 0.53 1.03 1.00 0.77 Toronto/AuTec 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Closure 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Chile 0.29 0.31 0.17 1.16 Zaldivar 0.09 0.40 Cerro Casale 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Pascua 0.33 0.24 0.00 0.00 Office / Other 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.74 Exploration 0.00 0.52 0.34 0.00 Dominican Republic 0.69 0.51 0.38 0.30 Pueblo Viejo 0.69 0.51 0.38 0.30 Papua New Guinea 0.46 0.52 0.41 Porgera Joint Venture 0.46 0.52 0.41 Peru 0.36 0.47 0.46 0.32 Lagunas Norte 0.30 0.35 0.54 0.39 Pierina 0.46 0.74 0.34 0.26 Office / Other 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 2.22 1.59 0.00 1.07 Saudi Arabia 0.43 0.00 0.00 Jabal Sayid 0.43 0.00 0.00 Tanzania 0.68 Bulyanhulu 0.78 Buzwagi 0.27 North Mara 0.77 Tulawaka 154 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Safety and Health USA 1.27 1.00 0.98 0.78 Donlin Gold 0.00 0.00 0.00 Golden Sunlight 0.74 0.41 1.58 0.70 Closure 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.10 Office / Other 0.00 0.17 0.00 0.00 Exploration 0.39 2.05 1.60 0.00 Nevada 1.41 0.56 0.94 0.83 Cortez 1.68 1.28 0.93 0.52 Goldstrike 1.23 0.90 1.02 0.95 Turquoise Ridge 1.54 0.52 0.32 1.21 Ruby Hill 0.00 0.00 Bald Mountain 1.76 2.00 Zambia 0.24 0.38 0.25 0.35 Lumwana 0.24 0.38 0.25 0.35 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 155 Safety and Health Loss Time Injury Rate (LTI) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total 0.15 0.21 0.17 0.14 Argentina 0.11 0.02 0.11 0.05 Veladero 0.11 0.02 0.12 0.03 Lama 0.03 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.04 Australia 0.29 0.24 Cowal 0.37 0.39 KCGM 0.27 0.21 Canada 0.08 0.28 0.32 0.09 Hemlo 0.13 0.29 0.43 0.15 Toronto/AuTec 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Closure 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Chile 0.05 0.24 0.09 0.00 Zaldivar 0.09 0.40 Cerro Casale 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Pascua 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Office / Other 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 0.00 0.52 0.34 0.00 Dominican Republic 0.13 0.05 0.05 0.09 Pueblo Viejo 0.13 0.05 0.05 0.09 Papua New Guinea 0.21 0.20 0.20 Porgera Joint Venture 0.21 0.20 0.20 Peru 0.12 0.34 0.19 0.17 Lagunas Norte 0.13 0.27 0.19 0.21 Pierina 0.11 0.46 0.23 0.07 Office / Other 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 0.00 1.59 0.00 1.07 Saudi Arabia 0.14 0.00 0.00 Jabal Sayid 0.14 0.00 0.00 Tanzania 0.13 Bulyanhulu 0.17 Buzwagi 0.05 North Mara 0.17 Tulawaka 156 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Safety and Health USA 0.45 0.40 0.30 0.32 Donlin Gold 0.00 0.00 0.00 Golden Sunlight 0.37 0.41 0.40 0.00 Closure 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.55 Office / Other 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exploration 0.00 0.26 0.40 0.00 Nevada 0.50 0.25 0.30 0.34 Cortez 0.67 0.64 0.36 0.35 Goldstrike 0.36 0.36 0.40 0.39 Turquoise Ridge 0.46 0.00 0.00 0.15 Ruby Hill 0.00 0.00 Bald Mountain 0.88 1.00 Zambia 0.04 0.10 0.04 0.07 Lumwana 0.04 0.10 0.04 0.07 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 157 Society Society SOCIAL DATA BY COUNTRY BARRICK 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total $ 17,284,480,000 $ 11,072,260,000 $ 6,916,810,000 $ 5,748,970,000 Payments to Employees 2,333,270,000 2,011,260,000 1,631,840,000 $ 1,388,990,000 Community Investments 80,910,000 54,900,000 37,700,000 $ 21,900,000 Purchases of goods/ 13,166,000,000 7,889,570,000 4,384,070,000 $ 3,159,320,000 services Local Purchases 3,519,260,000 2,311,090,000 1,103,070,000 220,290,000 Regional Purchases 456,020,000 National Purchases 7,627,740,000 4,331,090,000 2,511,720,000 2,012,240,000 International Purchases 2,019,000,000 1,247,390,000 769,280,000 470,770,000 Taxes and Government 1,570,840,000 1,021,460,000 791,090,000 $ 1,100,790,000 Royalties Other Payments 133,460,000 95,070,000 72,110,000 $ 77,970,000 Argentina 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total $ 2,535,230,000 $ 1,226,830,000 $ 719,860,000 $ 608,690,000 Payments to Employees 137,500,000 91,440,000 109,830,000 $ 93,390,000 Community Investments 15,580,000 5,460,000 1,920,000 $ 1,420,000 Purchases of goods/ 2,163,120,000 910,710,000 554,110,000 $ 404,260,000 services Local Purchases 341,990,000 139,390,000 243,420,000 6,080,000 Regional Purchases 164,700,000 National Purchases 821,490,000 676,590,000 246,880,000 185,850,000 International Purchases 999,640,000 94,730,000 63,810,000 47,630,000 Taxes and Government 219,030,00 216,800,000 52,930,000 $ 108,590,000 Royalties Other Payments 2,420,000 1,070,000 $ 1,030,000 Canada 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total $ 770,820,000 $ 1,114,150,000 $ 669,840,000 $ 806,330,000 Payments to Employees 240,670,000 234,310,000 223,960,000 $ 387,070,000 Community Investments 5,210,000 5,100,000 3,220,000 $ 1,620,000 Purchases of goods/ 498,300,000 854,100,000 422,620,000 $ 387,630,000 services Local Purchases 169,770,000 386,450,000 285,970,000 38,850,000 Regional Purchases 255,850,000 National Purchases 235,010,000 34,350,000 33,210,000 31,000,000 International Purchases 93,520,000 433,300,000 103,440,000 61,930,000 Taxes and Government 17,920,000 2,950,000 8,550,000 $ 10,680,000 Royalties Other Payments 8,720,000 17,690,000 11,490,000 $ 19,330,000 158 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Society SOCIAL DATA BY COUNTRY Chile 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total $ 1,442,120,000 $ 958,330,000 $ 223,220,000 $ 124,230,000 Payments to Employees 191,610,000 166,470,000 49,080,000 $ 40,060,000 Community Investments 6,640,000 4,100,000 3,500,000 $ 130,000 Purchases of goods/ 1,139,930,000 692,600,000 148,570,000 $ 78,660,000 services Local Purchases 324,630,000 291,190,000 23,610,000 2,280,000 Regional Purchases 27,140,000 National Purchases 672,080,000 337,120,000 96,360,000 48,010,000 International Purchases 143,220,000 64,290,000 28,600,000 1,230,000 Taxes and Government 79,430,000 91,800,000 21,900,000 $ 5,380,000 Royalties Other Payments 24,510,000 3,360,000 170,000 $ – Dominican Republic 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total $ 3,303,080,000 $ 1,142,370,000 $ 861,080,000 $ 992,850,000 Payments to Employees 73,120,000 129,620,000 117,390,000 $ 96,630,000 Community Investments 3,390,000 4,590,000 1,540,000 $ 1,230,000 Purchases of goods/ 2,906,730,000 698,440,000 529,090,000 $ 500,600,000 services Local Purchases 2,950,000 16,040,000 19,400,000 19,690,000 Regional Purchases National Purchases 2,741,690,000 232,460,000 238,240,000 230,840,000 International Purchases 162,090,000 449,940,000 271,450,000 250,070,000 Taxes and Government 297,970,000 309,720,000 213,050,000 $ 394,390,000 Royalties Other Payments 21,870,000 – 10,000 $ – Peru 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total $ 502,370,000 $ 666,500,000 $ 519,410,000 $ 510,520,000 Payments to Employees 125,080,000 94,030,000 74,980,000 $ 79,610,000 Community Investments 18,290,000 13,500,000 10,950,000 $ 6,660,000 Purchases of goods/ 172,980,000 354,850,000 307,770,000 $ 305,800,000 services Local Purchases 9,760,000 9,390,000 12,010,000 14,120,000 Regional Purchases National Purchases 159,590,000 335,730,000 274,780,000 282,720,000 International Purchases 3,630,000 9,730,000 20,980,000 8,960,000 Taxes and Government 186,020,000 202,430,000 125,210,000 $ 118,450,000 Royalties Other Payments – 1,690,000 500,000 $ – 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 159 Society SOCIAL DATA BY COUNTRY United States 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total $ 4,039,960,000 $ 3,341,390,000 $ 2,740,660,000 $ 2,202,880,000 Payments to Employees 662,320,000 784,670,000 829,720,000 $ 616,980,000 Community Investments 11,860,000 14,750,000 12,310,000 $ 9,680,000 Purchases of goods/ 2,919,410,000 2,358,480,000 1,667,820,000 $ 1,146,150,000 services Local Purchases 1,607,720,000 690,880,000 410,430,000 134,640,000 Regional Purchases National Purchases 1,242,550,000 1,595,560,000 1,224,870,000 974,730,000 International Purchases 69,140,000 72,040,000 32,520,000 36,780,000 Taxes and Government 387,830,000 115,330,000 174,440,000 $ 373,520,000 Royalties Other Payments 58,540,000 68,160,000 56,370,000 $ 56,550,000 Zambia 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total $ 696,650,000 $ 615,350,000 $ 604,370,000 $ 503,470,000 Payments to Employees 125,940,000 118,110,000 83,220,000 $ 75,250,000 Community Investments 1,700,000 1,360,000 1,070,000 $ 1,160,000 Purchases of goods/ 487,770,000 455,040,000 377,620,000 $ 336,220,000 services Local Purchases 45,960,000 6,500,000 52,730,000 4,630,000 Regional Purchases 8,330,000 National Purchases 341,030,000 381,680,000 276,420,000 259,090,000 International Purchases 100,780,000 66,860,000 48,470,000 64,170,000 Taxes and Government 81,170,000 40,840,000 140,850,000 $ 89,780,000 Royalties Other Payments 70,000 1,610,000 $ 1,060,000 160 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Society SOCIAL DATA BY Category Payments to Employees 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total $ 2,333,270,000 $ 2,011,260,000 $ 1,631,840,000 $ 1,388,990,000 Argentina $ 137,500,000 $ 91,440,000 $ 109,830,000 $ 93,390,000 Exploration – – 1,130,000 – Lama 37,600,000 13,010,000 8,310,000 6,950,000 Veladero 99,900,000 78,430,000 100,390,000 86,440,000 Australia $ 360,570,000 $ 222,450,000 $ 7,810,000 Cowal 51,450,000 55,710,000 KCGM 114,650,000 124,170,000 Office/Other 194,470,000 42,570,000 7,810,000 Canada $ 240,670,000 $ 234,310,000 $ 223,960,000 $ 387,070,000 AuTec 3,530,000 – – 7,780,000 Closure 670,000 770,000 720,000 600,000 Hemlo 95,130,000 85,210,000 72,030,000 63,530,000 Toronto HQ 141,340,000 148,330,000 151,210,000 315,160,000 Chile $ 191,610,000 $ 166,470,000 $ 49,080,000 $ 40,060,000 Alturas – – – 1,510,000 Cerro Casale 5,570,000 4,910,000 2,340,000 2,470,000 Exploration 0 0 5,730,000 7,500,000 Office/Other 24,140,000 30,480,000 10,750,000 6,280,000 Pascua 79,270,000 38,790,000 30,260,000 22,300,000 Zaldívar 82,630,000 92,290,000 – Dominican Republic $ 73,120,000 $ 129,620,000 $ 117,390,000 $ 96,630,000 Pueblo Viejo 73,120,000 129,620,000 117,390,000 96,630,000 Papua New Guinea $ 171,670,000 $ 150,750,000 $ 117,500,000 Porgera Joint Venture 171,670,000 150,750,000 117,500,000 Peru $ 125,080,000 $ 94,030,000 $ 74,980,000 $ 79,610,000 Exploration – – – – Lagunas Norte 61,870,000 50,310,000 40,890,000 42,810,000 Office/Other 23,820,000 17,410,000 13,640,000 11,080,000 Pierina 39,390,000 26,310,000 20,450,000 25,720,000 Saudi Arabia $ 26,800,000 $ 19,410,000 $ 18,350,000 Jabal Sayid 26,800,000 19,410,000 18,350,000 Tanzania $ 217,990,000 Bulyanhulu 78,290,000 Buzwagi 32,360,000 North Mara 47,880,000 Office/Other 46,230,000 Tulawaka 13,230,000 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 161 Society SOCIAL DATA BY Category United States $ 662,320,000 $ 784,670,000 $ 829,720,000 $ 616,980,000 Bald Mountain 50,500,000 54,430,000 Closure 4,110,000 2,890,000 5,410,000 10,870,000 Cortez 170,820,000 172,860,000 190,970,000 198,180,000 Donlin Gold 14,380,000 5,070,000 4,810,000 0 Golden Sunlight 23,640,000 21,190,000 32,800,000 7,890,000 Goldstrike 242,120,000 232,110,000 259,210,000 267,610,000 Office/Other 88,020,000 198,060,000 226,090,000 18,350,000 Ruby Hill 16,500,000 3,510,000 Shared Business Center – 22,330,000 24,560,000 42,960,000 Turquoise Ridge 52,230,000 72,220,000 85,870,000 70,710,000 Western 102 – – – 410,000 Zambia $ 125,940,000 $ 118,110,000 $ 83,220,000 $ 75,250,000 Lumwana 125,940,000 118,110,000 83,220,000 75,250,000 International Purchases 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total $ 2,019,000,000 $ 1,247,390,000 $ 769,280,000 $ 470,770,000 Argentina $ 999,640,000 $ 94,730,000 $ 63,810,000 $ 47,630,000 Exploration – – 360,000 40,000 Lama 951,970,000 46,880,000 7,890,000 1,780,000 Veladero 47,670,000 47,850,000 55,560,000 45,810,000 Australia $ 3,740,000 $ 6,270,000 Cowal 530,000 290,000 KCGM 450,000 4,200,000 Office/Other 2,760,000 1,780,000 Canada $ 93,520,000 $ 433,300,000 $ 103,440,000 $ 61,930,000 AuTec 90,000 110,000 280,000 120,000 Closure 120,000 0 0 0 Hemlo 2,280,000 3,900,000 3,760,000 4,840,000 Toronto HQ 91,030,000 429,290,000 99,400,000 56,970,000 Chile $ 143,220,000 $ 64,290,000 $ 28,600,000 $ 1,230,000 Alturas – – – 40,000 Cerro Casale 600,000 – 640,000 – Exploration – – 220,000 – Office/Other 560,000 – 70,000 240,000 Pascua 111,060,000 15,580,000 27,670,000 950,000 Zaldívar 31,000,000 48,710,000 – Dominican Republic $ 162,090,000 $ 449,940,000 $ 271,450,000 $ 250,070,000 Pueblo Viejo 162,090,000 449,940,000 271,450,000 250,070,000 Papua New Guinea $ 75,830,000 $ 44,340,000 $ 178,520,000 Porgera Joint Venture 75,830,000 44,340,000 178,520,000 162 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Society SOCIAL DATA BY Category Peru $ 3,630,000 $ 9,730,000 $ 20,980,000 $ 8,960,000 Exploration – – – – Lagunas Norte 1,800,000 6,400,000 7,270,000 6,120,000 Office/Other 1,550,000 870,000 5,610,000 640,000 Pierina 280,000 2,460,000 8,100,000 2,200,000 Saudi Arabia $ 28,940,000 $ 5,890,000 $ 21,490,000 Jabal Sayid 28,940,000 5,890,000 21,490,000 Tanzania $ 338,470,000 Bulyanhulu 144,730,000 Buzwagi 110,080,000 North Mara 59,200,000 Office/Other 21,060,000 Tulawaka 3,400,000 United States $ 69,140,000 $ 72,040,000 $ 32,520,000 $ 36,780,000 Bald Mountain 390,000 540,000 Closure – – – 40,000 Cortez 3,230,000 7,510,000 – 12,250,000 Donlin Gold 1,690,000 1,340,000 960,000 Golden Sunlight 2,040,000 1,330,000 600,000 690,000 Goldstrike 60,800,000 56,480,000 – 23,540,000 Office/Other – – – – Ruby Hill 610,000 860,000 Shared Business Center – – 30,960,000 0 Turquoise Ridge 380,000 3,980,000 – 260,000 Western 102 – – – – Zambia $ 100,780,000 $ 66,860,000 $ 48,470,000 $ 64,170,000 Lumwana 100,780,000 66,860,000 48,470,000 64,170,000 national Purchases 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total $ 7,627,740,000 $ 4,331,090,000 $ 2,511,720,000 $ 2,012,240,000 Argentina $ 821,490,000 $ 676,590,000 $ 246,880,000 $ 185,850,000 Exploration – – 1,390,000 3,270,000 Lama 505,530,000 216,970,000 12,420,000 6,280,000 Veladero 315,960,000 459,620,000 233,070,000 176,300,000 Australia $ 817,410,000 $ 554,850,000 Cowal 131,120,000 195,640,000 KCGM 603,750,000 336,000,000 Office/Other 82,540,000 23,210,000 Canada $ 235,010,000 $ 34,350,000 $ 33,210,000 $ 31,000,000 AuTec 140,000 680,000 690,000 610,000 Closure 1,560,000 0 140,000 0 Hemlo 198,760,000 23,770,000 23,270,000 23,320,000 Toronto HQ 34,550,000 9,900,000 9,110,000 7,070,000 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 163 Society SOCIAL DATA BY Category Chile $ 672,080,000 $ 337,120,000 $ 96,360,000 $ 48,010,000 Alturas – – – 8,530,000 Cerro Casale 18,800,000 – 4,290,000 1,030,000 Exploration – – 5,560,000 – Office/Other 5,810,000 24,000,000 2,970,000 8,360,000 Pascua 457,060,000 143,180,000 83,540,000 30,090,000 Zaldívar 190,410,000 169,940,000 – Dominican Republic $ 2,741,690,000 $ 232,460,000 $ 238,240,000 $ 230,840,000 Pueblo Viejo 2,741,690,000 232,460,000 238,240,000 230,840,000 Papua New Guinea $ 181,140,000 $ 156,500,000 $ 119,790,000 Porgera Joint Venture 181,140,000 156,500,000 119,790,000 Peru $ 159,590,000 $ 335,730,000 $ 274,780,000 $ 282,720,000 Exploration – – – – Lagunas Norte 110,300,000 258,120,000 193,970,000 182,020,000 Office/Other 21,440,000 16,240,000 30,810,000 14,060,000 Pierina 27,850,000 61,370,000 50,000,000 86,640,000 Saudi Arabia $ 79,030,000 $ 26,250,000 $ 1,170,000 Jabal Sayid 79,030,000 26,250,000 1,170,000 Tanzania $ 336,720,000 Bulyanhulu 89,930,000 Buzwagi 110,900,000 North Mara 109,690,000 Office/Other 8,840,000 Tulawaka 17,360,000 United States $ 1,242,550,000 $ 1,595,560,000 $ 1,224,870,000 $ 974,730,000 Bald Mountain 58,550,000 113,130,000 Closure – – 39,640,000 32,530,000 Cortez 367,150,000 418,550,000 – 327,370,000 Donlin Gold 10,110,000 10,610,000 15,940,000 Golden Sunlight 32,130,000 30,560,000 30,010,000 33,670,000 Goldstrike 669,740,000 932,340,000 0 515,290,000 Office/Other – – – – Ruby Hill 40,200,000 35,590,000 Shared Business Center – – 1,139,280,000 Turquoise Ridge 64,670,000 54,780,000 – 65,870,000 Western 102 – – – – Zambia $ 341,030,000 $ 381,680,000 $ 276,420,000 $ 259,090,000 Lumwana 341,030,000 381,680,000 276,420,000 259,090,000 164 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Society SOCIAL DATA BY Category Regional Purchases 2016 Barrick Total $ 456,020,000 Argentina $ 164,700,000 Exploration 4,440,000 Lama 7,820,000 Veladero 152,440,000 Canada $ 255,850,000 AuTec 590,000 Hemlo 135,600,000 Toronto HQ 119,660,000 Chile $ 27,140,000 Alturas 8,960,000 Cerro Casale – Pascua 18,180,000 Zambia $ 8,330,000 Lumwana 8,330,000 Local Purchases 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total $ 3,519,260,000 $ 2,311,090,000 $ 1,103,070,000 $ 220,290,000 Argentina $ 341,990,000 $ 139,390,000 $ 243,420,000 $ 6,080,000 Exploration – – 2,060,000 – Lama 111,940,000 136,110,000 26,740,000 350,000 Veladero 230,050,000 3,280,000 214,620,000 5,730,000 Australia $ 666,110,000 $ 476,350,000 Cowal 132,300,000 50,550,000 KCGM 42,530,000 389,000,000 Office/Other 491,280,000 36,800,000 Canada $ 169,770,000 $ 386,450,000 $ 285,970,000 $ 38,850,000 AuTec 270,000 580,000 530,000 – Closure – – – – Hemlo – 166,490,000 160,300,000 38,850,000 Toronto HQ 169,500,000 219,380,000 125,140,000 0 Chile $ 324,630,000 $ 291,190,000 $ 23,610,000 $ 2,280,000 Alturas – – – 650,000 Cerro Casale 8,540,000 – 2,380,000 750,000 Exploration – – 7,940,000 – Office/Other 10,920,000 – – – Pascua 56,540,000 13,410,000 13,290,000 880,000 Zaldívar 248,630,000 277,780,000 – Dominican Republic $ 2,950,000 $ 16,040,000 $ 19,400,000 $ 19,690,000 Pueblo Viejo 2,950,000 16,040,000 19,400,000 19,690,000 Papua New Guinea 238,120,000 294,440,000 30,290,000 Porgera Joint Venture 238,120,000 294,440,000 30,290,000 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 165 Society SOCIAL DATA BY Category Peru $ 9,760,000 $ 9,390,000 $ 12,010,000 $ 14,120,000 Exploration – – – – Lagunas Norte 5,480,000 3,760,000 5,600,000 6,020,000 Office/Other 850,000 – – – Pierina 3,430,000 5,630,000 6,410,000 8,100,000 Saudi Arabia $ 670,000 $ 460,000 $ 25,210,000 Jabal Sayid 670,000 460,000 25,210,000 Tanzania $ 111,580,000 Bulyanhulu 19,540,000 Buzwagi 24,510,000 North Mara 43,870,000 Office/Other 11,670,000 Tulawaka 11,990,000 United States $ 1,607,720,000 $ 690,880,000 $ 410,430,000 $ 134,640,000 Bald Mountain 67,140,000 16,880,000 Closure – 330,000 – 5,040,000 Cortez 307,030,000 61,950,000 – 37,160,000 Donlin Gold 13,830,000 13,400,000 2,220,000 Golden Sunlight 42,930,000 32,540,000 24,670,000 11,130,000 Goldstrike 572,250,000 294,910,000 – 58,580,000 Office/Other 204,070,000 – – – Ruby Hill 263,380,000 123,560,000 Shared Business Center 0 0 383,540,000 0 Turquoise Ridge 137,090,000 147,310,000 – 22,730,000 Western 102 – – – – Zambia $ 45,960,000 $ 6,500,000 $ 52,730,000 $ 4,630,000 Lumwana 45,960,000 6,500,000 52,730,000 4,630,000 Community Investments 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total $ 80,910,000 $ 54,900,000 $ 37,700,000 $ 21,900,000 Argentina $ 15,580,000 $ 5,460,000 $ 1,920,000 $ 1,420,000 Exploration – – – – Lama 14,320,000 4,390,000 – 230,000 Veladero 1,260,000 1,070,000 1,920,000 1,190,000 Australia $ 2,010,000 $ 2,110,000 Cowal 1,150,000 1,740,000 KCGM 540,000 370,000 Office/Other 320,000 – Canada $ 5,210,000 $ 5,100,000 $ 3,220,000 $ 1,620,000 AuTec – – – – Closure – – – – Hemlo 400,000 500,000 990,000 920,000 Toronto HQ 4,810,000 4,600,000 2,230,000 700,000 166 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Society SOCIAL DATA BY Category Chile $ 6,640,000 $ 4,100,000 $ 3,500,000 $ 130,000 Alturas – – – – Cerro Casale 940,000 480,000 910,000 100,000 Exploration – – – – Office/Other 190,000 290,000 – – Pascua 4,160,000 600,000 2,590,000 30,000 Zaldívar 1,350,000 2,730,000 – Dominican Republic $ 3,390,000 $ 4,590,000 $ 1,540,000 $ 1,230,000 Pueblo Viejo 3,390,000 4,590,000 1,540,000 1,230,000 Papua New Guinea $ 4,720,000 $ 3,930,000 $ 3,190,000 Porgera Joint Venture 4,720,000 3,930,000 3,190,000 Peru $ 18,290,000 $ 13,500,000 $ 10,950,000 $ 6,660,000 Exploration – – – – Lagunas Norte 9,200,000 8,370,000 7,070,000 2,740,000 Office/Other 20,000 40,000 – – Pierina 9,070,000 5,090,000 3,880,000 3,920,000 Saudi Arabia $ 50,000 $ – $ – Jabal Sayid 50,000 – – Tanzania $ 11,460,000 $ – $ – Bulyanhulu 390,000 Buzwagi 200,000 North Mara 6,820,000 Office/Other 1,410,000 Tulawaka 2,640,000 United States $ 11,860,000 $ 14,750,000 $ 12,310,000 $ 9,680,000 Bald Mountain 60,000 50,000 Closure 40,000 80,000 – – Cortez 230,000 160,000 – – Donlin Gold 1,210,000 1,460,000 1,500,000 Golden Sunlight 340,000 130,000 60,000 – Goldstrike 390,000 350,000 – – Office/Other 2,960,000 3,950,000 – – Ruby Hill 30,000 10,000 Shared Business Center 6,520,000 8,500,000 10,750,000 9,680,000 Turquoise Ridge 80,000 60,000 – – Western 102 – – – – Zambia $ 1,700,000 $ 1,360,000 $ 1,070,000 $ 1,160,000 Lumwana 1,700,000 1,360,000 1,070,000 1,160,000 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 167 Society COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS BY TYPE 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total $ 80,910,000 $ 54,900,000 $ 37,700,000 $ 21,900,000 Arts, Culture & Sports – – 2,380,000 1,120,000 Community Engagement – – 3,150,000 1,430,000 Economic Development – – 7,220,000 5,030,000 Education 14,100,000 9,690,000 7,710,000 7,580,000 Environment 2,180,000 1,650,000 2,430,000 860,000 Health 8,860,000 4,590,000 2,690,000 900,000 Infrastructure – – 2,470,000 2,650,000 Other Activities 55,770,000 38,970,000 9,650,000 2,330,000 TAXES AND GOVERNMENT ROYALTIES PAID 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total $ 1,570,840,000 $ 1,021,460,000 $ 791,090,000 $ 1,100,790,000 Argentina 219,030,000 216,800,000 52,930,000 108,590,000 Australia 231,580,000 25,820,000 38,600,000 Canada 17,920,000 2,950,000 8,550,000 10,680,000 Chile 79,430,000 91,800,000 21,900,000 5,380,000 Dominican Republic 297,970,000 309,720,000 213,050,000 394,390,000 Papua New Guinea 17,210,000 15,740,000 15,480,000 Peru 186,020,000 202,430,000 125,210,000 118,450,000 Saudi Arabia 960,000 30,000 80,000 Tanzania 51,720,000 United States 387,830,000 115,330,000 174,440,000 373,520,000 Zambia 81,170,000 40,840,000 140,850,000 89,780,000 OTHER PAYMENTS1 2013 2014 2015 2016 Barrick Total $ 133,460,000 $ 95,070,000 $ 72,110,000 $ 77,970,000 Argentina – 2,420,000 1,070,000 1,030,000 Australia – 140,000 Canada 8,720,000 17,690,000 11,490,000 19,330,000 Chile 24,510,000 3,360,000 170,000 – Dominican Republic 21,870,000 – 10,000 Papua New Guinea 8,870,000 1,610,000 890,000 Peru – 1,690,000 500,000 – Saudi Arabia – – – Tanzania 10,880,000 United States 58,540,000 68,160,000 56,370,000 56,550,000 Zambia 70,000 – 1,610,000 1,060,000 1 Includes: Compensation Payments, Land Use Payments and Royalties paid to Third Parties 168 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Employees WORKFORCE COMPOSITION Employees Contractors 2016 Total Workforce Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Barrick 9,939 1,266 11,205 n/a n/a 11,178 n/a n/a 22,383 Total 89% 11% n/a n/a n/a n/a Argentina 1,313 62 1,375 2,546 63 2,609 3,859 125 3,984 95% 5% 98% 2% 97% 3% Canada 611 136 747 192 8 200 803 144 947 82% 18% 96% 4% 85% 15% Chile 211 40 251 1,250 102 1,352 1,461 142 1,603 84% 16% 92% 8% 91% 9% Dominican 1,846 237 2,083 n/a n/a 2,108 n/a n/a 4,191 Republic 89% 11% n/a n/a n/a n/a Peru 1,190 105 1,295 2,022 125 2,147 3,212 230 3,442 92% 8% 94% 6% 93% 7% United 3,260 501 3,761 n/a n/a 675 n/a n/a 4,436 States 87% 13% n/a n/a n/a n/a Zambia 1,508 185 1,693 1,816 271 2,087 3,324 456 3,780 89% 11% 87% 13% 88% 12% 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 169 Employees LOCAL EMPLOYMENT Site Senior Management Local Regional National Foreign National 2016 Total Barrick Total 18 23% 3 4% 43 54% 15 19% 79 Argentina 4 33% 5 42% 3 25% 12 Veladero 4 36% 5 45% 2 18% 11 Lama 1 100% 1 Canada 10 83% 2 17% 12 Hemlo 10 83% 2 17% 12 Chile 5 26% 12 63% 2 11% 19 Pascua 7 88% 1 13% 8 Cerro Casale 2 67% 1 33% 3 Alturas 3 38% 4 50% 1 13% 8 Dominican 3 19% 7 44% 6 38% 16 Republic Pueblo Viejo 3 19% 7 44% 6 38% 16 Peru 1 5% 19 86% 2 9% 22 Lagunas Norte 1 8% 10 83% 1 8% 12 Pierina 9 90% 1 10% 10 United States 35 95% 2 5% 37 Goldstrike 9 90% 1 10% 10 Cortez 9 90% 1 10% 10 Turquoise Ridge 9 100% 9 Golden Sunlight 8 100% 8 Zambia 5 50% 5 50% 10 Lumwana 5 50% 5 50% 10 170 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Employees LOCAL EMPLOYMENT All Employees Local Regional National Foreign National 2016 Total Barrick Total 5,709 1,908 3,267 321 11,205 51% 17% 29% 3% Argentina 213 942 199 21 1,375 15% 69% 14% 2% Veladero 212 936 193 19 1,360 (including San Juan) 16% 69% 14% 1% Lama 1 6 6 2 15 7% 40% 40% 13% Canada 476 208 63 747 64% 28% 8% Hemlo 476 22 1 499 95% 4% 0.20% Toronto 149 55 204 73% 327% Au Tec 37 7 44 84% 16% Chile 34 35 159 23 251 14% 14% 63% 9% Pascua 12 8 72 3 95 13% 8% 76% 3% Cerro Casale 2 1 3 67% 33% Alturas 20 27 19 5 71 28% 38% 27% 7% Santiago 67 15 82 82% 18% Dominican 764 1,214 105 2,083 Republic 37% 58% 5% Pueblo Viejo 764 1,214 105 2,083 37% 58% 5% Peru 137 353 800 5 1,295 11% 27% 62% 0.39% Lagunas Norte 108 237 421 2 768 14% 31% 55% 0.26% Pierina 29 116 298 1 444 7% 26% 67% 0.23% Lima 81 2 83 98% 2% 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 171 Employees United States 3,415 302 44 3,761 91% 8% 1% Nevada 3,370 302 44 3,716 91% 8% 1% Goldstrike 1,555 72 14 1,641 95% 4% 1% Cortez 1,190 72 6 1,268 94% 6% 0% Turquoise Ridge 505 11 1 517 98% 2% 0% Offices 120 147 23 290 41% 51% 8% Golden Sunlight 45 45 100% Zambia 670 370 593 60 1,693 40% 22% 35% 4% Lumwana 670 370 593 60 1,693 40% 22% 35% 4% 172 Barrick Gold Corporation 2016 GRI Content Index Employees EMPLOYEES BY GENDER AND EMPLOYMENT TYPE – 2016 Female Male Total Full-Time 1,175 9,072 10,247 11.5% 88.5% Part-Time 5 36 41 12.2% 87.8% Fixed term full-time 82 803 885 9.3% 90.7% Fixed term part-time 4 28 32 12.5% 87.5% Casual 0 0 0 0.0% 0.0% Barrick Total 1,266 9,939 11,205 EMPLOYEES Total % Gender % Minority Age Group % BY CATEGORY Group AND DIVERSITY Male Female <30 30-50 >50 – 2016 Executives 1.1% 87.5% 12.5% 2.5% 0.0% 50.8% 49.2% Management 4.5% 84.1% 15.9% 8.5% 1.0% 60.1% 38.7% Level Non94.5% 88.8% 11.2% 8.0% 17.6% 63.3% 19.2% Management Employees Total 100.0% 88.6% 11.4% 8.0% 17% 63% 20% RATIO MALE TO FEMALE SALARY – 2016 Barrick Total 0.94 Argentina 0.90 Canada 1.04 Chile 1.24 Dominican Republic 1.00 Peru 0.94 United States 1.07 Zambia 1.19 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER – 2016 Total employee turnover rate as a percentage of total employees 14.7% Voluntary employee turnover rate as a percentage of total employees 4.5% Total number of employees laid-off in the last fiscal year 159 EMPLOYEES RECEIVING PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS – 2016 Male Female Executives 100% 100% Managers 100% 100% Non-management employees N/A N/A 2016 GRI Content Index Barrick Gold Corporation 173 End Notes i This materiality standard, which is used as the basis of Barrick’s viii Biodiversity management requirements changed in late 2015 sustainability reporting, may differ from materiality Standards after the Pascua-Lama project was suspended. used by Barrick for other purposes, such as our securities reguix The areas known as “zone 0” and “zone 1” by UNOPS correlatory filings and financial reporting. spond to the Upper Basin and the Potrerillos Valley (within the ii Barrick defines “Senior Management” as the Mine General project), while the so-called “zone 2”, “zone 3” and “zone 4” Manager and their direct reports. are outside of the project area and downstream. iii An agreed definition of “local” is established with input from x Low-value transactions, non-repetitive transactions in lowstakeholders. In general, it refers to the nearby communities risk areas, and some transactions with local suppliers will not most impacted by the presence of a mine. undergo the same rigor as those suppliers being fully certified. iv Of the joint-venture operations in which Barrick has a signifixi World Check is a database that is used to help to identify cant stake but does not operate, both Porgera and KCGM are and manage financial, regulatory and reputational risk. World Cyanide Code Certified; the Jabal Sayid and Zaldivar JVs are Check research identifies hidden risk, and reveals connections copper mines and do not use cyanide. and associations between illicit parties, to provide a comprehensive view of risk across the global financial crime landscape. v A new project is defined as a project which has not entered pre-feasibility as of January 1st, 2016 xii The TRAC system captures a range of due-diligence/compliance information submitted online by applicant suppliers. This vi A major wildlife mortality is an event in which five or more information is then screened against international watch lists wildlife mortalities occur due to a single unwanted event or and verified to help meet anti-bribery compliance regulations, a single mortality occurs five or more times during a calendar as well as compliance with emerging cross-border government year due to mine-related circumstances that are similar. regulations, conflict minerals reporting requirements, anti-monvii The criteria we used to establish the need for a biodiversity ey laundering laws and forced-labor trafficking laws. management plan was proximity to a protected area and the presence of more than ten IUCN threatened species as determined by high-level corporate risk assessments using tools such as the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool, rather than individual site impact analyses.
