COP – Communication On Progress in ATTIKI ODOS SA 2016 Attiki Odos S.A. complies with the ELLAKTOR GROUP S.A. Code of Conduct, which was approved in July 2016 by the Board of Directors. Based on the Code of Conduct, the Group promotes and encourages behaviors based on the best principles of business ethics, as well as on the 10 principles of UN Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human rights, of labor conditions, of the environment and the fight against corruption. In the context of strengthening ethical behavior and principles, the Group’s and its subsidiaries’ Ethical and Regulatory Compliance Program was approved for implementation. Attiki Odos SA publishes its environmental, social and business performance through its Sustainable Reports. Since 2010, Attiki Odos issues its annual Sustainable Report based on the criteria and requirements of UN Global Compact (UNGC) – GRI3 and all the reports are published in Attiki Odos’ website www.aodos.gr The Report of 2016 will be published on the company’s website next month. Through the publication of the Sustainable Reports, a continuous contact with the stakeholders is pursued, aiming at the information about subjects relative to the environment, the human-employee and the financial development. Attiki Odos’ performances are reported in every annual Sustainability Report, including the actions of adopting and implementing the 10 Principles of UN Global Compact (UNGC) and every commitment against these Principles. Therefore, concerning the actions taken to support and implement the 10 UNGC Principles, the company demonstrates continuous improvement in labor and social issues, while regarding environmental issues, the level of environmental performance is the highest possible and our aim is to maintain such high level of performance. Especially concerning:  Acceptance of human rights and their violation, as reported in UNGC Principles 1 and 2, Attiki Odos has adopted the human rights requirements and ensures that they are not violated, while equal opportunities are given to the employees.  Discrimination in employment, child and forced labor prohibition, as mentioned in UNGC Principles 4, 5 and 6, Attiki Odos prohibits child labor, every forced labor and discrimination in employment.  Attiki Odos’ employment is based on the Greek national labor Legislation.  Initiatives for the encouragement of further environmental responsibility, as mentioned in UNGC Principles 7, 8 and 9, Attiki Odos implements an ISO14001 certified Environmental Management System and publishes the environmental actions and benefits in the Sustainability Report. There is a complete monitoring procedure of the environmental parameters of the motorway operation and the road activities based on the Environmental Management System and mainly on Attiki Odos’ Environmental Policy. The Environmental Department monitors, controls, records and manages all the environmental parameters and publishes the annual results of the environmental performance to the interested parties. Attiki Odos issues an annual Waste Management Report and submits it to the Electronic Waste Registry of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. The target and the result of the above, is the protection of the environment in a permanent and continuous basis. Leonidas Bobolas Managing Director ATTIKI ODOS SA Athens October 2017
