F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2016 Sustainability Report Big Data, the Blueprint of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 1 ABOUT THE COVER The hexagon is a shape that naturally occurs in nature, specifically in the honeycomb found in beehives. The honeycomb is often associated with hard work, organization and efficiency as demonstrated by the worker bees. The creation of the honeycomb entails a process called “tessellation”, or the arranging of polygons in a manner where they are closely fitted together. This results to patterns without gaps, which means no unused space. For bees, tessellation ensures that space inside the hive is maximized and that there are no wasted resources. From a data standpoint, the hexagonal cells also symbolize data and how its abundance and interconnectedness ultimately creates “Big Data”. With Big Data as the foundation, the honeycomb-like structure serves as the blueprint for achieving the SDGs, and through the use of informed decisions and the efficient use of resources, no gaps are created in the pursuit of sustainable development. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT THE COVER 2 ABOUT THE COVER 2 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 4 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT 6 Rationale 6 Highlights of Year 2016 6 Reporting Principles and Framework 7 Scope and Limitations 8 Development 8 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 9 Company Profile 9-10 Vision, Mission and Values 11 Ownership 12 Advocacy, Certifications and Recognitions 12-15 Product and Services 16 Corporate Governance & Compliance 17-20 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 21 Business & Controls 22-23 Risk Management 24-26 Compliance 27 Internal Audit 28 Issue Management 28 ECONOMIC 29 Conformance to Labor Laws 29 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 29 Procurement Practices 30 Local Supply Allocation 30 Vendor/Supplier Accreditation and Evaluation 30 Stable Revenue 30 ENVIRONMENTAL 31 Supply Chain 31 Sustainability Programs 31-33 Compliance with Environmental Regulations 34 Advocacies and Partnerships 34 SOCIAL 35 Employment 35-36 Employee Engagement and Development 36 Community Initiatives 37 Customer Satisfaction 38 Compliance with Data Privacy, Security and Storage 38 Annex A. United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles Index 39 Annex B. Global Reporting Initiative 2016 Standards Index 40-43 Annex C. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement 44-89 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I CONTENTS 3 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY The third annual sustainability report of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions covers the fiscal year 2016. This report revolves on the progress made in pursuing the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, centered on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. The initiatives, mechanisms, and best practices applied by the Company over the past year are presented based on specific referenced economic, environmental, and social material topics, as cited in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2016 Standards. The programs and operation of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions in 2016 are aligned with its vision of leading the private sector towards sustainable development through innovative platforms, tools, strategies, and techniques, with big data as the blueprint in advancing the SDGs. In 2016, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has increased collaboration with multilateral stakeholders and foundations that promote the SDGs. Jim Donovan, the Chairman of the Company, has partnered with United Nation’s Environment Programme and My Shelter Foundation in integrating innovation and sustainability. The Company consistently produces scalable products and strategies that encourage best practices in optimizing the business operation and maintaining compliance of its clients. Together with its transparent, reliable, and socially compliant operation, the Company has made a mark in the industry as reflected in a stable revenue this year. Through its sustainability programs, the Company has reduced its electricity consumption, minimized the increment in water usage, and managed to generate minimal wastes that are within the regulatory requirements. With cohesive and comprehensive procedures and systems in place, the Company monitors its compliance with the labor laws and anti-corruption practices, and conformance to international standards on quality, environmental management, information system management, and trade. Therefore, no grave issues, noncompliance and violation against the significant operational, social, environmental, and trade laws have been reported over the past year. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions reshapes the landscape of business technology by anchoring on the capacity of information system to propel sustainable development. The Company integrates into its systems and operation the principles of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, thus simultaneously addressing the current challenges of SDGs. Through the creation of innovative products and strategies that harness the potential of big data, the Company aids its clients in establishing a blueprint to maximize resources, improve business operation, and realize their vision towards sustainability. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT THE COVER 4 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE Dear Fellow Stakeholders: We are pleased to present this third annual sustainability report for fiscal year 2016. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has consistently pursued its vision of creating economically viable sustainable solutions to aid organizations improve their performance, compliance, and operation, driving sustainable development at the forefront. This report evaluates the progress of the Company for the past year in light of the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles centered on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In 2016, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has revolved on the context of utilizing big data as a blueprint for advancing the Sustainable Development Goals in response to the United Nations’ Agenda 2030. With the rising trend on data revolution, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has continuously developed technologies and systems as well as established a network of partners to build enabling platforms towards responsible, efficient, and sustainable business. Coupled with years of expertise on data management and sustainability, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has created solutions allowing the adoption of best practices for bridging the evolving gaps in meeting the SDGs. Its innovative products such as the Sustainability WorkBench – a robust and scalable software-as-service have changed the way organizations do their business. We believe that by guiding our clients on the various aspects of sustainability and equipping them with the right blend of technology solutions to access information, they can make smarter decisions and take better actions toward sustainable development. As we live in a growing disruptive innovative economy, we need to encourage a paradigm shift among organizations – from product-centered to process-oriented. By building an intricate system of knowledge and providing a platform for the translation of the conventional and technology-sourced data, we can develop a roadmap on how business should be conducted and reshape the approach in reaching for the shared vision on sustainable development. We can mold the future of SDGs by leveraging on the potential of big data as a blueprint. James M. Donovan Chairman F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 5 ABOUT THE REPORT • The progress made in improving and implementing the Rationale human rights, labor, environmental and anti-corruption policies and management over the past year; and The F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions encourages sustainable business practices and responsible growth through • The evaluation of the products and services of F-I-R-S-T technology-enabled and data management solutions, Carbon Solutions, anchoring on big data as the blueprint leveraging on its years of expertise in aiding organizations of SDGs. improve environmental performance and compliance. With this vision, the Company partners with multilateral stakeholders to foster sustainable development in the Highlights of Year 2016 business arena. Since year 2014, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has been a member of the United Nations In 2016, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has strengthened Global Compact (UNGC), a global movement of the United its position on sustainable development through Nations that supports the private sector in advancing the collaborations with multilateral stakeholders and sustainable development goals (SDGs) by helping them foundations. While exercising its knowledge on data align their business operation with the Ten Principles management and solutions, the Company has developed on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. significant contribution in utilizing big data to address As part of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ commitment the concerns enveloping the achievement of the SDGs. on sustainable development, the Company monitors Various engagements have transpired including the its business operation and communicates its progress appointment of James Donovan as one of the lead authors through an annual sustainability report. for the General Outlook for the Environment (GEO) 6, and the accreditation of ADEC Foundation, Inc., the affiliated This Sustainability Report is the third–issued Communication non-profit organization of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions, as on Progress (COP) which covers the 2016 fiscal year. The a member of UNEP’s stakeholder group. The partnership content includes an overview and assessment of the three of its parent company, the ADEC Innovations, and My sustainability pillars: economic, environmental, and social Shelter Foundation for the Liter of Light Project was programs. The objectives of the F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions also launched last year, with the aim of augmenting Sustainability Report for 2016 include: power shortage by providing a sustainable source of electricity in the poor rural areas in the Philippines. • The assessment of the Company’s business operation These partnerships highlight the sustainability efforts in comparison with the previous years, including the of the Company in 2016. identification of any significant impacts to economy, environment and society; F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT THE REPORT 6 This sustainability report serves as the Communication on Reporting Principles and Framework Progress (COP), providing a self-assessment classified as GC Active level, as per requirements of the UNGC Policy. UNGC Ten Principles The minimum requirements and information covered in this report include an expression of support from the chief The F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions aligns its operation with executive of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions, disclosure of the the Ten Principles of UNGC governing the facets of human management approach, actions, programs and systems rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. This report applied in the realm of the four areas covered by the Ten presents the progress of the Company in fostering these Principles, and an evaluation of the measured outcomes. A four elements within the sphere of economic, environmental table mapping the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global and social programs. In unity with the other members of Compact is annexed to this report as a reference (Annex A). UNGC, the Company leverages on the potential of big data in advancing the SDGs. GRI Reporting Guidelines The F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2016 Sustainability Report references the 2016 GRI Standards for the communication and THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT disclosure of specific information related to the material topics on economy, environment, and society. To provide a reasonable assessment of the overall performance of the Company during the past year, the report observes the Reporting Principles for HUMAN RIGHTS defining the quality of the GRI Standards: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Accuracy. The data obtained from each organization are validated prior to reporting, ensuring the integrity of the information and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human reliability of the measurements and methods applied. rights abuses. • Balance. Contents are presented in an unbiased manner, LABOUR accounting both the positive aspects of the business, as well as the areas that need improvement and the operational risks Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association involved. and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Clarity. Information are organized in a comprehensible form, Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; disclosing the business management risks and controls on a level that can be well-understood by stakeholders and simplifying the Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and presentation of the materiality topics economic, environmental, Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of and social. employment and occupation. • Comparability. Current performance is compared with the outcome of the previous years, reflecting the trend in employment, ENVIRONMENT utility consumption, and other factors of operation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Reliability. The report is circulated to the management and concerned organizations for review, allowing successive internal Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental and external scrutiny prior to publishing. responsibility; and • Timeliness. The Company is consistent in communicating its Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of progress and submitting the requirements in a timely manner, environmentally friendly technologies. with this report covering the 2016 fiscal year. ANTI-CORRUPTION A matrix summary of the 2016 GRI Standards on Management Approach and specific materiality topics on the economic, Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its environmental, and social impacts, and the corresponding forms, including extortion and bribery. response and information for each disclosure is attached as Annex B. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT THE REPORT 7 ABOUT THE REPORT Scope and Limitations This Sustainability Report presents an assessment of the Company’s progress and performance over the year 2016 period, focusing on the impacts and contributions made in the economic, environmental, and social dimensions of sustainable development. The details and information provided in this report cover only the operation of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions in the Philippines, and excludes other offices or global network in other countries. Development In continuity with the previously released report, the materiality topics in 2015 have mostly been adopted in this F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2016 Sustainability Report, with additional information on the anti-corruption policies, procurement practices, and local supply allocation of the Company. The progress of the Company, its impacts and contributions to sustainable development have revolved on the three elements of sustainability economic, environmental, and social. The report highlights the best practices of the company and will use the performance of the previous years (2014 & 2015) as benchmark to derive a feasible criteria for evaluation. The Company valued the inputs from the stakeholders including the leads of organizational entities. Information and data obtained from the various finance, purchasing, human resource, legal, internal audit, research and development, compliance office, facilities group and operation team were consolidated to convey a cohesive outlook of the Company’s operation. The covered topics in this report address the Ten Principles of the UNGC. The financial statement of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is presented as Annex C, reflecting the stability and growth of the Company over the past year. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT THE REPORT 8 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS Energy Monitoring and Management Software Company Profile F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions addresses the regulatory F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Corporation, incorporated requirements, reporting and corporate sustainability in the Philippines, is a global provider of sustainability initiatives of its clients through innovative software business solutions through consulting and energy and solutions. The automated energy, sustainability and supply environmental data management, that improves the chain programs provide cost-effective measures that lead to growth, operations and environmental performance of an optimized business operation. Clients are equipped with organizations. monitoring equipment and programs to measure their utility consumption, sustainability metrics, and other operational parameters. Who We Are Reprographics F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is a leading energy management, sustainability and supply chains solutions consultant for F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has a pool of the best technical business and industry. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions shares people ranging from word processors, editors, graphic the best sustainable practices to improve the financial, artists, to specialists that deliver a well-integrated social and environmental performance of businesses and reprographic solutions, supporting the project and organizations across the world. Through its wide spectrum compliance goals of clients. The Company utilizes various of consulting services, data management and software high quality techniques and advanced technologies to reduce solutions, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions aims to aid its the project’s reproduction and overhead costs. Powerful partner clients optimize time, resources and reduce costs, software solutions include geographic information services, address environmental impacts and heighten operational use of the latest Window version, Ricoh systems, and CAD efficiencies. The Company ensures that the environmental applications. and compliance challenges of the business, industry, non-profit organizations and public sector are addressed. Data Processing Services The effective data processing and management system What We Do of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions caters to the back-office requirements and data-extensive activities of its clients. By streamlining data processing with the world-class expertise F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions provides an array of target-based of the Company, the most comprehensive solutions are solutions through consulting, software development, provided which include transaction data administration, reprographics and processing services. document management, data system conversion, rebate processing and utility processing. The Company has Sustainability, Environmental and Energy Consulting developed tools such as the Sustainability Workbench for data consolidation and data analysis. With over 30 years of experience, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions empowers business with strategies and technologies including expertise on sustainability to ensure efficient operation and compliance. Consulting services include the following: • Business Case Development • Program Design • Business Intelligence & Management • Due Diligence • Resource Use Analysis • Energy Management • Site Assessments • Environmental Impacts • Strategy Deployment • Market & Regulatory • Sustainability and Compliance Environmental Management • Performance Management F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 9 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS Where We Work F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is registered in the Philippines, with a total of 13 offices and global networks in North America, Europe, Africa, Australia and Asia. This Sustainability Report covers information related to the operations of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions in the Philippines only. Philippines (Principal Business) 26th Floor, Philippine AXA Life Centre Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue, Makati City How We Started F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions had its humble beginning as a back-office support to companies wanting to improve their business scale and operation, and optimize resources. In response to the growing need on carbon management, ADEC Group established F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions in 2008 to aid the private sector, governments, and organzations in managing their greenhouse gas emissions. Since then, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has expanded its pool of environmental consultants to provide multiple sustainability programs, energy efficient measures, and supply chain solutions. In 2010, the Company expanded its operation globally and started offering comprehensive software solutions. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions partnered with CDP as a Supply Chain Scorer, working with corporations in addressing the impacts of climate change across the supply chain. With the support of its partners, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has continuously revolutionized the surface of sustainability. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 10 Vision, Mission, and Values F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is a global leader in Environmental, Social and Governance solutions. In pursuit of its vision, the Company empowers its clients to create better decisions by providing innovation platforms, advancing sustainable business practices, helping organizations achieve a responsible growth, and challenging the market towards data transparency and accountability. With a high level of corporate standards and strong affiliations, the Company introduces technological breakthroughs that drive sustainable development at the forefront of businesses across the globe. MISSION VISION To co-create innovative sustainability business We empower better decisions. solutions worldwide. Core Values F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions business is anchored on the CERTIC core values. With a high level of corporate standards, strong multilateral affiliations and business founded on values and quality service, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions develops the most feasible innovations that address the Environmental, Social and Governance requirements of its clients across the globe. C Customer Focus Continuously understanding the unique needs of our clients, enabling us to deliver unparalleled customer solutions through our world-class services. E Excellence Being dynamic, innovative and passionate for learning, fueling our relentless pursuit to achieve the highest levels of standards in everything we do. R Respect Treating stakeholders, clients, employees, suppliers and community with courtesy and compassion. T Teamwork Proactively working together and being accountable to each other to achieve our goals. I Integrity Advocating honesty in our workplace by doing the right thing even when no one is looking. C Commitment Making things happen by creatively maximizing our resources to ensure each other’s success. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 11 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS Ownership Cooperation (UNOSSC) in gathering the business leaders for the establishment of the Global CEO Alliance (GCEOA). The F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is sixty percent-owned by GCEOA was launched in the last quarter of 2016 to bring the REDECS Green Holdings Corporation, a business entity private sectors, institutions and multilateral organizations registered in the Philippines that is engaged in property together towards championing the SDGs, with the Alliance disposal. The other forty percent is equally shared by ADEC as the knowledge and technology exchange platform. Still Solutions, Ltd. and JICA BPO Holdings Ltd. on strengthening partnerships, ADEC Innovations joined the Asian Institute of Management (AIM) in developing a Public F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions accepts trickle financial support Private Partnership (PPP) Research Laboratory. from private organizations, and none from the government. Recent collaborations include the appointment of James Donovan as one of the Coordinator Lead Authors on the Environmental State and Trends and Policy Effectiveness chapters for UNEP’s GEO-6, and the accreditation of ADEC Foundation, a non-profit organization of ADEC Innovations, as part of the United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA) Stakeholders Group. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is associated with advocacies related to business, green building, healthcare, and information technology through affiliations with local and international organizations. Advocacy, Certifications and Recognitions Associations, Affiliations & Partnerships ADEC Innovations, the parent company of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions, has shown leadership in various multilateral engagements, particularly in the field of big data and innovation. In 2015, James Donovan, the Chairman of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions, started leading the Assessment Methodologies, Data and Information Working Group for the Global Environment Outlook 6 (GEO-6) of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). To strengthen the role of private sector in addressing sustainable development, Mr. Donovan became a part of the Business Advisory Board of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE). Within the same year, ADEC Innovations partnered with the United Nations Office for South-South F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 12 Under the ADEC Innovations group of companies, F-I-R-S-T ASSOCIATION STATUS Carbon Solutions has strengthened its partnerships with OR AFFILIATION other consultancy and software engineering companies over the past years, providing value-added services and *One of CDP’s scoring catering to the requirements of the clients on environmental CDP (formerly Carbon partners and go-to management and compliance, carbon and energy Disclosure Project) solutions provider management, and supply chain solutions. British Chamber of Commerce Philippines Active Partner (BCCP) Australian-New Zealand Active Partner Chamber of Commerce Climate change Third party audit American Chamber Active Partner of Commerce Sustainable business Energy Efficiency Australia Philippines Active Partner Business Council Healthcare Information Management Active Partner Outsourcing Association of the Philippines Energy, economic Third party audit & ecological IT & Business Process Association Philippines Active Partner United Nations Environment Active Partner Assembly (UNEA) Stakeholders Group Sustainability management F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 13 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS Management Systems F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions ensures excellence, consistency and quality in providing the optimum process, system, security, and standard to its clients. In recognition of the Company’s resilience, it has received certifications and licenses from industries and global certifying bodies through its affiliate company, AMDATEX. CDP Accredited Provider • Global scoring partner for supply chain since 2011 • Scoring partner for investor programs since 2012 • Climate and water related strategy and action • Gold Consultancy Partner across all countries of operation • Silver Software Partner • Response Check Consultant Information Security Management Systems (ISMS) (ISO/ IEC 27001:2013) • Data receipt and downloading • Data research, evaluation, analysis, and abstracting • Data conversion and entry, and data uploading GSA Contract for F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions ghgTrackTM • License for FirstCarbon Solutions ghgTrack ™ and the software implementation • Bug fixes, upgrades to functionality and usability • Customer service • Software Maintenance as a Service Sedex Member Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) assessed • Supplier ethical data exchange • Responsible sourcing data on supply chains Environmental Management System (EMS) (ISO 14001:2004) • Identification and analysis of environmental aspects • Establishment of objectives, targets, and programs • Management and reduction of environmental impacts • Compliance to applicable legal and environmental regulatory requirements Quality Management System (QMS) (ISO 9001:2008) • For the provision of global business process outsourcing services • Continuous improvement GSA Contract for Consulting Services • Advice, assistance, guidance or counseling on energy related projects • Assistance to agencies in adhering to energy legislation and policy F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 14 Awards and Recognitions F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions and its parent and sister companies have been recognized for their relentless leadership, sustainable business operations, environmental initiatives, and innovation efforts. Year 2016 • F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ CEO, James M. Donovan, recognized as the JLL Expatriate Executive of the Year at the Asia CEO Awards Year 2014 • ADEC Innovations, the parent company of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions, won in the Business Responsibility & Ethics category and received a special citation in the “Energy Management” category at the 1st Sustainable Business Awards Philippines. • F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ affiliate technology company, the Envirosite Corporation, bagged the Oracle Technology Company of the Year Award at the Asia CEO Awards. • F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ CEO, James M. Donovan, received the South-South and Triangular Cooperation Visionary Award from the United Nations Office for South-South Cooperation at the Global South-South Development Expo held in Washington DC. Year 2013 • F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ CEO, James M. Donovan, along with Carol S. Esguerra, received the Executive Leadership Team of the Year Award at the Asia CEO Awards. Year 2011 • F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions won the “Most Innovative Company of the Year” at the 5th ICT International Awards Philippines. Year 2010 • F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions won the Best Eco-Industrial Service at the 2010 Philippine International EcoShow Awards Since 2015, ADEC Innovations, the parent company of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions, has been giving recognition to companies for their valued commitment to sustainability in the Asia CEO Awards held annually. In 2016, ADEC Innovations presented The Asia CEO’s Green Company of the Year award to Imperial Homes Corporation for having demonstrated strong leadership and excellence in the field of sustainability and environmental protection. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 15 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS Product and Services Globally Accessible Information System and Technology Platform Sustainability Workbench (SWB) is a software-as-aservice (SaaS) technology platform containing a suite of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) applications that measures carbon footprint, provides information on the impacts of business operation, and manages data. Its highly scalable and customizable feature maximizes resource use, reduces operational costs and improves sustainability performance. Integrated Software and Data Bureau Supply-LINK™ platform is a data supply system that has consolidated operational and personnel information sourced from retail brands, suppliers and factory managers by the data bureaus. Verified data serve as benchmarks for industries and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Supply-LINK™ monitors the quality of supply, water and energy consumption, waste generated, staff performance, and other key elements in the supply chain. Large Scale Business and Knowledge Processing FCS is the sole CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project) scoring Gold partner for the global Supply Chain program since 2011, as well as for the S&P 500, FTSE 350, Canada and Benelux, India, Southeast Asia, and Nordic regions. FCS has evaluated more than 11,000 disclosures and responses against the CDP methodology, and has established a database and standard dashboard which are accessible 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 16 Corporate Governance & Compliance Governance Structure & Directors F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is led by the Board of Directors, and the core business managed by the four committees. The Chief Executive Officer, with the assistance of the Senior Management, ensures harmony in the operations. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ Board Structure F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 17 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS Board of Directors The Board of Directors ensures that the business is aligned with the corporate vision, values and goals; oversees the general welfare of the Company; and maintains its competitive edge in the market. This independent body conducts a regular scrutiny and tracks the progress of the Management’s operation. The Board secures the internal control mechanisms in order to retain good governance and inculcate a culture of excellence while propelling the Company’s sustainable growth. The Board observes the process for the selection of highly qualified and competent leaders, and adheres to an inclusive participatory plan. Together with the Management, the Board holds an annual review of the business operation and develops a comprehensive strategic plan. JAMES M. DONOVAN CAROLINA S. ESGUERRA CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER AND DIRECTOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Ms. Esguerra is concurrently the Chief Financial Officer Mr. Donovan was elected as Chairman of the Board in 2013. and Director of REDECS Green Holdings Corporation, JICA He is concurrently the CEO of ADEC Innovations and likewise, BPO Holdings Limited and ADEC Innovations. She is also the President and Co-founder of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions a co-founder of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions in the USA, in USA, Australia, and the United Kingdom. He also worked Australia and the United Kingdom. as Vice President of Lehman Brothers Investment Bank Ltd. from 1989-1991 and Vice President of Daiwa Securities from 1993-1996. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 18 VICENTE P. REVENTAR III DONALD R. FELBAUM DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Mr. Reventar has been a Director of the Company since Mr. Felbaum was elected as an Independent Director 2011, and concurrently, the Chairman of the Department of the Company in 2012. He is also an Independent Director of Quantitative Management and Information Technology at of Merlin Philippines, Blue Cross Philippines, SPi Global and John Gokongwei School of Management, Ateneo de Manila Integra Business Processing Solutions Inc, and the Managing University, where he has been a faculty member for almost Director of OPTEL Ltd. He is also the Vice President 40 years. He was the President of SVI Technologies from of PAMURI and an Ex-Officio of AMCHAM. 1997 to 2003 and served as Senior Vice President for the Home Development Mutual Fund from 1981 to 1996. SHERWIN JOHN Y. LIM INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR JOSE RENATO T. BADELLES DIRECTOR Mr. Lim was elected as an Independent Director of the Company in 2012. He is concurrently the President of Asian Mr. Badelles is a Director of the company and is the Bonded Customs Warehouse Corporation. Previously, he President and Director of AMDATEX Las Piñas Services, Inc., was a Director of Taiga Building Products. and AMDATEX Services Corp. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 19 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS Board Committees Executive Committee The executive committee approves high-level decisions in the Company, as the need arises. The Board of Director convenes the executive committee and establishes the procedures from which the committee is created. The executive committee may act upon specific matters concerning the Company by casting a majority vote, as vested by the corporate By-Laws and within the boundaries specified by the Corporation Code of the Philippines. Nomination, Election and Governance Committee The nomination, election and governance committee evaluates the Board’s electoral and appointment processes. The committee assesses the qualifications of the persons nominated and appointed by the Board, and addresses any potential conflict of interest in line with the appointment. Members of this committee establish the performance evaluation mechanism, and provide the leadership programs and education to the members before assuming office. Remuneration Committee The remuneration committee develops the remuneration package policy for directors and officers, with utmost transparency. The Chairman of the Board and two directors of the committee ensure that the procedure is dealt with transparency and is commensurate to the credentials and performance of the managers. The remuneration package for the Chairman of the Board is reviewed by a committee composed of two directors and headed by the Vice Chairman. Audit and Risk Committee The audit and risk committee assesses the oversight on financial, internal control system, audit, and monitoring of compliance based on applicable laws and regulations. This committee is composed of reliable experts and practitioners from different fields including accounting, audit, finance and legal who assess the vulnerability of the Company to risks and other project engagements. Due diligence of the operation and projects is conducted to maintain continuous compliance to environmental, information, and management guidelines set by the accreditation bodies. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 20 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION The Management supervises the organizational entities’ operation including the implementation of the business and controls, risk management, compliance, internal audit, and improvement management procedures. The Company’s business operation and vulnerability to risks are evaluated internally by the executives and externally by third party auditors. Organizational System F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 21 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION Business & Controls F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions delivers the highest quality service and product through its management-controlled operation and inclusive participatory approach. The senior management of each organizational entity ensures that the procedures are well-followed and implemented, while practicing innovation in their processes. The product and management flow starts by (1) evaluating the requirements of the client through consultation; (2) tapping the necessary manpower, applications, systems, and trainings to materialize the requirements; (3) transforming the needs and expectations of the clients into a comprehensive, tangible, and interactive platform; and (4) monitoring the performance and progress for the longterm growth of the client’s business. The Company regulates and maintains the product and service flow through strategic plans. Process and Management Flow F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 22 The products and services offered by the Company go through a continuous development cycle, called the Project Lifecycle Management, wherein the product undergoes five phases to improve its quality. This project delivery framework gives importance to the objectives and expectations of the client. It includes a cohesive platform that weaves the functional efforts of the project team and the interface of departments and entities, thus adding value to the services and products delivered to the client. Project Lifecycle Management F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions maintains the quality of its business operation and scrutinizes the process of delivering the best to its clients through the Performance Management, Improvement and Monitoring Systems. The Company confirms the conformance of its product to quality standards using specific key performance metrics. A client feedback mechanism including an online survey is conducted to assess client satisfaction, ensuring that expectations are met and any performance gaps are acted on. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions regularly audits its internal procedures and conformance to the Quality, Environmental and Information Security Management System. As part of the company’s operational enhancement efforts, a performance evaluation mechanism is in place to advance opportunities for improved product development and service delivery, as well as to address non-conformance issues. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 23 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION Risk Management Transparency through Relations Investor Relations F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions engages with the stockholders and investors during the Annual General Meeting. Together with the Board, stockholders convene to participate in the ratification of appointments, actions, policies, and statements including financials and remuneration packages. The annual gathering promotes transparency and encourages visibility among stockholders. Media Relations The Company has established a good reputation among its clients, customers, and stakeholders with the aid of media. The Company recognizes the significant role of media in promoting transparency and accountability. The Management optimizes the potential of media as a conduit of information by sending out at least two exposures a month and conducting media rounds. Risk Management An annual risk assessment is conducted based on the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 31000:2009 – Risk Management Standard framework in all offices of ADEC Innovations including the F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions, the Management, and the Board. ISO 31000:2009 Risk Management Standard Framework F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 24 Business Risks Internal Control Mechanism against Risks The identified risks over the previous reporting years Each of the leaders below have a significant role in (2014 to 2016) include the following: establishing the F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ internal control environment: • Foreign currency risk – Exposure of the company to currency exchange rates and the risk of translating foreign-currency • Board oversees the management and supervision of the financial assets into Philippine pesos are up as primary company. transactions are carried out overseas in the United States, New Zealand, and Australia. • Management directly manages and operates the organizational entities. • Interest rate risk – This risk is not material. There is no existing financial instrument subjected to floating interest • Management information and risk management reporting rate except cash in banks. systems support the organizational and procedural mechanisms. • Liquidity risk – Cash outflows monitored on a day-to-day and week-to-week basis, and a 30-day projection, while • Independent audit party monitors and evaluates the long-term liquidity needs for six months and one year are effectiveness and efficiency of the company’s operations. identified monthly. • Credit risk – Risk that a counterparty may fail to discharge, caused by granting of advances and recognition of receivables. • Business continuity during natural disasters and man-made events – The vulnerability of the headquarter office in the Philippines to natural disasters poses risks to the operation of the company. A Business Continuity Management Plan has been created to equip the company with business continuity measures should an emergency or disaster occur. This is to aid the resumption of the business activities during calamity or natural unforeseen events. • Technology risks – Arising competition against technological trends in terms of mobility, computing, processing and big data analysis. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions develops innovative solutions, services and more advanced processes to negate the risk to profitable growth. • Information security risks – Data security and breaches may disrupt F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ system. The Company is liable for any issues on security and transmission of information from client to the system. Risk of unauthorized disclosure of information may result in negative publicity, law suits, penalties and other business damages. A separate department primarily focused on COSO Enterprise Risk Management Framework Data and Information Security is in place to ensure that mitigating measures are in place for these types of risks. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 25 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION As the executives of the Company, the Board oversees the internal control mechanisms. Members of the Board decide on major issues, select and ratify the appointment of the CEO and senior managers, and review the policies and programs for the employees. The Chief Internal Auditor leads the internal audit committee in establishing the Company’s organizational and operation controls, and in making sure that all offices adhere to the international standards as set in the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing and in accordance to the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission (COSO) framework. The internal control system has three lines of defense against risks. The first line includes the internal controls, information technology and application controls which are handled by the operations manager using the identification, assessment, control, and risk mitigation mechanisms. Management of risks starts from the bottom line consisting of the business units and ascends to the centralized processes such as products and legal entities. Risks are also controlled across the organizational hierarchy. The second line of defense involves the identification and evaluation of any risk and compliance oversight by the operations management through the implementation of the risk management practices. Compliance and controllership functions are in place to scrutinize the Company’s vulnerability to risks including non-compliance to applicable laws, and to regulate financial risks and reporting issues. The Internal Audit Department is an independent body that conducts the last line of defense against risks. This committee mitigates and addresses the identified risks, ensures the quality of governance within the Company, and dissects the risk management and internal controls based on the highest level of independence and objectivity. Three-Line Defense Mechanism Improvement Management System F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions promotes transparency, accountability, and open communication across all levels of the organization. The Improvement Management System (IMS) is the communication platform used by the employees to elevate their concerns to the Management. This channel also serves as a grievance tool to air issues on, but not limited to, fraud, information and infrastructure security, and other auditable matters. The communicated concerns of employees online, via telephone, and email or post are monitored by an independent body. The matter is resolved or escalated depending on the gravity of the subject and level of office of the complainant. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 26 Compliance F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has access to certifications of its affiliate company, AMDATEX, which has been recognized for its comprehensive procedures and innovative system on environmental management, information security, quality management, and ethical trade. The Company remains compliant to local and international standards and laws on environment, social, and data security. ISO 14001:2004, Environmental Management System (EMS) The Environmental Management System (EMS) aims to advance environmental protection through the optimum use of resources, promotion of best practices, energy conservation, and waste management, in accordance to international standards (ISO 14001:2004). The perceived environmental impacts of each activities and organizations are identified, monitored, controlled, and regularly evaluated, at least once a year. The business operation including the creation of products, delivery of services, outputs of engagement with suppliers and clients, and activities across the organization are assessed in terms of environmental compliance, particularly their contribution to energy and water consumption, and waste generation. The Company has a designated Pollution Officer to monitor compliance to environmental laws, policies, and regulations. Employees are also encouraged to join the Company’s efforts towards sustainable development by participating in environmental initiatives such as tree planting and mindful usage of utilities. ISO/IEC 27001:2013, Information Security Management Systems (ISMS) The Information Security Management System (ISMS) minimizes the risk of business and information assets from security threats caused by unauthorized access, use, and disclosure. The ISMS covers the Company’s services, research, communication, administration, and applications. Because the integrity and confidentiality of information is at the core of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions, the Company conforms to the International Organization for Standardization and the International Electrotechnical Commission 27001:2013 requirements as well as the regulations and legislations on data storage, security and privacy. An annual audit is held to prevent any security breaches and reduce operational risks. The Company has established risk and business continuity management measures, campaigns and trainings, and systematized access control to information to regulate the secured flow of information. ISO 9001:2008, Quality Management System (QMS) The Quality Management System (QMS) harmonizes the operation of the Company to ensure quality output and service to clients, with the system anchored on customer satisfaction and based on the international standards (ISO 9001:2008). As part of its commitment, the F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions observes the established quality policy and objectives, conducts management reviews, sets the strategic action plans, and optimizes the allocation of resources. The Company also organizes a Quality Management Training to raise awareness among its employees on the value of quality management, and initiates Quality Programs for Operations. The organizations also participate in the review of the documents and collaborate internally to respond to the identified issues on quality and continuously improve the processes. Sedex Member Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) Sedex Member Ethical Trade Audit is not a certification, but an audit procedure highlighting ethical audit and good trade practices. Following this procedure generates high-quality output that is acceptable to retailers and trading corporations. While still observing the local law on trading, the Sedex Member Ethical Trade Audit has integrated the principles of health and safety, labor standards, environment, and business ethics in the initiative code in order to create an effective F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 27 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION Internal Audit Issue Management The Internal Auditors of the F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions addresses any non-conformity maintain the check and balance through activities through the Issue Management System and Procedure, encompassing human relations, confidentiality, values, relying on the expertise of its personnel, stable system, and proficiency, and supervision requirements. The team flexible resources. The Issue Management System is an regularly monitors the performance across the organization interactive platform that receives, stores, and monitors the to ensure compliance to policies and regulations based issues, concerns, and complaints raised by the employees. on the International Professional Practices Framework The concerns are forwarded to the corresponding that contains the mandatory guidelines from the Institute organization and Management Team involved, for further of Internal Auditors. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions evaluates evaluation and resolution. The system is supplemented the Company’s conformance to the established policies, with a Systems Management Procedure which details procedure and customer requirements including ISO the level of access and operating procedures, ensuring 14001:2004, ISO 27001:2013 and ISO 9001:2008, with the that all observations are well-accounted, the root cause operating procedures specified in the Internal Integrated of the problems identified and addressed, and measures to Management Systems Audit. The Internal Auditors observe prevent its recurrence are laid down. The Issue Management the procedural framework of planning, audit, recording System covers the existing and identified potential matters and reporting of audit findings. Members of the audit team pertaining to process, services, and products. The course have taken Internal Audit Training prior to engagement. of action including problem identification, assessment of Internal management audits are conducted annually and issues, and review of corrective action effectiveness is based as the need arises including those that concern quality, on the established Issue Management framework. delivery, customer satisfaction, and requires investigation. Other audit activities include a regular Physical and Safety Inspection of the company premises. External party auditors run through the check and balance system of the Company to ensure that there is no oversight of residual non-conformance. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions commissions an independent auditing body to examine the Company’s financial statements and other compliance requirements. Issue Management Framework F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 28 ECONOMIC Conformance to Labor Laws F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions facilitates the welfare and growth of employees through programs and remuneration packages which are in accordance to the national laws and regulations on employment including the Labor Code and Corporate Code of the Philippines. Fair wage, normal working hours, gender equality, and respect for diversity are observed in the policies and procedures of the Company. The Code of Discipline covering the proper decorum, prohibitions, and corresponding sanctions for any violation is strictly implemented and communicated to all personnel. An orientation is provided to new employees prior to their commencement, thus aligning the expectations of both parties and understanding the policies of the Company as stipulated in the Employee Handbook. Over a period of one year, no grave violations concerning labor rights have been reported. The Company operates on a fair salary structure which is anchored on the competency and skill set, educational attainment and qualifications of the employee. The compensation and benefits are based on the national minimum rates, but are welladjusted according to perceived inflation rate, cost of living in the area, and competitive market pricing. Full-time employees are covered by a health care program including one for their dependents, other government-mandated benefits, and leaves including parental leave. Salary upgrade depends on the employee’s annual performance evaluation, promotion and periodic job evaluation. Strategic objectives, operational and financial capacity, and foreseen return on investment are considered and addressed in hiring new employees. The retirement program of the Company complies with the provisions of the Philippine Republic Act No. 7641, known as the Retirement Pay Law. The minimum retirement age is 60 years old with at least five years of credit service, with the package covering 100% of the average monthly basic salary during the last 12 credited months of service, for every year of credited service. Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions upholds its position against bribery and corruption by committing to fair, authentic, lawful and ethical business deals and relationships. The responsibilities of the employees in practicing anti-bribery and anticorruption acts are specified in the Company’s policies which supports all applicable laws and other corporate policies including the Global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, the Global Procurement Policy, Financial Performance Reporting Policy, Working Capital Policy, and Reimbursable Expenses Policy. Employees are prohibited from taking and receiving any bribes and kickbacks from the ir colleagues, clients or other personnel with whom the company is doing business with. Furthermore, the employees are not allowed to offer or accept gifts, hospitality, rewards, benefits or other incentives from a third party which may influence or compromise business decisions and outcome, and may even lead to the misconduct of an official in duty. Performing insider trading or participating in transactions that jeopardize the interest of the company is also prohibited. All aspects of the business operation are assessed for risks related to bribery and corruption, safeguarding the integrity of the processes, services, and people. Circulation of corporate communications reminding of the proper conduct of business and incorporating the Code of Discipline in the orientation of new hires are done to ensure the compliance of all to the antibribery and anti-corruption policy. All employees across the organizations, clients, and suppliers are encouraged to report any incident of bribery and corruption within the Company, thus engaging all stakeholders towards zero tolerance to bribery and corruption. In 2016, no incident cases of bribery, corruption or major misdemeanor were cited. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ECONOMIC 29 ECONOMIC Procurement Practices F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has adopted a Global Procurement Policy that align the transaction of goods and services with the Company’s values, national regulations, and global principles of ethics, ecology, social and good governance. The Company’s procurement strategy, screening of suppliers, allocation of budget, and monitoring of expenditures are founded on the principles and standards of ethical purchasing conduct including: • Transparency in the purchasing process and implementation of contract agreements; • Competitiveness in providing equal opportunity to all private entities who are qualified to supply the goods and services; • Streamlining of the purchasing process to create a simple but innovative, effective and efficient procedure; • Accountability of all those involved in the procurement process; and • Monitoring of the purchasing process and implementation. The purchasing team observes the security of supply towards achieving the financial value contribution of the products and services in the end, conforming to quality standards and meeting the sustainability requirements, and ensuring the timely delivery of commitments. The team pools the expertise needed and leverages on the network efforts and current economic scale, in collaboration with the suppliers and concerned departments. Local Supply Allocation F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions provides opportunities to local communities through the accreditation of the right suppliers with good reputation, capability, transparency, and capacity to provide excellent products and services. The Company taps the local market, allocating 98% of spending to local suppliers which may or may not have the capacity to offer their services globally, but has the capacity and willingness to become Partners in delivering global excellence. This movement contributes to local employment, economic growth, and regional development. Vendor/Supplier Accreditation and Evaluation All vendors and suppliers go through the accreditation process of the Company to align the commitment of both parties and monitor the continued compliance to various internal and national policies, regulatory requirements, standards, and procedures. Adherence to the Company procedures are covered in the pre-qualification and accreditation stages, with the commitment stipulated in the contract obligations prior to engagement. A periodic evaluation is also conducted to assess the performance of vendors and suppliers. The Company ensures that the best value is achieved by screening the suppliers based on competitive pricing, quality of goods and service, prompt delivery, and service responsiveness. Stable Revenue The Company’s revenue increased by 15 percent this year compared to the previous reporting period. The 2016 revenue of total of Php 13.3 million or $ 0.267 million indicates the strong position of the Company in the market as it consistently advances sustainability and upholds the value of innovation and quality in its services. Based on the Audited Financial Statement (Annex C), the Company has a Total Comprehensive Income of Php 1.6 million, equivalent to $ 0.032 million. The secured and stable financial condition is a reflection of the Company’s efforts to improve its process, reliable delivery of products, and scalable solutions that meet or even exceed the requirements of the clients. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ECONOMIC 30 ENVIRONMENTAL Supply Chain The solutions of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions undergo the three phases of development: (1) procurement; (2) development; and (3) delivery, to provide high quality valued products and services to clients. Guided by the requirements of the client during consultation, the expert services, operating materials and equipment are supplied at the procurement phase. At this initial stage of product development, the Company monitors the performance and delivery of the suppliers including their compliance to the environment, quality and information security requirements. As all new and existing suppliers go through the accreditation process, the Company evaluates them based on the Supplier Assessment metrics covering technical capability, quality of products and services, delivery, cost, and environmental compliance including the potential risks of the supplied information and materials to the Company’s business. The most feasible and sustainable solutions are then developed based on the understanding of the clients’ needs. After subjecting the product to quality assurance and control procedures, the technology-enabled and innovative solutions are served to the clients. In 2016, none of the suppliers had been identified as having any significant potential negative impacts to the environment. Sustainability Programs Over the years, the F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has continuously improved its sustainability programs on energy, water, and waste management, focusing on the regular internal review of policies, monitoring of utility consumption, compliance to international and local environmental standards, and efficient maintenance of operation. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ENVIRONMENTAL 31 ENVIRONMENTAL Energy Management Program With its energy management program, the Company has shown progress in reducing electricity consumption and heightening the awareness of its employees’ role in the energy saving initiative. Since 2015, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has resorted to the use of energy-efficient lights, air conditioning units, and other equipment which led to optimum utility conservation. Employees are regularly reminded of electricity-saving techniques through the circulation of corporate communications and posts near the electricity fixtures. The figure below shows a decreasing trend in terms of electricity consumption for the past three years (2014 to 2016), thus reflecting an energy saving of 19% this year. FCS Annual Electricity Consumption Comparing the 2015 and 2016 electricity data, the utility readings (kWh) starting August until December of 2016 are lower. Electricity consumption significantly declined in October 2016 when F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions co-located and joined its affiliate companies in one building. FCS Monthly Electricity Consumption (2015-2016) The internal movement and energy management efforts of the Company led to the maximized use of utilities and reduced energy consumption in 2016. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ENVIRONMENTAL 32 Water Management Program F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions frequently monitors the office’s water consumption to gauge the effectiveness of the conservation efforts of the Company. The water management program inculcates the culture of conserving and maximizing water usage, not only within the office premises but also at home. Water reduction strategies include the use of recycled water in the sanitation facilities and for domestic cleaning, provision for waterless urinals, regular inspection for any leakage, and consistent maintenance of water fixtures. From an average consumption of 421 m3 in 2015, the Company managed to have a minimal increase of 4 percent in water usage as an average volume of 438 m3 is reported this monitoring year. FCS Monthly Water Consumption (2015-2016) The significantly lower readings registered from September to December 2016 could be attributed to the Company’s internal movement within the latter quarter of this reporting fiscal period. Water consumption in 2016 is more stabilized compared to the previous year, thus indicating the progress of the Company’s water conservation efforts. Waste Management Program F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has implemented various waste management schemes including the segregation of biodegradable from non-biodegradable, discharge monitoring and compliance to effluent standards, installation of grease traps in the kitchen as part of the physical treatment process, and maintenance of the sewage treatment plant. Corporate campaigns and strict implementation of the Code of Discipline which stipulates the adherence of employees to the waste segregation procedures and prohibition of littering supplement the waste management initiatives. The Company also has a designated Pollution Control Officer to prevent pollution and observe compliance to the waste disposal mandate. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ENVIRONMENTAL 33 ENVIRONMENTAL Compliance with Environmental Advocacies and Partnerships Regulations F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions collaborates with foundations In pursuit of environmental commitment, F-I-R-S-T and multilateral institutions in pursuing environmental Carbon Solutions conforms to the conditions specified initiatives including the Sustainable Development Goals. in the Environmental Compliance Certificate which was ADEC Foundation is an accredited member of United Nations approved by the Environmental Management Bureau of Environment Assembly under the United Nations Environment the Department of Environment and Natural Resources Programme. The ADEC Foundation has also partnered with (EMB-DENR) on 3 October 2014. The discharge permit for My Shelter Foundation in bringing energy-efficient sources the Company’s effluent and permit to operate for the air of light to deprived local communities of the Philippines control facility and pollution sources were renewed with through the Liter of Light project. The Company also has a the government issuing body, thus extending the validity to visible representation and diligent presence in conferences, year 2018 and 2019, respectively. The designated Pollution meetings and gatherings aimed at strengthening the role of Control Officer monitors the operation of the Company private sectors in driving sustainable development as part of and ensures compliance to the environmental laws and the business operation. regulations including the effluent and air pollution standards. As part of the regulatory requirements, the Company submits a quarterly self-monitoring report and a semiannual compliance monitoring report to the Department of Environment and Natural Resources to assess its emission and operation. To date, the Company has not committed any violations nor has identified any non-compliance with the environmental laws and/or regulations. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ENVIRONMENTAL 34 SOCIAL Employment Learning and Development F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions promotes gender equality at its Technical, developmental, leadership and personal workplace, providing equal opportunity for men and women. enhancement trainings and workshops are provided to The Company has a current total of 77 employees, with employees. Internal and external trainings equip the the population slightly dominated by female (51%). This is employees with the knowledge and skill sets that they need, similar to the figures recorded in the previous reporting year to further enhance their strengths and fill any technical gaps. as there were no new hires in 2016. A total of 13 employees The Company has established a Learning and Development resigned from the Company in 2016, which translates to guidelines for the design, execution, and evaluation of all an attrition rate of 17%. The relatively fair distribution of trainings. human resources and the low turnover rate signify the Company’s endeavor to sustain growth and equality within In 2016, a total of 558 man hours were spent on training the organization, as the sphere for development is stretched which is equivalent to an average of 7 hours per employee. across gender and age group. The Company prioritizes Of the total trainings offered last year, thirty-seven percent local hiring. Only 2.6% of the population is comprised of (37%) were conducted internally and 63% were sponsored foreign-hired managers. No incidents of discrimination were by third-party facilitators. The training courses involved reported in 2016, thus reflecting that diversity and inclusion technical, behavioral, core skills, functional, health and are being practiced in the Company. safety, and soft skills. Communication Platforms Various platforms have been developed to promote inclusive participation of the employees to the operation of the Company, and to strengthen the management-employee relationship. Employees are encouraged to attend town hall meetings which serve as a venue for them to voice out any concerns to the Management. To uphold transparency and accountability, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has established a grievance mechanism platform, known as the Improvement Management System where employees are given the opportunity to raise any issues and concerns that need to be addressed by the Management. There were no grave issues recorded by the Board or Management in 2016. Interest groups and associations are also considered as channels for the employees to exercise their freedom of Employee Engagement and Development expression through a peaceful assembly. However, the Company prohibits any engagement of employees to unlawful The welfare and growth of its employees is one of the main acts that elicit rebellion amongst co-workers, damaging thrusts of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions. The Company has properties, and tapping the resources of the Company for employee engagement programs to encourage participation, self-interest, as specified in the Employee Handbook. community-building, equality, leadership, and pursuit of social and environmental advocacy. The programs serve as an engine towards holistic growth, thus fostering development and nourishing relationships across the organization. Various engagement activities were prepared and initiated by the Company in 2016 to serve as avenues for showcasing and honing the skills, knowledge and abilities of the employees. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I SOCIAL 35 SOCIAL Health and Safety Technical and development trainings and workshops advance the health, safety, and security of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions employees by establishing a safe working environment and creating programs that cater to their wellness. Employees and their families are entitled to healthcare programs including free medical check-ups for dependents. Weekly fitness activities are organized by the clinic to promote work-life balance. The Company also conducts health and safety trainings, and fire drills in preparation for any future emergencies and occurrence of extreme natural hazards. As a result of the Company’s health and safety initiatives, no incident nor time loss was reported in 2016. Basic Life Support and First Aid Training Annual corporate-wide medical check-ups Regular fitness activities Employee Recognition and Engagement F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions recognizes the exemplary performance and contributions of the employees to the growth of the Company through the annual Services Awards. As part of recognition programs, loyalty awards and incentives are given to employees who celebrate their fifth and tenth year anniversaries in the Company. As part of the engagement programs, the Company hosts team bonding activities such as indoor sports competition within the organization to promote physical health and foster camaraderie. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I SOCIAL 36 Community Initiatives F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions and its affiliate companies organize Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programs across the local and national scale. In the last quarter of 2016, ADEC Innovations collaborated with My Shelter Foundation in launching the Liter of Light Project which aims to light the homes of unprivileged communities in the Philippines using lamps made of recycled bottles. Also in the same year, the Company worked with St. Luke’s Foundation and conducted a blood donation drive involving the employees in all organizations. Blood Donation, in collaboration with St. Luke’s Global City Launching of the Liter of Light Project, with ADEC Innovations and My Shelter Foundation F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I SOCIAL 37 SOCIAL Customer Satisfaction Compliance with Data Privacy, Security F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions values the feedback of its and Storage clients as part of the essential metrics in improving business operation, and revolutionizing the way products and services F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions conscientiously observes the are delivered. Periodic client feedback survey is conducted laws and regulations pertaining to data privacy, security to gauge the performance of the Company, as well as gather and storage. The current system and operations across insights on how to strengthen the salient features of the the organizations are anchored on international guidelines products and capture any dissatisfaction and gaps that need (ISO 27001:2005, ISMS) and aligned with the statutory to be addressed. The Company aims to deliver excellence requirements of the Philippine Corporation Code and the and provide the finest experience to its client through a wide Securities and Exchange Commission. A designated officer array of services, catering to meet client’s satisfaction. monitors the compliance, ensuring that the creation and authentication, processing and transfer, and retrieval and Industry archiving of documents and information are well-regulated. Regular corporate reminders and orientation on data and information management are provided to strengthen • Associations • Hospitality the awareness of employees on the proper data security • Commercial Real Estate • Industrial measures. The intricately structured information system • Consumer Products • Insurance management and procedures shields the business from any • Developers • Manufacturing • Education • Municipality unauthorized access, damage, and loss. • Finance • Packaging • Food Products • Retail • Government • Restaurants • Healthcare • Telecommunications Focus Area Service • Sustainability • Consulting • Energy Management • Software • Environmental • Reprographics • Due Diligence • Data Processing and Entitlements • Supply Chain • CDP All products and services of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions are assessed for any potential health and safety, environmental, and social impacts prior to deployment. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions provides response to the queries and concerns of their clients through a customer support system operating 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. Depending on the need and availability of expertise, a dedicated technical staff addresses the needs of the clients. For any immediate concerns regarding the products of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions, the clients may seek assistance through various media including online communication, telephone and video conferencing, and face-to-face meetings. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has also established online self-help tools for minimal concerns on the products. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I SOCIAL 38 ANNEX A SOCIAL UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES CONTENT INDEX UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMITMENT Ten Principles Cross reference to the Section Page HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the 4.0 ECONOMIC protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 4.1 Conformance to Labor Laws 29 Principle 2 Businesses should ensure that they are not 4.0 ECONOMIC complicit in human rights abuses 4.1 Conformance to Labor Laws 29 6.0 SOCIAL 6.2 Employee Engagement and Development 35 Communication Platforms LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 6.0 SOCIAL and the effective recognition of the right 6.3 Employee Engagement and Development 35 to collective bargaining Communication Platforms Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all 4.0 ECONOMIC forms of forced and compulsory labour 4.1 Conformance to Labor Laws 29 Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition 4.0 ECONOMIC of child labour 4.1 Conformance to Labor Laws 29 Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of 4.0 ECONOMIC discrimination in respect of employment and 4.1 Conformance to Labor Laws 29 occupation 6.0 SOCIAL 6.1 Employment 35 6.2 Employee Engagement and Development 35-36 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS approach to environmental challenges 2.1 Company Profile 9-10 2.2 Vision, Mission and Values 11 2.4 Associations, Affiliations & Partnerships 12-13 Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote 5.0 ENVIRONMENT greater environmental responsibility 5.2 Sustainability Programs 31-33 5.3 Compliance with Environmental Regulations 34 5.4 Advocacies and Partnerships 34 Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS and diffusion of environmentally 2.5 Product and Services 16 friendly technologies 5.0 ENVIRONMENT 5.1 Supply Chain, Procurement & Assessment 30-31 6.0 SOCIAL 6.4 Customer Satisfaction 38 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all� 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS its forms, including extortion and bribery 2.6 Corporate Governance & Compliance 17-20 3.0 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 3.2 Risk Management 24-26 3.3 Compliance 27 3.4 Internal Audit 28 3.5 Issue Management 28 4.0 ECONOMIC 4.2 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 29 4.3 Procurement Practices 30 4.5 Vendor/Supplier Accreditation and Evaluation 30 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ANNEX A 39 ANNEX B GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE 2016 STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE Commitment 2016 GRI STANDARDS Cross reference to the Section Page 1. Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the Organisation 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2.1 Company Profile 9-10 102-2 Activities, primary brands, products, and services 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2.1 Company Profile What We Do 9 2.5 Product and Services 16 102-3 Location of headquarters 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2.1 Company Profile Where We Work 10 102-4 Location of operations 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2.1 Company Profile Where We Work 10 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2.3 Ownership 12 102-6 Markets served 6.0 SOCIAL 6.5 Customer Satisfaction 38 102-7 Scale of the organization 6.0 SOCIAL 6.1 Employment 35 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 6.0 SOCIAL 6.1 Employment 35 102-9 Supply chain 5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL 5.1 Supply Chain 31 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 1.0 ABOUT THIS REPORT 1.1 Rationale Highlights of Year 2016 6 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2.2 Vision, Mission and Values 11 102-12 External initiatives 6.0 SOCIAL 6.4 Community Initiatives 37 102-13 Membership of associations 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2.4 Advocacy, Certifications and Recognitions Associations, 12-13 Affiliations & Partnerships 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 5 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 3.0 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 3.2 Risk Management 24-26 3. Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2.2 Vision, Mission and Values 11 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 3.0 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 3.2 Risk Management Improvement Management System 26 6.0 SOCIAL 6.3 Employee Engagement and Development 35 Communication Platforms 3. Governance 102-18 Governance structure 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2.6 Corporate Governance & Compliance Governance 17 Structure & Directors 102-19 Delegating authority 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2.6 Corporate Governance & Compliance Board Committees 20-21 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS environmental,and social topics 2.6 Corporate Governance & Compliance Board of Directors 18-21 & Board Committees 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS its committees 2.6 Corporate Governance & Compliance Board of Directors 18-21 & Board Committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2.6 Corporate Governance & Compliance Board of Directors 18-21 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2.6 Corporate Governance & Compliance Board Committees 20-21 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ANNEX B 40 GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 6.0 SOCIAL 6.1 Employment 35 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 6.0 SOCIAL provided to temporary or part-time employees 6.1 Employment 35 GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 6.0 SOCIAL lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related 6.2 Employee Engagement and Development Health and Safety 36 fatalities GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 403-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 6.0 SOCIAL 6.2 Employee Engagement and Development 35 Learning and Development 403-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 6.0 SOCIAL assistance programs 6.2 Employee Engagement and Development 35 Learning and Development GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 6.0 SOCIAL 6.1 Employment 35 SOCIAL TOPICS GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6.0 SOCIAL 6.1 Employment 35 GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom 6.0 SOCIAL of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 6.2 Employee Engagement and Development 35 Communication Platforms GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 6.0 SOCIAL assessments, and development programs 6.3 Community Initiatives 37 5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL 5.4 Advocacies and Partnerships 34 GRI 416: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 6.0 SOCIAL and service categories 6.4 Customer Satisfaction 38 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health 6.0 SOCIAL and safety impacts of products and services 6.4 Customer Satisfaction 38 GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 6.0 SOCIAL of customer privacy and losses of customer data 6.5 Compliance with Data Privacy, Security and Storage 38 GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 4.0 ECONOMIC and economic area 4.1 Conformance to Labor Laws 29 4.0 ECONOMIC 4.2 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 29 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ANNEX B 41 ANNEX B GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201-1 Direct economic value generated 4.0 ECONOMIC 4.6 Stable Revenue 30 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 4.0 ECONOMIC 4.1 Conformance to Labor Laws 29 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 2.0 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2.3 Ownership 12 ECONOMIC TOPICS GRI 202: MARKET PRESENCE 201-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the 4.0 ECONOMIC local community 4.1 Conformance to Labor Laws 24 GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 4.0 ECONOMIC 4.4 Local Supply Allocation 30 GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 4.0 ECONOMIC 4.2 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 29 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 4.0 ECONOMIC policies and procedures 4.2 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 29 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 4.0 ECONOMIC 4.2 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 29 GRI 302: ENERGY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL 5.2 Sustainability Programs Energy Management Program 32 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS 5.2 Sustainability Programs Energy Management Program 32 GRI 303: WATER 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL 5.2 Sustainability Programs Energy Management Program 32 GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL 5.3 Compliance with Environmental Regulations 34 GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL environmental criteria 5.1 Supply Chain 31 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL actions taken 5.1 Supply Chain 31 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ANNEX B 42 GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 6.0 SOCIAL 6.1 Employment 35 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 6.0 SOCIAL provided to temporary or part-time employees 6.1 Employment 35 GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 6.0 SOCIAL lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related 6.2 Employee Engagement and Development Health and Safety 36 fatalities GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 403-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 6.0 SOCIAL 6.2 Employee Engagement and Development 35 Learning and Development 403-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 6.0 SOCIAL assistance programs 6.2 Employee Engagement and Development 35 Learning and Development GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 6.0 SOCIAL 6.1 Employment 35 SOCIAL TOPICS GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6.0 SOCIAL 6.1 Employment 35 GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom 6.0 SOCIAL of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 6.2 Employee Engagement and Development 35 Communication Platforms GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 6.0 SOCIAL assessments, and development programs 6.3 Community Initiatives 37 5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL 5.4 Advocacies and Partnerships 34 GRI 416: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 6.0 SOCIAL and service categories 6.4 Customer Satisfaction 38 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health 6.0 SOCIAL and safety impacts of products and services 6.4 Customer Satisfaction 38 GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 6.0 SOCIAL of customer privacy and losses of customer data 6.5 Compliance with Data Privacy, Security and Storage 38 GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 4.0 ECONOMIC and economic area 4.1 Conformance to Labor Laws 29 4.0 ECONOMIC 4.2 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 29 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I ANNEX B 43 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 44 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 45 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 46 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 47 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 48 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 49 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 50 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 51 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I v CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 52 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 53 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 54 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 55 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 56 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 57 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 58 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 59 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 60 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 61 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 62 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 63 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 64 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 65 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 66 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 67 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 68 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 69 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 70 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 71 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 72 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 73 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 74 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 75 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 76 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 77 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 78 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 79 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 80 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 81 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 82 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 83 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 84 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 85 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 86 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 87 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Financial Statement F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 88 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENT 89
