2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 About This Report Zenith Bank’s Sustainability Report 2016 (‘Creating Wealth be material and were defined based on the significance of Sustainably’) covers the period January 1, 2016 to Decemtheir impacts in our value chain. ber 31, 2016. It is an annual report that discloses our ecoDisclosures made in this report cover only the Nigenomic, environmental and social performance in the firian operations of Zenith Bank Plc, unless otherwise stated. nancial year 2016, and our plans and targets for the next The report integrates the reporting requirements of five to ten years. other sustainability principles that we are committed to by It is our second standalone Sustainability report, comchoice or by regulation, including principles and standards ing after the first report that was published in August 2016, of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC’s 10 Prinand which covered the period January 1, 2015 to Decemciples); United Nations Environment Program Finance Iniber 31, 2015. tiative (UNEP-FI); United Nations Universal Declaration of While our 2015 Sustainability Report was written in acHuman Rights; International Labor Organization (ILO); Incordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 disternational Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Stanclosure guidelines, the 2016 report is prepared in accordance with the new GRI Standards unveiled in October This year’s report provides the first major gauge of 2016 by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB); our progress in the sustainability journey, following using the Core option (GRI 102-54); and the GRI content our 2015 report which constituted our baseline. index (GRI 102-55). The General Disclosure and Management Approach guidelines for the different indicators, as well as the Finandards; ISO26000; the Organization for Economic Coopcial Services Sector specific disclosure guidelines are foleration and Development (OECD); the Central Bank of lowed in the reporting. It includes a Sustainability MateriNigeria’s Sustainable Banking Principles (NSBP), among ality Matrix covering all issues and indicators that were maothers. terial to us during the review period. The boundaries for This year’s report provides the first major gauge of the different identified impacts are clearly indicated. our progress in the sustainability journey, following our The report underscores our progress and challenges 2015 report which constituted our baseline. in sustainable banking during the period under review. It Ernst & Young Limited conducted a limited independiscloses our positive and negative footprints on the dent external assurance on the report, using the Internaeconomy, natural environment and the society in 2016 tional Framework for Assurance Engagements and InterIt also highlights the different stakeholders’ engagenational Standards on Assurance Engagements 3000: Asment platforms that we deployed, the material issues that surance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of emerged from these engagements, and how they were Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000) developed by managed and or addressed during the year. the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board Criteria that defined our material topics and boundand in accordance with The International Standard on Asaries for the 2016 report are: surance Engagements 3410: Assurance Engagements on • Stakeholder expectations and concerns Greenhouse Gas Statements under the auspices of the In• Financial sector specific requirements ternational Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The exter• Zenith Bank’s strategy regarding sustainability and nal assurance procedure included on-site visits, interviews value creation with relevant KPI managers and verification of related docuTopics that met the three criteria were considered to ments and data. 2 SUS SUST TAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPORT 2016 REPORT Chairman’s Statement Jim Ovia, CON Chairman, Zenith Bank Plc O ur sterling performance in 2016 despite the difficult domestic and global economic terrain attests to the loyalty and trust of our customers and the dogged commitment and productivity of our employees. Indeed, these stakeholders play a pivotal role in the continued resilience of the Zenith brand … another reason why we will continually engage them for our mutual benefits. As the journey progresses, we increasingly see the concept of ‘sustainability’ as the lowest hanging fruit in our mission to sustain strong growth and propel sustainable wealth creation. At Zenith Bank, we remain committed to driving sustainable banking and occupying industry leadership in the attainment of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals. More and more, we understand that our business can only succeed, and indeed, survive, in an economic, ecological and social environment that is conducive, healthy, and thriving. Our vision and strategy is to build the Zenith brand on enduring and solid structures that are synonymous with integrity, transparency, professionalism, fairness and excellent corporate governance. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3 In 2016, we made significant progress in our vision to As the journey progresses, we increasingly entrench sustainability principles into our business operations, including our products offering, credit and see the concept of ‘sustainability’ as the loan administration, vendors’ relations, and employee management. It is significant that in the year under lowest hanging fruit in our mission to review, we begun the strict enforcement of uniform closing hours in all our business locations, effecting a sustain strong growth and propel 5pm closing time bank wide. This was in our quest to improve work-life balance for our employees, while sustainable wealth creation. also cutting down on our carbon footprints. This policy has been highly rewarding for all stakeholders reducing the work hours of our employees, improving We may not have met all our sustainability objectives for our energy efficiency significantly, while also cutting 2016. But it was a remarkable year in our journey, espedown on our energy cost and carbon emission. Imcially as we have been able to set clear goals and direcportantly, this initiative has boosted staff enthusiasm, tion, and are more certain about how we will accomplish efficiency and productivity in our workplace. them. For us, having a workforce that is increasingly aware and passionate about the wellbeing of the physical enviOur local communities constitute part of the Zenith ronment and the less privileged in our society is the natufamily. We treat the wellbeing of our host communiral first step towards achieving our overall sustainability ties with utmost seriousness and constantly elicit their objectives. One of our biggest achievements in 2016 was feedback on how we could continue to live better, creating widespread awareness about, and enthusiasm together. Such feedback fast-tracked the building of for sustainable business principles, policies and practices our ultra-modern, 1000-capacity staff car park that within the workforce. With this done, we are certain of was unveiled in 2016 at our head office complex. The more rapid progress in the years ahead. This is indeed a project was part of our efforts at curbing indiscrimicritical first step because our people are the propeller of nate parking around the host communities and reour overall strategy and vision. ducing traffic challenges and the activities of miscreants. The initiative also enhanced landscaping in the communities, lighting of adjoining streets and walkways, and access for persons living with disabilities. Jim Ovia, C ON CON We are mindful of our actual and potential negative Chairman environmental and social footprints and have adopted the precautionary approach to environmental and social (E&S) risk management, to minimize the risks that our business operations pose to the physical environment and the society, and to avert them before they actually crystalize. To this end, we have made significant efforts to improve on our business processes, and have integrated environmental and social risk considerations into our credit and investment decisions. We understand that our financial intermediary role exposes the bank to indirect environmental and social footprints, especially from our investees, creditors, vendors, suppliers and contractors. Adopting the precautionary approach to E&S risk management has helped us to be more proactive and forward looking in managing our overall footprints. 4 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPOR REPORTT 2016 About ZENITH BANK 5 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2016 REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 Corporate Profile enith Bank Plc is one of Africa’s foreand Ser vice. Exceptional service delivery that exceeds Service. Z most financial institutions, serving inclients’ expectations is the banks’ cardinal driver. dividual customers and corporate With strict adherence to global best practices, Zebusinesses with a range of financial nith Bank combines vision, professionalism, expertise and products and services. The Bank has ICT to create products and provide services that anticiassets base of over N4.28 trillion as at pate and surpass customers’ expectations. December 31, 2016. Its stocks are traded on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and the London Stock Exchange Our sstr trengths trengths (LSE). • Innovation With head office in Lagos, Nigeria, Zenith Bank of• Good financial performance fers best-in-class banking services from 383 branches • Stable and dedicated management team (367 branches were operational as at year end 2016), 62 • Highly skilled and motivated workforce cash offices and 60 offsite ATM locations across all States • Leadership in the use of Information and of Nigeria and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. Communication Technology The Zenith Bank Group also has presence in the United • Strategic service delivery points Kingdom (UK), Ghana, Sierra Leone, The Gambia, South • Good asset quality Africa, China and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The Bank places high premium on its core business Our vision strategy which is anchored on its People, TTechnology echnology “To build the Zenith brand into a reputable international 6 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPOR REPORTT 2016 financial institution recognized for • Service Our values, • Equity innovation, superior customer service and performance while creatprinciples, ing premium value for all stakeOur core values are derived from our colstandards, and lective vision as an institution and are propaholders”. norms of behavior gated to all employees of the bank using diOur mission verse platforms, including trainings, mentoring, define our internal correspondences, and employees’ “To establish a presence in all major economic and financial centers corporate identity, manuals and handbooks. in Nigeria, Africa and indeed all Our values, principles, standards, and norms culture, who we of behavior define our corporate identity, culover the world, creating premium value for all stakeholders” ture, who we are and all we aspire to be. are and all we Our core values Our objective is to ensure that every mem• Integrity aspire to be. ber of our team recognizes and understands • Professionalism these values and are bound by them. This is • Excellence why they constitute an important aspect of our • Ethics orientation program for new entrants, and the • Commitment reason why supervisors, line managers, execu• Transparency 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 tive management and board monitor compliance at all levels. We also ensure that our business partners, vendors, contractors and suppliers understand these values and imbibe them in their dealings with us. Similarity in values is taken into consideration in our decisions to engage business partners. This is why we will continually review our Service Level Agreements (SLAs) with third parties to accommodate these core values and standards, and build in evolving environmental and social issues. Str ategic Objectives trategic The strategic objective of Zenith Bank remains the continuous improvement of its capacity to meet stakeholders’ changing needs, sustained excellent service delivery and consistent growth in a volatile business environment. This we plan to achieve through: • Continuous investment in branch network and business expansion, thus bringing quality banking services closer to our existing and potential customers • Continuous investment in and deployment of state-of-the-art technology and ICT platform • Employing and retaining the best personnel available • Continuous investment in training and retraining of our personnel • Maintaining and reinforcing our core customer service delivery charter • Sustaining strong profitability and adequate Return on Equity (ROE) expectations • Remaining conservative but innovative • Continuous enhancement of our processes and sys• Sustaining a strong balance sheet size with adequate tems platforms to deliver new capabilities and improve liquidity and capital base operational efficiencies and economies of scale • Sustaining our brand and premium customer services • Maintaining strong risk management and corporate • Cautious and synergistic global expansion governance culture • Remaining customer service focused • Ensuring proper pricing for our products and services • Continuous emphasis on use of technology as a comand overall products responsibility petitive tool • Continuous delivery of superior and tailor-made ser• Continuous considerations for and mitigation of the vice experience to all our customers at all times, and social, economic and environmental impacts of our in all regions where we operate business decisions and actions on the communities where we operate Exter nal collabor External ations & ins collaborations titutional member institutional ship membership • Maintaining strong risk management and corporate Zenith Bank is committed to several Sustainability pringovernance practices ciples, standards and initiatives that support our goals • Maintaining open channels of engagement with key and objectives. We became a member of the United stakeholders and continuously striving to surpass their Nations Environment Program’s Finance Initiative, (UNEP8 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPORT 2016 REPORT FI) in May 2008; United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Zenith Bank is committed to several in August 2014; signatory to the regulatory Central Bank of Nigeria’s Nigerian Sustainable Banking Principles Sustainability principles, standards and (NSBP) in July 2012; member of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Gold Community in July 2016. initiatives that support our goals and We also endor se the International Labor objectives. Organization’s (ILO) Sustainability Standards; International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards; ISO26000; the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Investment; Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeand Development’s (OECD) Responsible Business Conria; NEPAD Business Group (Nigeria); Financial Instituduct for Institutional Investors Guidelines. We are an actions Training Centre (FITC); Equipment Leasing Associative member of the NSBP Steering Committee and the tion of Nigeria, among others. industry’s Sustainability Champions’ Group. These collaborations have boosted our overall preWe are also a member of the World Economic Foparedness for the sustainability journey, giving us access rum; the Nigerian Economic Summit Group; Nigeriato a global network of experts, ideas, implementation South Africa Chamber of commerce; Nigerian-British guidelines and world-class training and capacity buildChamber of Commerce; Nigerian-America Chamber of ing. Commerce; US-Nigeria Council on Food Security, Trade 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 10 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2016 REPORT GMD/CEO’s Statement Peter Amangbo GMD/CEO, Zenith Bank Plc T he socioeconomic challenges in 2016 again re-emphasized the urgent need for governments at all levels, multilateral institutions, and major corporations to demonstrate stronger commitment to closing the widening gap between the rich and the poor. With millions of jobs lost and many households experiencing deteriorating standards of living, 2016 came with a compelling call for us to strengthen our corporate social responsibility and enhance our social investments in host communities. We are excited by the fact that, despite the economic recession in our key market, the year ended with significant growth for the Bank. We leveraged on the commitment and loyalty of key stakeholders employees, customers, investors and shareholders to register another outstanding economic, environmental and social performance. Our sustainability vision remained on course during the year, with much of the emphasis on building the needed capacity that would see us through the journey, sustainably. Training and capacity building was our key priority. This strategy was driven by the realization that we cannot go far in the sustainability journey without having in place a workforce that is knowledgeable and equipped with the requisite tools to drive sustainable banking. A workforce that is well-informed about sustainability would help trigger the behavioral change that will expedite our progress. Significantly, we trained over 5,000 employees on Sustainability and Environmental and Social Risks Management using classroom and online platforms. These trainings were tailored towards bridging the observed skills and knowledge gaps, and mobilizing the commitment of our people towards our sustainability vision. We understand that the road to sustainable banking would be smoother and easier when our people – the key drivers – clearly understand the direction we are going and the roadmap for getting there. 11 SUSTAINABILIT SUST Y REPOR AINABILITY REPORT T 2016 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 It is worthy of note that much of the Sustainability trainings deployed within the year drew participation We understand that the road to sustainable from all levels of staff, from the entry to the senior banking would be smoother and easier and executive management. We are focused on building, from this outset, an enterprise-wide passion and when our people – the key drivers – clearly commitment that will drive our sustainability objecunderstand the direction we are going and tives way into the future. We understand however that as an institution, we the roadmap for getting there. cannot make this journey alone. We therefore leveraged several national and international partnerships (SDGs) in our business practices and social investments. We and collaborations within the year. We strengthened will continue to support governments at all levels in their our membership of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s efforts towards the attainment of the 17 goals and 169 tarSustainability Implementation Committees. We joined gets all focused on improving the wellbeing of the people the GRI Gold Community. We attended environmenand the natural environment. tal and social risk management trainings organized We understand that government alone cannot accomby the International Finance Corporation (IFC), United plish the ambitious Sustainable Development Goals withNations Global Compact (UNGC) and several others. out the active support of responsible corporate citizens such As a responsible financial services institution, as us. This informs why we entered into strategic relationbuilding the bridge towards reaching the massive ship with the US-Nigeria Council for Food Security, Trade unbanked Nigerian adult population is one of our and Investment as a Founding Member in 2016. Our aim in biggest corporate assignments. Financial inclusion this regard is to further deepen trade and investment ties brings with it socio-economic empowerment for between the US and Nigeria for inclusive economic growth households and communities, which in turn improves and development in our biggest market. overall living standard and wellbeing. Financial inWhile slow progress is being made in the quest for a clusion was therefore one of our major social investhealthier, cleaner, safer, and more enduring environment, ment initiatives in 2016. We will continue to support creating mass awareness on the dangers that a violated the diverse government programs in this regard, esenvironment portends to the present and future generapecially as championed by the Central Bank of Nigetions remains a daunting task that all stakeholders must ria (CBN). collectively confront. This is one of the assignments that we In our business operations and relations with third have set before us. And we will continue to support credparties, we remain committed to ensuring that our ible initiatives by government and non-government instituvendors, suppliers, contractors and investees are tions in this regard. aware of evolving environmental and social risk challenges, and are supported with the tools they require to achieve compliance and best practices. This is indeed key for our sustainability strategy because, as a financial services institution that intermediates in virPeter Amangbo tually all sectors of the economy, our major environGroup MD/CEO mental footprints result from the activities of third parties. Enhancing the environmental and social practices of these stakeholders is a key way we could reduce our own footprints. Beyond managing footprints arising from our internal operations therefore, we will continue to keep an eye on our business partners to ensure responsible business practices. This we can achieve by, among other measures, making responsible behavior a precondition for our business partnerships. We are also committed to driving the attainment of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals 12 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPORT 2016 REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 Zenith Bank’s Implementation of the Ten Global Compact Principles HUMAN RIGHTS of human rights abuse in line with laid down policies. Principle 1. Protection o Protection off internationally pr internationally oclaimed huproclaimed Our Human Rights Policy is drawn in recognition of the man right s. rights. principles and standards of the United Nations Universal No organization, entity, or people can function effecDeclaration of Human Rights. tively and optimally without recognizing and respecting the rights of others in their sphere of influence. As a gloPrinciple 2. Pr otection agains Protection againstt human right rightss abuses. bal entity, Zenith Bank understands the significance of The Bank ensures that employees are conversant with making sure that the rights of its employees and custheir rights as employees. To this end, proper training tomers are not violated and that our investees and cliand awareness programmes on human rights are carried out periodically. Also our Global Credit Committee has continued to ensure that environmental and Social (E&S) due diligence is carried out on our clients and investees. Credit line and loan advances are screened for social risk implications like the violation of labour laws, health and safety requirements and rights of indigenous communities. Zenith Bank is committed to developing and maintaining a structure that upholds human rights and abhors complicity in human rights violation. We will continue to improve on our human right protection and resolution mechanisms. In the year under review, the Bank carried out a bank wide, compulsory online training on human rights to create awareness in the workforce on their fundamental human rights as citizens and also as ements are not involved in operation that could result in ployees, and how they can ensure the protection of these the trampling of the rights of their employees or memrights and the rights of others. In the year under review, bers of the host communities. As a bank, we go great 4,628 members of staff received training on Human Rights lengths to ensure that we mitigate and manage any case through our elearning portal, which represented 77.5 percent of the total work force 14 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPOR REPORT T 2016 LABOUR sidered to pose significant exposure and risk. We exercise further due diligence in our financing decisions when Principle 3: Fr eedom o Freedom off Association and collective bar bar-we believe that there is considerable risk or exposure to gaining incidences of forced or compulsory labor. In 2016, there Zenith Bank complies with all applicable laws, rules and were no incidences of forced and compulsory labor in regulations of the countries in which it operates. These our operations, those of our clients, suppliers, and subinclude sovereign state legislations on collective agreecontractors, to the best of our knowledge. ments, bargaining and freedom of association. We respect employees’ right to form, join or not to join labour Principle 5: Child Labor unions without fear of reprisal, intimidation or harassZenith Bank abhors and strongly condemns the use of ment. We work with our employees to seek solutions child labor in all its areas of operation. As a responsible that best align their interests with those of the Bank. corporate citizen, we respect the rights, dignity and worth Where employees choose to establish a collective barof a child and support basic educational empowerment gaining structure to negotiate their terms and conditions for children in all the locations where we operate. We of employment, we remain committed to bargaining in good faith with them and or their representatives. All agreements reached via the collective bargaining process are binding on the Bank and the employees. Principle 4: For ced or compulsor Forced compulsoryy labor Zenith Bank abhors the use of forced or compulsory labor. Our Human Rights Policy expressly prohibits forced or compulsory labor in all our operations, those of our clients, suppliers, and subcontractors. It also prohibits financing clients or projects involved in the use of forced or compulsory labor. We are further guided by the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization (ILO) Forced Labor Convention (2014). We communicate our approach to external stakeholders and engage with them to adhere to our values as expressly ensure that our suppliers, vendors, contractors and stated in our Human Rights Policy. investees adhere to best practices in Human Rights proOur Sustainability and E&S team will continue to entection, including the rights of the child. gage clients, suppliers and subcontractors on our valWhilst we expect our suppliers to abide by our Huues. We are committed to responding swiftly to reported man Rights Policy which outlines our zero tolerance for incidences of infractions while we continue to closely child labor and similar abuses, we deliberately work with monitor adherence to our values. Going forward, we shall suppliers who share these in our supply chain. We are include prohibition of forced or compulsory labor clause currently working on including this policy as a precondiin our credit offer letters to customers we believe pose tion in our lending and investment decisions. risks. We insist that a trained and certified Health and Safety Clients, suppliers and subcontractors in remote lopersonnel is retained by our contractors to ensure adcations pose significant risk of forced and compulsory herence to standard safety procedures. Going forward, labor. Our Environmental and Social Risk Management we plan to include child rights protection as a clause in (ESRM) Policy expressly prohibits activities that are conour credit offer letters to customers in manufacturing, 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 oil and gas sectors, and other sectors we determine to We encourage employees and stakeholders to repose significant risk. port incidences of discrimination through various engageWe are aware that some line of businesses are sigment channels that have been availed to them. Employnificantly at risk of incidents of child labor. We closely ees can also make anonymous report through the bank’s monitor the operations of suppliers providing janitorial whistle blowing portal on our intranet, or directly to their services in our business premises as they could be prone supervisors. Such reports could be investigated discreetly to engaging underage workers. Our agricultural investand when the facts are established, actions are taken in ment decisions are also closely guided by child rights line with the bank’s disciplinary policy. protection policy as this sector is also very prone to child In 2016, there were no reported incidences of dislabor activities, especially in family owned micro and small crimination. We will continue to educate and encourage agro-businesses. Similarly, the activities of developers of our employees to abide by our Human Rights Policy as new business offices are also closely monitored to enwe are committed to building a work environment that sure that Health and Safety measures are in place to avoid is diverse, inclusive and nondiscriminatory. a hazardous working environment. ENVIRONMENT Principle 6: Non-discrimination Zenith Bank is an equal opportunity employer. We abPrinciple 7: Pr ecautionar ecautionaryy ap Precautionar appr proach pr environment onmental oach to environment al hor all forms of discrimination in our workplace. Our challenges Human Rights Policy prohibits discrimination on the baWe are mindful of our actual and potential negative ensis of gender, color, tribe or ethnicity, religion, marital status vironmental and social footprints and have adopted the or physical challenges. We expect and encourage our precautionary approach to environmental and social business partners, service providers, subcontractors and (E&S) risk management, to minimize the risks that our investees to also embrace non-discriminatory policies in business operations pose to the physical environment their business operations. and the society, and to avert them before they actually Our Human Rights Policy clearly defines expected crystalize. To this end, we have made significant efforts standards of behavior in all our business transactions and to improve on our business processes, and have intedealings with internal and external stakeholders, and lays grated environmental and social risk considerations into down strict penalties for infractions. We will not hesitate our credit and investment decisions. We understand that to investigate any incidence of discrimination and take our financial intermediary role exposes the Bank to indiappropriate action on any proven case of violation of rect environmental and social footprints, especially from our policies in this regard. our investees, creditors, vendors, suppliers and contrac16 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITY Y REPOR REPORTT 2016 tors. Adopting the precautionary approach to E&S risk In 2016, 141 out of our 521 business offices were powmanagement has helped us to be more proactive and ered by alternative sources of energy, compared to 19 forward looking in managing our overall footprints. out of 503 in 2015. The total number of our buildings using renewable energy sources at the end of 2016 was Principle 8: Envir onment onmental Environment al rres es ponsibility esponsibility 160, representing 30.7 percent of our buildings. The goal With over 500 business locations and nearly 400 vehicles is to achieve 70 percent by 2025. in our official head office fleet in 2016, greenhouse gas Our direct carbon footprint from transportation and (GHG) emission remains a material topic for us. Also combusiness travels comes from our pool cars, official cars pelling is the understanding of the relationship between for management staff, departmental vehicles and staff these emissions and climate change. As a responsible buses. The bank’s head office fleet reduced by 62 vestakeholder in the Nigerian economy and a global corhicles, from 417 as at 2015 to 355 in 2016. However, this porate citizen, supporting the f ight against climate did not translate in real decrease in gasoline consumpchange is for us a core responsibility. The easiest way we tion. There was rather a 16.9 percent increase in gasoline support this fight is to reduce our own emissions while supporting our business partners to do the same. As a demonstration of our corporate commitment to the climate action, the Bank is focusing on measuring, reducing and reporting the GHG emissions that are associated with its Nigerian business operations. We are committed to limiting our overall negative environmental footprints. Using 2015 as our base year, our goal is to cut emission by 20 percent by 2020. We hope to achieve this by increasing the use of renewable energy in our energy mix, upgrading our business processes for enhanced efficiency, deploying energy efficient technologies, and ensuring that we effectively capture, measure and monitor emissions from all business offices and subsidiaries. The largest share of our GHG emissions comes from our fossil fuel consumption, predominantly to power self-generated electricity, vehicular travels and air travels. Our aim is to migrate to 70 percent renewable energy by 2025. And we are already making some progress in this regard. In 2016, 1,355, of our Automated Teller Machines usage, from 703,763.62 litres in 2015 to 822,784.37 litres (ATMs) were powered by energy efficient inverters, up in 2016. This followed a 10.5 percent rise in the number from 1,206 as at 2015. However, these inverters are still of employees that use the Bank’s official fleet, from 925 charged using fossil-powered generators whenever there as at 2015 to 1,023 in 2016. The intense traffic situation in is no power supply from the national grid. As at end Lagos, Nigeria during the period was another factor. 2016, 15.06 percent of ATMs in our branches used solar We will continue to ensure regular servicing and prepowered energy, up from 10.8 percent as at 2015. By ventive maintenance of our vehicles to avoid emissions 2020, we plan to increase this to 30 percent, and 70 perresulting from incomplete combustions. We will also encent by 2025. sure strict compliance with our four-year vehicle depreAlso, we have commenced the replacement of all our ciation and replacement policy as part of efforts to miti13-20kva generators on Night Loads with hybrid solar gate high emissions. panels. We also intend to gradually migrate all our busiAs part of our Green House Gas (GHG) control pracness offices and branches to renewable energy sources. tices, the Bank has also flagged off several initiatives aimed 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 at increasing the quality and quantity of staff buses and ers, to enhance seamless, off-site communication. encouraging more employees to use them. We are also Also during the year, we engaged for the first time, gradually reducing the use of diesel-powered official vethe services of an external auditor to measure and rehicles which tend to emit more CO2, and replacing them port on our 2016 carbon footprint in our head office with energy-efficient, low emission hybrid vehicles. complex. The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) audit, measured in The Bank did not have the tools for adequately captCO2eq, for our Head Office building in Victoria Island, turing and measuring its emissions from air travels, as at Lagos was based on the Business-as-Usual (BaU) scethe time of this report. nario. The audit was carried out by V4 Advisors SAL, guided by the Greenhouse Gas Corporate Standard, and using the GHG Protocol (GHGP) established in 1998 by the World Resource Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). GHGP is the most credible and widely used protocol in the calculation of GHG emissions. The audit identified the emission sources from our day-to-day operations in 2016 and measured our actual impact on the environment during the period. According to the audit report, the total GHG emitted by Zenith Bank Head Office, employing 1,030 employees in a total area of 6,730.52 m2 was 14,579.9 tCO2e in year 2016. This is equivalent to 14.2 tCO2e per employee or 2.2 tCO2e per m2. Our car fleet constituted our biggest emission point, constituting 42.7 percent of total emission. This is followed by generators, 35.1 percent; refrigerants, 10.8 percent; electricity from national grid, 9.1 percent; flight trips, 2.1 percent; and paper consumption, 0.3 percent. Factsheet on the audit report is included in our complete 2016 Sustainability Report. Our plan is to carry out CO2 emission audit every year, going forward, using the 2016 report as our baseline. The essence is to enable us capture, monitor and measure our footprints more accurately and objectively, as a step towards improving on our overall environmental performance. Furthermore, in our effort to better manSimilarly, we are implementing process automation age our indirect footprints, in 2016 we begun the proand deploying state-of-the-art technologies that enable cess of fully integrating environmental and social risk us to reach our customers and other stakeholders, withconsiderations into our credit and investment decisions. out the need for face-to-face communication and comWe are currently training and building the needed camuting. Zenith Bank continuous to invest in energy-effipacity within the workforce to enable seamless implecient technologies, new infrastructure and robust softmentation from 2017. This initiative will enable us manware applications that would enable us to communicate age the environmental risks posed by our third party remotely with our core stakeholders. We will continue to business partners more effectively. leverage the benefits offered by our existing multimedia The Corporate Sustainability and Responsibility Unit applications, such as Lync Video Conferencing; Microsoft of the Bank works with our different business units to Office Communicator (OCS); IBM Sametime; among othensure environmental compliance. The team is in turn 18 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPOR REPORTT 2016 overseen by executive management and Board. The plan tronic waste. We will, therefore, continue to invest in new is to have Sustainability Champions in all our branches technologies that deliver on scalability, energy efficiency, from 2017, saddled with the responsibility of ensuring and low emissions. compliance with the Bank’s environmental and social In the Nigerian banking industry, Zenith Bank has policies, standards and government regulations. No enchampioned electronic banking (Internet banking, movironmental compliance failure was recorded in the year bile banking, ATMs, POSs, among others) for the conveunder review. Consequently, no fines were incurred durnience of its millions of customers and as a way of miniing the review period. In some locations where we opermizing its carbon footprint. We have set energy efficiency ate, environmental regulatory agencies served notices targets and are working on building in-house capacity to our branches requesting proof of compliance with that would enable us capture, monitor and measure our required environmental impact assessment. These refootprints more efficiently. quirements were met without fines and penalties. We are committed to self-regulating and self-auditing our overall Co2 footprints and collaborating with gloPrinciple 9: Deploying envir onment environment ally friendly onmentally bal institutions in the bid to improve on our emission technologies status. An evaluation conducted based on data collated Zenith Bank since inception has been a technology-savvy from the relevant KPI departments in 2016 showed some brand. We have pioneered the use of several banking progress in actualizing these set targets, even though technologies in our industry and will continue to use statesignificant gaps remain. of-the-art solutions to deliver optimal, customized banking experience and products offering. Our approach is ANTI-CORRUPTION to use technology to significantly reduce travel time and Co2 emission among our workforce, especially through Principle 10: F ighting fr aud and cor fraud corrr up tion uption process automation. We are also committed to reducing In 2016, we continued to enhance the supervision of our the commute time for millions of our customers, so they financial technologies, banking processes and procedures will be able to meet their banking needs without visiting with the view of ensuring internal control and systems’ our banking halls. However, we also realise that these security. These have significantly improved our corpobanking tools generate their own emissions and elecrate governance and boosted our anti-corruption drive 2016 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 19 and awareness within the workforce. percent of the 5,970 active permanent employees (inAs part of our prevention strategies, we encourage cluding 38 seconded Staff to Subsidiaries and 239 exited whistleblowing to prevent frauds and cybercrimes, parstaff) were sent on various classroom anti-corruption ticularly phishing emails and other social engineering trainings. attacks. And to plug the vulnerabilities observed in our In addition, 67 members of the Bank’s top manageanti-corruption drive and in line with the Central Bank of ment, executive management and board were duly Nigeria’s (CBN) mandate, we established an e-fraud desk, trained on the latest anti-corruption policies of the bank which provides 24 hours verifications and checks on the through quarterly Anti-Money Laundry (AML) Workgenuineness of the bank’s electronic receipts and payshops. This represents 81 percent of total staff in these ments. cadres. Zenith Bank provides adequate anti-corruption trainWe actively support the government’s fight against ing for all categories of employees on a quarterly basis, corruption and regulators’ efforts at curbing money launwith emphasis on evolving social engineering attacks and dering. In 2016, a total of 3,923 employees, representing other kinds of cybercrimes. In the year under review, we 65.7% of total staff strength, received training on anticlosed accounts of illegal International Money Transfer corruption. We will continue to cooperate with authoriOperators in line with CBN directives. Our employees ties at local and national levels to end the vice. are also being trained and closely supervised to be more To improve environmental and social responsibility in vigilant and be able to identify fraudulent cash related our value chain, we have integrated the UNGC’s basic transactions, such as counterfeit notes. pillars (human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corIn 2016, a total of 3,923 employees – representing 66 ruption) into our supply chain management practices. 20 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPOR REPORTT 2016 Zenith Bank Annual Youth Parade Local communities & social Our major focus in 2016 was on suppor ting investments government’s effort at improving wellbeing and the life expectancy of Nigerians through quality healthcare deOur local communities are integral to our business ecolivery in host communities. Having identified the lack of system. We attach great importance to their feedback world class cancer management facilities in most parts in our day to day operations. We understand that no of the country as a critical need, we partnered with a business can thrive in isolation of its host community. non-profit organization (the Committee Encouraging This is why we remain committed to creating viable chanCorporate Philanthropy, CECP-Nigeria) to do something nels of engagement with this group of stakeholders and about the situation. In 2016, we expended over N1.2 bilnurturing a symbiotic relationship with them. lion on the purchase of ten (10) mobile cancer diagnostic Data from our ZenithDirect and our other feedback and treatment centers in ten locations across the counapparatuses of the Bank empowered us with adequate try. Our objective was to take cancer diagnosis and treatunderstanding of the concerns and interests of our host ment to remote locations and the less privileged in the communities. Key concerns are reviewed in-depth and society. taken into consideration in our business decisions and In 2016, we invested a total of N2.557 billion (or US$8.4 policy formulations. million) in diverse corporate social responsibility initiaIn the year under review, we continued to improve tives. This was a 177 percent leap from the N0.923 billion on our communities’ engagement, and created more (or U$4.6 million) expended in 2015 and represented 2 channels for interaction and collaboration. Some of our percent of our profit after tax during the review period. activities in host communities during the review period We also supported the Ikota Educational Foundation include financial support for SMEs, donation of social towards the construction of Hillrange School for boys amenities, landscape enhancement and beautification, and Rooseville School for girls, with a view to improving support for improved healthcare delivery, among oththe standard of education in our society and taking world ers. class education to the reach of the less privileged. In our corporate social investments, we prioritize Our Zenith National Women Basketball League enprojects that would significantly deliver economic bentered its eleventh year of uninterrupted sponsorship in efits for households, small and medium scale enterprises, 2016, with nearly 300 young female basketballers leverwomen entrepreneurs, youths, infrastructure developaging the platform to display their skills and improve their ment, energy generation, economic diversification and career prospects. The Zenith League continues to projob creation 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 duce players that constitute Nigeria’s National team and workforce of over 6,000 people, with over 98 percent of the country’s representatives in continental and internathem recruited from within the domestic economy; a pool tional championships, including the Olympics. of hundreds of contractors, vendors and suppliers that Other direct and indirect benefits our local commuderived direct economic value of N91.77 billion from our nities derive from our business operations include a patronage in 2016; among others. 22 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2016 REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 Conclusion Zenith Bank has always been a trail blazer in banking innovation and transformation. We will bring this culture Sustainability as a way of life or way of business is sheer to bear in our sustainable banking endeavors. We will commonsense. Individuals or businesses that ignore this leverage the endless business opportunities that the evolving trend do so at their own impediment. evolving green industry offers both at the domestic and global fronts. At Zenith Bank, we are fully aware of this fact and are committed to using the ‘green’ model to leapfrog into Green bonds, renewable energy, recycling, and energy our next generation of business ideas and opportuniefficiency technologies are some of the numerous emergties. ing business opportunities that sustainability presents. We are positioning to lead these future sectors and explore As a forward looking institution, we are mindful of the the win-win benefits they offer to economic agents and great value that sustainability could add to our business business stakeholders. growth and relevance. We also understand that it could define the difference between success and failure; enWe will also support government and private-sector led during or fleeting relevance. This is why we will continue initiatives towards improving environmental and social to improve on our environmental and social performance wellbeing, and combating the scourges of excessive and close observed gaps in the actualization of our greenhouse gas emissions, global warming and climate sustainability targets. change. This is our collective responsibility. Cont Contact act Infor mation Information This rrepor epor eportt is prepar epared prepar ed by the Cor Corporpor ate Sus porate Susttainability and Res Res off Zenith Bank Plc, in compliance with ponsibility Unit o esponsibility the ‘GRI SSttandar ds’ sus andards’ epor susttainability rrepor ting principles and guidelines. eporting All feedback and enquiries should be dir ected to: directed The Head Cor por ate Sus porate Corpor Susttainability and R es Res ponsibility (CSR) esponsibility Zenith Bank Plc Zenith Height Heightss 87, Ajose A deogun SStr Adeogun treet treet V ictoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria Email: sus susttainability@zenithbank.com ainability@zenithbank.com;; csr@zenithbank.com csr@zenithbank.com;; zenithdir ect@zenithbank.com zenithdirect@zenithbank.com Phone: +234 1 278 1049, +234 1 278 1047, +234 1 278 1048, +234 704 0000 831 Website: www .zenithbank.com www.zenithbank.com 24 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITY Y REPOR REPORT T 2016 Addendum Sus Susttainability Audit & Assur ance R Assurance epor eportts Repor 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 ZENITH BANK HEAD OFFICE – GHG AUDIT AND MANAGEMENT GHG EMISSION FACT SHEET FOR 2016 August 3, 2017 DESCRIPTION Zenith Bank Plc appointed V4 Advisors SAL to conduct a Greenhouse Gas (GHG) audit, measured in tCO2eq, for its Head Office building in VI Lagos based on the Business-as-Usual (BaU) scenario. This fact sheet summarizes the 2016 GHG emissions results, quantified using V4 Advisors “Built on GHG Protocol” Corporate GHG online Calculator. A thorough detailed report will be submitted that will illustrate Zenith Bank’s emissions. CONCEPT OF THE GREENHOUSE GAS CALCULATION – GREENHOUSE GAS PROTOCOL A GHG audit measures the impact of the organization’s operation emissions on the environment. The carbon footprint generally begins with the identification of the emission sources from day-to-day operations. An inventory follows, accounting for the GHG emissions most often in terms of kilograms or tones of CO2 equivalent (kgCO2e or tCO2e). Scope 1: Direct emissions:  Fleet vehicles  Backup power generators used to offset electrical outages Scope 2: Indirect emissions:  Power purchased from the local utility (PHCN / PHC) Scope 3: Other indirect emissions:  Business related flight travels Figure 1: Requirements of the GHG Protocol  Paper Consumption The GHG inventory procedure included in this report are based on the recommendations of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG-P) Corporate Standards; the most widely adopted protocol by organizations taking incremental steps towards understanding the impact of their respective carbon footprint. The GHG-P Corporate Standard is an internationally recognized standard for GHG inventories developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). In 2006, this protocol was adopted as a first step for ISO 14064 (ISO 140641: Specification with guidance at the organization level for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals). Zenith Bank’s Head Office GHG inventory was quantified using the V4 Advisors’ Corporate Greenhouse Gas Calculator tool, which is certified with the “Built on GHG Protocol” Mark. Figure 2: Built on GHG Protocol Mark V4 ADVISORS SAL | KASLIK PLAZA, 2ND FLOOR | MAIN ROAD KASLIK | KASLIK – LEBANON | EMAIL: INFO@V4ADVISORS.COM TEL: +961 9 911 953 | WWW.V4ADVISORS.COM ZENITH BANK HEAD OFFICE – GHG AUDIT AND MANAGEMENT GHG EMISSION FACT SHEET FOR 2016 FIGURES SUMMARIZING THE RESULTS OF ZENITH BANK’S TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (TCO2e) FOR 2016 The total GHG emitted by Zenith Bank Head Office, employing 1,030 employees in a total area of 6,730.52 m2 was 14,579.9 tCO2e in year 2016. This is equivalent to 14.2 tCO2e per employee or 2.2 tCO2e per m2. Figures 3 and 4 illustrate the main GHG emission sources. Figure 3: Zenith Bank Head Office GHG Emissions per source (%) Figure 4: Zenith Bank Head Office GHG Emissions per scope (%) Figure 5: Zenith Bank Head Office total monthly GHG Emission variations RESULTS EQUATES TO The total GHG emission from Zenith Bank Head Office in 2016 is 14,579.9 tCO2e, equates to: 539,996.3 Kg of raw beef (As per 668,802 pine trees that are 10 years old 1,534.6 79.2 tripstrips around the the around equator US standards) are needed to offset the Bank’s GHG equator emissions (or a forest of 1,137 Km2) V4 ADVISORS SAL | KASLIK PLAZA, 2ND FLOOR | MAIN ROAD KASLIK | KASLIK – LEBANON | EMAIL: INFO@V4ADVISORS.COM TEL: +961 9 911 953 | WWW.V4ADVISORS.COM ZENITH BANK HEAD OFFICE – GHG AUDIT AND MANAGEMENT GHG EMISSION FACT SHEET FOR 2016 Description Jan Feb March April May June July August Sept Oct Nov Dec Total Scope 1. Direct emissions from backup power production and car fleet (tCO2e) Generators 285.0 310.7 207.6 357.0 385.4 317.6 552.1 468.9 477.8 485.7 627.0 635.8 5,110.7 Car Fleet 506.3 544.5 502.4 510.6 502.8 540.2 529.7 570.9 471.0 505.8 538.0 501.4 6,223.7 Total Scope 1* 791.4 855.2 710.1 867.6 888.2 857.8 1,081.8 1,039.8 948.8 991.5 1,165.0 1,137.2 11,334.3 Total Refrigerants 1,570.1 Scope 2. Indirect emission from purchased energy (tCO2e) PHCN/PHC 104.4 167.2 114.6 111.9 88.4 92.2 115.8 121.3 106.4 96.1 98.3 116.8 1,333.5 Total Scope 2 104.4 167.2 114.6 111.9 88.4 92.2 115.8 121.3 106.4 96.1 98.3 116.8 1,333.5 Scope 3. Selected indirect emissions (tCO2e) Flight Trips 12.9 22.4 34.9 44.1 38.7 17.3 37.0 23.5 26.1 17.2 12.6 12.7 299.4 Paper Consumption 2.7 2.4 4.7 4.7 2.4 4.7 2.4 4.7 4.7 2.4 4.7 2.4 42.7 Total Scope 3 15.6 24.8 39.6 48.8 41.0 22.0 39.4 28.2 30.8 19.6 17.3 15.1 342.1 Monthly total emissions (tCO2e) Total * 911.3 1,047.2 864.3 1,028.3 1,017.6 972.0 1,237.0 1,189.3 1,086.0 1,107.1 1,280.7 1,269.1 13,009.9 Yearly total emissions (tCO2e)** 14,580 * the total is calculated without the refrigerants ** the total includes the emissions from refrigerants V4 ADVISORS SAL | KASLIK PLAZA, 2ND FLOOR | MAIN ROAD KASLIK | KASLIK – LEBANON | EMAIL: INFO@V4ADVISORS.COM TEL: +961 9 911 953 | WWW.V4ADVISORS.COM Ernst & Young Nigeria Tel: +234 (01) 844 996 2/3 10th and 13th Floor UBA House Fax: +234 (01) 463 0481 57 Marina Email: services@ng.ey.com Lagos, Nigeria www.ey.com INDEPENDENT SUSTAINABILITY ASSURANCE REPORT TO THE DIRECTORS OF ZENITH BANK PLC FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 We have completed our independent assurance engagement to enable us to express our limited assurance conclusions on whether specified Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) of Zenith Bank Plc as included in the Sustainability Report (“the Report”) of the Bank for the year ended 31 December 2016, has been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with Core options of the GRI Standards. Scope and Subject matter. The following Sustainability information in the Report was selected for an expression of limited assurance as they relate to Zenith Bank Plc: Focus Area Key Performance indicators Sub-heading in sustainability report Social Donation and charitable gifts (naira amount and Local communities and social percentage of profit after tax) investments Customer complaints for the year ended (number of Ethics and Integrity complaints and naira amount claimed) Diversity and equal Total employees by gender (number and percentage) opportunity Diversity and equal opportunity/ Board of Total Board and top management staff (number and Directors and Board percentage in gender representation) Structure. Analysis of fraud and forgeries returns (number and Ethics and Integrity naira amount) Employee training and development (number, Training and development percentage of total employee and naira amount) Employee turnover rate (number and percentage) Employee: New employee hires and turnover Employee who have undergone training on Anti-corruption fighting/combating financial crime (number and percentage of total employees) Analysis of Human Rights and non-discrimination Non-discrimination and policies and practices Human rights Financial Inclusion and Financial Literacy activities for Financial inclusion and the year ended Financial literacy Economic Economic value created for stakeholders and Economic performance government Environment Energy consumption pattern within the organization Energy consumption within the organization Carbon footprint measurement and management Emissions/Audit Our responsibility in performing our independent limited assurance engagement is to Zenith Bank Plc only and in accordance with the terms of reference for this engagement as agreed with them. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Zenith Bank Plc, for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions we have reached. Ernst & Young Nigeria Tel: +234 (01) 844 996 2/3 10th and 13th Floor UBA House Fax: +234 (01) 463 0481 57 Marina Email: services@ng.ey.com Lagos, Nigeria www.ey.com Directors’ Responsibility The directors are responsible for implementing a stakeholder engagement process to identify all relevant stakeholders, to identify key issues, to respond appropriately to key issues identified, to determine those key performance indicators which may be relevant and material to the identified stakeholders, and to design and apply appropriate sustainability reporting policies. The directors are also responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Report and the information and assessments contained in the Report in accordance with the relevant criteria. This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining appropriate performance management and systems to record, monitor and improve the accuracy, completeness and reliability of the sustainability data and to ensure that the information and data reported meet the requirements of the relevant criteria, and contains all relevant disclosures that could materially affect any of the conclusions drawn. Assurance Provider’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express our limited assurance conclusions on the specified KPIs in the Report based on our independent limited assurance engagement. Our independent limited assurance engagement was performed in accordance with The International Framework for Assurance Engagements and International Standards on Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000) developed by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board and in accordance with The International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410: Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements under the auspices of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). This standard requires us to comply with ethical requirements and to plan and perform our engagements to obtain limited assurance regarding the specified KPIs contained in the Report. Basis of Work and Limitations We have complied with the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which includes comprehensive independence and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Our engagement was conducted by a multi-disciplinary team of health, safety, social, environmental and assurance specialists with extensive experience in sustainability reporting. The procedures selected depend on our judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the subject matter and the purpose of our engagement. In making these assessments, we have considered internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and presentation of the Report and the information contained therein, in order to design procedures appropriate for gathering sufficient appropriate assurance evidence to determine that the information in the Report is not materially misstated or misleading as set out in the summary of work performed below. Our assessment of relevant internal control is not for the purpose of expressing a conclusion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal controls. Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given the characteristics of the subject matter and the methods adopted for the definition and gathering of information. Qualitative interpretations of relevance, materiality and the accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgements. We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we considered necessary to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusions pertaining to the Report and the specified KPIs, expressed below. Where a limited assurance conclusion is expressed, our evidence gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. Ernst & Young Nigeria Tel: +234 (01) 844 996 2/3 10th and 13th Floor UBA House Fax: +234 (01) 463 0481 57 Marina Email: services@ng.ey.com Lagos, Nigeria www.ey.com Summary of Work Performed Set out below is a summary of the procedures performed pertaining to the specified KPIs which were included in the scope of our limited assurance engagement. ► We obtained an understanding of: ► The entity and its environment; ► Entity-level controls; ► The selection and application of sustainability reporting policies; and ► The significant reporting processes including how information is initiated, recorded, processed, reported and incorrect information is corrected, as well as the policies and procedures within the reporting processes. ► We made such enquiries of management, employees and those responsible for the preparation of the Report and the specified KPIs, as we considered necessary. ► We inspected relevant supporting documentation and obtained such external confirmations and management representations as we considered necessary for the purposes of our engagement. ► We performed analytical procedures and limited tests of detail responsive to our risk assessment and the level of assurance required, including comparison of judgementally selected information to the underlying source documentation from which the information has been derived. We believe that the evidence obtained as part of our limited assurance engagement, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusions expressed below. Conclusion Based on the work we have performed and subject to the limitations described above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the specified Key Performance Indicators in the Zenith sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with GRI Standards. Other matter The maintenance and integrity of the Zenith Bank Plc Website is the responsibility of Zenith bank Plc management. Our procedures did not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes to the information in the Zenith bank Plc Sustainability Report shown on the website, which differs from the content in the printed version. Samuel Agbevem Ernst & Young Lagos, Nigeria Date: 17th August 2017
