Global Development Advisors COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Dalberg Global Development Advisors (“Dalberg” or “we”) has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact (“UNGC” or “The Global Compact”) since 2007 and endorses the 10 universally accepted principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Our commitment to the Global Compact’s principles is exemplified most strongly through our client engagements, publications and internal initiatives including: • Partnership with United Nations Compact: Dalberg has worked with the UNGC on a variety of engagements over the past 13 years. Our 2013 report, “Architects of a Better World,” laid out a framework for the UNGC to engage the private sector in supporting the post-2015 development agenda. Previously, Dalberg supported the UNGC by helping it identify and establish transformational partnerships between the United Nations and businesses and identify best practices for such cooperation. We have also authored several reports for the UNGC. • Promotion of human rights: We helped our clients – including large private foundations and governmental agencies – to mobilize humanitarian aid efforts, advocate for human rights and protect vulnerable populations. • Labor: We offer benefits exceeding/comparable to other leading professional services firms in our respective countries of operation. Further, we conduct annual anti-harassment training for new hires and new Associate Partners, and periodic all staff refreshers, most recently in March 2017. • Environmental sustainability: We worked with a range of actors to develop environmentally friendly solutions, that included ensuring better energy access, conserving wildlife, and promoting access to “off-grid” societies, a concept that Dalberg is helping to define further. • Anti-corruption and promotion of good governance: We fought corruption by strengthening good governance within United Nations agencies, corporate CSR efforts, and citizen engagement, providing robust frameworks that ensure transparency. As a firm dedicated to addressing the world’s most pressing challenges, the principles mainstreamed by the Global Compact are the same guiding Dalberg’s development efforts and internal policies. Going forward, we will continue to promote the principles and the UNGC in our communications, but more importantly, through our international development activities. Madji Sock, Global Operating Partner 25 May 2017 Firm Description Dalberg Global Development Advisors is a strategy and policy advisory firm focused on global development. Dalberg was established in 2001 with the mission of bringing the best of private sector strategy to address global development challenges. We do so by combining rigorous analytical capabilities with deep knowledge and networks across emerging and frontier markets. We offer our clients a broad set of service lines and expertise areas to serve their needs. Our service lines describe our functional skills (what we do best) – including Strategy, Evaluation, Human-Centered Design, Inclusive Growth, Investing for Development, Organizational Effectiveness, Policy and Advocacy, and Talent and Leadership; and our expertise areas describe our content (what we know best) including: • Agriculture & Food Security – Helping organizations identify, design and implement solutions that benefit agricultural market participants and increase food security • Cities – Working with cities to set purposeful goals, diagnose obstacles, collaborate through global networks and partnerships, experiment with potential solutions, and continuously adapt to change • Conflict, Security & Humanitarian Assistance – Helping organizations to effectively address the unique development challenges faced by conflict-affected and post-conflict countries • Education to Employment – Expanding global access to high-quality employment and education at all levels by understanding market needs and effective approaches to learning, strengthening public systems and facilitating public-private partnerships • Energy Access – Working with public and private sector organizations to transform markets, make sound supply-side choices, access financing, and enhance energy access • Environment – Innovating at the intersection of human and natural systems to meet the growing demand for food, freshwater, energy, and other resources that advance human development while protecting the ability of our ecosystems to support this growth in the long run • Financial Inclusion – Partnering with financial institutions, foundations, development institutions, and governments to develop innovative strategies for providing high-quality, appropriate financial services to underserved individuals and businesses • Gender – Developing strategies and designing programs that enable organizations to leverage resources toward greater gender equity • Health & Nutrition – Identifying, designing and implementing solutions that improve health across the globe • ICT – Harnessing the power of information and communication technologies to foster innovation, improve quality, expand access and drive accountability • Inclusive Business Working with businesses to develop inclusive customer bases, suppliers, employees, and distribution channels • Infrastructure – Supporting governments, private investors and institutions to develop inclusive and sustainable infrastructure in emerging markets • Water & SanitationImproving private sector-based and sustainable approaches in rural water supply, sanitation, and hygiene products UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 2 Dalberg brings global perspectives firmly rooted in local realities. We have 16 offices located in Abu Dhabi, Addis Ababa, Copenhagen, Dakar, Dar es Salaam, Geneva, Johannesburg, Lagos, London, Mumbai, Nairobi, New Delhi, New York, San Francisco, Singapore and Washington, D.C. We have served clients in more than 90 countries across Africa, Asia, Europe, the Middle East, and North and South America. The diversity and gender balance of Dalberg staff reflects our ethos of equality and inclusion. Our people are unified only by their commitment to the Dalberg mission, their top-tier education and professional experience, and their first-hand experience living and working in frontier and emerging markets. In all other respects, they reflect the diversity of the countries in which we work and the clients we serve: • 50% women and 50% men global workforce, balanced roughly equally across all levels • More than 30 nationalities • More than 60 languages spoken Dalberg has an extensive track record of success and innovation across public, nonprofit and corporate sectors. During the last 16 years, Dalberg has successfully completed more than 1,600 engagements for more than 500 leading multilateral institutions, international agencies, foundations, NGOs, governments and global corporations operating or investing in frontier and emerging markets. We have worked with a large spectrum of UN organizations – including UNDP, UNICEF, UNCDF, UNOPS, WHO, among others. We act at the forefront of development innovation, working extensively with leading social innovators, such as the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Rockefeller Foundation and MasterCard Foundation, and a broad range of international organizations, including the Global Fund, Human Rights Watch, and the World Wildlife Fund. We advise a broad range of private sector clients, including 10 Fortune 200 Global companies, and have partnered with dozens more. We have advised emerging and frontier market country governments and regional and international development finance institutions, including the World Bank, International Finance Corporation (IFC), African Development Bank (AfDB), Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Inter-American Development Bank (IADB). Dalberg’s Global Compact COP will be available on the UNGC website and will be referenced on our own website, www.dalberg.com. For any questions or comments, please contact: Jasmin Cooke Madji Sock Director, Global Operations Global Operating Partner jasmin.cooke@dalberg.com madji.sock@dalberg.com T: +1 (202) 659-6570 T: +221 (33) 869 64 54 UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 3 Human Rights • Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Dalberg supports staff members in developing social impact initiatives both locally and globally, including initiatives that support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. In order to support personal commitments to being good citizens, Dalberg has a sabbatical policy that enables staff members to work on social impact projects unrelated to client work in an emerging and frontier market country for two weeks to four months, depending on their tenure. Dalberg also strongly espouses the ethos of diversity and inclusion. One of our fundamental principles is to “bring our whole selves to work”, thereby encouraging our people to openly share and seek commonalities on the basis of identity, interests and passions. Additionally, Dalberg’s work in the international development sector requires us to be highly conscious in our choice of clients, subcontractors and partners. Dalberg seeks to work only with clients of the utmost integrity, who are globally respected, and are seeking outcomes that improve the condition of people in emerging and frontier market countries. As such, every partner overseeing business development and project implementation activities takes personal responsibility to ensure our clients are not involved in any human rights abuses. IMPLEMENTATION In the last year, Dalberg engaged with a variety of actors under our dedicated Conflict, Security & Humanitarian Assistance practice. We also delved into human rights from the perspective of equal gender rights. For example: • Dalberg worked with UNCDF on women’s empowerment. Dalberg designed a platform for the UN Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) to support strategies for financial inclusion to contribute to greater economic empowerment of women and girls. This will amplify the impact of existing initiatives and fill critical gaps in achieving the goal. • Dalberg developed the strategy for a leading humanitarian fund. Dalberg built a strategy for the newly-formed Global Community Engagement and Resilience Fund (GCERF), building on its previous work of developing the fund’s vision, mission and theory of change. The fund was formed to foster development among communities most vulnerable to threats of violent extremism. • Dalberg worked to enrich future humanitarian leaders. We worked with the Humanitarian Leadership Academy (HLA) to create a suite of training packages that the academy can build over the coming years to train leaders and field workers in the forefront of humanitarian assistance work. UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 4 • Dalberg helped grow new perspectives on human rights. We advised a large foundation on the landscape of “time poverty”, pertaining to gender inequality in unpaid work and its consequences. We convened global gender experts and other leading stakeholders to analyse the root cause and impact of this phenomenon. MEASURE OF OUTCOMES In the past year, Dalberg has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. In addition, we have written articles in prominent development publications, hosted events, and authored reports reinforcing our support for universal human rights: • Dalberg attended the World Humanitarian Summit in 2016 and hosted an event to propose allhazard services centres for refugees. • Dalberg made a case for businesses to invest in refugees and create safe pathways for their return. In Global Daily, Dalberg’s leadership challenges the private sector to support refugees by tapping into their core competencies. In World Policy Blog, Dalberg urged the international community, regional stakeholders, and local actors to make investments now to enable Syrian refugees to have the option to return home when areas of the country become stable. In The National, a Dalberg Partner detailed a set of key actions to enable the successful return of displaced Yemenis. • Dalberg started a conversation about social class and its impact at TEDx. A senior Dalberg member presented at TEDxNTU in Singapore, elaborating on our understanding of how social class influences a person’s perception of the self and leads them to make choices that impact their future goals. • Dalberg presented a toolkit for tackling gender-based issues. In Devex, Dalberg’s Gender Practice Area published our step-by-step toolkit to identify gender issues at their root cause, and not just treat symptoms. In Business Fights Poverty, a senior Dalberg member detailed the 1 million women shortfall in the tech industry as a substantial missed opportunity to achieving representational gender diversity in leadership. • Dalberg recommended innovative solutions to India’s mental health problem. In Huffpost India, a Dalberg team presented community-oriented and technology-based solutions to address the issue of mental health in India. • Dalberg advocated for private sector-led solutions to solve child malnutrition in Africa. In Business Day, a Dalberg team member published an article articulating the challenges to nutrition faced in Africa and how the private sector is well-placed to present scalable solutions to the problem. In Ventures, Dalberg presented evidence of the dire state of new born healthcare in Nigeria, and advocated for greater intervention by government and the private sector. UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 5 Labor • Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labor • Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS While the nature of Dalberg’s professional services work does not necessitate staff union membership, our Corporate Policies provide for a system whereby employee concerns and grievances can be addressed via elected staff representatives. We uphold the elimination of all forms of forced, compulsory or child labor and observe and support the ILO conventions outlawing such. In addition, as a matter of principle and reputation, we seek to ensure that these practices do not take place in our client, partner and sub-contractor organizations. Finally, as an international consulting firm, Dalberg actively seeks to recruit a team that reflects the gender and ethnic diversity of our clients and their beneficiaries. Our Corporate Policies ensure staff members are recruited based on their ability to do the job; no distinction, exclusion or preference is given on any other grounds. IMPLEMENTATION Dalberg’s Corporate Policies are posted prominently on our internal knowledge management system and are accessible by all staff. In 2014 we refreshed the anti-harassment section of our Corporate Policies. Our policies are accompanied by an open discussion forum that communicates directly with Dalberg’s Global Managing Partner, Global Operating Partner, and the Chairman of the People and Values Committee. We conduct anti-harassment training for new hires and new Associate Partners each year, and did a global anti-harassment refresher for all staff in 2017. For confidential employee grievances and concerns, we have an established Ombudsperson system. The Ombudspeople are nominated by staff globally and retain the position for a period of at least one year. These representatives have direct access to Dalberg senior management and the responsibility to bring up issues of concern to staff. In addition, Dalberg seeks to be a leading employer by recognizing the importance of maintaining an enjoyable and supportive working environment and providing social benefits. Each of our offices aims to provide benefits like health, dental, pension, parental leave, etc. at levels exceeding/comparable to other leading professional services firms in their respective countries of operation. We promote team work and individual professional development through regular office-level retreats, a global retreat every 16-24 months, regular global and office-level skills training sessions, quarterly staff Pulse surveys, 360-degree feedback reviews and individual staff professional development plans. UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 6 Moreover, in the past year Dalberg has worked with a number of clients regarding labor and employment practices. For example: • Dalberg supported UNCDF in accelerating digital payments in West Africa. Dalberg worked with the Better Than Cash Alliance, a multi-stakeholder partnership hosted by UN Capital Development Fund (UNCDF), to study digital payments in Senegal to improve the livelihoods of low-income populations by promoting financial inclusion. • Dalberg helped over 100,000 women gain access to better water and sanitation. Dalberg worked with USAID and GAP Inc. to map the risks faced by women living around textile industry clusters in India and Cambodia, and supported training of vulnerable communities. Dalberg also supported the making of a short film featuring the experiences of these women. • Dalberg advised the Government of Guinea on training workers for the mining sector. Dalberg was the primary advisor to the Prime Minister’s Delivery Unit and is currently the key implementation partner, in a project that will provide quality training to 5,000 youth per year, including 3,000 skilled workers, 1,600 technicians and 400 engineers by 2020. • Dalberg worked to grow more digital jobs and training in Africa. Dalberg worked with Harambee to assess the demand for digital jobs in South Africa, so youth unemployment in the region can be tackled by providing relevant and adequate training to youth and support can be extended to find them jobs. Dalberg is one of the recruiters of Harambee graduates. • Dalberg analysed the youth training scenario in Jammu & Kashmir, India. Dalberg worked with the National Skill Development Corporation of the Government of India to develop an understanding of the challenges and opportunities for current youth skilling programs in the state of Jammu & Kashmir in India. We presented solutions to address the bottlenecks and bring more youth into these programs. • Dalberg helped build a peer-learning network across Africa. Dalberg worked with the Umsizi Fund to build a Pan-African Youth Employment Peer Learning Network that would promote coordination and sharing among youth organizations from across the continent. MEASURE OF OUTCOMES In the past year, Dalberg has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving contravention of ILO conventions or the Global Compact labor principles. Additionally, Dalberg’s efforts to build and maintain a diverse staff and a supportive, non-discriminative corporate environment are apparent in our staff statistics: • 50% women and 50% men global workforce, balanced roughly equally across all levels • More than 30 nationalities • More than 60 languages spoken In addition, we have written articles in prominent development publications and spoken at public forums, reinforcing our commitment to fair labor practices and equal opportunity: UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 7 • Dalberg helped launch the first Women’s Investment Club in West Africa. To encourage entrepreneurship among women and to ensure fair practice among women workers, Dalberg supported the launch of the Senegal Women’s Investment Club in Dakar on International Women’s Day in the presence of UN Women, Regional Stock Exchange Securities (BRVM), and management and intermediation company CGF Bourse. • Dalberg Partner spoke on CNBC on youth unemployment. Dalberg Partner and Tanzania Office Director, Devang Vussonji, spoke on CNBC Africa on the link between education and unemployment in East Africa, emphasizing the disconnect between skills taught and competencies desired by the industry. • Dalberg analyzed technology solutions to unlock potential of entrepreneurs. In Ideas for India, a Dalberg team analyzed how digital infrastructure can help provide paperless, presence-less, and cashless credit to micro-entrepreneurs. • Dalberg presented ideas for an inclusive digital economy. In Dalberg D.Blog, our team member analyses the threat presented to current models of employment by machines and robots, leading to disenfranchisement among vulnerable populations. The article presents ideas for using digital technologies to reach all segments of society so no one is left behind. UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 8 Environment • Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Dalberg is committed to fostering and promoting a clean environment and meeting environmental challenges through a wide range of efforts to monitor and reduce the carbon footprint of our individual staff and the firm as a whole. Wherever possible, Dalberg raises awareness among our staff and guides them to the most environmentally friendly choices. Our travel policies, posted on our internal knowledge management system and available to all staff, advise use of the most environmentally sound methods of travel. In addition, members of our dedicated Energy Access and Environment practices foster internal and external dialogue on environmental challenges through monthly calls and email updates, blog posts and articles. IMPLEMENTATION In the last year, Dalberg worked with a wide range of clients to develop environmentally-conscious strategies, build knowledge around environmental markets, and promote the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. For example: • Dalberg conducted an evaluation of the secretariat of the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR), and made recommendations that would lead to the creation of resilient communities. Dalberg attended the 2017 Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction held in Cancun, Mexico, to brainstorm solutions and review progress. • Dalberg drove the strategy and financing of achieving renewable energy goals. Dalberg collaborated closely with the African Development Bank (AfDB) to structure a new $500 million renewable energy access debt fund which will bring energy access to an estimated three million people and approximately 600,000 households. In December 2016, the AfDB approved a $100 million financing package to seed the fund. • Dalberg analysed prospects for alternative energy solutions in Africa. Dalberg worked with the World Bank ACCES team to assess alternative biofuel business models in Sub-Saharan Africa. • Dalberg supported a global clean energy non-profit scale up its operations. We worked extensively with We Care Solar, a global non-profit with the mission to electrify every off-grid maternal health clinic, to build their operating and revenue models for scaling up in a sustainable fashion. UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 9 • Dalberg assessed the impact of a leading environment non-profit. Dalberg conducted a review of the impact and development over the past 15 years of Oceana, the world's largest non-profit advocacy organization solely dedicated to protecting and restoring the world's oceans. MEASURE OF OUTCOMES In the past year, Dalberg authored reports and contributed to major conversations on this subject: • Dalberg fostered key conversations on the environment and affordable energy access. During the World Economic Forum on Africa, Dalberg hosted two events focused on defining off-grid communities and discussing solutions for energy access. These events were part of an ongoing series celebrating 10 years of Dalberg in Africa and were attended by leaders from the private and public sector. • Dalberg wrote advocacy papers and reports on a range of subjects related to the environment. Dalberg worked with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to write advocacy reports on illegal wildlife harvesting at World Heritage Sites, and on the threats presented by Asia’s infrastructure boom to tigers. Dalberg also co-authored a report with the WWF calling for global collective action to address the threats faced by the flora and fauna of the Donana Wetlands in Southern Spain. • Dalberg called for greater cohesion between the environment and development sectors. A senior Dalberg team member contributed to a panel discussion, suggesting ways in which putting environment on the development agenda will help achieve the Sustainable Development Goals 2030. This discussion was published in The Guardian. • Dalberg advocated for clean cookstoves in Latin America and the Caribbean. In NextBillion, Dalberg team members wrote about the threats posed by use of wood, charcoal and other solid fuels for cooking in these regions, and how governments can promote the use of clean cookstoves by lowering taxes and trade barriers. • Dalberg published an article on the threat to oceans. In Global Daily, Dalberg team members wrote an article emphasizing the importance of oceans to the global environment, and making a case for the private sector to tackle some of challenges faced. UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 10 Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Dalberg observes and supports the United Nations Convention against Corruption. We seek to support governments, UN agencies and civil society to realize a more transparent global economy. As a firm, we have strict Corporate Policies to avoid bribery, extortion and other forms of corruption both in home office countries and in the field. Where there are concerns, Dalberg includes specific provisions in our contractual arrangements with clients prohibiting any such behaviour. IMPLEMENTATION Our primary contribution to a transparent global economy comes in the form of our client work. In the last one to two years, we worked with a wide range of clients on governance issues. For example: • Dalberg streamlined the policies, systems and practices of a leading UN agency. This led to greater levels of transparency and higher quality in transactions. • Dalberg helped Ghana to develop a transparent trade-focused development plan. Dalberg worked with DFID and the Government of Ghana to design the transition of the country’s economic development model from aid to trade. In doing so, we developed a robust monitoring and evaluation framework to align progress with program objectives and ensure transparency. • Dalberg developed the MEL plan for Liberia’s connectivity program. We worked with USAID on its Investment Support Program (ISP) and developed a Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning Plan for a digital infrastructure-building program in Liberia so as to prepare the country to better respond to crises such as Ebola. • Dalberg led the monitoring efforts for a leading foundation. Dalberg was the monitoring partner to a leading foundation for programs worth USD 75 million focused on rural development and electrification. MEASURE OF OUTCOMES In the past year, Dalberg has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving corruption or bribery. In addition, we maintain transparent financial records via an annual audit with accredited accounting firms in each of our countries of operation. UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 11
