COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT What is UN Global Compact? By joining the United Nations Global Compact, the companies commit themselves to incorporating the ten universal principles from four areas into their strategies and procedures. Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 1 Pac Team Group Ltd. Pac Team was founded in Switzerland in 1949, specializing in timepiece displays, packaging and exhibition solutions. Today Pac Team works on three continents and serve the entire world. Even as the company grows to meet the demands of a global marketplace, the precision and ingenuity of Swiss watchmakers remains its core inspiration. Pac Team embodies the legendary quality of Swiss engineering, and values every relationship like a timepiece a lifelong commitment to be treasured and handled with care. Each of the group’s companies represents a proud tradition of handwork, quality and craftsmanship which Pac Team is committed to preserve. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 Pac Team is a SEDEX member (B member) ; all its production sites are documented via the SEDEX SAQ (Self-Assessment Questionnaire). CSR partner : Product DNA Ltd Since 2015, Pac Team Group has entrusted the Swiss company Product DNA Ltd (www.productdna.com) to manage the external follow-up of all elements of sustainability: social conditions at production sites, environmental impacts calculation and supply chains traceability. Pac Team is committed to transparency in its production processes, while continuing to improve working conditions and reduce environmental impacts. 2 CEO statement letter of continued support for the UN Global Compact Le Mont-sur-Lausanne, September 2017 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, Hereby, I am pleased to confirm that Pac Team SA reafirms its commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. These four areas are currently integrated into our corporate strategies, as well as into our corporate practices and activities. This commitment has been announced to our stakeholders, our suppliers, our partners, as well as our customers. The ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights have been integrated into our corporate social and environmental programme since 2016 and are documented in the « Communication on Progress ». Sincerely yours, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 Alain Borle CEO of Pacteam Ltd 3 What has changed in 2016 Sustainable development has become one of the major concerns for luxury goods manufacturers. For this reason, Pac Team decided in 2015 to speed up the move towards greater transparency in its production chains and to publish non-financial indicators about its activities. In doing this, we are anticipating the demands of our clients and playing a leadership role in our field. For this purpose, the following initiatives have been set up in 2016-2017 :  Follow-up and verified closing of corrective actions detected during audits  Management and support of the external follow-up of all elements of sustainability by an independent partner since 2015, Product DNA Ltd  Launch of the Eco-design & Innovation program  Creation and regular update of an internal directory for regulations, labelling and certifications  Selection of non-financial indicators to measure sustainability development and progress  Launch of the Respect-code Traceability program  Pac Team own production facilities are members of SEDEX; upgrade of the quality management system (QMS)  REACh declaration letter to be signed by suppliers each year  Sustainability awareness of the Pac Team employees during a CSR lunch  Launch of an audit campaign based on the new SMETA 6.0 format COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 Tancredi Pascale Operations Manager Le Mont-sur-Lausanne, September 4th 2017 4 Scope of this COP The three main production facilities are located in the United States, Italy and China. For this first communication on progress, Pac Team Group has decided to focus on Pac Team Production Asia Pacific (PTPAP), its Chinese production site. This production platform is located in a country characterized by its potential for improvement in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. It is also the largest Pac Team factory in terms of number of employees and volume of production. Pac Team Facilities : appendix 1, pages 15-17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 5 Principle 1 – Human Rights Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Towards a living wage All the workers are guaranteed a minimum legal wage ; the median wage in the facility is superior to the minimum legal wage, and tends to come closer to the living wage estimated by local social organizations. Health and safety for all All the workers benefit from working conditions which do not put their health or safety at risk. The factory supplies all appropriate safety equipment, and machines can only be used with adapted protections. In order to make sure that all the instructions are followed correctly and that any noticed negligence is immediately corrected, a Health and Safety Supervisor was appointed in early 2016. A better social security cover During an audit conducted at the end of 2015 in the factory, insufficient social insurance for the workers was highlighted. Pac Team Group has immediately set up the necessary measures in order for the workers to benefit from insurances policies covering accidents, unemployment and basic medical care. The target is that 100% of the workers in the factory benefit from social insurances. See information letter to all workers, appendix 2, page 18 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 Audits guidance, 2016-2017 The regular practice of checks at Chinese production sites has been part of Pac Team business strategy for years. Each audit identifies improvement potentials in terms of compliance, safety and health for workers and for customers. Regular monitoring of the corrective measures put in place leads to the best working conditions for the workers. In China, Pac Team Group appointed Responsabilitas to provide audits, consulting and training services. A service with extensive knowledge of issues that arise on-the-floor in Chinese factories and with expertise in compliance and capacity building. 6 Achievement, situation & plan  4 audits (security, health & safety, working conditions) of production premises (second party audit).  Resolution of corrective actions : permanent monitoring by Responsabilitas, China & Product DNA, Switzerland.  Third party audit planned for September 2017, according to the new reference system SMETA 6.0.  In addition to the regular verification of the main prouction unit, PTPAP, Pac Team Group organizes regular independent checks of its most important subcontractors. The six main ones were audited during the first half of 2017 (third party audit). Principle 2 – Human Rights Ensure non-complicity in human rights abuses Following ILO principles The International Labor Organization (ILO) is a worldwide organization in charge of setting and supervising international labor standards. Pac Team Group strives to work only with partners following their principles. The Chinese factory does not work with hidden subcontractors. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 7 Principle 3 Labor Uphold freedom of association and collective bargaining Beyond legal framework : the workers’ committee A workers’ committee is active within the factory. Internal communication would be improved by the publication of the members’ list inside the factory. Freedom of association The workers are free to belong to an association and under no circumstances, shall they be made the object of reprisals within the framework of union actions or claims. See Code of Conduct : http://www.respect-code.org/CompanyFiles/Company_1726/Certificate_543/3.%20Code%20de%20conduite%20des%20fournisseurs.pdf Principle 4 Labor Support elimination of forced and compulsory labor Free choice of employment All the workers have a contract of employment according to the local labor legislation. There COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 is no illegal work in the factory, they are free to resign and leave their employer at any time, having given prior notice. Sunday, the day of rest All the workers have a right day of rest per week, usually on Sundays. In order to meet customers’ deadlines, workers might exceptionally work on Sundays, in this case, they should be compensated by a day off during the following month at the latest. This is decided with their agreement and with the aim of maintaining some flexibility in the production process in order to meet customers’ requirements. See information letter to all workers, appendix 3, page 19 8 No forced labor Management never recourses to forced labor or to work performed under the threat of a penalty, whether it is within the contractual framework or during overtime as mentioned in the previous point. Importance of social sensitisation Training sessions are regularly held within the factory to sensitise the workers to the stakes and standards of forced labor. Additional information dealing with this question is displayed on the factory walls. Principle 5 Labor Support abolition of child labor All workers : adults All the workers are minimum 18 years old. In order to prevent any misunderstanding, identity documents are checked before any new hiring. Principle 6 Labor COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 Support elimination of discrimination No discrimination The factory recruits employees without any discrimination, whether linked to gender, religion or to any other subjective criteria. No distinction is made between male and female staff and their skills alone are taken into account. Chapter 1.3 of Pac Team Company Manual is dedicated to the « Harassment free, Nondiscrimination workplace » 9 Equal rights for all All the workers earn equal pay for equal work. Potential promotions are based on merit and competence alone. Chapter 4 of Pac Team Company Manual is dedicated to « Salaries, allowances and deductions » Importance of training During training sessions about forced labor and child labor, the dangers of discrimination and harassment at work are also emphasized. Additional information dealing with these questions is displayed on the factory walls. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 10 Principle 7 Environment Support precautionary approach to environmental challenges Caution regarding chemicals The factory follows the European recommendations REACh, so that the environment is better protected against the risks linked to chemicals ; as a prerequisite, all used chemicals must be identified without any ambiguity, as well as their potential danger. See REACh declaration for suppliers, appendix 4, page 20 Supply chain transparency Since 2016, Pac Team Group is affiliated with respect-code, a Swiss based independent program for tracing manufactured products and monitoring supply chains : origin of the raw materials, identity of the factories, audits and certificates, social and ecological indicators. Pac Team Group is committed to full transparency in production and ensures the traceability of its products through reports or, on request, through an on-line display of the production line on a private link. Principle 8 Environment Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 Impacts assessment and management When it comes to corporate environmental responsibility, it is crucial for the company to first assess and measure, then manage its environmental impacts at all levels : energy, water, waste, chemicals, atmospheric pollution and biodiversity. This is how PTPAP approaches this matter ; they set reduction targets on their impacts. Despite a constantly growing market demand for better lead times and greater flexibility, Pac Team Group strives as far as possible to ship its products from China to Europe by sea, rather than by air, which considerably reduces the CO2 impact. 11 Volume by mode of transport in 2016 : 161'200 Kg Toxic waste treatment Production generates toxic waste. As the treatment of such waste must be handled by professionals, PTPAP is currently signing a contract with an official toxic waste treatment company. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 VOCS treatment PTPAP has installed new filters, designed to deal with volatile organic chemicals (VOCS) of waste gas from painting room. UV photolysis catalysts were installed this time. The capability is 30'000 m3 per hour. The waste gas produced at painting room is treated by three processes, water absorbing, activated carbon absorbing & UV photolysis, then discharge to the air. 12 Principle 9 Environment Encourage environmentally friendly technologies Sustainable raw materials Pac Team Group strives to use materials from sustainable sources and managed in an ecologically sustainable way, and avoids as far as possible the use of materials which can generate negative impacts on the environment. Eco-design: bio-sourced resin and linen fibers PTPAP has started testing different types of resins with a new French supplier. Once successful, Pac Team Group will be able to offer an sustainable alternative with low environmental impacts to its customers. Other tests are currently being done in order to be able to replace fiberglass by linen fibers. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 13 Principle 10 – AntiCorruption Work against corruption in all of its forms Zero tolerance for corruption PTPAP never resorts to bribery and corruption in any way in its businesses. It also prevents all kind of corruption by its employees and undertakes to denounce any suspicious acts to the police. An anonymous email address has been created to denounce any acts or attempts of corruption or bribery. Chapter 8.6 of Pac Team Company Manual is dedicated to « Bribery and Corruption Law » Any proven act of corruption is punished by immediate dismissal. An act of corruption is defined by the following elements:  A deliberate act  Involving any person, internal or external to the company  Taking place before, during or after a contract  Allowing to promise, offer or grant an undue advantage  In a financial or other form  Directly or through a middleman  For one’s own profit or the profit of a third party COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 Appendices 1. Pac Team Facilities 2. Information letter 2016, towards a full social insurance cover 3. Information letter 2016, hour compensation in case of Sunday work 4. REACh declaration for all suppliers 14 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 APPENDIX 1: PAC TEAM FACILITIES 16 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 APPENDIX 2: INFORMATION LETTER 2016, TOWARDS A FULL SOCIAL INSURANCE COVER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 18 APPENDIX 3: INFORMATION LETTER 2016, HOUR COMPENSATION IN CASE OF SUNDAY WORK COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 19 APPENDIX 4: REACH DECLARATION FOR ALL SUPPLIERS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | SEPTEMBER 2017 20
