2017 World Sport Profile Communication of Progress 2017 UNGC COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2017 Alan Prince WORLD SPORT PROFILE | 7 Old Park lane, Mayfair , London, W1K 1QR STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY COMPANY EXECUTIVE 1st December 2017 To our stakeholders and members: We are pleased to confirm that World Sport Profile reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders & members using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely Timothy Cornwall CEO OUR CONTINUED COMMITMENT World Sport Profiles journey towards sustainability was initiated not as a response to social trends, but because we truly believe it is the right thing to do. Our continued commitment as a signatory to the UN Global Compact helps cement this commitment. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES Our fourth year as a signatory of the UN Global Compact is now complete and we would like to take this opportunity to report on our progress. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. OUR COMMITMENT AND POLICY World Sport Profile is committed to supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and the International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We conducted a human rights assessment, using the Global Compact risk assessment tool on our business operations and processes. This gave us a good idea as to where we stood, as we had a number of policies and procedures addressing human and labour rights and where there were none, we developed new policies. It is our purpose to ensure human rights are implemented within our company and companies in which we conduct business and have influence on. IMPLEMENTATION We have developed and implemented a Human Rights policy which is our overarching policy on human and labour rights. This policy demonstrates a commitment to: • a safe and healthy workplace • anti-discrimination • zero tolerance to bullying • freedom of association and collective bargaining • no forced, child or bonded labour • allows staff to report any grievance or harassment. • Fair working conditions and wages are implemented company wide. In addition to our Human Rights policy, we developed in 2015 an employee handbook. All new employees are inducted using this handbook. The handbook outlines all our human rights, labour and environmental policies. In 2016 World Sport Profile conducted a human rights risk assessment of our top 4 suppliers. We chose the suppliers we felt we had most influence on and in countries that could be considered higher risk. We also introduced a Suppliers Code of Conduct and spent time engaging with our suppliers, partners & sponsors which included one-on-one training on visits to their manufacturing sites. Our Inventory Manager makes recommendations for improvement and we monitor these periodically. We have developed a Suppliers Scorecard to help us rate our suppliers and track progress. Our commitment to our Human Rights Policy is managed through an internal management system to ensure procedures, training, responsibilities, and monitoring are in place. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES World Sport Profile has had no reports of investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other events related to any breaches to labour, antidiscrimination and or safety regulations in the last 12 months. Our top 4 suppliers have been given a Suppliers Code of Conduct to ensure they too conduct their business ethically. We will continue to engage with our suppliers and monitor them against our Sustainable Supply Code of Conduct in the coming 12 months. We plan to extend the Code of Conduct in 2017-18 to other key suppliers. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. OUR COMMITMENT AND GOALS World Sport Profile is committed to upholding the rights of our employees in relation to freedom of association and collective bargaining, forced, compulsory or child labour and understands the importance of having a diverse workforce. We have policies to address all of these labour principles. IMPLEMENTATION Our employee handbook includes all polices relevant to principles three, four, five and six. Staff are aware that they have the support of management should they wish to join a union or are free to collective bargain. In 2016 World Sport Profile conducted a labour rights assessment of our top 4 suppliers. We introduced a Suppliers code of conduct which includes labour principles; freedom of association and collective bargaining, elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, abolition of child labour and elimination of discrimination. Our Inventory Manager spent time engaging with our suppliers which included oneon-one training at their manufacturing facilities. Our suppliers are rated with internal scorecards and are given corrective actions where required. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES World Sport Profile has had no reports of investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other events related to any breaches to labour, antidiscrimination and or safety regulations in the last 12 months. World Sport Profile has a diverse workforce – with at least 10 different cultural and ethnic backgrounds. We employ staff of various age groups – from 18 years of age to 70. We have a 37% female to 63% male ratio in management positions. World Sport Profile has processes in place to address principles 4, 5 and 6 to ensure compliance, for example all overtime is freely chosen and monitored. Though we do acknowledge freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, discrimination, forced, compulsory and child labour could be pertinent to our suppliers and have included these principles in our Suppliers code of conduct. We will continue to engage with our suppliers and monitor the labour principles against our Sustainable Supply Code of Conduct in the coming 12 months. We plan to extend the Code of Conduct in 2017-18 to other key suppliers. In 2017 we intend to implement a Grievance procedure and conduct staff training to assist the staff with understanding the process of raising a grievance. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. OUR COMMITMENT AND GOALS WSP continues to organise vehicle pools for its employees. Therefore, we are part of the volume of traffic and the environmental pollution involved. The site of our company was chosen to be comfortably reachable by public means of transport thus guaranteeing our employees the freedom of choice of how to make their way to work. IMPLEMENTATION World Sport Profile understands the importance of environmental sustainability, using various technologies to assist us in lowering our environmental impacts. Imbedded environmentally friendly services and policies: • Recycling of consumables • Recycling of in-house paper • Double sided photocopying whenever possible • Purchasing of recycled paper • Turning off of equipment when not in use • E-Xmas cards in lieu of sending paper cards MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES World Sport Profile has been monitoring and measuring our environmental impacts since 2009 and has not had any environmental incidents and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions during 2016 – 2017. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. OUR COMMITMENT AND GOALS The CEO of World Sport Profile Timothy Cornwall, is committed to ensuring that all business activities are conducted ethically and according to all relevant United Kingdom and overseas standards and legislation. We understand the importance of Anti-corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery to our business and our stakeholders. IMPLEMENTATION In 2015 we developed an Anti-corruption and Bribery Policy which sets out the requirements for all staff to comply with. Employees are expected to act with the highest standards of integrity in all business dealings. The policy directive reinforces bribery and corruption, political and charitable contributions, gifts and entertainment expenses and substance-based due diligence. The policy sets gift limits and thresholds. We have introduced and conducted training on the Anti-Corruption Policy with our agents and marketing team. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES World Sport Profile has had no reports of investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other events related to any breaches in Anticorruption and bribery in the last 12 months. We will continue to engage with our sales and procurement teams to ensure the highest level of integrity with all business dealings. Anti-corruption and bribery has been included in our Suppliers code of conduct which we have issued to 4 of our top suppliers and will continue to monitor over the next 12 months. We plan to conduct further training with new sales staff and our Procurement department. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT World Sport Profile understands the importance of businesses, individuals and countries to take action against the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. We have outlined our participation, commitment and action for 6 of the Sustainable Development goals. AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. World Sport Profile offsets the carbon emissions from our business operations by purchasing and retiring certified carbon credits under the global Verified Carbon Standard (VCS). The carbon footprint of our business is offset by supporting a HYDROPOWER project in China. This project supports the Chinese government’s objective to reduce the dependence on exhaustible fossil fuels by: • Reducing the dependence on exhaustible fossil fuels for power generation; • Reducing air pollution by displacing coal-fired power plants with clean, renewable power; • Reducing the adverse health impacts from air pollution; • Reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases, to combat global climate change; • Contributing to local economic development through employment creation. Goal 8: Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all. World Sport Profile sources materials and components from a global supply chain. Some of our manufacturing partners are in low and middle income countries. We have a growing business and with this growth, comes the growth of our suppliers, this in turn helps their local communities. We invest time and energy by assisting our suppliers and promoting high standards of health and safety in their manufacturing facilities. We encourage our suppliers and make recommendations to help them create a safe working environment. Goal 10: Reduce inequality within and among countries. World Sport Profile has policies in place to demonstrate our commitment to equal opportunities, prohibiting discrimination in all its forms. Anti-discrimination is one of the key requirements which is included in our Suppliers Code of Conduct. Goal 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns World Sport Profile has in place a number of processes and initiatives that support sustainable consumption and production patterns, these include: 1. Ecolabelling Type 1 certification – for 5 of our product ranges 2. The undertaking of a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to better understand the environmental impacts of materials to ensure a more sustainable outcome. 3. The design team uses Finite Element Analysis (FEA) to identify environmentally preferable materials along with minimal material input for greater strength. 4. We have a Product stewardship policy in place for a number of our ranges for our UK customers. Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts World Sport Profile evaluates climate change risks such as resource scarcity, resource price volatility and takes appropriate mitigation and adaptive action. World Sport Profile monitors, measures and offsets carbon emissions from our business operations by purchasing and retiring certified carbon credits under the global Verified Carbon Standard (VCs). The carbon footprint of our business is offset by supporting a hydropower project in China. The below business operations are included in the carbon offsetting • paper and cardboard • flights • waste and recycling • hotel accommodation • advertising • taxis • freight Since we began offsetting our carbon emissions in 2010, we’ve reduced our overall emissions by 22% based on annual production figures. Goal 15: Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss World Sport Profile conducts due diligence on all sourced materials to ensure we are not procuring illegally harvested materials. WORLD SPORT PROFILE LTD 2017
