2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Annual Report 1 Section 1 Leadership Perspective Section 2 Our Company Section 3 Our Approach Section 4 Governance, Ethics & Compliance Section 5 Workplace Practices Section 6 Our 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Environment Report summarizes all activities, procedures and achievements for the Section 7 calendar year 2016 and covers Supply Chain BCD Travel’s wholly owned countries and Section 8 its operating units Advito and BCD M&E. Service Performance It aligns with the 10 principles of the Section 9 United Nations Global Compact and with GRI G4–Core guidelines. References to Charity & Community Support both are indicated in each section of the Section 10 report. A comprehensive GRI report Sustainability Reporting can be found here. For more information on BCD Travel’s corporate social responsibility initiatives, please visit our web site under www.bcdtravel.com. 2 Section 1 Leadership Perspective 3 GRI G4-1, G4-32 A message from John Snyder, President and CEO and Kathy Jackson, Executive vice president of global account management and executive chair of corporate social responsibility. It is with great pride and purpose that we once again stand in support of the United Nations Global Compact in its goal of achieving global human rights, ethical labor practices, sustainable environmental footprints and an end to corruption. Since our founding, we have adhered to a core set of principles—guided by a vision that seeks to build trust and driven by a mission that places a premium on helping people. Our support for the principles of the U.N. Global Compact is tied to our very nature as a global organization. The corporate travel industry relies on quality service provided by experienced, well-trained people. While advances in agent technologies and self-service platforms continue to improve efficiency, those things will never negate the need for human interaction. Consequently, our carefully plotted Strategic Direction John Snyder Kathy Jackson provides our 13,000 employees globally with President and Executive vice president of global account management a clear map for business success achieved chief executive officer and executive chair of corporate social responsibility through a commitment to human and social value. We want to create an environment that Our annual corporate social responsibility framework combines different codes and encourages and enables our people to report has been constructed in accordance norms for sustainability and has helped us develop to their fullest potential. And we with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an to set goals, measure our performance, turn the same energy and values toward international independent organization that and manage change in order to make our making a difference in the lives of our helps businesses, governments and other business activities more sustainable. The customers and communities. Our CSR A better A better A better organizations understand and communicate report summarizes our commitment to program and its principles help guide our workplace world business the impact of business on critical and major accomplishments supporting contributions to: sustainability issues. The GRI G4 reporting customers, employees, communities and the environment over the past year. 4 Here are some of our highlights: 1. Corporate Social Responsibility: 7. Global Energy Saving Program: We are BCD Travel earned the EcoVadis Gold working to reduce our carbon emissions, Rating, placing us in the top 2% of all energy use, water use and landfill suppliers. waste from a 2016 baseline, actively decreasing our environmental footprint 2. Governance & Business Ethics: and our operating costs. We developed and implemented ethics controls customized to our global 8. Workplace Practices: We exceeded operations in our ongoing efforts to employee attrition targets, while preserve our culture of integrity for fostering a culture of diversity and business conduct, supplier sustainability inclusion that celebrates our different and procurement, anti-bribery and backgrounds, varied experiences and corruption, and data protection. unique points of view. 3. Health & Safety: The health and In 2016, our sustainability efforts were wellbeing of our staff remains a top rewarded with the prestigious EcoVadis priority. We implemented OHSAS Gold rating. We became the first travel 18001:2007 in 26 markets where we management company to earn top operate wholly owned operations, recognition and we’re proud of our allowing us to manage occupational achievement. It confirms not only our health and safety concerns for our commitment to CSR but also to our employees. continued improvement in this area. Our increased sustainability performance 4. Environment: We implemented levels resulted in a reduced environmental companies that share their values, and the Investment in a better world begins with the ISO 14001 in wholly owned markets footprint, improved corporate health and best employees like to join organizations individual. So we continue to encourage our that are not already ISO 14001 certified. safety, more effective supplier partnerships that have a clear vision and commitment to employees’ efforts to improve their local and enhanced ethical conduct controls. communities through social investment corporate social responsibility. 5. Supplier Sustainability: We work with our partners, ensuring that their social, and charitable activities. We also use our In partnership with the GBTA Foundation, For another, it’s simply the right thing to ethical and environmental initiatives align passion for helping others to brighten the we launched two newly updated and do. As a successful global service company, with our own sustainability goals and future for people around the world. In completely revamped global resources: the we engage every day with hundreds of objectives and use EcoVadis to assess 2016, the BCD Travel Foundation raised and Sustainability in Travel Self-Assessment Tool thousands of people around the globe. their performance. distributed funds to improve children’s lives and the Managed Travel Index® (MTI®). We’re empowered to help change our in poor communities, with a special focus We are very proud to have been part of communities and the world for the better. 6. Service Performance: Our consulting on L’Ecole de Choix in Haiti. such important and wide-ranging projects. We can help end human rights abuses, arm, Advito, provides a range of This brings new ideas and experiences to Why should a privately held for-profit corruption, environmental destruction and services to diagnose and improve the the company and provides great industry business put so much energy into corporate persistent poverty. And we can’t wait for environmental and social impact of our insights for the common good of our clients. social responsibility? For one, because other like-minded people and companies to clients’ travel programs. companies prefer doing business with other join us. 5 Section 2 Our Company 6 GRI G4-3, G4-4, G4-7, G4-9, G4-17, G4-EC1 We serve 43 US $24.6 billion in of the U.S. annual sales ‘Corporate Travel Locations in 100’ companies 1 st TMC to earn 108 countries Over 95% customer EcoVadis gold rating retention rate 1 st 13,000 TMC to join Forbes creative, Best the United Nations committed and Global Compact experienced people Employer 2015 | 2016 About BCD Travel About BCD Group BCD Travel helps companies make the most of their travel spend. For travelers, this means BCD Group is a market leader in the travel industry. The privately owned company was keeping them safe and productive, and equipping them to make good choices on the road. founded in 1975 by John Fentener van Vlissingen and consists of BCD Travel (global For travel and procurement managers, it means advising them on how to grow the value of corporate travel management), Travix (online travel: CheapTickets, Vliegwinkel, BudgetAir, their travel program. In short, we help our clients travel smart and achieve more. We make Flugladen and Vayama), Park ‘N Fly (off-airport parking) and joint ventures Parkmobile this happen in 108 countries with more than 13,000 creative, committed and experienced International (mobile parking applications) and AERTrade International (consolidating and people. And we maintain the industry’s most consistent client retention rate (95% over the fulfillment). BCD Group employs over 13,000 people and operates in 100+ countries with past 10 years), with 2016 sales of US$24.6 billion. total sales of US$25.4 billion, including US$10 billion partner sales. 7 GRI G4-6, G4-8 33 Europe 2 2 UK and Ireland 18 North America # APAC 24 11 18 Latin America Africa Middle East Global presence Operating in 108 countries. 18 countries in Latin America: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, 2 countries in UK and Ireland: (same). 18 countries in APAC: Australia, Bangladesh, Colombia, Costa Rica, Curacao, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Cambodia, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea (South), Malaysia, New Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela. Two countries in North Zealand, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam. 24 countries America: U.S. and Canada (Mexico listed as part of Latin America). 33 countries in Europe: in Africa, Algeria, Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Dem Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Ghana, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Madagascar, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Nigeria, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Senegal, South Africa, South Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Zimbabwe. 11 countries in the Middle East: Bahrain, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, Uzbekistan. Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, U.A.E., Yemen. The countries in bold are our wholly owned countries. 8 GRI G4-4 Travel management BCD Travel, a privately held company of BCD Group, is the third largest travel management company in the world. Our integrated global technology provides intelligent travel data analysis, helping corporations boost efficiencies and their return on travel investment. Our consistent service delivery help travelers stay satisfied, productive and focused on their business objectives. In addition to traditional and online corporate travel services, BCD Travel provides the following independently managed business operations: Consulting Our consulting practice, Advito, helps clients manage the impact of industry dynamics and take control of their program’s overall performance. They offer advisory, procurement and outsourcing services for corporate travel sourcing, expense and meetings management, along with RFP development and management; benchmarking and vendor management services. Meetings management BCD Meetings & Events (BCD M&E), a sister company of BCD Travel, is a full-service, global meetings and events agency. Their event-to-enterprise approach makes them equally adept at executing conferences and incentives and providing a strategic meetings management (SMM) solution that maximizes cost savings while minimizing risk. BCD M&E recently launched BCD Sports, an independent unit for the sports market, focused on designing and executing athletic experiences for corporate hospitality and coordinating team travel for professional and youth teams and collegiate clients. 9 Awards & recognition EcoVadis ranks BCD Travel “Gold” for its corporate social responsibility program. Sustainability Outstanding Achievement Award by GBTA Foundation’s Project ICARUS Belgium’s “Best Business Travel Agency” at the TM Travel Awards in Belgium “Bester Arbeitgeber Deutschlands” (best employer in Germany) in a FOCUS news magazine survey “Travel Management Company of the Year” at the Business Travel & Mobility Conference in the Netherlands BCD Meetings & Events gets SITE Crystal Award for “Most Impactful Effort toward Corporate Social Responsibility as Part of an Incentive Program.” One of “Top 8 international companies for remote jobs” by Flexjobs BCD Travel Luxembourg named “Best Business Travel Company” by Travel Magazine. 10 Section 3 Our Approach 11 GRI G4-18 Our mission is to help our customers travel smart and achieve more. Our vision is to be the world’s most trusted and creative travel management company. As we grow and change, our company’s evolution is rooted in four key development areas: Our Strategic Direction Human and social value Intelligent programs We want to create an environment that encourages and enables our people to develop to We drive smart decisions for our customers with business intelligence that engages travelers their fullest potential. And we turn the same energy and values toward making a difference throughout the trip cycle, influences spend and lets people answer what if? instead of in the lives of our customers and communities. showing just what is. Engaged travelers Built for change Every interaction we have before, during and after the booking process is a chance for us to We’re showing customers how deep, sustained program change can open new doors in exceed traveler expectations, with easy and timely access to relevant content and a highly savings, satisfaction and security. And we’re building for change in our own structures and personalized experience. That makes for a happy traveler. But more importantly, it shapes processes—in order to be more efficient and deliver even better service. and reinforces good traveler behavior and helps travelers make smart decisions. Engaged travelers can drive significant savings, policy compliance and other business objectives. That’s good for the program and good for their company. 12 GRI G4-18 Sustainability & our business Our corporate social responsibility program supports our Strategic Direction and is a key component of our sustainability strategy. It considers the sustainability implications of each of our targets and strategies and is guided by three principles: a better workplace, a better world and a better business. The principles drive how BCD Travel interacts with employees, colleagues, customers and business partners. 13 GRI G4-14, G4-18, G4-56 Principles of the Global Compact Supporting Policies Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the CSR Principles protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Supplier Code of Conduct Modern Slavery Act Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in The Code human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom HR guidelines and employee handbooks of association and the effective recognition of the Collective wage agreements right to collective bargaining; Local Works Councils European Works Council Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination CSR Principles of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Supplier Code of Conduct UN Global Compact Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; Supplier Code of Conduct Communication on The Code Progress Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. HR guidelines and employee handbooks CSR Principles BCD Travel has been a signatory to the Equal Employment Opportunity statement UN Global Compact since 2008, and Recruitment policy continues to support the 10 principles Supplier Code of Conduct on human rights, labor standards, the Environment environment and anti-corruption across our sphere of influence. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary CSR Principles approach to environmental challenges; Environmental Health and Safety policy This report outlines our most recent Supplier Code of Conduct disclosures on our policies and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater EHS policy performance on critical global issues environmental responsibility; BCD Travel remains committed to making progress in each of these areas for the Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion EHS policy benefit of our employees, customers, of environmentally friendly technologies. Green IT Action Plan suppliers, stakeholders and wider society. We welcome the opportunity to join other Anti-Corruption like-minded companies in supporting Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its Code of Conduct, Non-compliance Reporting Policy, SpeakUp the UN’s principles for sustainable forms, including extortion and bribery. system development. Supplier Code of Conduct 14 GRI G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-34 Governance structure Our CSR executive committee is comprised of five members from BCD’s global executive team and representatives from functions relevant to our CSR initiative. The committee meets four times per year to discuss strategy and to oversee efforts in corporate responsibility, human rights, environmental stewardship, employee health and safety, ethical business practices, information security, community initiatives, diversity and inclusion and equal opportunity. We routinely monitor our internal Code of Conduct and compliance with related laws and regulations. Specialists from functional teams define, implement and coordinate initiatives that contribute and ensure the success of our CSR and strategic goals. The global CSR Team and local country coordinators help raise awareness throughout the organization on the issues represented by our CSR principles. BCD Travel also maintains separate leadership groups dedicated to areas such as operations, risk and compliance, supply chain and environment, health and safety. These groups include leaders with relevant expertise from business segments and functions. They meet periodically to evaluate our progress in implementing our strategies and to evaluate performance goals. Stakeholder engagement We actively seek feedback from employees, customers, investors, analysts, community leaders, suppliers, regulators and non-governmental organizations to inform our sustainability agenda and broader business strategy. We conduct periodic employee and client surveys. Their feedback and satisfaction contribute to the success of our long-term strategic goals. We use their input and insights to define or refine existing products and services. 15 Section 4 Governance, Ethics & Compliance Strong governance within BCD Travel provides the foundation for building a culture of ethical behavior and minimizing business risk. By acting with integrity, we gain the trust of our customers, business partners and other stakeholders and create a positive impact on society. 16 GRI G4-56, G4-SO4 UNGC 10 Objective Approach Results Continually enhance efforts to Implemented a Code of Conduct for business ethics; NonNinety-six percent of all employees participated in uphold high standards and controls Compliance Reporting Policy; and Speak Up system in 2014 at all Code of Conduct training in 2015. Follow-up training sessions for ethical business conduct, global locations. were offered in December 2016. compliance and transparency. Continued aligning our ethical business practices with suppliers and Carried out an EcoVadis assessment on 24 partners in 2016 partners. to ensure compliance. Implemented global ISO 14001 environmental management system. Regional rollout started June 2016 and was completed Implemented global OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety December 2016. management system. Regional rollout started June 2016 and was completed December 2016. Protect corporate and customer Information security is part of our operations and business Technology implemented includes, among other tools, endpoint data and information from loss, alignment, led by steering and advisory committees and by applying protection, intrusion detection and prevention, web and e-mail manipulation, unauthorized access risk assessments. filtering and protection, log monitoring and data loss prevention. and falsification, by complying with We incorporate cutting-edge technologies into our network and Certifications include: Certified Information Security Manager legal provisions and by adopting systems to protect personal data. (CISM), Certified Information System Security Professional (CISSP), international security standards Holistic Information Security Practitioner (HISP), Certified in Risk such as ISO 27000 series and PCI – BCD Travel employs certified security professionals who are dedicated to protecting all assets entrusted to us. and Information Control (CRISC) and Certified Information Systems DSS into global security standards. Auditor (CISA). Improve fraud management. Developed a fraud prevention procedure for agents to use during New procedures were implemented during 2016 for Belgium, Brazil, the booking process to avoid fraudulent travel bookings. France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Singapore, Developed fraud awareness training videos in cooperation with Switzerland, the U.K., the U.S., and APAC T24 and EMEA T24 Marketing, Internal Audit, Performance Solutions and BCD Travel emergency/en route support services. Academy. Fraud awareness courses will be offered for 2017. Improve Ecovadis rating. Implemented improved reporting metrics of Fair Business Practices Rated in the top 3% in the Fair Business Practices section. initiatives. 17 GRI G4-14 All BCD Travel employees are expected to behave with integrity at all times. We embed accountability for ethical business conduct through corporate policies; employee training; and transparent, stakeholder-focused reporting. To promote good governance throughout the business travel sector value chain, we use our scale, market position and trusted relationships to encourage ethical behavior by our partners. Governance impacts on sustainable business practices Bribery and corruption controls Responsible sales We’re trusted by our customers throughout We’re committed to ensuring that all sales the world. Through a zero-tolerance employees carry out their responsibilities approach and the active engagement of in an honest, truthful and ethical manner, all employees on anti-corruption policies whatever the local laws, culture or and practices, we uphold the integrity regulations. of the travel industry and help maintain secure societies that enable sustainable Human rights development. We practice due diligence to guard Stakeholder engagement against human rights violations and have expanded corporate policies to set clearer We build relationships with customers, expectations. This is demonstrated in our employees, non-governmental groups, and anti-slavery policy in support of the UK suppliers who seek common ground on Modern Slavery Act and in the human rights sound governance. To foster mutual trust, section of our Supplier Code of Conduct. “BCD Travel’s Code of Conduct sets forth the standards by which we, as a we rely on these stakeholders to understand An online human rights training course collective organization and as individuals, should act. It gives an ethical and legal and mirror the ethical conduct we expect is available through our global learning framework for our day-to-day activities and offers guidance for dealing with from our employees in all business system, Knowledge Hub. challenging situations. We are committed to earning recognition as the world’s challenges and activities. most trusted and creative travel management company. Being a trusted advisor is our most coveted status.” Andreas Decker Senior vice president, global internal audit 18 GRI G4-56, G4-SO3, G4-SO4 Ethics & compliance Our Code of Conduct and CSR Principles A strong message against corruption is apply to all BCD Travel employees, members included in the Code. Our Non-Compliance of the Executive Board, consultants and Reporting Policy provides guidelines on other agents when they represent or act bringing any potential misconduct to on behalf of BCD Travel. They set out clear management’s attention. policies and expectations in areas that include: Anti-corruption issues may be larger in some markets than others, so we encourage local • Practicing good citizenship, including initiatives to help employees understand support for human rights the broader issues and ensure all forms of corruption and bribery are prevented. • Preventing corruption We request suppliers and partners globally • Promoting a positive and safe work to sign up to our Code of Conduct for environment Suppliers and Sub-contractors. To date more than 85% have signed and returned the • Ensuring transparency in our disclosures document. • Avoiding conflicts of interest The internal Global Group Policies document • Protecting sensitive information includes, among others, BCD Travel’s policies on corruption, bribery and conflict • Properly using company assets of interest. This document is updated on a regular basis and communicated to all • Complying with all laws employees globally. • Competing fairly In third quarter 2016, we established the Group Policy Governance document that • Considering sustainability in our business defines the drafting and approval process of dealings BCD Travel policies. It also stipulates that our The following systems and procedures policies are to be reviewed on a regular basis ensure that our commitment to antiand adapted as indicated. The Group Policy corruption issues is addressed: Governance Process defines the method for We encourage our employees to make use of our the creation and implementation of policies Our stance on anti-corruption is clearly and is applicable to all existing and future open door policy for bringing potential acts of stated within our CSR Principles, which has policy documents. non-compliance to their managers’ attention and been distributed to all employees across the we offer to our employees the SpeakUp System, globe and available for download on our website. operated by an independent supplier, as last resort reporting tool. 19 GRI G4-56, G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-LA16, G4-SO11 All employees are required to participate (1) The manager (in line with in a mandatory Code of Conduct our open door policy) training which provides specific training Corporate initiatives and policies that support governance on identifying corruption and how to (2) The compliance email account (compliance@bcdtravel.com) or and direct employee action: report non-compliance to the Code. The participation rate reached 96%. Bi-annual (3) Anonymously (and in the respective Code of Conduct training is mandatory for native language) via the SpeakUp System all employees globally. A refresher training Compliance with anti-corruption laws course was rolled out in late 2016. We have further improved our crossfunctional approach in preventing and A compliance e-mail account is monitored detecting fraud. xternal fraud attempts by the global functions internal audit Ethics and business conduct are reported to our fraud email account and legal group. As previously noted, (fraud@bcdtravel.com). Fraud warnings are the independently operated BCD Travel immediately drafted/ issued using various SpeakUp System offers our employees communication tools and specifically the opportunity to anonymously report designed communication lists. Internal investigations any misconduct. All incidents reported are investigated and the results are reviewed In line with our zero-tolerance stance by a designated member of the BCD Travel against fraud, we investigate all reported Board responsible for compliance. International trade controls and compliance Sustainability misconduct and take decisive, if necessary, including legal actions towards any internal The global internal audit team also partners, or external party. upon request, with the compliance and ethics departments of our clients to CSR Principles We participate in an annual external promote ethical business practices beyond assessment of our CSR performance by companies’ and industries’ boundaries. Ecovadis, the leader in global sustainability ratings. Strategic Direction We have included the three training modules Code of Conduct, Non-Compliance We are continuously working with the risk Reporting Policy and SpeakUp System as a services practice of a global audit firm to last-resort reporting tool into our Compass further improve our compliance program. Supplier Code of Conduct Program, for all new BCD Travel employees . In the U.K., a specific training course on We have implemented the Code of Conduct, anti-corruption and the Bribery Act 2010 the Non-Compliance Reporting Policy and was made available to all staff. Seventy-one Environmental, Health & Safety Manual the Speak-Up System in all majority owned percent of all employees participated in the countries. Any ethical concerns can be training in 2015. New sessions of the course raised by every employee via all available were released in Q1 2016 to ensure that all communication channels: remaining employees could participate. UN Global Compact Report – Communication on Progress 20 GRI G4-DMA, G4-EC2 Risk management BCD Travel’s risk assessment process BCD Travel has rolled out the following represents the cornerstone of our risk mitigation management systems and governance framework. We evaluate risk policies globally: based on levels of confidentiality, integrity and availability. The risk assessment process • ISO 14001 environmental management outlines our methods for capturing and • OHSAS 18001 occupational health and analyzing risks within our business. Risk safety assessments consider both our organizationwide strategic, operational, compliance, • ISO 27001:2013 (data center) Proc ity esse Secur and reporting requirements, plus those requirements relating to our services, • ISO 9001:2008 F s processes, or functions such as supply chain, re inan po ci Pe or regulatory compliance. • Business Ethics Code of Conduct rti al op ng le The risk assessment is conducted at • Global Groups policy document various levels within BCD Travel as part of • Global Information Protection Policy Fund r our overall Risk Management Program. ing ustome In 2016 a comprehensive risk assessment • Privacy policy C with engagement of the 12 members of BCD Travel our global executive team was conducted. • Supplier Code of Conduct A cross-functional project team, with the risk categories Legal l support of the risk services practice of a inancia regula & F e global audit firm, developed the risk profile crim tory for the travel management companies industry. The global executive team, in Bu line with best practices, will focus on the Go sin top 5 risk categories identified via the risk ve es rn an s assessment and will decide on how to Clima dity ce te Liqui appropriately address these risks. chang e 21 GRI G4-14 Protecting our organization The corporate security governance committee The Corporate Security Governance We treat the information traveling over our Committee, representing human resources, computer networks like our own corporate legal, operations, finance, information assets. We prohibit unauthorized access, technology, internal audit, industry relations disclosure, duplication, modification, and security management, reviews the diversion, destruction, loss, misuse or theft security program periodically and ensures of this information. Our computers, mobile that it continues to meet the security needs devices and other information storage of the business and our customers. devices are protected with appropriate information security policies, procedures Information security is part of our and technologies. Our information security operations and business alignment, led by measures apply regardless of the media steering and advisory committees and by on which information is stored: paper, applying risk assessments. electronic, local, cloud; regardless of the systems that process it, e.g., personal Information security computers or voicemail systems; and regardless of the methods by which it’s We place a high value on information moved, including email, telephone, face-tosecurity—not just because it’s a competitive face conversation. differentiator—but also because it demonstrates corporate stewardship of the We also protect information in a way that’s data entrusted to us by our customers and consistent with its classification. Compliance employees. requirements are set in accordance with industry, international standard, legislative Our company, our customers and the world and client expectations. We regularly are increasingly connected through, and perform audits (including ISO 9001, ISO reliant on, digital infrastructure to support 27001 and Payment Card Industry Data business, expedite efficiency and drive Protection Standard (PCI)) to to ensure innovation. Secure infrastructure is critical compliance with best practices, industry to the smooth and stable functioning of our regulations and legal obligations. business. BCD Travel works to protect the integrity of our employees’ personally identifiable information and customers’ sensitive data, as well as the intellectual property that supports our business operations and service innovation. 22 GRI G4-14 Data protection and data loss prevention. We successfully The information we manage on behalf of completed the ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 2016 Information security improvements our clients will be appropriately secured 27001:2013 surveillance audits and the to protect against the consequences of SSAE16 SOC 1 type 2 audit report for 2016. breaches of confidentiality, failures of • Audits and • Application security integrity, or interruptions to the availability Ninety-eight percent of BCD Travel certifications • Data leakage of that information. employees participated in our online security awareness training in 2016. Along • Our global security • Access management We ensure compliance with data protection with this annual training, BCD Travel laws, and protect the privacy and integrity posture of all data that we store or process for employees receive security updates via • Fraud management bulletin and Salesforce alerts, intranet • Credit card security an individual as a result of one of our communications and security related • Security metrics, operations. articles in our internal magazine focus. • Risk management policies, standards and Our data centers secure customer data We annually review the Global Information • Network security documentation stored on BCD Travel production information Security Policy and Global Information systems. We maintain certification to Security Standard manuals. • Global endpoint • Client management the internationally recognized standard Information Security Management System security • Security awareness Business continuity (ISMS) ISO 27001:2013 which provides • Email security training a framework for best practices in the The objective of our business continuity management of information security. We plan is to restore normal operations as • Incident management use encryption or other compensating quickly as possible with the least impact on controls to secure data during collection, the business, our employees or our clients. • Vulnerability transit and storage. Our plans identify a set of actions to address management the potential impacts and risks defined in We completed 2016/2017 PCI DSS merchant our business impact risk assessment. certification for the U.S., Canada, Singapore, Australia, India, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Crisis management We protect our travelers with travel risk Our crisis management team monitors risk Luxemburg, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and disaster recovery & security technology that enables us to across the globe, 24 hours a day, seven days and Switzerland operations. monitor our travelers’ security anywhere in a week, generating e-mail alerts to keep Our crisis management and disaster the world. Our DecisionSource® platform travelers informed and aware. In a crisis, our We incorporate cutting-edge technologies recovery plan identifies threats to our provides crisis management reporting, clients can immediately execute plans to into our network and systems to protect business, and the methods used by us to pre-trip and on-trip compliance reporting, assist their impacted travelers. personal data. This includes, among other deal with these threats. Natural disasters, risk assessment and destination intelligence, tools, endpoint protection, intrusion political unrest and terrorist attacks keep offering instant access to accurate travel and detection and prevention, web and e-mail travel risk management among corporate security information. filtering and protection, log monitoring travel professionals’ top priorities. 23 Section 5 Workplace Practices We want to create an environment that encourages and enables our people to develop to their fullest potential. And we turn the same energy and values toward making a difference in the lives of our customers and the communities we work in. 24 GRI G4-14, G4-15, G4-LA5 UNGC 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Objective Approach Results Foster a highperformance, Global Talent Management continued with the CHALLENGE program that identifies More than 365 employees (an increase of 18%) worked inclusive culture that and develops candidates who will potentially fulfill future leadership positions at for three weeks in other BCD Travel locations, expanding develops talent to excel in different levels within the organization; the program is designed to strengthen skills and their competencies and gaining experience valuable to our organization. capabilities in four areas of management: self, people, business and results. their development. Provide employee training BCD used the Knowledge Hub global talent management system to provide a common 2,651: Courses provided across the company and personal and career platform for learning and completing the online performance appraisal process. 146,589: Courses completed by employees development through The system not only helped measure the value created by an employee towards Knowledge Hub, our online their assigned tasks and responsibilities, but also identified paths for growth and 12.09: The average number of courses taken per person learning management development. BCD Travel’s performance appraisal/development goal (reporting for 11.93: The average number of training hours per person system. eligible employees with access to Knowledge Hub) met a 88% completion rate. (an increase of 1.22 hours) Implement OHSAS 18001 Implement a clearly defined management system to identify and control health and Our OHSAS 18001 management system and processes globally across our company safety risks. have been implemented in all 26 wholly owned countries. to improve and standardize OHSAS 18001 is internationally accepted as a method of assessing and auditing our H&S procedures and occupational health and safety management systems. processes. It provides a best practice framework for BCD Travel to instigate proper and effective management of health and safety in the workplace. Improve employee Carried out a global bi-annual survey to measure employee satisfaction. 77.8% of the employee base participated in the survey, up satisfaction. by 3,7% from 2014. The company’s overall employee satisfaction increased from 79.7% to 83.6%. Improve EcoVadis rating. Implemented global tracking of key HR initiatives. Rated in the top 2% in the Labor Practices and Human Rights section. 25 A better workplace Our company’s future depends on the We uphold our duty of care for our quality, performance and commitment employees while they’re on the road of our workforce. A talented, healthy and by providing traveler tracking, crisis engaged employee population drives and emergency response, and security performance and powers innovation, awareness and education. We issued making it imperative that we continue ‘Travelsafe’ cards to our employees. The to attract, develop, motivate and retain card consolidates a company ID card, IATA employees effectively. card and travel insurance card in one and allows us to better support our employees We work to help our people strike a healthy when they’re outside their regular working balance between their professional and environment. personal lives, creating a flexible workplace that serves the requirements of both the Honest communication is a vital part of a company and the individual. positive work environment. We encourage employees to bring forth their ideas, We operate our services and facilities with suggestions, questions and concerns. We a single-minded objective: to protect the listen carefully and act upon what we hear. wellbeing of our employees, customers, the We protect the confidentiality of all personal public, and the environment. We defend information in our employees’ records and our employees from unreasonable health will never release personal information to and safety risks on the job, forbidding outside sources unless we’re legally required any acts or threats of physical violence— to do so. In addition, we offer pay and including intimidation, harassment or benefits competitive and appropriate for the coercion—that occur in the workplace or markets in which we operate. during the conduct of company business off “Great work doesn’t just happen – we’re committed to helping every employee company property. We specifically prohibit become their “confident self.” We demonstrate this through safe, ethical and harassment based on race, color, national progressive working practices where our employees achieve personal growth and origin, ancestry, religion, creed, sexual our business thrives in tandem. All staff are encouraged to have a positive impact orientation, disability, marital status, medical in our dealings with others and within our surroundings. Individually, we can condition, and age. all do great things. Working together, we can be remarkable and achieve more widespread results.” Angela Williams Vice president, human resources 26 GRI G4-LA10 Ongoing commitment We continue to build on existing initiatives that make great people want to stay with us. Job enrichment is key. Our people are already exploring new environments, working with new teams and developing new skills. For example, thanks to programs like CHALLENGE—and to the sheer, everyday motivation of our people—hundreds of employees work on special assignments or projects each year, beyond the scope of their defined role. We’ll continue to explore opportunities for employees to gain new experience in their own countries and across borders. And we’ll keep recognizing and celebrating their great achievements. Successful corporate travel programs rely on employees who understand their companies’ needs, challenges and culture. We use our competency model to help our people develop their “confident self” and, as a result, become more trusted advisers to clients. By understanding job requirements and skills, we make sure the fit between people and their jobs is just right. Every day, our people bring our creative and personal brand to life. They do this because they know their actions count and their views matter. We want to give them the tools, skills and outlets to build their “confident self,” because our success hinges on theirs. 27 GRI G4-10, G4-LA10, G4-LA11, G4-LA12 We help people grow through a Our frontline agents are the voice of our comprehensive, consistent appraisal process company. We have a great reputation linked to individually tailored development for service—but customer demands are Global gender opportunities. To help our people succeed, evolving, and we’re upping our game. we expect our managers to devote time and We align training, technologies and best Female 70.2% Male 29.8% energy to coaching their team members. practices for our operations teams with And, we’ll keep emphasizing career our growing consumer-focused mentality. Global gender, Global gender, Global gender, progression so people can grow up and The tools we use will improve data quality, all employees and levels all VP and above director and above through the company. Teams across the reduce manual work for agents and give company will put renewed focus on our them more consultative time with their long-term sustainability through succession clients. TripSource® Hotels is giving agents planning workshops to identify future access to greater content in a consumerleaders. grade booking environment. The end result: They can be savvy, trusted advisers for every customer they interact with. Global gender, Global gender, manager and above employees up to manager Regional headcount & gender APAC 1,703 F/M 49% / 51% We’ll also keep giving people more and As we give exciting opportunities to current BCD M&E 984 F/M 83% / 17% better ways to learn. We’re striving for employees who want new challenges, customized, individualized approaches we also want to bring aboard new people EMEA 3,595 F/M 76% / 24% that balance practical experience, virtual whose skills enhance our strong base. To classrooms, self-guided learning and drive this effort, we’ll continue using newer, learning as a group. We know that different social media-driven recruiting channels. LATAM 1,149 F/M 60% / 40% people learn in different ways, so we’ll continue leveraging this blended learning via Knowledge Hub, boosting the rich and N. America 3.816 F/M 76% / 24% relevant training available across the globe. UK/IE 712 F/M 62% / 38% 28 GRI G4-14, G4-15, G4-LA5, G4-LA9, G4-LA10 Workplace practices, In our business, corporate policies that direct employee actions and management Employees working from home development and retention include: 3,547 (29.7%) employees work from home We invest in our talented employees and • Good corporate citizenship and respect they invest in our success. We strive to for human rights Virtual full-time Virtual gender create a culture of inclusion where every & part-time employee feels equipped to perform at his • Harassment-free workplace PT home or her best. worker • Safe and respectful workplace free from 1,531 Virtual males Workplace safety threats and violence 13% 794 22% We focus on providing our employees with • Non-discrimination— equal employment a safe and healthy work environment. Our opportunities goal is to provide an injury-free workplace, FT home worker Virtual females • Recruitment and hiring and our target zero initiative promotes a 10,421 87% 2,753 78% global culture where employees embrace a • Drug-free workplace zero injuries mentality. • Environment, health and safety • Tobaccoand smoke-free environment Positions working virtual Professional 1,015 29% Global training courses provided to employees Travel consultant Number of courses/content available in each category 1,680 47% Manager & director 2,651 749 21% Courses provided across the company 146,589 Completed cources VP & above 91 3% 12.09 Average courses per person 26 OHSAS 18001 compliant countries 2014 2015 Classroom 2016 2014 2015 Virtual 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 11.93 hours Online Other Implemented a global health courses classroom Average time spent training per person and safety management system Other includes all types of individual learning activities for each competency across all locations in 2016. 29 Employee Feedback Our global bi-annual employee satisfaction survey was conducted Employee Overall Satisfaction 83.6% Employee in 2016, with 77.8% of feedback the employee base participating – up by 3.7% from 2014. With the increase in participation we also saw an Our global bi-annual improvement employee in all of the satisfaction 19th categories evaluated.survey was conducted in 2016, with 77.8% of the employee base participating – up by 3.7% from 2014. The increased participation sparked an improvement The company’s of the 19 in alljumped overall satisfaction from categories evaluated. 79.7% to 83.6%, a significant improvement, meeting our enhanced strategic focus on The company’s overall satisfaction jumped from 79.7% to 83.6%, a significant people. A further statement to that is the Engagement Index, which improvement, meeting our enhanced strategic focus on people. A further statement to went up to 82.5%. These results are the voice and sentiment of our that is the Engagement Index, which went up to 82.5%. These results are the voice and employees, a proclamation we take very seriously and to heart. sentiment of our employees, a proclamation we take seriously and to heart. Employee Overall Satisfaction 83.6% Employee appreciation week takes place in many countries every Employee appreciation week takes place in many countries every year – e.g. US, Latam, APAC. year, e.g., the U.S. Latin America and Asia Pacific. Oﬃce events are Oﬃ ce events are sponsored by various supplier partners and prizes are given to employees. Virtual sponsored by supplier partners and prizes are given to employees. employees receive communication and a gift as well. Virtual employees participate digitally. A global Equal Employment Opportunity statement, as well as policy global Equalon Astatements Employment Opportunty statement as well asare policy statements in on no drugs, no EEO harassment and drugs, harassment, quality and fairness were quality included and fairness in local employee included handbooks. local employee handbooks. Circle of Excellence (COE) is a peer recognition program for all employees. Circle of Excellence important It is an(COE) is a peerpart of the company’s recognition program for all culture: employees. It is an important part ofEmployees the company’s and leaders vote to honor the excellent work culture: recognition is given not only from the top, their ofbut employees get to honor peers. The program includes all employees from BCD Travel and BCD Travel, Tbiz and the excellent work of their peers. The program includes all employees from Advito Advito in in wholly wholly owned owned countries. countries. 30 GRI G4-LA10 Management Associate Program attracts new travel industry talent In an ongoing partnership with the Association of Corporate Travel Executives, BCD Travel selected college graduates Barbara Allgaeuer of Munich, Germany; Theresa Dang of Toronto, Canada; and Megan Gougeon of Ottawa, Canada to the 2016 Management Associate Program (MAP), a highly selective, internationally recognized immersive travel internship. Selected from a pool of 65 candidates, the three associates spent eight weeks studying business travel in the United States, Brazil, the United Arab Emirates, China, India, France, the Netherlands and Belgium. They received academic training, experiential learning, networking opportunities and a jump start on a career in corporate travel. “The opportunity to participate in the Management Associate Program is a dream come true,” said Dang. “I’m grateful for the opportunity MAP, which began in 2012, helps fill BCD’s now work full time in the corporate travel to globalization, ongoing professional that BCD Travel has given me to broaden talent pipeline with next-generation industry. The US$7.2 trillion travel industry development and the chance to earn my knowledge, expand my skills, and gain professionals. But its benefits reach beyond powers virtually every major business promotions,” said Christian Dahl, BCD experience in the industry. I am so excited the company. The program is a talent and regional economy in the world and Travel senior vice president, Strategic about joining the program and building a development model for the business travel offers career opportunities to 284 million Talent Management & Global HR. “The foundation for a long career in the travel industry, which is undergoing rapid and employees, according to the World Travel business travel industry may not seem an industry.” remarkable change because of technological and Tourism Council. obvious choice to young people unfamiliar innovation, increased traveler engagement with it. But the industry continues to offer and influence, consolidation and more. “Many university students today graduate tremendous opportunities for challenging, Attracting new talent with fresh ideas is one without identifying any specific industry rewarding and deeply satisfying careers— of the best ways for the industry to meet that offers opportunities above competitive even to those who don’t enroll in MAP.” these challenges. Previous MAP associates pay and benefits—such as direct exposure 31 Section 6 Environment We’re committed to supporting a healthy and sustainable environment, by establishing policies and programs that specifically outline how we conduct business in a safe, environmentally sound manner in accordance with relevant legislation and regulations. 32 GRI G4-14, G4-15, G4-EN3, G4-EN7 UNGC 7, 8, 9 Objective Approach Results Optimize our operational energy Implemented a Global Energy Saving program to help reduce Reduced energy consumption by 11,661,915 kilowatt-hours (KWh) and performance and reduce carbon our operational energy usage. CO2 emissions by 18,460,810 lbs or 8,373,682 kgs. emissions through improved energy management. Implement global ISO 14001 accredited ISO 14001 specifies the requirements for an environmental ISO 14001:2015 was successfully implemented in all wholly owned environmental management system at management system that BCD Travel has used to enhance locations in 2016. all locations. its environmental performance in a systematic manner that contributes to our long-term environmental goals. Further reduce energy costs and the Continue to identify and establish green IT efficiency targets; Accurate reporting of carbon usage effectiveness (CUE) and power annual CO2 emissions required to focus on our data centers and IT footprint. usage effectiveness (PUE) achieved by integrating appropriate metering power physical services. technology within our data centers. Promote environmental awareness at BCD Travel supported Earth Hour, Earth Day and World Employees planted trees and vegetables; collected batteries, mobiles locations worldwide. Environment Day in 2016. and electronics for recycling; recycled plastics; reduced electrical consumption, and implemented a trash separation and collection process. Improve EcoVadis rating. Implemented global tracking of all environmental initiatives. Rated in the top 4% in the Environment section. 33 GRI G4-15, G4-EN3, G4-EN7, G4-EN19 Our operations reflect our focus on Having the EMS in place allows us to recycling, conserving resources and improve and monitor reduction targets for preventing pollution. And our facilities our business related carbon emissions. In planning and processes take into account 2017, our global operations will be subject environmental considerations like energy to third-party certification audits confirming consumption, commuting emissions and compliance to ISO 14001:2015 standards. efficient use of office space. We’re dedicated to promoting Green IT environmentally sound travel practices that Since the launch of our “Green Computing” help minimize waste and reduce harmful efforts, we successfully reduced our carbon emissions to the air, water and land. Our footprint by implementing: Supplier Code of Conduct encourages our business partners to adopt practices aligned • The deployment of desktops, laptops, with our environmental principles, ethical servers and other equipment with business practices, human rights and labor Energy Star ratings. practices. • Power management policies. We regularly conduct formal reviews • Advanced cooling management solutions to make sure our activities comply with within our data centers. environmental regulations and internal practices. We’ve always been a company Virtualizing 2,080 servers across our that builds for the next generations. And environment yielded a total carbon for those generations, we have a duty to reduction of 20.9 million metric tons of appreciate, manage and protect our earth’s carbon dioxide--the equivalent of planting resources. 31,380 trees and taking 1,774 cars off roadways. “We’re committed to making a positive impact on the environment. We launched our Global Energy Saving Program in 2016 to reduce our emissions and to improve ISO 14001:2015 We also aggressively reduced our global the way we manage our own environmental impacts. We’re constantly developing data center footprint from decreasing the We implemented an ISO 14001 number of facilities required to host and new strategies to increase energy efficiency across the company. In our data Environmental Management System operate our computer environment from center operations green IT is more than a concept, it’s deeply embedded into (EMS) globally in 2016. The EMS defines seven to six. The reduced data center space our operational framework. Deployment of environmental friendly technologies, our strategies and programs to manage not only achieved significant operating cost systems, and processes all contribute to our efforts to reduce C02 emissions, environmental aspects of our global savings, but also decreased our carbon power consumption and electronic waste.” operations. footprint. Our EMS is defined by corporate-level Future green IT efforts involve aligning our policies and procedures, which provide Sherron Burgess organizational direction based on the data centers with industry standard ISO 14001 certification this year, beginning Vice president, information security level of potential risk from regulatory with the U.S.-based data centers before non-compliance and reputational loss and expanding to other facilities. opportunities for business growth through operational and environmental stewardship. 34 GRI G4-EN3 Avoid blinds down and lights on Switch-off policy Label light switches Installation of low Maintenance energy lighting Lighting Occupancy sensors Daylight sensors Global Energy BMS controlled Saving Program The ISO 14001:2015 implementation helped launch our global energy saving program Keep heating systems clear & for operational energy performance unobstructed and reduced carbon emissions through Heating improved energy management. Our office locations support many low Control and no-cost solutions to reduce energy temperatures consumption. 35 GRI G4-EN3 Regular housekeeping Maintenance Cooling solutions Regular walk arounds maintenance Air Good conditioning housekeeping Heat recovery Natural ventilation Monitor energy & free cooling Staff awareness use Turn off and power Timers down Office equipment Energy efficient Raise awareness 36 GRI G4-EN3 Finland Singa57.52 pore Canada UK 435.01 China 510.51 145.60 1231.34 France Peru Argentina 512.31 228.29 158.00 Denmark Hong Kong 417.04 73.70 Sweden 370.30 Netherlands Brazil 828.68 497.93 India Switzerland USA 131.22 Australia 1571.08 255.26 Belgium Ireland 586.01 59.32 6649.23 Luxembourg 102.46 Chile Mexico Germany 168.97 Costa 956.31 Rica Czech 296.60 Republic 3250.01 Norway 166.00 All figures are in t/CO2e (tons of carbon dioxide equivalent) 55.72 The diagram above details BCD Travel’s carbon footprint across all of it’s wholly owned 2016. We have used the financial control approach to identify the GHG emissions for which locations for 2016. We calculated our scope 1 & 2, and significant scope 3 emissions, using BCD Travel have responsibility. The boundaries of the reported emissions comprise all office/ the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition), and building related emissions of the BCD Travel’s global locations, including business travel, emission factors from UK Government’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting covering car, train and air (long haul & domestic). 37 GRI G4-EN16 400 Total kWh/m2 Year 300 200 100 Global staff travel emissions 0 Business miles travelled 40,304,496 Australia Canada Czech Republic Finland Typical Office Netherlands Argentina Belgium Brazil Chile China Costa Rica France Germany Hong Kong India Ireland Denmark Luxembourg Mexico Norway Peru Singapore Sweden Switzerland UK USA Good Practice Office Tons of CO2e 8,139 Within this report, the energy efficiencies of the buildings have been compared with the ‘Typical’ Office Building as defined in the Chartered Institute for Building Services Engineers (CIBSE) Energy Consumption Guide 19 (ECG019) – Energy Use in Offices. The document provides ‘Typical’ and ‘Good Practice’ energy use, cost and carbon emission benchmarks for office buildings. 38 Office energy consumption profiles 6% 8% Hot water Hot water 20% 27% Office Office equipment equipment 29% 35% Air UK/IE EMEA conditioning 16% Air conditioning Lighting 28% Heating Lighting 28% 25% Heating 5% 3% 7% Hot water Hot water 17% Hot water Office 26% equipment 26% Office Office equipment equipment LATAM 41% North America 33% APAC 39% 19% Air Air Air conditioning Lighting conditioning conditioning 16% 18% Lighting Lighting 24% 12% Heating 14% Heating Heating 39 Employee-led initiatives Engaging employees in our resource efficiency efforts in 2016 was a key aim of implementing the ISO 14001:2015 management system. A dedicated team of CSR coordinators in our global locations oversees the implementation, tracking and improvement of local environmental initiatives. 2016 initiatives: • Green teams were organized in countries that previously did not have this engagement. • Offices ran local campaigns encouraging employees to create personal sustainability plans or otherwise incorporate sustainability into their everyday lives. • Global promotion and participation in Earth Day, Earth Hour and World Environment Day events to engage and educate employees. • Employee award and recognition programs that reward measurable environmental improvements or demonstration of best-in-class practices. • Six percent increase in work from home opportunities for U.S. employees, resulting in reduced gasoline and CO2 emissions, cost savings on office space, and better work-life balance. 40 Section 7 Supply Chain BCD Travel strives to build sustainable and mutually rewarding partnerships with its supply chain with a view to contributing to its own business sustainability and that of the people and planet. 41 GRI G4-14, G4-EN32, G4-EN33, G4-HR10, G4-H11, G4-LA15 UNGC 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 Objective Approach Results Engage directly with key partners and suppliers; build Assessed BCD Travel partner companies Twenty-four BCD partners were assessed in 2016. supplier sustainability capacity; and expand our supplier using the EcoVadis Corporate Platform. sustainability survey processes. Ensure all partners and suppliers demonstrate responsible Include the Supplier Code of Conduct More than 85% of our partners and global suppliers have signed our business practices, including sustainable sourcing and the in all partner agreements and global Supplier Code of Conduct. protection of human rights. Align supplier base’s social, supplier contracts. ethical, environmental and health and safety responsibilities with our own ethical goals and objectives. Update procurement documents to include sustainability questions. Increase awareness of sustainability issues in the Provided sustainability training to Ten members of the global sourcing and procurement team procurement process. procurement staff. participated in training courses covering principles of sustainable procurement, environmental and social impacts of products, and services and environmentally and socially preferable standards and labels. Comply with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 in the U.K. Communicated BCD Travel’s zeroA clause stating our stance on anti-slavery and human trafficking was and Ireland within our own operations and our supply chain. tolerance stance on modern slavery of added to the Supplier Code of Conduct. any kind. BCD’s first annual Modern Slavery Statement, outlining our zeroEstablished plan to set expectations for tolerance policy, was published in December 2016. and evaluate our suppliers’ adherence to An assessment of our supply chain was carried out to ensure their the Modern Slavery Act. compliance with the MSA. Improve EcoVadis rating. Increased supplier/partner engagement. Rated in the top 3% of all suppliers in the Sustainable Carried out EcoVadis CSR assessments. Procurement section. 42 GRI G4-12, G4-14 Shared values BCD Travel carefully selects suppliers who • Elimination of discrimination with respect demonstrate responsible business practices to employment and occupation based on ethical, environmental and social criteria. Our Supplier Code of Conduct • Respect of the human rights of all outlines the standards we expect from our stakeholders in the supply chain suppliers and partners, who must share our • Provide a safe and healthy workplace to commitment to: employees and other partners Conduct business in an ethical manner • Demonstrate commitment to protect and abide by all legal and regulatory the environment by conserving natural requirements and other requirements resources, preventing pollution, included in BCD Travel’s Supplier Code of implementing waste reduction and Conduct. management programs and minimizing Comply with international labor standards its impact on the climate with specific focus on the ILO Conventions, • Promote diversity and inclusivity including: • Maintain transparency and disclose • Freedom of association and the right to sustainability performance and practices collective bargaining in line with regulations or international • Elimination of all forms of forced or practices compulsory labor • Demonstrate leadership by propagating • Effective abolition of child labor the sustainability agenda upstream to its “We’ve participated in an annual EcoVadis assessment of our wholly owned and own supply chain. majority-owned markets since 2011. We achieved silver designations in 2014 and 2015 and, in 2016, we became the first TMC to earn EcoVadis Gold for our sustainability efforts. Also in 2016, we started using EcoVadis’ Corporate Platform to assess our suppliers and partners. EcoVadis has provided invaluable guidance on the improvements needed to increase CSR performance, ensuring adherence to CSR and ethics requirements for us and our clients.” Sharon Dirks Senior manager, global corporate social responsibility 43 GRI G4-EN32, G4-HR10, G4-HR11, G4-LA15 Progress towards a sustainable supply chain EcoVadis Process: A Virtuous Circle We pursue sustainable supply chain They conduct rigorous analyses of CSR management by aligning our supplier programs in the areas of environment, Onboarding Evaluation base’s social, ethical, environmental, safety labor practices, fair business practices Online registration Multiply data collection and health responsibilities with our own and sustainable procurement. Their and qualification (online self-assessment sustainability goals and objectives. Suppliers methodology is built on international CSR of suppliers. 01 questionnaire etc...) are critical partners in achieving our goals, standards—including the Global Reporting Assessment CSR expect analysis and we continued to expand supplier Initiative, the United Nations Global prioritization development and engagement during 2016. Compact and ISO 26000. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is included in EcoVadis’ collaborative platform, reliable 04 all supplier related documents and contracts ratings and easy-to-use monitoring tools 02 managed by our global procurement team. allow us to manage risks and drive ecoinnovations in global supply chains. We updated the human rights section of our Supplier Code of Conduct to include a Scorecard results highlighted strengths and clause stating our zero-tolerance approach improvements in the four areas assessed – to slavery, human trafficking and the sexual labor practices, environment, fair business 03 Improvement Results exploitation of children. practices and sustainable procurement. Online Corrective Easy to use and The collaborative Corrective Action Plan Action Plan: dynamic scorecard Supplier diversity tool allows us to work with our suppliers module. Use the available online, and partners to create an action plan with We are strongly committed to using and scorecard to scoring of supplier any necessary remedial efforts needed to developing small business suppliers, improve suppliers’ performance & improve CSR performance. including companies that are owned performance qualitative by women, minorities, or are based in We will continue to assess suppliers and information economically disadvantaged areas. partners in 2017 and have set a target to assess all of BCD Travel’s partners by 2019 Source: EcoVadis EcoVadis corporate and improve their individual EcoVadis rating by 25% within a three-year period. assessments As noted above, we assessed 24 partners using the EcoVadis Corporate Platform. 44 GRI G4-12 Supplier sustainability We select our global and local suppliers based on diverse criteria, including ethical, social and environmental aspects. Some examples from our suppliers are highlighted below. • Our online booking tool suppliers (OBTs) display CO2e (carbon dioxide equivalent) emission data during the air travel booking process and also offer CO2e emission compensation options. CO2e emissions are reported on travel itineraries. • German train service from the Deutsche Bahn uses 100% green electricity. Fossil fuels are replaced with renewable energy sources thus eliminating direct CO2 emissions. All employee train travel, as well as all train travel booked by our clients in Germany, is free of CO2 emissions. Emissions generated by preand post-transport processes are compensated by the CO2 emission compensation company Atmosfair. • One of our preferred hotel partners, Accor Hotels, upholds the rights of children with their membership and support of The Code. In 2015, more than 63 000 employees worldwide received training on how to detect and respond to these risks. At the end of 2015, 88% of all Accor hotels (more than 3200 hotels) declare that they are contributing to the protection of minors against abuse. • Our EMEA data center provider T-Systems places high importance on the environment. Green IT solutions give companies a way of contributing to a low carbon society. They’ve developed the Green Dynamics Simulation tool to measure the impact data centers have on the environment. Compare to conventional in-house operation, the automation and standardization achieved by using T-Systems data centers can cut carbon emissions by up to 80 percent. 45 GRI G4-HR11, G4-LA15 Support of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 in the U.K. and Ireland Slavery, servitude, forced labor and human trafficking (Modern Slavery) is a global and growing issue, existing in every region in the world and in every type of economy, whether industrialised, developing or in transition. No sector or industry can be considered immune or untainted. BCD Travel has a zero-tolerance approach to Modern Slavery of any kind within our operations and supply chain. We all have a responsibility to be alert to the risks, however small, in our business and in the wider supply chain. A policy was created in support of the MSA and communicated to all employees in the U.K. and Ireland. A copy of our revised Supplier Code of Conduct was distributed to local suppliers. An assessment of our supply chain was carried out to ensure their compliance with the MSA. Our first Annual Statement of Support, a requirement of the Modern Slavery Act, was published in December 2016. 46 Section 8 Service Performance Customers judge their experience with BCD Travel in terms of cost, quality and service reliability. They also measure value by how closely our innovative solutions anticipate their business travel requirements. As a result, our comprehensive initiatives focus on sustainability and customer satisfaction. 47 GRI G4-EN7 UNGC 8, 9 Objective Approach Results Empower travelers to make Carried out traveler surveys to collect feedback More than 32,000 traveler surveys were completed. smart choices through to understand how we’re doing and how we effective engagement can improve solutions and processes to boost Extend feedback approach in 2017 to include customer communities, focus groups and feedback strategies customer satisfaction. panels. Deliver optimal service and Engaged Advito consultancy to assess and Launched 2016 initiatives including: performance value to our improve travel program environmental and clients social impacts. Responsible travel program diagnostic: to help travel and procurement managers determine the contribution their program makes to the company’s overall CSR program and help to achieve the right balance of traditional travel management and CSR objectives. Total Collaboration Management ™: to help customers successfully implement programs to ensure their employees work together most effectively and avoid non-optimal travel by creating a comprehensive global collaboration program which will achieve the ROI in virtual technology. Off-setting advisory: to provide the customized advice needed to address the key questions on carbon off-set partner selection and implementation. Provide enhanced quality Focused on faster delivery and higher-quality We provide the industry’s best travel data: data to our travelers data to meet client expectations. • 90% of booked data is available to clients within 15 minutes. • 100% is available for reporting within two hours. • 80%-90% of ticketed data is available daily. 48 GRI G4-EN7 Our comprehensive initiatives focus on case studies and white papers on topics like sustainability and customer satisfaction to building travel risk management plans and evaluate and reduce the environmental responsible travel management. Providing impact of travel activities and accountability, trusted solutions includes considering improve traveler well-being and security, how our services impact society and the and to promote ethical business standards environment, while meeting customer throughout their travel supply chain and needs. We prioritize safety, reliability and stakeholder network. quality to keep customers informed and protected. We collaborate with our travel Our research and development investments industry colleagues and technology partners and operational priorities are driven by to create advanced traveler tools, which our objective to deliver optimal customer reduce complexity and risk; provide onsatisfaction. We uphold our duty of care by demand information for travelers at every consulting with clients on destination and stage of their journeys. security, while publishing research findings, Engaged travelers: Every interaction we have with travelers before, during and after the booking process is a chance for BCD Travel to exceed expectations, with easy and timely access to relevant content and highly personalized experiences. That makes for a happy traveler. But more importantly, it helps travelers make smart decisions and shapes and reinforces good behavior, helping drive significant savings, policy compliance and other business objectives. Intelligent programs: We drive smart decisions for our customers with business intelligence that engages travelers throughout the trip cycle, influences spend and lets people answer what if? instead of showing just what is. That means giving clients fast answers and helping travel managers understand how changes they make today could affect their bottom line “Travel is essential to grow business, but not all business requires travel. With tomorrow. Our work on DecisionSource has already introduced a new Total Collaboration Management, we provide an innovative solution that fosters generation of dashboards and benchmarking. We want clients to interact employees to consider the purpose, worth and outcome of a trip and leads to a with their data intuitively. We’ll keep making it even easier to minimize more responsible travel program.” guesswork and identify program opportunities with predictive analytics. Built for change: At the program level, we always start with what the client wants to accomplish. We work with them to identify measurable goals Jeroen Hurkmans aligned with their corporate objectives. Then we bring together solutions that drive duty of care, compliance, savings and traveler engagement. Vice president, Advito 49 GRI G4-EN27 We have a number of initiatives that focus on sustainability and customer satisfaction. Some highlights include: Our carbon emission tracker, which calculates emissions produced by air travel and reports on this information at company, departmental and individual traveler levels.This tool is incorporated into BCD Travel’s information management solution, DecisionSource, and calculates emissions in accordance with the methodologies of both the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and DEFRA (the United Kingdom’s Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs). Providing business travel carbon calculations for offsetting programs. Offsetting can help compensate for the environmental impact of travel programs by allocating funds commensurate with the emissions produced through business travel. The funds are invested in climate protection projects that generate emission-free energy, reduce demand for energy or absorb emissions that have already occurred. BCD Travel’s global carbon off-setting partner, atmosfair, conforms to the Gold Standard for emissions calculation, project selection and funds allocation. • CSR travel strategy workshops to help clarify corporate requirements and stakeholder expectations and constraints for sustainable and accountable travel management. • Total Collaboration Management ™ to help customers successfully implement programs to ensure their employees work together most effectively and avoid non-optimal travel by creating a comprehensive global collaboration program which will also create a healthy work-life balance for their travellers. • Sustainable and accountable travel procurement to design and manage supplier Request for Proposals (RFPs) that are aligned with the organization’s sustainable and accountable procurement principles. • Off-setting advisories to provide the customized advice needed to address the key questions on carbon offset partner selection and implementation. • Travel risk management consulting to help to assess exposure to travel-related safety and security risks and recommend changes to operational programs, travel security initiatives and risk management providers. Advito consultative services help to achieve the right balance of traditional travel management and CSR objectives. 50 GRI G4-EN27 Enhanced traveler satisfaction Better traveler work-life Increased Productivity Balance Virtual collaboration Reduced carbon footprint programs help reduce Stronger Increased carbon footprints, global working relationships lessen travel risk and stress employee retention Reduced Virtual collaboration is a growing trend, with the market projected to double in the next four years as employees expect companies to offer better team collaboration options travel spend With the right program and technology in place, teams can work together from anywhere at a fraction of the cost, and without the productivity loss, stress and risk of travel. 51 GRI G4-EC8 Trip management Access and manage all your corporate traval 2016 brought more market changes, opportunities and product development than any year details in one convenient place in our history. Travelers are connected to multiple devices: 87% of business travelers switch between web, mobile and tablet to manage their travel. Our TripSource® mobile app is a robust cross-platform app that displays up-to-date itineraries, delivers trip change notifications, and allows our business travel clients to reach Stay organized their travelers with relevant company policy information—anytime, anywhere. With just a tap, travelers can access relevant information at critical points within their travel All of your travel information perfectly organized experience: by segment, not available on any device. Before the trip: Travelers can access detailed itineraries (air, hotel, car, and ground), share their trip with a preset list of contacts, and even add custom ‘cards’ for meetings and business dinners to keep everything in one place. Stay informed During the trip: Travelers will have access to maps, directions and phone numbers. They’ll also receive push alerts—TripSource will notify them about flight delays, gate changes, itinerary changes, and company policy at relevant points in the trip cycle. Get real-time flight alerts, company travel guidelines, and receive location-related messages. After the trip: Travelers can access their trip history and receive expense reminders as well as targeted offers based on their profile and spending habits. Stay connected Get local maps and directions, share itineraries with colleagues and loved ones, and access your travel history. Our TripSource app was a Gold winner of the 2014 US Mobile & App Design awards. 52 GRI G4-EC8 TripSource® Our TripSource platform provides the best rates, the best selection and the best experience for our travelers who want to book a hotel as part of the travel. Company preferred properties and BCD Travel negotiated rates combined with GDS and independent content make it easy to compare multiple sources find the best rates. BCD Travel is the only TMC to bring together multiple aggregators in a single place offering the most content available. Inspired by the most popular apps and online booking sites, TripSource allows busy travelers to search and book in just a few clicks on any device. 53 Section 9 Charity & Community Support Our passion for helping others is integral to our company’s Strategic Direction and to our CSR principles, which guide the way we interact with one another, our business partners and our communities. 54 UNGC 1, 2 Our commitment to Charity & Community support runs deep. It extends to: • Funding and supporting the Haiti project • The “Making a Difference” program supporting local projects in our home markets • Membership in “The Code,” an organization working to end the commercial sexual exploitation of children. The Haiti project The school The BCD Travel Foundation, the giving arm L’Ecole de Choix is a trilingual elementary of BCD Travel, will provide US$750,000 over school serving 180 impoverished children the next five years to help fund operating ages 6 to 16. Students learn the skills they expenses for L’Ecole de Choix, The School need to support themselves and their of Choice, a private, nonprofit elementary families, to educate their own children, and school in Mirebalais, Haiti. The funds are positively impact their communities, and raised through worldwide employee-led ultimately, their country. efforts and matching contributions from the company and its private owner. We met our 2016 goal to raise the first US$150,000. We plan to continue to supporting the school, helping to give children a highquality education. The BCD Travel Foundation will also organize and fund trips to L’Ecole de Choix for BCD employees who wish to volunteer “Our support of Choix is a natural fit for our company because it’s aligned with at the school. The foundation will help our organization’s core values. We encourage and enable our people to make a raise funds for specific projects, such as difference in the lives of our customers and our communities. Our foundation looks improving the school’s playground and for ways to take this passion for helping others beyond serving customers to improve sanitation infrastructure. the lives of people around the world, with an emphasis on helping children.” Leslie West Senior vice president of BCD Travel and chair of the BCD Travel Foundation board 55 Making a Difference In 2016 we proudly supported our shareholder’s foundation, focusing on 25 under-privileged children’s causes around the globe. All initiatives are located in communities in which BCD Travel employees live and work. We leverage our business relationships in support of the Haiti project and our Making a Difference commitment. EMEA (10) BCD Travel Belguim Bednet BCD Travel France Rêves NORAM (4) BCD Travel Germany Streetlife (Mädchencafé) BCD Travel Chicago UK/IE (3) Städtisches Kinderheim Students Run Chi(cago) –SRC FRÜZ BCD Travel Memphis Hope House Day Care BCD Meetings & Events U.K. Family Friends in Windsor & Anton Schroberhauser Stifting BCD Travel Israel BCD Travel Canada Maidenhead Natal The Lighthouse Program for Grieving Costa Rica BCD Travel U.K. BCD Travel Luxembourg Children A Smile for a Child Caritas BCD M&I US BCD Travel U.K. Maidenhead BCD Travel Netherlands LATAM (5) Thumbuddy Secial Colnbrook School Kidzbase BCD Travel Denmark BCD Travel Argentina Tu amigo invisible en el Chaco Feriehjaelpen (NEW) BCD Travel Costa Rica Asociación Proyecto Pro Ayudaa Jóvenes Con Canver y Otras Enfermedades Crónicas BCD Travel Mexico Aldeas Infantiles SOSO (Children APAC (3) BCD Travel Singapore Village SOS) Pertapis Children’s Home BCD Travel Nicaragua Operation Smile Philippines Asociab de Padres de Ninos y Jovenes (Jamiyah Children’s Home) Diabeticos de Nicaragua BCD Travel Australia BCD Travel Venezuela Smith family Estrellas de Birongo Singapore 56 The Code BCD Travel has joined ‘The Code,’ an organization working to protect children from sex tourism. The Code of Conduct for the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation in Travel and Tourism is an industry-driven initiative to provide awareness, tools and support to the travel industry to prevent the sexual exploitation of children. Members implement a set of six guidelines to achieve that goal. BCD Travel has started to implement those guidelines at its locations worldwide. 57 Section 10 Sustainability Reporting 58 GRI G4-33 Auditor verification statement Methodology Alphacello Ltd was engaged by BCD Travel Alphacello conducted the verification to conduct limited verification of its scopes against the main requirements of 1 and 2 and certain scope 3 greenhouse gas ISO 14064-3: Greenhouse gases – Part (GHG) emissions, and certain employment 3: Specification with guidance for the and waste data indicators reported by BCD validation and verification of greenhouse Travel wholly owned companies for the gas assertions. period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Stated GHG emissions, employment BCD Travel’s GHG emissions were calculated and waste data were included for all global using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. operations under BCD Travel’s control. As part of the assurance, Alphacello undertook: Scope of verification • Interviews with relevant personnel Alphacello verified: of BCD Travel responsible for GHG emissions accounting and employment GHG emissions for: data • Scope 1 and scope 2 emissions from BCD Travel’s global operations • A review of BCD Travel information systems and methodology for data • Scope 3 emissions from business air collection, aggregation, and analysis travel • A review of information and calculations Employment data for: used to determine GHG emissions • Age and gender • Sampling of source data from 26 of • Ethnicity BCD Travel’s operations worldwide. The sample was selected based on air travel, • Health and safety energy consumption, geographical location and head count Waste data: • Audit visits to four of BCD Travel’s • Waste to recycling data operations, to review underlying systems Excluded from the scope of assurance are for collecting and reporting employment BCD Travel’s partner countries’ and GHG and emissions data emissions outside the defined reporting • A review of the consolidated 2016 data period and scope 3 GHG emissions not to check end of year accounting and stated above. reliable transposition. 59 Conclusion Statement of Based on the verification conducted by independence, Alphacello, there is no evidence to suggest that the GHG emissions assertions shown impartiality and below, and the age, gender, ethnicity, health and safety and waste KPIs as stated by competence BCD Travel in its Annual Corporate Social Alphacello Ltd is an independent Responsibility Report 2017: professional services company that • Are not prepared in accordance with specializes in quality, health, safety, social BCD Travel’s relevant internal and environmental management. methodologies We conducted this verification • Are not materially correct and a fair independently and to our knowledge there representation of the GHG emissions and has been no conflict of interest. Alphacello employment data for BCD Travel. has implemented a Code of Ethics within our business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in its day-to-day Reported GHG business activities. The verification team has over 20 years’ combined experience in emissions conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and health and safety Limitations and exclusions: information, systems and processes, • A proportion of reported energy data is including the verification of greenhouse estimated due in part to the occupation gas emissions data. by BCD Travel of business premises where consumption is paid for via a service charge and is not directly metered or billed. • BCD Travel estimates its other scope 3 emissions, including from leased cars, taxis and couriers, as an additional 15% of its total GHG emissions figure, added to the carbon footprint and reported as ‘other estimated scope 3 emissions’. This estimation was not subject to verification. 60 For information regarding this report please contact: Sharon Dirks Senior manager, global corporate social responsibility sharon.dirks@bcdtravel.de © Copyright 2017. BCD Travel. All rights reserved. BCD Travel®, DecisionSource®, and TripSource® are registered trademarks of the BCD Group. 61
