Year after year, our energy improves, evolves, becomes more efficient and sustainable, generates more progress and fosters the development of science and the economy. It makes lives easier, conquers new markets, becomes global. Year after year, the world is shaped by our energy. Shaping Energy Annual Report and Accounts 2016 galp.com About this Report 6 5. Commitment to stakeholders 68 5.1. Acting responsibly and ethically 70 1. To our stakeholders 8 5.2. Engagement with stakeholders 73 5.3. Valuing human capital 80 1.1. Message from the Board of Directors 10 5.4. Energy and climate 84 1.2. Operational chain 14 5.5. Protection of people, environment and assets 89 1.3. 2016 main highlights 16 5.6. Innovation, research and technology 95 1.4. Value creation model 18 1.5. Addressing materiality 20 6. Corporate governance 98 2. Strategic framework 22 PART I Information on the Company’s shareholding structure, organisation and governance 100 2.1. Industry challenges 24 PART II Corporate Governance Assessment 157 2.2. Our strategy 28 7. Proposal for allocation of results 164 3. Strategy execution 30 3.1. Exploration & Production 32 8. Appendices 168 3.2. Refining & Marketing 44 3.3. Gas & Power 52 8.1. Consolidated Accounts 170 8.2. Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas (unaudited) 361 8.3. Galp report payments to governments in 2016 368 4. Financial performance 58 8.4.  Reports and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor 372 4.1. Summary 60 8.5.  Independent Limited Assurance Report 384 4.2. Business performance 61 8.6.  Statements of compliance by the Board of Directors 4.3. Profit & Loss 62 and Audit Board 386 4.4. Capital expenditure 64 8.7. Compulsory statements 388 4.5. Cash flow 65 8.8.  Biographies of the members of the Board of Directors 4.6. Financial position 66 and Audit Board 391 8.9.  Positions held in other companies by the members of the Board of Directors and Audit Board 400 8.10. Biographies and positions held by members of the Remuneration Committee 406 8.11. Glossary and abbreviations 408 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results About this Report Galp hereby presents its first integrated annual report, goods and commodity prices fluctuate, and of the Sustainability section on the website to aiming to transparently and stringently publish its results, the use of this valuation method may cause volatility an external, independent and certified assessment by processes and indicators for the creation of economic, in results through gains or losses in inventories, which PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados – Sociedade Galp values guide our environmental and social value. It is thus intended do not reflect the Company’s operating performance. de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. (PwC). performance and promote to assess Galp’s performance in an integrated way, taking This is called the inventory effect. the tangible and intangible aspects into consideration sound relationships with our and demonstrating the connections between external Another factor that may affect the Company’s results, stakeholders. factors, the Company’s strategy, corporate governance, without being an indicator of its performance, is the set Galp 2016 Annual Report and Accounts business model and its operational and financial of non-recurring items, namely gains or losses on the performance, when deemed materially relevant. disposal of assets, impairments or reinstatements of fixed Annual Sustainability Vision accounts data An integrated energy company that assets, and environmental or restructuring charges. This Report was based on internationally recognised Audit scope Review scope develops profitable and sustainable guidelines and standards, in particular: In order to provide a better evaluation of the Company’s operating performance excluding the above mentioned Reasonable assurance Limited assurance businesses. • International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS); effect, Galp also discloses its results on a Replacement Cost Other information included in the Report Adjusted (RCA) basis, excluding non-recurring items and the Values • the guidelines provided by the Portuguese Securities Verification of consistency between information and data inventory effect, the latter because the cost of goods sold included in the annual consolidated accounts. Code (CVM), the Regulation no. 4/2013 of the Portuguese Securities Market Commission (CMVM) and raw materials consumed has been calculated with the Trust Verification of inclusion of eligible data according to and the recommendations set out by CMVM; Replacement Cost (RC) valuation method. These results Article 245(A) of the CVM. As an expression of our ethics, are not audited. transparency and integrity. • the guidelines of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC); In what concerns non-financial information, the data consolidation and reporting methodology comprehends all Partnership • the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), We generate value through sound version GRI G4, in the “In accordance – Comprehensive” activities where Galp has a 50% stake or more and/or when Feedback option, including the Oil & Gas sector guidelines. it has operational control thereof. Notwithstanding the relationships. foregoing, and where the stakeholders’ interest so justifies, Galp wishes to engage in an ongoing and inclusive dialogue • the guidelines for the report on payments made to public this Report also includes information on non-operated with its stakeholders, enhancing that relationship and administrations, within the context of its participation Agility activities Galp where has a minority stake in, namely within seeking to respond to their expectations and needs. For any in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI); Of thought and action. the Exploration & Production (E&P) business. concerns with this Report, please provide your feedback to: • the principles of inclusion, relevance and accountability of the stakeholders provided by the Accountability norm, Galp publishes in this report the governance system Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Innovation AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard practices of the Company with reference to 2016, in The audacity to innovate, to undertake (AA1000APS 2008); accordance with the applicable CMVM Regulation. Strategy and Investor Relations and to transform creates value. • the principles of the United Nations Global Compact Rua Tomás da Fonseca, Torre C (UNGC); To complement this Report, Galp publishes additional 1600 – 209 Lisbon Sustainability and detailed information on its corporate website, and in • the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). particular, in the Investors and Sustainability sections. Tel.: +351 217 240 866 We grow in a sustainable way, generating e-mail: investor.relations@galp.com value for the future. Galp’s financial statements are prepared in accordance Galp aims to build the trust required for supporting the with IFRS, and the cost of goods sold and of raw materials stakeholders’ decision-making regarding the Company consumed is valued at Weighted Average Cost (WAC). When and, for that, submits the contents of this Report 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7 1To our stakeholders To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 1.1. Message from the Board of Directors 1.1. Message from the Board of Directors Paula Amorim Chairman of the Board of Directors commitment to Galp and its stakeholders, as well as the objective of contributing, within Dear shareholders, the scope of my duties, to the pursuit of the goals set and to the success of our Company’s strategy. It was with great honour and responsibility that I accepted the appointment as Chairman of the Board of Directors We live in a changing world. Expected population during 2016. As a member of the Board of Directors since growth and meeting future energy needs are global 2012 and Vice-President since April 2015, I reaffirm my challenges, considering as well resource scarcity. 10 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results To address those challenges, in a sector characterised Additionally, I reaffirm the commitment of the Board by volatility, we take an approach that is oriented of Directors in the implementation of responsible practices, to anticipating opportunities. Galp is mindful of particularly regarding corporate governance, acting with developments in technology, the digitalisation of transparency and ethics and safeguarding the economies and the growing demand for meeting client Company’s sustainability. satisfaction, thus promoting the adaptability of its business models in order to ensure competitiveness and In conclusion, I would like to thank all stakeholders, long-term value creation. in particular, our shareholders, employees, customers, partners and suppliers for their vote of confidence. In 2016, Galp took important steps in the execution Grounded on the competitive advantages of our Company, of its strategy, namely through the development of namely its asset portfolio, the development of its people upstream projects in the Brazilian pre-salt and the and the partnerships that have been strengthened progress in the LNG project of Area 4, in the Rovuma basin, or extended, we will continue to jointly map Galp’s path. in Mozambique. At the same time, it continued to optimise its downstream business, both in the consolidation of activities in Iberia and in the continuous exploration of opportunities in the international market, albeit in a less favourable context than in the recent past. Galp has been acting with a strict discipline and towards a sound financial position. The capital allocation is, and will continue to be, focused on the Oil & Gas sector, in highly profitable and competitive projects in the industry’s cost curve. At the same time, we are preparing Galp for the future, to be more client-centric, with new business models and low-carbon solutions, ensuring Paula Amorim resilience in more challenging oil and carbon price Chairman of the Board of Directors scenarios. The goal remains the same: a sustained delivery of value to our stakeholders, and, in particular, to shareholders. To that extent, the Board of Directors will propose to the General Shareholders Meeting the payment of a dividend of €0.497664 per share relating to 2016, amounting to about €413 m, in accordance with the dividend policy in force until the end of 2016, which estimated an average annual increase of 20%. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 1.1. Message from the Board of Directors Carlos Gomes da Silva project, which consists of developing liquefied natural CEO gas through a floating production unit (FLNG), which will help accelerate the time to market of the Rovuma basin resources. In the Mamba project, we are analysing the Dear stakeholders, proposals for construction contracts and will continue working towards the final investment decision. I am pleased to say that in 2016, despite the challenging The Mamba project will benefit from important economies context that continues to mark the Oil & Gas sector, Galp of scale, which, along with the quality of resources continued to deliver value to its stakeholders based on the and their location, will contribute to the competitiveness outlined strategy. of the Area 4 project in the global LNG market over the next decade. In Exploration & Production, we reached a daily production of around 90 thousand barrels at the end of the year, In Angola, we proceeded with the development of block 32, a growth supported by the main development project in which is expected to start production in 2018. We have also the Brazilian pre-salt the Lula/Iracema fields. Here, two continued to optimise operations in block 14. new FPSO units started production: Cidade de Maricá and Cidade de Saquarema. The reservoirs continued In the Refining & Marketing business, the decline to demonstrate strong characteristics, allowing for in international refining margins was followed by unparalleled productivity in the sector and contributing a continued optimisation of operations, which allowed for the fourth and fifth units to reach plateau production for an increase in the value of the barrel processed against ahead of schedule. the international benchmark margin. In a volatile and uncertain context, we will continue with this value-creation Regarding Mozambique, the Board of Directors has approach, focusing on process efficiency, flexibility given conditional approval to the Coral South offshore and improved conversion capacity. With the launch 12 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results of a new product offer branded as Evologic, Galp has once models in an agile, entrepreneurial and innovative way, again made a difference in the marketing of oil products particularly using an ecosystem of partnerships. in Iberia, betting on a value proposition supported by new generation technologies. We believe that technological development and innovation are decisive for creating the conditions required for efficient In Gas & Power, the year was equally challenging, marked energy consumption, sustainable mobility and for meeting mainly by the decrease in arbitrage opportunities the expectations and needs of our customers and partners. in international markets. I would like to highlight the launch of a new commercial platform, aimed at transforming and In what concerns the global agenda for climate change, improving the consumer experience, based on a strong Galp supports the pursuit of a global and effective digital component. It is also worth highlighting the sale of agreement to reduce carbon emissions. We support the a 22.5% stake in the regulated natural gas infrastructure creation of a single, transparent, efficient and sustainable business to the Japanese consortium led by Marubeni. market in the long term and we will continue to contribute This operation is part of the active portfolio management constructively to the development of appropriate strategy and has contributed to strengthening the measures to overcome the energy and climate challenges. Company’s financial situation. As final remarks, I would like to begin by thanking In fact, we ended the year with a net debt to Ebitda ratio our partners, who are crucial to our success in the of around 1x, well below our commitment not to exceed various activities we undertake. Particularly in upstream, 2x, also on the back of the strong generation of cash flow I would stress the partnership with companies that are from operations. We are therefore better placed to face acknowledged for their experience and technological the investment plan ahead. drive. Galp has reinforced its relationship with some of those players in 2016, namely with the MoUs signed The Company is in a transitional phase. The year of 2016 with Petrobras and Statoil. was the last of an intensive investment cycle channelled into Brazil, and our operations in this country are expected I would also like to thank our shareholders for their trust in our to start generating positive cash flow as of 2017. We are strategy, and to reinforce our commitment to its disciplined now starting to reap the rewards of the strategy outlined, execution, which shall be guided by our core values. while building the Galp of the future. I will conclude by thanking all employees, customers and It is essential that we remain focused on executing suppliers for the commitment, collaboration and trust they and extracting maximum value from our portfolio of assets have shown, as they are fundamental to our current success and businesses, to which we must add the development and for us to jointly cross new frontiers in the future. of new projects and entry into new markets, thus ensuring a legacy of sustainable growth for Galp. We are committed to reflecting the principles of sustainability and good governance in our strategy, culture and values. We commit to generating shared value by identifying opportunities and linking Galp’s success to the progress of the communities we operate in. Ensuring the protection of people, the environment and assets, as well as adopting an ethical and transparent conduct, are vital to our work. In this context, we have been consistently recognised by the most prestigious sustainability indexes. In a context of accelerated technologic transformation and consumption habits, and of transition to a less carbon-intensive Carlos Gomes da Silva economy, we will need to adapt, integrating new business CEO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp 1.2. Operational chain to stakeholders allocation of results Trading Marketing Retail Sourcing Refining Logistics 1.2. Wholesale Other operators Operational Exports chain Refining & Marketing The Company is a leading player in Iberia, operating across the refining and marketing of oil products activities. Galp holds an integrated refining system with a total processing capacity Trading of 330 thousand barrels of oil per day (kbpd), and a wide distribution of oil International network for oil products in Iberia. The Company has also been products market developing its position in Africa and currently holds fuel distribution Production and marketing activities in five fast growing African countries. of oil and natural gas Pipeline Storage* Liquefaction LNG vessel* Regasification De-risking Natural gas and development distribution activity Research and exploration of oil and natural gas Marketing Wind power Trading Retail of electricity Trading of NG/LNG Industrial Production & Exploration Electrical Galp holds a broad portfolio, ranging from the Gas & Power exploration to production of hydrocarbons, being present in seven countries and currently undergoing a fast production growth phase, Through its Gas & Power (G&P) business, having reached around 90 thousand barrels International Cogeneration Galp is focused on the supply of natural gas of oil equivalent per day (kboepd) at the end market in Iberia and it has been consolidating its Electrical grid* of 2016. The Company is mainly focused in trading activity in the international market. executing its development projects that span The Company has also been expanding its across three core areas: the Santos basin presence in the electricity market, mainly in pre-salt in Brazil, Angola and Mozambique. Portugal, positioning itself as an integrated energy supplier. * outside the Galp scope 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp 1.3. Main 2016 highlights to stakeholders allocation of results 1.3. Partial divestment of New fuel range Appointment of Board regulated gas business of Directors members Galp launched a new fuel range in 2016 main Galp sold a 22.5% stake in Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. (GGND), Portugal, Evologic diesel and gasoline, with high performance additives, Following the resignation of Américo Amorim as Chairman of the Board highlights which holds regulated natural gas following its products and services of Directors (BoD), Ms. Paula Amorim infrastructures in Portugal, with differentiating strategy in the was appointed Chairman of the BoD the asset (100%) valued at marketing of oil products. and Mr. Miguel Athayde Marques c.€1.3 billion (bn). was appointed Vice-Chairman. Ms. Marta Amorim was also co-opted as a member of the BoD. Brand repositioning IPO’s 10th anniversary Galp launched a brand repositioning campaign, with a new signature On October 23, Galp celebrated the “Energy creates energy” with the tenth anniversary of its initial public purpose of valuing the Company’s offering (IPO). During the period, mission as an integrated energy player Galp’s share gained 121%, with a total from upstream to lifestream. shareholder return of 190%. Free float increased 37 p.p. since listing and sell-side coverage on Galp increased significantly. During 2016, total Market indicators Financial indicators shareholder return was 38%. (€m; unless otherwise noted) 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Average exchange rate Ebitda RCA 1,314 1,538 1,411 (EUR:USD) 1.33 1.11 1.11 Ebitda IFRS 825 1,174 1,389 Dated Brent price1 (USD/bbl) 98.9 52.4 43.7 Ebit RCA 774 969 772 Heavy-light crude price (1.7) (1.4) (2.1) Ebit IFRS 180 423 544 spread2 (USD/bbl) UK NBP natural gas price3 Net income RCA 373 639 483 7.4 6.2 4.7 (USD/mmbtu) Net income IFRS (173) 123 179 Execution of Lula/ Galp approves Coral Reinforcing strategic U.S. Henry Hub natural gas Capital expenditure 1,161 1,283 1,218 Iracema project South project partnerships price1 (USD/mmbtu) 4.3 2.6 2.6 Operating cash flow 1,193 1,674 1,469 In the Lula/Iracema project, within Galp’s Board of Directors approved LNG Japan and Korea price1 Galp signed a Memorandum 13.9 7.5 5.7 Change in net debt 348 (98) (552) block BM-S-11, FPSO Cidade the investment in the Coral South (USD/mmbtu) of Understanding (MoU) with Net debt 2,520 2,422 1,870 de Maricá and FPSO Cidade area, the first development project Petrobras aimed at consolidating Benchmark refining margin4 de Saquarema, started production. related to the gas discoveries made 1.1 5.2 3.1 Net debt including loan to the strategic alliance between the (USD/bbl) 1,630 1,699 1,260 These are the fifth and sixth unit, in Area 4 of the Rovuma basin, two companies. The agreement Sinopec1 Iberian oil market5 (mt) 58.7 60.1 61.7 respectively. With the seventh unit, in Mozambique. also aims to reinforce cooperation Net debt incl. loan to Sinopec P-66, which is on location since Iberian natural gas market6 1.2x 1.2x 1.0x 2 in the oil and gas exploration and 29,718 31,497 32,338 to Ebitda RCA March 2017, installed capacity (mm3) production activity, as well as to Dividend (€/share) 0.3456 0.4147 0.4977 will total 970 kbpd. During 2016, focus on a joint training programme Sources: the second route for natural gas on deepwaters research. Galp 1 Bloomberg. 1 Considering loan to Sinopec as cash and equivalents. export in the Santos basin started also signed an MoU with Statoil 2 Platts. Urals NWE Dated for heavy crude; Dated Brent for light crude. 2 Ratio considers net debt including loan to Sinopec of €610 m, plus €179 m corresponding 3 Platts. operating. boosting the cooperation between 4 For a complete description of the method of calculating the benchmark refining margin to Sinopec shareholder loan to Petrogal Brasil, with 2016 RCA Ebitda of €1,411 m. see section 8.11. Glossary and abbreviations. the two companies. 5 Apetro for Portugal; CORES for Spain. 6 Galp and Enagás. Acknowledgements 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp 1.4. Value creation model to stakeholders allocation of results 1.4. Business model Galp believes in an integrated approach to sustainable value creation, by anticipating risk, Value maximising opportunities and building strong and lasting relationships with stakeholders. creation model Inputs Business segments Outputs Exploration Refining Gas €1,259 m & Production & Marketing & Power €13,119 m €1,411 m €10,156 m Supply & Turnover RCA Ebitda RCA €1,469 m Cost of goods Services RCA Operational sold RCA €30 m 673 mmboe 330 kbpd cash flow Investment 0.7 million clients 2P Reserves Refining capacity in environment, 1.0x €0.4977 €1,218 m health and safety 1,320 mmboe 1,436 173 MW €483 m Net debt to Ebitda RCA Financial Capital €319 m 2C contingent resources Service stations Cogeneration capacity Net income RCA Dividend per share capital expenditure Salaries and benefits 4 1,728 TJ 6.3 km3 Containment losses 1,964 t 27.2 kton Waste water that reached the environment CO2 (Flaring) Waste 10.2 km 3 Purchased electricity Raw water €4.1 m Investment in eco-efficiency 0.17 Tier 1 16 m3 3.76 mton 172 kton 601 kton in refining CO₂ CO₂ CO₂ 38.2% Containment 45,712 TJ 110 mmboe 0.39 Tier 2 losses (scope 1) (scope 2) (scope 3) Waste Natural Primary energy Raw materials processed recovered capital Process safety indicators 53 projects 17.8 mton 7.1 bcm 41% Refined product sales Total sales of NG/LNG Women 87% 2.5% 3.4% 6,475 €460 Seven countries, including three core countries: 8.8 mton 5,010 GWh 0.8 LTIF Lost Time Injury 0 Retention of trainees Turnover Absenteeism Employees Brazil, Mozambique and Angola. Fatalities Training Sales to direct clients Sales of electricity Frequency per employee 48 14 97% 90% €2.63 Nationalities Countries Iberia Employees assessed Degree of auditing Human capital ROI Human 547 thousands hours 281 68 kboepd WI production Iberia & Africa International implementation (return on investment) capital Training in the past 3 years Hirings Integrated energy player that develops 100 Vision profitable and sustainable businesses. 192 Masters 7 4 Projects of CO₂ Technology +€100 m Galp 20-20-20 scholarships in 10 years and PhD scholarships capture and reuse programmes in E&P Investment until 2020 €2.7 m in R&D in the past 10 years Galp 20-20-20 12% 20 74 Galp Values Commitment energy savings Research €100 m Governance to generating Galp 20-20-20 projects in E&P Intellectual Investment in R&D Masters in Petroleum Engineering Trust Partnership Agility Model projects energy reduction in Brazil capital in E&P until 2020 Innovation Sustainability sustainable value Our culture, based on the Integrated governance Considering the macro Galp values, is a critical model, based on principles environment, the 60% 3,654 99% factor for the of transparency, integrity, consultation of all €6.1 m €1.6 m 10 free float suppliers Local hiring For community in relevant Whistle-blowing Organisation's success. effectiveness and value interested parties and the partnerships reports development The principles guide the creation, allowing for an process of defining with sector received Company in its relations effective execution of materiality, Galp ensures €12,648 m entities and 46 relevant with all stakeholders on a Galp's strategy. the identification and economic value distributed associations €1.3 Social partnerships 35,475 Galp Solidária >75% daily basis. prioritisation of key themes, SROI and relational with sector entities Local procurement Hours of volunteering clearing the path to Over 3,000 energy classes 90% and associations capital sustainable value. in the past six years Solved Galp takes the relationship with its stakeholders Commitment as a resource that promotes the creation to stakeholders of sustainable value, allowing to boost the different capitals and contributing to greater proximity and trust. 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 1.5. Addressing materiality 1.5. Taking the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines as our benchmark, as well as the Five-Part Materiality Test proposed by AccountAbility, the United Nations Environment Addressing Programme and Stakeholder Research Associates, we assess the key challenges that the Company faces and that affect its materiality ability to create long-term value. Hence, Galp acts quickly and productively, contributing to continuous improvement of its performance and to the creation of shared value. The current materiality matrix, which was reviewed in 2016, ranks the various aspects, weighting the Company’s internal Galp systematically executes and publishes an accurate perspective and that of the stakeholders, taking into account and balanced assessment of its compliance with the Company’s strategy and the commitment to creating the business strategy, its performance, as well sustainable value. as of the risks, opportunities and future perspectives regarding economic, social, environmental and governance This assessment includes executing the following four stages: matters. The Company particularly focuses on aspects that have a potential material impact namely in the 1. Understanding emerging trends and issues; long run, and on its stakeholders’ assessment and 2. Integrating the Company’s values, policies and commitments; decision-making ability. 3. Assessing internal performance and the sector’s performance; Galp has implemented processes to ensure that material 4. Formally and regularly enquiring stakeholders. issues are identified and prioritised. Materiality matrix Ethics, transparency and conformity Health and safety at work Risk management Process of safety and response to emergency Water resources Corporate Governance Innovation Client orientation Operational eco-efficiency Stakeholder and satisfaction Relevance for stakeholders engagement Portfolio diversification Engagement and impact Energy and climate change on local communities Human rights Talent acquisition and development Sustainable management of human capital of chain of suppliers Renewable energies Diversity, equal opportunities, and non-discrimination Biodiversity Work practices and conditions and ecosystems Fighting corruption Relevance for Galp 20 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results Commitments to sustainability Aligning with the Sustainable Development Goals COMMITMENT I The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), approved Acting responsibly and ethically, by the United Nations (UN) in 2015 as part of a new ensuring the best governance practices and transparency. sustainable development agenda, were defined as ultimately aiming at ending poverty, protecting the planet and ensuring prosperity for all. COMMITMENT II Engaging with the community Galp’s strategy considers the development of initiatives and other stakeholders and encouraging and projects aiming to contribute to the SDGs and to create the creation of shared value. shared value, focusing on those deemed more relevant for the Company and for the Oil & Gas industry Galp’s strategy considers, and witch are listed below. COMMITMENT III Valuing human capital. For that end, Galp promotes the alignment with the SDGs and sets specific goals regarding the nature of its business, where the impact caused may be maximised at a global scale. COMMITMENT IV Helping to satisfy future energy needs and minimize the intensity The most relevant SDGs of the carbon footprint. alignment with value creation: SDG Affordable and clean energy COMMITMENT V 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. Ensuring the protection of people, environment and assets. SDG Decent work and economic growth 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive COMMITMENT V! Promoting innovation, research employment and decent work for all. and technological development. SDG Responsible consumption and production 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. Throughout this Report, Galp identifies the main economic, social and environmental impacts of its business, and introduces its vision, commitments and actions Climate action to better measure and manage them. The material issues SDG are addressed in this Report, as well as in the Company’s 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. complementary communication channels. SDG Partnerships for the goals 17 Strenghten the means of implemention and revitalise the global partnership for sustainable development. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21 2 Strategic framework To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 2.1. Industry challenges 2.1. Industry challenges Given the long-term uncertainty regarding the global energy demand and the energy mix, how can the Oil & Gas sector mitigate the associated risk? The Oil & Gas industry has been responsible, directly or indirectly, for many of the major technological and social changes over the past 150 years. It has continuously faced and overcome challenges. The energy sector is currently undergoing the most intensive integration of its history, with several alternative energy sources competing globally, and with this trend likely to increase over the coming decades. Nowadays, hardly any type of final consumption is exclusive to a primary energy source. Therefore, an integrated vision of the sector and of all possible alternatives is required. That vision should incorporate the technological and regulatory uncertainty, the identification of communicating vessels between the various primary energy sources and the multiple types of final consumption, adjusting the solutions to the specificity of their target markets. Though it is currently not possible to know the exact amount of fossil resources required to fulfil the planet’s energy demand throughout this century, but with the certainty that oil and natural gas will continue to be the main energy sources in the coming decades, it will be up to the market to identify the best solution at any given moment. This will be the one that offers the most competitive integrated cost, ensuring sustainable sourcing while minimising environmental impacts. However, if technological development and the global challenges that result from climate change and lack of resources induce a decline in oil and gas consumption, the industry may face a reduction in the value of its resources. 24 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results That risk can be mitigated by adopting an investment It is equally competitive with renewable energies due to its strategy focused on developing assets that storage capacity and uninterrupted nature, are competitive and resilient in the numerous scenarios and it can be used both as feedstock in the industry of price and demand for fossil fuels, and in the rapid and as fuel for road and maritime transport. transition to a lower carbon economy. This investment strategy must be accompanied by corporate policies Supporting this scenario, and as noted already during that promote portfolio alignment and invest 2016, increased supply-side pressure will tend to provide in technological research and development and natural gas with a competitive advantage over other in the Company’s human capital, in order to promote energy options, potentially accelerating the transition from innovation and to implement new technological solutions. coal to natural gas. How will the global balance between gas supply Increased natural gas liquefaction installed capacity will and demand progress and what role should lead to an increase in maritime transportation of natural liquefied natural gas (LNG) play in building gas and should create an increasingly global market. a global market? This trend took on a new dimension last year, with the start of LNG exports from the USA establishing the North In a complex and dynamic market, versatility American price as one of the main global references. is an important differentiating factor. Natural gas is the fossil fuel with the lowest environmental impact and Despite an expected temporary LNG surplus during the the most versatile primary energy source. It can be used beginning of the coming decade, a deficit is expected by for electricity production, with competitive advantages, mid-2020s if no new liquefaction projects are developed. at the environmental level, when compared to coal. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 2.1. Industry challenges What competitive advantages does the European What is the energy sector’s role refining sector have? in the ongoing deep technological and behavioural transformations? The demand for oil products in Europe increased once again compared to 2015, reflecting the lower Last decade’s fast technological growth, strongly product price after the sharp decline in crude oil supported by massive data processing – mostly visible prices, which started in 2014. That higher demand, in the digitalisation – is causing structural changes along with lower energy costs, allowed the European in all business sectors. In the energy sector, those refining margins to recover, and remaining at a transformations are clear in the change of consumption higher level than during the 2009-2014 period. patterns and on how companies optimise their activity and relate to their stakeholders. European refineries are at the centre of European consumption and, in general, do not position Currently, the market has solutions that allow for a better themselves as exporting refineries, unlike the adequacy of resources to each client’s specific needs, Russian and Middle Eastern refineries. enhancing a customised, dynamic and volatile consumption profile that is more focused in using and sharing rather than The dieselisation that took place in Europe over the last posessing. This new paradigm crosses the numerous energy twenty years led to a regional surplus of light distillates applications in the consumers lives, in the way they move, that was preferably marketed in the North American during their work hours and leisure times, or in the way market and, in the future, will find an important outlet they communicate. in the African market. Nonetheless, the European automotive market may be at a transition stage, How will the future of mobility impact with increased light passenger gasoline vehicles the Oil & Gas companies’ activities? sales depending on tax-related, environmental and technological issues. This may bring the European demand The technological development over the last ten years profile closer to the installed refining capacity in the region. has resulted in a set of innovations with significant synergies among themselves. The sharing economy Furthermore, the announced change in the solutions, electrical and autonomous vehicles will specification of maritime fuels from 2020, with a cause structural changes in consumption profiles and 0.5% limit on sulphur content, will lead to a significant in paradigms of mobility of people and goods. increase of global demand for diesel, and to higher refining margins during the adjustment period. These technologies will significantly increase efficiency in the use of resources, which in turn will translate into Regardless of those trends’ higher or lower intensity, lower energy intensity. Nevertheless, they will also enable the European refining industry will continue its access to new types of mobility for many who can efforts to reduce operational costs, increase not access them today, such as youngsters, seniors and energy efficiency and process automation. reduced mobility citizens, and for that reason, its ultimate impact in the energy demand is still unclear. Regarding the primary energy that will support mobility in the coming decades, although the use of electrical vehicles may grow exponentially, its technical solution still has some weaknesses and its environmental costs depend on the type of primary energy used for generating electricity. 26 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results Furthermore, there are no electrical infrastructures in most to a lower carbon intensity economy, forming a natural emerging economies where higher demand is expected, alternative to coal, whose consumption will be reduced, and liquid fuels remain the sole available source of energy as a support for renewable’s intermittence in generating to support mobility, even when other applications of the electricity. The Oil & Gas sector should therefore be one new paradigm become available. of the main players in making the transition into a safe and sustainable energy production, at the same time Developing and disseminating new technological solutions reducing its carbon intensity, in line with the goals set in the is decisive for increasing energy efficiency and for creating international policies and agreements on energy the required conditions for sustainable mobility. and climate. How can the Oil & Gas companies prosper Thus, it is expected that the sector makes the best in a world where electrification is done of its synergies with traditional businesses, helping increasingly based on renewable energy? to optimise the transition into a lower carbon economy. Predominantly, this will happen with the promotion Despite recent solid growth in renewables all main scenarios of a more efficient resources consumption and with for global energy demand in the coming decades expect the gradual and economically rational integration of new an increasing importance of natural gas in the energy business models that allow to adequate the energy supply mix. Natural gas will have a crucial role in the transition profile to the market’s needs. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 2.2. Our strategy 2.2. the subsequent development stages of its oil and natural gas resources. Due to the sector volatility, Galp’s emphasis has been on a structural cost reduction to support the best Our development solutions and to increase operating efficiency, thus protecting long-term profitability, even when facing strategy challenging scenarios of oil and carbon prices. In an integrated manner and aiming at the long-term sustainability of its portfolio, Galp will seek to identify the best opportunities for exploration and resource acquisition. In that regard, the Company will maintain Galp is an integrated energy player that develops a balanced exposure to natural gas, according to clear profitable and sustainable businesses, aiming to create and strict risk management criteria, and make the best value for its stakeholders. use of competitive advantages and synergies with its current portfolio in geological and geopolitical terms. After implementing a scenario-planning process aimed at identifying long-term alternative outcomes for the energy Strategic partnerships with leading operators in the sector, sector, the Company’s strategy remains focused in the in line with the specificities of each project, also help development of a resilient E&P portfolio, embedded with an leverage Galp’s competitive advantages and enhance the efficient and competitive downstream business, supported sharing of knowledge. by innovative and differentiating solutions that promote the transition into a lower carbon economy. Downstream This strategy is supported on a solid financial capacity Galp’s strategy aims to extract more value from and on a culture which is client-centred and grounded its Refining & Marketing (R&M) business by strengthening on partnerships. Corporate culture should also boost its competitive position within the European refining industry a more agile, innovative and technology-based business and in marketing oil products and related services in Iberia environment. At the same time, the strategy is based and Africa. The Company will also continue to ensure on a meritocratic culture of autonomy and accountability high safety and quality standards in its activities. that promotes talent development. With this approach, Galp is preparing to face the energy sector’s dynamics Accordingly, Galp will continue to focus on the integration and challenges, within an uncertain and complex of its refining and marketing activities, matching context, capitalising on the Company’s assets the profile and volumes of production to the market. It is and competitive advantages. crucial to have a greater focus on energy efficiency and process optimisation of the refining system to enable cost Galp believes that ensuring the protection of people, reductions and achieve a higher return on capital employed. the environment and assets, as well as the communities it operates in, and adopting an ethical conduct are crucial Presence in the African continent, where Galp for its actions and strategic execution. has an important legacy, must be enhanced by strengthening its position as a local partner, with an active contribution to the growth of the region’s economies. Upstream Galp aims to widen and protect its current E&P portfolio Galp will also seek to improve the performance of the oil value by executing its main projects, including the products trading business by exploring new opportunities development of world-class discoveries in the Santos basin in global markets leveraging its geographic proximity to the pre-salt in Brazil and in the Rovuma basin in Mozambique. African and North American markets, and on the strong The Company is focused on extracting more value growth expected in the Asian market. from those projects, namely by accelerating the resources’ time to market, optimising existing assets and starting 28 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results The share of natural gas and electricity in the European New models and global energy mix is expected to continue to grow over the coming decades, making the G&P business an essential In connection to the ongoing digital transformation, pillar in the Company’s strategy as an integrated player. a set of new capacities has arisen, with old solutions giving place to new products and services. Diverse areas such The Company is building a diversified, competitive and as mobility, decentralised energy production or domotics flexible portfolio. For that purpose, it is key that Galp impact the energy sector, leading to significant gains secures access to competitive natural gas sources, as well in energy efficiency and to a wider range of options for as infrastructure, including transport and storage capacity, clients. to support its commercial activity. Galp endeavours to help find the best solutions for its clients Galp must maintain its strategic position as an integrated at any given moment. Therefore, the Company will continue supplier of natural gas and electricity in the Iberian market, to promote the transition into a client-focused organisation, while also exploring opportunities in potential new markets. with the skills for anticipating and fulfilling their needs. The trading activity will continue to promote a balance To achieve that purpose, it will also develop partnerships between medium and long-term contracts and spot that help complement Galp’s value proposition operations, in order to support the supply activity and to diversify its product and service portfolio, and to benefit from market opportunities. making it adequate to the natural dynamics of a market that is based on information and knowledge. Energy transition and the new paradigm in consumption Innovation, technology and digitisation Global energy consumption is now in an electrification Galp actively promotes innovation, research process, supported by the digital transition over recent and technological development, as they are crucial years. Simultaneously, the renewables sector has grown for extracting added value from its asset portfolio, and its competitiveness against fossil energy powered as well as for the Company’s long-term sustainability systems has gradually increased, not only by cost reduction and that of the communities it operates in. but also supported by public policies of compliance with environmental targets. Galp manages its relations with stakeholders and, in particular, fosters the development of lasting Galp aims to be an active partner in changing the and successful partnerships with leading energy players energy paradigm by anticipating trends; making its and with the scientific and technological communities. portfolio adequate to future needs; creating synergies The Company believes cooperation and sharing simultaneously with current activities; consolidating the experiences are essential to value creation, as well Company’s know-how and enhancing asset diversification, as to develop and implement new and innovative with the corresponding risk reduction, namely through technological solutions and new businesses. lower carbon intensity energy. In order to face the industry’s transformational challenges, At the same time, emerging economies proceed in seeking Galp shall invest in the organisation transition into better access to energy and the well-being which it provides. a model that is strongly supported by digital solutions Galp will continue to work with local communities and information management. To that end, the in the countries it operates in, by supporting the creation Company will guide its employees to work and make of conditions for an optimal use of the available resources. decisions in highly complex and uncertain contexts. Galp assumes that the structural transformation in energy demand will imply creating solutions that are innovative and increasingly more sustainable at an economic, environmental and social level. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29 3 Strategy execution To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp 3.1. Exploration & Production to stakeholders allocation of results 3.1. Exploration & Production WORKING INTEREST PRODUCTION 67.6 kboepd 2C RESOURCES 1,320 mmboe 53 E&P PROJECTS 2P RESERVES 673 mmboe 2016 Headlines Key figures • Working interest production averaged 67.6 thousand • Construction works continued on the replicant FPSO 2014 2015 2016 barrels of oil equivalent per day (kboepd) in the year, units for the BM-S-11 block, with the first replicant No. of employees 193 229 228 up 48% when compared to 2015, on the back FPSO having arrived on location in March 2017, of Lula/Iracema project execution. in the Lula South area. 2P reserves (mmboe) 638 701 673 • In Mozambique, the Board of Directors approved the 2C resources (mmboe) 1,672 1,342 1,320 • Galp's estimate on Lula/Iracema recovery factor has increased 2 p.p. to 30%, with the Company maintaining investment in the Coral South area, making it another Average working interest production1 (kboepd) 30.5 45.8 67.6 its long-term ambition of 40%. milestone towards the Final Investment Decision (FID). Average net entitlement production (kboepd) 1 27.1 43.2 65.1 • Continued development of the Lula/Iracema project, • In Angola, the well drilling and completion campaign CO2 emissions (tCO2e) 11,981 2,562 2,123 with the fifth and sixth floating production, storage proceeded on the Kaombo project, as well as the and offloading (FPSO) units starting production conversion works of the two FPSOs to be deployed Oil and gas average sale price2 ($/boe) 88.7 43.5 37.7 and FPSOs #4 and #5 reaching plateau production. in block 32. Production cost ($/boe) 13.4 9.8 7.7 • Greater efficiency of drilling and completion activities, • Expansion of Galp’s position in the offshore of São Tomé Amortisation3 ($/boe) 19.9 14.8 11.9 averaging a duration of 85 days in 2016, compared and Príncipe through the farm-in in three blocks Ebitda RCA2 (€m) 444 352 494 to 110 days in 2015. adjacent to the block operated by the Company in the region. Ebit RCA2 (€m) 295 142 239 • The start of commercial operation of the Cabiúnas Galp publishes supplementary information regarding its Capital expenditure (€m) 1,017 1,103 1,039 pipeline increased the export capacity of the natural gas produced in the Santos basin, and supported the E&P activities in this report under 8.2. Supplementary oil Note: unit values on a net entitlement basis. ramp-up of oil production. and gas information. 1 Includes production of natural gas which was exported; excludes gas which was consumed or injected. 2 2016 includes the contribution of oil trading activity related to oil produced which was reallocated from the R&M to the E&P business. 3 RCA, includes provision for abandonment. 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 3.1. Exploration & Production It should be noted that natural gas volumes estimated Galp’s E&P portfolio to be recoverable through the Coral South project were accounted as resources at the end of 2016, as FID was not made by then. Risked prospective resources at year-end increased to 383 mmboe, mainly following the farm-in in three Portugal 7 blocks in São Tomé and Príncipe offshore. São Tomé and Príncipe 4 Brazil 26 Angola 11 1 East Timor Reserves (mmboe) 2 Mozambique Namibia 2 2016 3P 927 Core Area Potential Area 2P 673 1P 274 Galp’s E&P portfolio includes 53 projects across seven 2015 3P 960 countries at various stages of exploration, development and production. 2P 701 1P 276 The Company’s development portfolio includes two of the largest oil and natural gas discoveries in recent decades, located in the Santos basin pre-salt, in Brazil, and in the ContingentOilresourcesGas (mmboe) Rovuma Basin, in Mozambique, respectively. 2,993 2016 Galp holds solid partnerships with prominent players in the 3C industry, who are recognised for their technical skills and 2C 1,320 experience, making it a key factor in strategy execution. 1C 300 Reserves and resources evolution 2015 3C 3,025 Galp’s reserves and resources have been subject to an independent audit by DeGolyer and MacNaughton (DeMac). 2C 1,342 1C 307 In 2016, proven and probable (2P) reserves decreased 4% compared to the previous year, to 673 mmboe. This decrease was mainly due to production during Oil Prospective resourcesGas (mmboe) the year, and to the fact that in 2016 there was no addition of reserves from investment decisions in new projects. With regard to natural gas reserves, these continue 2016 mean unrisked 2,658 to account for around 14% of total 2P reserves. mean risked 383 2C contingent resources also decreased by 2%, 2015 to 1,320 mmboe, following results from wells drilled mean unrisked 1,493 in block 32, in Angola. Natural gas resources accounted mean risked 226 for 46% of the total and were mainly located in the Rovuma basin. Oil Gas Note: reserves on a net entitlement basis. Contingent resources and prospective resources on a working interest basis. 34 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results Assets under development Expected working interest production (kboepd) and in production The most relevant projects under development 15-20% are in the ultradeep waters of the the Brazilian pre-salt, CAGR namely block BM-S-11, the LNG project 2016-21 in Mozambique related to the discoveries made in the Rovuma basin, and block 32 in Angola. Galp is committed to excellence in executing the projects 23% 68 it is involved in, delivering them on schedule and on CAGR 2010-16 budget, and analysing all opportunities for risk mitigation and optimisation of the development plans. 20 The Company is also engaged in appraisal and pre-development activities in the Santos Basin pre-salt, 2010 2016 2021E particularly in blocks BM-S-8 and BM-S-24. Those activities shall result in a better definition and Note: CAGR 2016-21 based on sanctioned projects. optimisation of the development plans. Brazil Also in the areas already under development, the Company is developing several appraisal activities with its partners, Galp has numerous projects in the development aiming at a higher recovery of associated resources, and production stages in Brazil, notably in the prolific particulary in the Lula/Iracema project. Santos Basin. Production progress Lula/Iracema In 2016, Galp recorded an average working interest The Lula/Iracema project, in block BM-S-11, started production of 67.6 kboepd, up 48% YoY, reflecting commercial production in 2010 with FPSO Angra dos Reis, the increased production from Brazil. It is worth highlighting just four years after the field's discovery. At the end of the 2016 exit rate of c.90 kboepd, while in 2015 2016, six out of the ten development areas considered in it had reached the 50 kbpd milestone. the project were already in production. In Brazil, working interest production was 57.8 kboepd, In 2016, Galp and its partners in block BM-S-11 continued up 60% YoY, on the back of the ramp up of FPSO Cidade with the development works, with FPSO #5 starting de Itaguaí (FPSO #4), as well as the start of production production in the Lula Alto area in February, with this of FPSO Cidade de Maricá (FPSO #5), which reached unit reaching plateau production in December, i.e., in only plateau production in December, and the start-up of FPSO ten months. In the Lula Central area, FPSO #6 started Cidade de Saquarema (FPSO #6) in the Lula field. production in July, with five producer wells connected as of the beginning of 2017. In Angola, working interest production stood at 9.8 kbpd, in line with 2015, with production of the Lianzi In addition, FPSO #4 allocated to the Iracema North field, in block 14k, offsetting the natural decline area, reached plateau production during the year, only of the producing fields in block 14. 13 months after starting production and ahead of plan. The unit’s connection to the natural gas export network Net entitlement production increased by 51% YoY to was crucial to ensure the ramp-up of the unit. 65.1 kboepd, in line with the working interest production. FPSOs Cidade de Angra dos Reis (FPSO #1) and Cidade de Paraty (FPSO #2), allocated to the Lula Pilot and Lula North East (NE) areas, respectively, continued to produce at plateau levels, although impacted by maintenance activities in the beginning of the year. FPSO Cidade de Mangaratiba (FPSO #3), in the Iracema South area, also produced at plateau during the year. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 3.1. Exploration & Production The BM-S-11 partners have been actively involved in Replicant FPSO units the development of the gas export infrastructure in Galp, together with the other members of the consortium, the Santos basin, a network of subsea pipelines that is has continued to actively monitor the development works expected to be connected to every production unit, and and took important actions to mitigate the execution that saw the second export route, to Cabiúnas, start risk. Particularly noteworthy are the measures that operation during the first quarter of 2016. This allows for contractually enabled the block BM-S-11 partners to directly a better management of natural gas outflow, increasing manage the hull completion works on the units that are the operational flexibility in the Lula/Iracema project. still under construction. The pipeline has an export capacity of around 15 mm3 per day. The Lula project was already connected to the It is worth highlighting that the first replicant FPSO in Lula-Mexilhão pipeline, operating since 2011. Lula South arrived on location in March 2017. Out of the total of 18 wells planned for the area, the consortium Natural gas export in the Santos basin concluded, until the end of 2016, the drilling of seven producer wells and five injector wells. Cabiúnas Brazil Replicant FPSO allocated to Lula South Rio de Janeiro © Agência Petrobras Caraguatatuba 14 ~40 6 0k m km Mexilhão The second replicant unit to start operations will be allocated to the Lula North area. The unit is currently in the topside modules integration stage in China. Atapú/ Berbigão/ 20 Sururu Regarding the FPSO to be allocated to Lula Extreme 0 km Iracema South, the hull for the FPSO sailed away from China to Brazil, where the topside modules will be integrated. Lula Pipeline Natural gas export infrastructure The consortium has the flexibility and capacity to manage In 2016, FPSO #3, FPSO #4 and FPSO #5 were connected natural gas production with all FPSOs equipped with to the natural gas export network, which contributed to natural gas compression and injection systems, and reducing operational constraints of some of those units, also considering the injection wells included in the and also to monetise part of the gas associated to oil development plans. production. Therefore, the associated natural gas production can be both re-injected, as a way of keeping the reservoir pressure and increasing total productivity during the production cycle, and exported onshore via gas pipelines, namely to the Brazilian domestic market. 36 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results Creating sustainable value in the pre-salt Average drilling and completion time (days) The Brazilian pre-salt is a reference in the Oil & Gas industry, not only for its high productivity, but also for 239 (64%) its operational efficiency and the consortium’s learning curve progression. In this context, throughout the development of the Lula/Iracema project, Galp and its partners have pursued sustainable value creation in all their oil exploration 85 75 and production activities. A contributory factor is its sound Research & Technology (R&T) culture, which has allowed for reaching greater operational efficiency, reducing operation time and risk, as well as maximising oil production. 2010 2016 Long-term ambition ·· Well drilling and completion ·· 4D seismic programme The Lula/Iracema initial development plan includes around 150 wells, of which 106 had already been drilled 4D seismic is a geophysical technology that uses sound by the end of 2016. wave reflexion to characterise a geological formation in length, width and depth, recording changes in the The operational performance in the project execution reservoir fluids over a given period. has allowed for a significant and continuous reduction of well drilling and completion time. In 2016, those At the end of 2015, the consortium initiated a 4D seismic activities took on average 85 days, compared acquisition programme in block BM-S-11, and the results to an average of 110 days in 2015. are currently being analysed and processed. Mapping of changes in space and time pressure in fluid saturation These efficiency gains are a result of an increased continued in 2016. Once incorporated in the reservoir adaptation of bits in drilling operations, of the experience models, the data will provide support to determining gained by rig-operating crews and the greater knowledge the location of new producer and injection wells. of the field's geological formations, enabling a higher penetration rate in the salt layer and in the reservoir. ·· WAG injection Furthermore, the use of dedicated rigs and specific vessels for well drilling, completion and connection have The consortium started using the water alternating gas also helped in reducing drilling time. (WAG) injection process which consists of injecting water and gas alternately to guarantee operational flexibility Drilling and completion activities make up the greater in production activities, while contributing to a potential part of investments associated to the development of increase in oil recovery. projects in ultradeep waters, which is why the consortium continues to focus in increasing those activities’ This method has been supported by laboratory studies efficiency. on reservoir pressure and temperature. WAG technology combined with the knowledge acquired in the 4D seismic programme allows the injection processes to be spatially controlled and distributed, ensuring the maximisation of the oil swept by the injection fluid. WAG injection is expected to impact oil recovery over the years. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 3.1. Exploration & Production Iara, block BM-S-11 Carcará, block BM-S-8 The three accumulations in the Iara area, and which Galp is a member of the consortium for block BM-S-8, extend to the Entorno de Iara area (Transfer of Rights), in the Santos basin pre-salt, with a 14% stake. In 2016, designated as Atapu, Berbigão and Sururu, were declared Statoil acquired from Petrobras a 66% operating stake commercial in 2016. In 2015, the consortium submitted in the block. the development plan to ANP (National Agency for Oil, Natural Gas and Biofuels). Block BM-S-8, Carcará Fields in the Iara and Entorno de Iara areas Brazil Carcará Brazil Sururu Atapu Berbigão Galp: 14% Guanxuma Operator: Statoil Galp: 10% Operator: Petrobras 10 km FPSO Entorno de Iara, ToR Iara The appraisal campaign conducted in 2015 in block BM-S-8, including the drilling of two appraisal wells 10 km and the carrying out of a DST, indicated excellent levels of reservoir productivity, as well as its extension to the North and West of the Carcará discovery. The BM-S-11 consortium, Petrobras for the Transfer of Rights area and Pré-Sal Petróleo S.A. (PPSA) Activities in 2016 were mostly focused on assessing are currently negotiating the Production Individualisation the exploration and appraisal campaign conducted during Agreement. This will define the terms of the unitisation the previous year, in order to deepen reservoir knowledge of the Iara and Entorno de Iara areas of the three fields and to better define the development plan. The studies to be developed (Greater Iara), and shall be submitted for defining the concept of the gas export system also to ANP afterwards. proceeded. The start of production is expected during 2018 The area located to the North of the BM-S-8 concession, in the Berbigão/Sururu area. where the Carcará discovery extends to, is expected to be included in a round by ANP expected in 2017. In 2016, the consortium also proceeded with its reservoir characterisation studies and optimisation of the development plans for the areas, assessing the results obtained from the two DST and the appraisal wells drilled in 2015. In addition, processing the seismic data allowed to reduce volumetric uncertainty and to improve the reservoir characterisation, ultimately optimising the initial development project and supporting the unitisation process. It should be noted that at the end of 2016, Total and Petrobras have signed a Master Agreement which included the sale of 22.5% interest in Iara's area in block BM-S-11. According to the agreement, Petrobras will remain the operator with a 42.5% stake in the consortium. 38 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results ongoing between the consortium of block BM-S-24 Sépia East and Júpiter, block BM-S-24 and Petrobras as holder of the Transfer of Rights area. Galp is a member of the consortium for the development of block BM-S-24, in the Brazilian pre-salt, with a 20% stake. Júpiter This block consists of the Sépia East and Júpiter areas. In early 2016, ANP approved the request for extending the exploration period by five years in the Júpiter area. Block BM-S-24 That extension will allow the partners of block BM-S-24 to continue with the development studies on the field. Sépia Sépia Brazil The studies are mostly focused on the reservoir, East on the fluid outflow, on field development infrastructures, on CO2 transport, on subsea separation and on different types of metallurgy to be applied in well completions. Galp: 20% Mozambique Operator: Petrobras Around 85 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of gas in place (GIIP) Júpiter Transfer of Rights identified in Area 4 of the Rovuma basin position it as one of the most relevant regions in the world for the 25 km future natural gas production. With a 10% stake, Galp’s partners in Area 4 are Eni East Sépia East Africa (operator), with a 70% stake, Kogas and Empresa Regarding the Sépia East area, the DoC was submitted Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos (ENH), each with a 10% to ANP in 2015. The appraisal works carried out in the stake. China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) reservoir showed excellent results both regarding the oil has an indirect stake of 20% through Eni East Africa. quality, as well as porosity and permeability. In March 2017, ExxonMobil and Eni have signed a sale and The Sépia East area will be subject to a unitisation purchase agreement to enable ExxonMobil to acquire with the Sépia field (Transfer of Rights, 100% Petrobras). a 25% indirect interest in Area 4, through Eni East Africa. Eni will continue to lead the Coral FLNG project, whilst The unitised Sépia field is expected to start production ExxonMobil will lead the construction and operation in 2020, and the unitisation process negotiations are of LNG facilities onshore. Area 4 development concept Mozambique Galp: 10% Operator: Eni East Africa Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 3.1. Exploration & Production Mamba onshore, Area 4 Angola The Mamba discovery stands out for its size and resource Galp has assets under production in blocks 14 and 14k, quality, showing potential for a large-scale project with two platforms currently in operation. The Company and low unit operating costs that, together with its also holds a stake in the relevant Kaombo project, geographical location, will grant high competitiveness in block 32, which is under development. compared to other LNG projects. Kaombo development concept Considering that the reservoirs extend between Area 4 and the adjacent Area 1, the unitisation agreement, which has already been concluded, still requires the approval by the Mozambican Government. The Area 4 consortium is preparing the first phase of development of the discoveries, with potential for further Caril phases. The Engineering, Procurement and Construction Gindungo (EPC) proposals for the upstream and midstream solutions for this first stage were received during 2016 Gengibre and are currently being analysed by the consortium. Coral offshore, Area 4 Canela Louro The Coral South project involves the construction of a natural gas liquefaction floating unit (FLNG) with Mostarda a capacity of over 3.3 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) Galp: 5% of LNG. The FLNG will be connected to six wells and will Operator: Total be allocated to the southern part of the Coral discovery, which is exclusively located in Area 4 and is estimated to hold around 16 tcf of GIIP. Regarding block 32, the conversion works on the two FPSOs proceeded in Singapore, which have a processing In late 2016, Galp’s Board of Directors approved capacity of 125 kbpd each. The Kaombo North the investment in the Coral South area, a milestone and the Kaombo South units are expected to start towards the project’s FID. The final decision is subject production in 2018. to the approval of the project by the remaining partners in the consortium, and also to obtaining project financing The drilling campaign in block 32 continues, with two and approval by the Mozambican Government of the drilling rigs operating simultaneously. At the end of 2016, financing conditions related to the ENH carry. the area already had 13 drilled wells out of a total of 33 producer wells and 26 injector wells planned During the year, the Mozambican Government for the Kaombo development. approved the Coral South area’s development plan, and the Area 4 partners signed an agreement with BP Blocks 14/14k for the entire offtake of LNG produced in the project for a 20-year period. Galp: 9% Angola Operator: Chevron The consortium also completed the negotiations of the Block 14 Kuito Engineering, Procurement, Construction, Installation BBLT Galp: 4.5% and Commissioning (EPCIC) proposals for the project. Lianzi Malange Operator: Chevron TômbuaBlock 14K -Lândana Producing f ields 10 km 40 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results In what concerns blocks 14 and 14k, the consortium In the Santos basin, drilling of the Guanxuma prospect decided to terminate the drilling activities, aiming is expected during 2017. This prospect is located in block at reducing costs. Thus, the drilling rigs attached to BM-S-8 (as per map on page 38). the block’s two compliant piled tower platforms were decommissioned in 2016. It is worth noting that the In the offshore Potiguar basin, in which Galp holds producing fields in block 14 are already in a production a 20% stake, after having proved the extension of the decline stage. Pitu discovery in the BM-POT-17 licence, the consortium is planning a 3D seismic data acquisition programme Exploration assets starting in 2017. Creating value through exploration activities is a strategic Also in the BM-POT-17 basin, ANP approved the goal for Galp, namely by identifying and maturing exploration licence extension for the Pitu and Tango prospects currently in the portfolio and by drilling discoveries until 2019. prospects with significant potential. Potiguar offshore basin In 2016, Galp extended its exploration portfolio to the São Tomé and Príncipe offshore. Angola 663 Tango Brazil 665 Galp currently has offshore assets under exploration in blocks 14 and 32. Araraúna 760 764 Galp: 20% In 2016, Sonangol accepted the request for extending 853 855 Pitu Operator: Petrobras the exploration and appraisal period of the CNE area North in block 32 until 2017. Studies are under way with the Oil Discovery objective of identifying and selecting prospects with Pitu POT-M-764-R11 BM-POT-16 a view towards drilling. BM-POT-17 25 km Brazil Basins where Galp is present Under licence BM-POT-16, the appraisal plan for the Araraúna prospect includes drilling of one well and of 3D seismic data acquisition. In the offshore Barreirinhas basin, in which Galp holds Barreirinhas a 10% stake, the consortium proceeded with Potiguar interpretation of 3D seismic data, and expects to obtain Parnaíba the final processing results during 2017. ANP approved Pernambuco the extension of the exploration licence until 2019. Brazil -Paraíba Sergipe-Alagoas In the offshore Pernambuco-Paraíba basin, in which Galp holds a 20% stake in two blocks, the consortium submitted a request to ANP for an extension of the exploration period to 2021. Santos In the onshore Amazonas basin, the consortium formed by Galp (40%) and Petrobras (60%) decided to abandon block AM-T-84, following results from wells drilled, which identified hydrocarbons, but not with commercial volumes. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 3.1. Exploration & Production Namibia Portugal The exploration portfolio in Portugal currently includes Galp blocks in the Namibian offshore seven offshore blocks in the Alentejo and Peniche basins. 2112B PEL 82 In the three Alentejo blocks operated by Eni, Santola, Namibia Lavangante and Gamba, work during the year focused 2212A on preparing the first exploration well to be drilled, Santola-1. Alentejo Basin Namibia Portugal Galp: 80% Operator: Galp 2814B Portugal Galp Blocks 2813A Lavagante Kudu Field Galp: 30% Santola PEL 83 Operator: Eni 200 km Gamba 40 km In 2016, Galp entered into an agreement with the Namibian Government to ensure the exploration licences In the Peniche basin, Galp has a 30% stake in PEL 82, formerly PEL 23, in the Walvis basin, and in in the Camarão, Amêijoa, Mexilhão and Ostra blocks. PEL 83, formerly PEL 28, in the Orange basin. The 3D seismic data acquisition programme was completed by the end of 2015. The Company continues with the geological assessment and processing the 2D seismic data acquired São Tomé and Príncipe in the Orange basin blocks. Blocks in the São Tomé and Príncipe offshore São Tomé Block 5 and Príncipe Equatorial Guinea Block 11 Galp: 45% São Tomé Block 6 Operator: Galp and Príncipe Block 6 Galp: 20% Operator: Kosmos Block 12 Gabon Blocks 5, 11, 12 100 km In 2016, Galp reached an agreement with Kosmos Energy to acquire a 20% stake in blocks 5, 11 and 12 in the São Tomé and Príncipe offshore. With this acquisition, the Company has strengthened its position in that country, where it already had, since 2015, a 45% operating stake in block 6. In 2017, a 3D seismic data acquisition programme of 16 thousand km2 was initiated across all blocks. 42 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results © Agência Petrobras Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp 3.2. Refining & Marketing to stakeholders allocation of results 3.2. 17.8 REFINED PRODUCTS SALES mton Refining & Marketing SALES TO DIRECT CLIENTS 8.8 mton 109.7 RAW MATERIALS PROCESSED mmboe SERVICE STATIONS 1,436 2016 Headlines Key figures • 2016 was marked by a decrease in refining margins • Development of a client-centred value offer 2014 2015 2016 in the international market, with the Company's refining in oil products marketing, while reducing the exposure to lower margin activities in Iberia. No. of employees 5,528 5,512 5,482 margin standing at $4.3/boe. Raw materials processed (kboe) 92,864 114,572 109,727 • Galp continued focused on implementing energy • Focus on the value proposition in the Iberian service station network by implementing the Kaizen Galp refining margin ($/boe) 2.8 6.0 4.3 and operational efficiency measures in order to improve the profitability of its refining assets. methodology. Refining cash costs ($/boe) 1 2.6 1.6 1.7 • Recovery of the Iberian oil market, benefiting from the • Launch of a new fuel offering in Portugal, Evologic Impact of hedging of the refining margin2 ($/boe) 0.1 (0.8) 0.0 increase in tourism in Iberia. diesel and gasoline, with high performance additives. CO2 emissions (tCO2 e) 3,611,694 4,134,479 4,195,632 Refined products sales (mton) 16.8 18.2 17.8 Sales to direct clients (mton) 9.1 9.1 8.8 Number of service stations 1,449 1,435 1,436 Number of convenience stores 834 832 836 Ebitda RCA (€m) 3 412 779 576 Ebit RCA3 (€m) 99 504 257 Capital expenditure (€m) 108 110 153 1 Excluding refining margin hedging impact. 2 Impact on Ebitda Gain/(Loss). 3 In 2016, excludes the contribution from the trading activity related to oil produced which was reallocated from the R&M to the E&P business. 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 3.2. Refining & Marketing Galp owns and operates an integrated refining system Sourcing and Trading comprising two refineries in Portugal, which stands out for its complexity and competitiveness Galp remains focused on maximising profitability in the European sector. throughout the value chain and it has been working to further integrate the E&P and oil supply and The Company also operates several maritime terminals trading businesses. and storage facilities in Iberia, and is also developing new maritime terminals storage facilities in Mozambique, In the Santos basin, Galp has its own logistics resources, ensuring the primary logistics required for its operations. with dynamic positioning assets and a capacity of around one million barrels, which enabled an increase in the The integrated activity of refining and marketing of oil number of cargoes, having reached a new record of crude products offers a competitive advantage. Galp sells most oil offloaded during 2016. of its products in Iberia, where it holds a comprehensive distribution network, making it one of the leading Considering the increased relevance of this activity, operators in the region. The Company is also present partly related to the E&P business, during 2016 in selected African markets. it was decided to reallocate the contribution of the trading of oil produced activity from R&M to the E&P The R&M business efficiency and competitiveness results business results. in an important source of cash flow for the Company, notwithstanding the continuous implementation of Complementarily, Galp needs to supply crude oil measures aiming at improving these activities’ efficiency and other raw materials to its refining activity. The further and controlling their associated costs. Galp has Company is committed to actively managing the supply, set the goal of achieving efficiencies that allow for total taking into account its diversification strategy and the savings of €150 m until 2020, out of which c.€100 m specifications of its refining system, which now has a were reached until the end of 2016. greater capacity to process heavier raw materials. That active management also allows for mitigating potential Furthermore, the Company is currently developing actions impacts from disruptive supply events in certain regions. that will ensure greater energy efficiency and increased conversion of raw materials processed aiming to improve During the year, Galp imported crude oils from the spread over benchmark margin by up to $1/boe 15 countries, with medium and heavy crude accounting after 2018. for 83% of total imports. Crude sources in 2016 40% 5% Former USSR North Africa 5% Latin America 2% North Sea 18% Middle East 30% West Africa 46 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results Refining Galp’s refining system has a combined processing capacity of 330 kbpd. Its Nelson complexity index is 8.6. The Company benefits from flexibility in terms of sourcing and production mix, supported by the hydrocracking (HC) and fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) units at the Sines refinery. Galp also holds a visbreaker unit, as well as aromatics and base oils plants in the Matosinhos refinery. Galp refining process Aromatics plant Chemical Naphta Fuel gas Matosinhos Heavy aromatics Base Oils Plant Parafin Fuel oil Matosinhos Bitumen 45 LPG LPG 27 kbpd Gasoline kbpd FCC Naphta LCO+SLURRY LPG VGO 330 Kero Hydrocracking Naphta Distillation Diesel Sines Diesel kbpd VGO Oil RAT Vacuum dist. Vacuum dist. HGO HGO 43 residue kbpd Crude oil VR Vacuum Visbreaker Visbreaker Residue (VR) Matosinhos Flux RVB RVB Fuel oil The refining system's complexity and flexibility has allowed Galp to mitigate the impact of adverse market conditions in a year marked by lower refining margins in Europe. The Company continuously analyses set-up alternatives for its refining system to better enable its adjustment to the industry challenges and to better integrate with its other oil products activities. Galp focuses on a Reliability Centred Maintenance (RCM) programme in both refineries, which consists of managing the equipment life cycle, in order to increase the units predictability and availability. In 2016, partial outages for maintenance were conducted, namely the planned outage of the HC complex for approximately 60 days in the first quarter, as well as the 13 days outage of the FCC. In 2016, approximately 109.7 mmboe of raw materials were processed, with crude accounting for 92% of the total. Middle distillates and gasoline were the most relevant products within the Company’s production mix, accounting for 46% and 23%, respectively, of total production. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 3.2. Refining & Marketing Marketing of oil products Energy optimisation and efficiency Galp’s oil products marketing business is focused Galp remains focused on maximising energy in Iberia, where it is a relevant player, but also in five efficiency and optimising refining system processes. African countries where expected market growth is attractive and where there are potential synergies Galp is implementing energy optimisation measures with other Company activities in the region. in the Sines and Matosinhos refineries, while also applying the lean six sigma methodology with a view The business focus is the marketing of oil products under to achieving continuous improvement, minimising Galp’s brand, both through the Company’s service station process variability and reducing waste. network and through direct sales to wholesale clients, as well as selling non-fuel products, namely Galp aims to gradually increase its refining margin at service stations. The marketing of oil products also by $1/bbl from 2018 through initiatives in the context includes exports and sales to other operators. of increased conversion and energy efficiency that will require marginal investments in upgrading In 2016, Galp sold a total of 17.8 mton of oil products, current equipment. down 2% YoY, mainly due to the planned outages for maintenance, namely in conversion units at the Sines For more details on energy optimisation refinery. Sales to direct clients accounted for around 50% and efficiency, please see Galp's role of total volumes sold, with exports and sales to other in decarbonising the economy. operators accounting for 33% and 18%, respectively. Sales to direct clients Logistics Sales to direct clients, both through the Galp branded service station network and through sales to wholesale Galp has access to several maritime terminals clients, is mostly focused in Iberia, but also in some in Portugal and holds storage facilities in Iberia, with specific African markets. These markets are believed a combined capacity of 8.9 mm³. The Company also to have the greatest value creation potential based has interests in logistics companies in Portugal on the Company's geographic advantages of its refining and benefits from access to several pipelines in Iberia. and logistics assets. In Mozambique, Galp is developing a project for In 2016, sales to direct clients totalled 8.8 mton, the construction of two liquid fuel handling and storage down 3% YoY, due to the continuous optimisation terminals. The storage facility in Beira has a capacity of the Company’s wholesale client portfolio. of 65,000 m3, while the Matola storage facility will have Sales volumes in Africa increased 7% YoY and accounted a capacity of 46,000 m3. This project will strengthen the for around 9% of sales to direct clients. Company’s strategic position in the region and aims at developing the fuel marketing business in the country and In the retail segment, oil products sales volumes stood secure access to a competitive sourcing of oil products, in line YoY. also enabling exports to neighbouring countries. 48 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results Galp is currently developing a pilot project for improving Retail segment sales (kton) clients' experience in its convenience stores, focused on a more appealing in-store communication and the 2015 2,930 increased use of digital interfaces. 2016 2,947 The Company also enhanced customer acquisition and loyalty initiatives in partnership with the largest food Portugal Spain Africa retail group in Portugal, Sonae, with impact on a customer base of c.1.8 million in 2016. An important The Company remains focused on selling initiative was the Energia³ plan, through which customers additive-enhanced fuel and committed to the excellence benefit from an integrated offer of fuel, natural gas, of the products and services provided. In that regard, electricity and LPG with a discount scheme that combines Galp has launched a new fuel offering, Evologic diesel the products and services of Galp and its partner Sonae, and gasoline, with high performance additives, which which during the year contributed to the acquisition allow for higher savings, extended engine life and greater of clients in Portugal. efficiency, with lower GHG emissions, consequently benefiting the environment. To complement its offering in its large service station network, enhancing its position as an integrated energy Galp has also focused on the value proposition in the player, Galp integrates the Electric Mobility Programme Iberian service station network by implementing the promoted by the Portuguese Government. During the Kaizen methodology. This project aims at homogenising year, the Company expanded the network the service in Portugal and Spain through improvements of fast-charging points for electric vehicles, in partnership in communication, space organisation and planning with some of the most renowned automotive brands. in service stations. That initiative aims to provide conditions for a sustained adoption of electric mobility and to overcome several Number of service stations challenges, such as autonomy. In the wholesale segment, sales decreased 7% YoY 2015 1,435 in 2016, following the strategy of reducing exposure 2016 1,436 to some lower margin activities in Iberia. Sales of the wholesale segment (kton) Portugal Spain Africa At the end of 2016, Galp’s service station network 2015 5,606 included 1,436 service stations, of which 1,284 located 2016 5,192 in Iberia and 152 in Africa. The Company also had 836 convenience stores. Portugal Spain Africa Galp maintains its leadership position in Portugal with a retail market share of around 30%. In Spain, the market Sales to other operators share remained stable at 5%, therefore the Company’s Iberian market share was 9%. Galp's refining system is the main supplier of the Portuguese oil products market, and a relevant one in Non-fuel products sold at service stations accounted for Iberia. During 2016, Galp sold 3.1 mton to other operators. 12% of total retail contribution. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 3.2. Refining & Marketing Exports Galp operates in the international export market as a route for marketing production from refineries, prioritising markets in close proximity to its refining system. In 2016, exports outside Iberia totalled 5.8 mton, up 3% YoY. Fuel oil, gasoline and diesel accounted for 29%, 28% and 29% of total exports, respectively, destined mostly to Spain, the USA and Morocco. A feedstock profile largely consisting of medium and heavy crudes, combined with the geographic advantage of Galp's refining system, allow the Company to benefit from gasoline arbitrage opportunities between the USA and Europe. In 2016, gasoline exports to the USA accounted for c.20% of Galp’s total exports. 50 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp 3.3. Gas & Power to stakeholders allocation of results 3.3. 3,780 Gas NG SALES TO DIRECT CLIENTS mm3 & Power 5,010 GWh SALES OF ELECTRICITY 3,285 NG/LNG TRADING mm3 2016 Headlines Key figures • Total volumes of NG/LNG sold were 7.1 billion cubic • Disposal of 22.5% of the regulated natural gas metres (bcm), down 8% YoY, due to fewer trading infrastructure business to Meet Europe Gas Lda, 2014 2015 2016 opportunities in the international markets. led by Marubeni Corporation (50%) and including Toho No. of employees 1 599 514 178 Gas Co., Ltd. (50%). • Sales to direct clients were impacted by lower Sales of NG/LNG in trading (mm³) 3,713 3,822 3,285 volumes sold in the conventional segment, although • Strengthening of the integrated energy player position, through a continuous integration of the natural gas Natural gas sales to direct clients (mm³) 3,759 3,843 3,780 partially offset by increased volumes sold in the electrical segment. and electricity marketing activities. Cogenerations installed capacity (MW) 205 173 173 Electricity sold to the grid (GWh) 1,592 1,299 1,614 Marketing of electricity (GWh) 2,200 3,336 3,396 CO2 emissions (tCO2e) 356,710 280,949 320,042 Ebitda RCA1 (€m) 438 382 313 Ebit RCA (€m) 1 363 303 253 Capital expenditure (€m) 29 65 23 1 As of the end of October 2016, GGND ceased to be consolidated. 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 3.3. Gas & Power Galp’s G&P business combines natural gas sourcing, distribution and supply activities, which have gradually Sources of natural gas in 2016 been combined with electricity generation and supply. The Company also operates in the NG/LNG international 35% Argelia market through its trading activity. In 2016, Galp sold a 22.5% stake in its subsidiary Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. (GGND), the regulated natural gas infrastructure business. This transaction was concluded during the fourth quarter. 46% Nigeria Natural gas 19% Other Natural gas and electricity supply activities take place mainly in the Iberian market, with the Company focusing in strengthening its combined offer, particularly in the Portuguese retail segment, where Natural gas from Algeria is supplied via the following it is one of the main players. Galp is also actively present pipelines, in which Galp holds a stake: Europe-Maghreb in the international NG/LNG market. Pipeline (EMPL), Al-Andalus and Extremadura. In 2016, Galp’s NG/LNG volumes sold were 7,065 mm³, down 8% YoY, impacted by fewer trading opportunities. Equity stakes in international gas pipelines Sourcing International Country Capacity Galp % pipelines (bcm/year) Galp keeps an active management policy of its natural Algeria, gas sources and has been looking for alternatives EMPL 12.0 23 Morocco and diversifying its sourcing options. Al-Andalus Spain 7.8 33 Galp has long-term natural gas sourcing contracts Extremadura Spain 6.1 49 for a total of 5.7 bcm per year from Nigeria and Algeria, with maturities starting from 2020. These contracts with Nigeria LNG and Sonatrach provide access to LNG from Sales to direct clients Nigeria and piped natural gas from Algeria, respectively. Galp’s natural gas supply business is mainly based on In addition, the Company sources natural gas from other clients in the industrial, electrical and retail segments markets, namely the Spanish and French wholesale in the Iberian market. The Company is one of the most network players. relevant natural gas suppliers in Iberia, with around 560 thousand clients. The remaining natural gas requirements are met through operations in the spot market. In 2016, natural gas sales to direct clients decreased 2% YoY to 3,780 mm³. The higher sales in the electrical segment were not enough to offset the decrease in the conventional segment, i.e. in sales to retail and industrial clients. 54 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results Natural gas sales to direct clients (mm³) Trading Galp has guaranteed the access to reference NG and LNG 2015 3,843 markets and has consolidated that activity with access to 2016 3,780 European organised gas markets, namely in Spain, France and The Netherlands. Electrical Industrial Retail Network trading volumes accounted for 35% of total traded volumes, reaching 1,151 mm3, compared to Sales in the electrical segment reached 1,179 mm³, up 97 1,224 mm3 in the previous year. Regarding LNG trading, mm³, mostly following the lower use of coal for electricity there was a decrease in activity from 33 operations in generation in Iberia. 2015 to 25 in 2016. Natural gas sales to the industrial segment were Regulated distribution infrastructure 2,286 mm³, down 111 mm³ YoY mainly due to higher competition. The regulated infrastructure business consists of managing the natural gas distribution network In the retail segment, natural gas volumes decreased of medium and low-pressure, in Portugal. The Portuguese 49 mm3 YoY to 315 mm³, following the sale, in 2015, of the Energy Market Regulator (ERSE) defines the remuneration activities related to the Spanish residential segment. rules for this activity. The rate of return takes into account, amongst other indicators, the average yield In the retail segment, it is worth noting the activity’s of ten-year bonds issued by the Portuguese state. integration with the marketing of electricity. In 2016, electricity volumes totalled 3,396 gigawatts hour (GWh), The rate of return for the Gas Year 2016-2017 decreased a 2% increase from the previous year. At the end of 2016, from 7.94% (Gas Year 2015-2016) to 6.2%, reflecting the the G&P business had 690 thousand clients, of which yields of benchmark bonds during that period. At the end 266 thousand were power clients or opted for Galp’s of 2016, the regulated asset base was approximately integrated offer. €1.0 bn. The Company has also been exploring new business GGND has stakes in nine natural gas distribution models, in particular, those aimed at energy efficiency companies in Portugal, five of which operate under and at the sale of compressed natural gas (CNG) 40-year concession contracts, with the remainder in special sales points integrated in the European network operating under 20-year operation licenses. In 2016, or of LNG for ships. Galp operated a distribution network of 12,740 km, through GGND. In 2016, Galp started a project based on digital and technological transformation aiming at continuously During 2016, Galp reduced its stake in GGND by selling improving its commercial operations, implementing new 22.5% of its share capital to Meet Europe Gas Lda, platforms for communication with the clients and digital owned by Marubeni Corporation (50%) and by Toho marketing. Gas Co., Ltd. (50%). Although Galp continues to hold a 77.5% stake in GGND’s share capital, the latter ceased to be fully consolidated in the Group’s accounts following conclusion of the transaction in October. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 3.3. Gas & Power Power Galp’s portfolio of cogeneration units and wind farms in Portugal currently has an installed capacity of 357 MW. The installed capacity for electricity production through cogeneration units is 173 MW, with the most relevant units being installed at the Sines and Matosinhos refineries. Those are important natural gas consumption points, as well as important energy suppliers for the refineries. Galp’s cogeneration portfolio in 2016 Installed capacity (MW) Sales of electricity to the grid (GWh) Natural gas consumption (mm³) Sines 82 679 225 Matosinhos 82 653 241 Other 9 34 10 Total 173 1,365 476 At the end of 2016, the Company also had an installed capacity of 184 MW in six wind farms, out of which five came into operation during the year, with a joint capacity of 171.6 MW. Thus, sales of electricity to the grid increased 24% YoY to 1,614 GWh. 56 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 4 Financial performance To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 4.1. Summary 4.2. Business performance 4.1. Summary • RCA Ebitda stood at €1,411 m, above the Company’s guidance of €1.2-€1.3 bn. RCA Ebitda was down 8% YoY, due to the lower contribution from the R&M and G&P businesses. • E&P RCA Ebitda reached €494 m, benefiting from the 51% increase in net entitlement production to 65.1 kboepd, and despite the decrease in average oil and gas realisation prices. • R&M RCA Ebitda decreased €203 m YoY to €576 m, mainly due to the lower contribution from the refining activity. • Ebitda RCA for the G&P segment decreased €69 m YoY to €313 m, mainly following lower results from the natural gas activity. • RCA net income was €483 m, down €156 m YoY, while IFRS net income was €179 m. The inventory effect was €20 m and non-recurring items reached €324 m, including asset impairments in Angola, as well as in relation to the transfer of contracts for the construction of the replicant FPSO hulls. • In 2016, capital expenditure was €1.2 bn, 85% of which was allocated to E&P, namely to block BM-S-11 in Brazil. • Net debt at the end of 2016 was €1,260 m, considering the loan to Sinopec as cash and equivalents, down €439 m YoY, due to a robust operating performance and to the partial divestment of the regulated gas infrastructure business. In this context, net debt to RCA Ebitda stood at 1.0x. Ebitda and Ebit per business segment in 2016 (€m) Ebitda IFRS Inventory effect Ebitda RC Non-recurring items Ebitda RCA Total 1,389 (20) 1,369 42 1,411 E&P 481 481 13 494 R&M 572 (23) 549 27 576 G&P 310 3 312 1 313 Others 27 27 1 28 Ebit IFRS Inventory effect Ebit RC Non-recurring items Ebit RCA Total 544 (20) 523 249 772 E&P 28 28 211 239 R&M 243 (23) 220 37 257 G&P 251 3 254 (0) 253 Others 22 22 1 23 Note: RCA figures are not audited. 60 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 4.2. Galp’s refining margin was $4.3/boe, compared to $6.0/boe during the previous year, reflecting the lower refining margins. The spread over the benchmark margin Business was $1.2/boe. performance Refining cash costs increased €2 m YoY to €172 m, on the back of higher costs with maintenance in 2016, mainly related to the hydrocracker in Sines. In unit terms, cash costs were $1.7/boe. Refining margin hedging operations had a positive impact Exploration & Production in Ebitda of €3 m during 2016, compared to a loss of €83 m the previous year. In 2016, E&P Ebitda RCA increased €141 m YoY to €494 m, benefiting from higher net entitlement production Depreciation charges and provisions totalled €319 m, and despite the lower average realised price which was up €45 m YoY following the revision of the useful life at $37.7/boe in the year. of certain refining assets, with effects as of the second half of 2016. It is worth highlighting that in 2016 the contribution of the trading activity related to oil produced, which used Ebit RCA decreased to €257 m, while Ebit IFRS increased to be accounted for under the R&M business, started to be €87 m YoY to €243 m. Inventory effect was €23 m and accounted for in the E&P business. non-recurring items reached €37 m, mainly related to restructuring costs and to impairments in refining Production costs increased €26 m YoY to €166 m, equipment. due to the higher number of operating units in Brazil. In unit terms, production costs decreased $2.1/boe YoY Gas & Power to $7.7/boe, also impacted by a one-off adjustment in Brazil. Excluding this impact, unit costs would have been $8.1/boe. Ebitda for the G&P segment decreased €69 m YoY to €313 m during the year, mainly following lower results Depreciation charges RCA (including abandonment from the natural gas activity. provisions) increased €44 m YoY to €255 m, following the increased asset base in Brazil. On a net entitlement basis, Ebitda for the natural gas segment decreased 23% YoY unit depreciation charges were $11.9/boe, compared to €194 m, mostly due to fewer opportunities to $14.8/boe in 2015. in the international LNG market. Ebit RCA was €239 m during the year, up €97 m YoY, Ebitda of the regulated infrastructure business while Ebit IFRS stood at €28 m. Non-recurring items was €100 m, down €29 m YoY, reflecting the lower of €211 m included impairments in block 14/14k in Angola, remuneration rate during the second half of 2016, of as well as impairments related to the Brazilian onshore. 6.2%, and the full deconsolidation of GGND during the last two months of the year following the conclusion of The RCA contribution of associated companies related the sale of 22.5% of that company. to the E&P activities reached €17 m in the period. Ebitda for the power business increased €18 m compared Refining & Marketing to the previous year, which had been affected by the sub-optimal operation of the cogeneration units Ebitda RCA for the R&M business decreased €203 m YoY and by the lag in the natural gas purchase price indexes, to €576 m, mainly due to the lower contribution from compared to the pricing formulas of energy produced. the refining activity, as well as the time lag in pricing formulas which was a result of the significant increase in Ebit RCA was €253 m, down €49 m YoY. The inventory commodities’ prices, in particular during the fourth quarter. effect was €3 m in the period. Ebit IFRS reached €251 m, The reallocation of the contribution of trading activity compared to €275 m the previous year. related to oil produced also impacted results. RCA results from associated companies related to the G&P business amounted to €70 m. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 4.3. Profit & Loss 4.3. Profit & Loss Profit & Loss (€m, RCA except otherwise noted) 2015 2016 Var. % Var. Turnover 15,504 13,119 (2,384) (15%) Costs of goods sold (12,436) (10,156) (2,281) (18%) Supply & Services (1,228) (1,259) 31 3% Personnel costs (330) (319) (11) (3%) Other operating revenues (expenses) 29 26 (3) (10%) Ebitda RCA 1,538 1,411 (127) (8%) Ebitda IFRS 1,174 1,389 215 18% Depreciation & Amortisation (544) (636) 92 17% Provisions (25) (3) (22) (89%) Ebit RCA 969 772 (197) (20%) Ebit IFRS 423 544 120 28% Net income from associated companies 83 85 2 2% Financial results (70) (25) 45 65% Net income RCA before tax and minority interests 982 833 (150) (15%) Taxes 1 (290) (289) (2) (1%) Non-controlling interests (54) (61) 8 14% Net income RCA 639 483 (156) (24%) Non-recurrent items (244) (324) (80) (33%) Net income RC 395 159 (236) (60%) Inventory effect (272) 20 292 n.m. Net income IFRS 123 179 57 46% 1 Includes Special Participation Tax payable in Brazil and oil tax payable in Angola. Note: The 2015 Profit & Loss was restated. Turnover in 2016 decreased 15% YoY to €13,119 m, Operational expenses decreased 16% during the period mainly due to the decrease in the price of oil, natural gas and amounted to €11,708 m, mainly driven by an 18% and oil products. decrease in cost of goods sold. The 3% increase in supply and services was a function of the increase in production in Brazil. 62 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results RCA Ebitda was €1,411 m, down €127 m YoY, following Non-recurring items (€m) a lower contribution from the R&M and G&P business segments. IFRS Ebitda was €1,389 m. 2015 2016 Non-recurring items impacting Ebitda 7.4 42.1 RCA Ebit decreased 20% to €772 m, while IFRS Ebit Accidents caused by natural events and increased €120 m to €544 m. insurance compensation (0.8) (1.2) Results from associated companies accounted for €85 m, Gains/losses on disposal of assets (8.4) (1.5) in line YoY. Asset write-offs 6.1 1.7 Investment subsidies (2.6) Financial results were negative €25 m, compared to negative €70 m the previous year. This was due in part Employee restructuring charges 13.2 14.7 to a gain of €17 m in mark-to-market hedging operations, Advisory fees and others 0.2 which compares to a loss of €13 m during 2015, Compensation early termination rigs and also to a €19 m decrease in net interest. agreement 12.0 RCA taxes stood in line YoY, at €289 m. Litigation costs 9.7 Taxes from previous years 6.3 Non-controlling interests, primarily attributable Non-recurring items impacting non-cash to Sinopec, increased €8 m to €61 m, following costs 181.6 206.6 improved results in Brazil. Provisions for environmental charges and others 6.0 8.1 RCA net income was €483 m, down €156 m YoY, while IFRS net income was €179 m. Asset impairments 175.5 198.5 Non-recurring items impacting financial results 64.0 68.0 The inventory effect was €20 m and non-recurring items reached €324 m, including asset impairments Gains/losses on financial investments 12.0 (23.5) in Angola, as well as impairments related to the transfer Impairment of financial investments 52.0 91.5 of contracts for the construction of the replicant FPSO hulls. Non-recurring items impacting taxes 12.5 39.5 The CESE tax had a negative impact on IFRS results Income taxes on non-recurring items (35.0) (24.2) of around €56 m, of which c.€28 m related to CESE I, whose annual impact was fully accounted for in the first Tax deferrals on E&P (10.3) quarter. CESE II amounted to c.€28 m. This provision Tax deferrals reversions (19.4) related to CESE results from the strict applicability Income tax from previous years 5.9 of accounting standards. However, in Galp’s opinion, based on the opinion of renowned legal experts, Energy sector contribution tax 67.0 68.0 the CESE taxes have no legal grounds and, accordingly, Non-controlling interests (22.0) (32.6) such amounts are not due. Total non-recurring items 243.6 323.6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 4.4. Capital expenditure 4.5. Cash flow 4.4. Capital expenditure In 2016, capital expenditure was €1,218 m, 85% Capital expenditure by segment (%) of which was allocated to E&P. 3% Development and production (D&P) activities accounted Exploration and appraisal (E&P) for 96% of the investment in the E&P business, mainly allocated to the development of block BM-S-11 2% in Brazil, which accounted for 73% of D&P investment. 82% G&P Development 13% The investment in block 32 in Angola accounted and production R&M for around 21% of that total. (E&P) Capital expenditure in downstream and gas activities reached €175 m, and included investment in maintenance activities, in the upgrade of the retail network and of the natural gas infrastructure, as well as in IT systems, among others. © Agência Petrobras 64 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 4.5. Cash flow Cash flow – Indirect method (€m, IFRS) Cash flow Direct method (€m, IFRS) 2015 2016 2015 2016 Ebit 423 544 Cash and equivalents at the beginning of the period1 1,023 1,045 Dividends from associates 73 70 Received from customers 17,666 15,156 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 720 835 Paid to suppliers (11,421) (9,094) Change in working capital 458 21 Staff related costs (371) (373) Cash flow from operations 1,674 1,469 Dividends from associated companies 73 70 Net capex 1 (1,190) (1,054) (101) Taxes on oil products (ISP) (2,633) (2,752) Net financial expenses (119) (172) VAT, Royalties, PIS, Cofins, Others (1,721) (1,571) Taxes paid (127) Total operating flows 1,594 1,436 Dividends paid (318) (387) Net capex 2 (1,194) (1,074) GGND deconsolidation 2 632 165 Net financial expenses (111) (120) Others 3 179 Change in net debt (98) (552) Dividends paid (318) (387) SPT and Corporate taxes (127) (172) 1 2016 includes the proceeds of €141 m from the sale of 22.5% in GGND. 2 Deconsolidation of assets and liabilities from GGND. Net new loans (124) (32) 3 Includes CTAs (Cumulative Translation Adjustment) and partial reimbursements Sinopec loan reimbursement 261 134 of the loan grated to Sinopec. FX changes on cash and equivalents and change in perimeter 40 93 During 2016, net debt decreased €552 m, on the back of the partial divestment of the regulated infrastructure Cash and equivalents at the end of the period1 1,045 923 activity. Excluding that impact, net debt would have increased by €223 m after dividends, considering 1 Cash and equivalents differ from the Balance Sheet amounts due to IAS 7 the strong cash flow from operations of €1,469 m. classification rules. The difference refers to overdrafts which are considered as debt in the Balance Sheet and as a deduction to cash in the Cash Flow statement. 2 2016 includes the proceeds of €141 m from the sale of 22.5% of GGND. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 4.6. Financiol position 4.6. Financial position Consolidated financial position (€m, except otherwise noted) 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2016 Var. Net fixed assets 7,892 7,721 (171) Working capital 510 492 (18) Loan to Sinopec 723 610 (113) Other assets (liabilities) (515) (409) 107 Non-current assets/liabilities held for sale (1) (1) Capital employed 8,610 8,414 (196) Short-term debt 493 325 (167) Medium-long term debt 3,060 2,578 (482) Total debt 3,552 2,903 (649) Cash and equivalents 1,130 1,032 (98) Total net debt 2,422 1,870 (552) Total equity 6,188 6,543 355 Total equity and net debt 8,610 8,414 (196) Total net debt including loan to Sinopec 1,699 1,260 (439) Net debt to Ebitda RCA 1.6x 1.3x Net debt to Ebitda RCA including loan to Sinopec 1 1.2x 1.0x 1 Ratio considers net debt including loan to Sinopec of €610 m, plus €179 m corresponding to Sinopec shareholder loan to Petrogal Brasil, with 2016 RCA Ebitda of €1,411 m. On December 31, 2016, net fixed assets stood at €7,721 m, On December 31, 2016, net debt stood at €1,870 m, a €171 m decrease compared to the end of 2015, as a down €552 m compared to the end of 2015. Considering result of the partial sale of a stake in GGND and despite the €610 m balance of the Sinopec loan as cash, net debt the investment made during the period. at the end of the period totalled €1,260 m, resulting in a net debt to Ebitda ratio of 1.0x. This ratio also Work-in-progress, mainly related to the E&P business, considers Sinopec’s €179 m shareholder loan to Petrogal amounted to €2,650 m at the end of the period. Brasil as of the end of the period. 66 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results Debt reimbursement profile (€m) The average interest rate was 3.52% during the period. 1,000 At the end of December, around 50% of total debt was on a fixed-rate basis. Debt had an average maturity 800 of 2.6 years, which compares to 3.1 years in 2015. At the end of 2016, medium and long-term debt accounted for 600 89% of Galp’s total debt. 400 It should be noted that a €455 m bond, maturing in 2017, was called by Galp and was redeemed 200 on November 21, 2016. 0 At the end of 2016, Galp had unused credit lines 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022+ of approximately €1.2 bn. Of this amount, around 60% Profile @ December 31 2016 was contractually guaranteed. Profile @ December 31 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 5 Commitment to stakeholders To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 5.1. Galp's Code of Ethics and Conduct (CoEC) outlines the fundamental ethical and conduct guidelines in Galp's activity, with a view to assuming commitments to its Acting employees, shareholders and investors, its business partners, customers and suppliers. responsibly The CoEC and the normative documents in force represent guidelines for activity, establishing the and ethically principles, values and ​​ rules that employees, and all those acting on behalf of the Company, must assume in any field of activity and in any geography. Learn more about the CoEC and the main Galp normative references on the Company's website. The values and principles of an organisation are its pillars of sustainability, particularly in preserving Ethics line the relationships of trust with the stakeholders. Ethics line: Galp has a line for reporting irregularities that ensures the strictest confidentiality of the information conveyed, with the rights of access Sustainable Development Goals and rectification of the data also being guaranteed, in compliance with the legal regulations in force. SDG Gender equality Interested parties may use the email address: 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women. opentalk@galp.com. SDG Peace, justice and strong institutions In associated companies and in partnerships where Galp is not an operator, its representatives have 16 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access the responsibility to promote the adoption of measures to justice for all and build effective, accountable equivalent to the principles, values and normative and inclusive institutions at all levels. references established in the CoEC. In order to achieve a better governance of the operations and partnerships it develops in different geographies, Ethics and compliance and in line with the recommendations of its external auditors, the Company conducts, prior to the acquisition Galp is committed to acting ethically and in accordance of interests in new partnerships, or in partnerships already with its internal normative references and the different established, an analysis of the compliance risk of potential legal and regulatory frameworks of the countries business partners. and markets where it operates, with transparency and with respect for the applicable competition rules. In terms of assurance, Galp takes part and in conjunction with its business partners, in compliance audits Decision making involves a progressive of E&P assets which it does not operate. These audits and integrated consideration of the various risks aim to identify risks and the continual improvement its activity entails, considering the rights of governance and compliance practices. and expectations of the different stakeholders. The Company's governance practices aim at continuous improvement and process optimisation, fomenting the creation of value in the long term. 70 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 5.1. Acting responsibly and ethically The transparency of the Company's practices To this end, in 2016 it carried on with the optimisation and the compliance with all its tax obligations allow for of corporate processes, policies and references, an adequate risk assessment and an informed investment aiming at ensuring to their use across the Company, decision making. Galp subscribes to the principles set while continuing to address the specifics of the out by the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative various businesses. (EITI) since 2010. This Report includes the detailed list of payments made to governments in 2016, which is included in Appendix 8.3. Optimisation of corporate processes, policies and references Galp prohibits any and all practices of corruption, in all its active and passive forms, including attempted corruption. • The implementation of the project began in 2015, To this end, the Company has an Anti-Corruption Policy, with conclusion expected for 2017. applicable to the Group and its stakeholders, be it the • Simplification and standardisation the Group's corporate bodies, employees, clients and suppliers. norms and standards. For more details on these topics, see chapter 6. • Definition of Galp Management System’s Single Corporate Governance and Galp’s website. Framework, with guidelines for its implementation. • Implementation of a holistic and integrative model Corporate processes, policies for process management, from a perspective and references of efficiency and effectiveness. The challenges of the energy sector and the response • Reformulation of the Environment, Quality to stakeholder expectations call for a balance between and Safety (EQS) audits management process preserving the processes of value creation in the light of the Single Framework and Process Model, and integrating the expectations and a high capacity for adaptation, where agility of the main stakeholders. is a competitive advantage. • Setting a strategy for certifications in Galp, carried Galp remains focused on ensuring simple but effective out by third parties, with the definition processes, which contribute to risk mitigation along of guidelines for their implementation. the value chain. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Respect for human rights The risk profile analysis of projects Galp is committed to respecting and promoting human as a support to decision rights. This commitment is embodied in its Human Rights Policy. The Company also implements, where relevant, The risk profile characterisation of each project due diligence processes, identifying potential impacts constitutes information to support the decision and implementing appropriate measures to avoid and it’s relevance to ensure sustainable value and/or mitigate them. creation. The internal practices ensure the identification and management of risks in each This policy is in line with internationally recognised geography and context, particularly with regards to: standards, particularly the ten principles of the Global Compact and the United Nations Universal Declaration • environmental, health, safety and social of Human Rights, as well as the Code of Conduct requirements, impacting the life cycle of the of the International Labour Organisation. projects and their economic value; • social reference base (education, habits Through contractual agreements, Galp encourages and customs, religion, other relevant social suppliers, service providers, contractors and partners information); to align with its commitments in this area, promoting adherence to the same international principles. • reputation issues associated with the operation in the country, including policies regarding access In 2016, there were reported no cases of human to land, resettlement, government investment rights abuses. plans and local content, among others; • labour laws and restrictions; • security issues associated with the operation in the country; • human rights: -existing challenges under the UN Convention on Human Rights; and -indigenous populations and the state of the art regarding human rights practices with respect to these populations. • other sustainability issues specific to the country/region that may affect the development of an Oil & Gas project. 72 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 5.2. Engagement with stakeholders 5.2. Share capital dispersion Galp's shareholding structure has been evolving over Engagement the last ten years. During 2016, there was an increase in Galp's free float compared to the end of 2015, from with 54.66% to 59.66%, following the conclusion of the sale of 41,462,532 shares by Amorim Energia B.V. (Amorim Energia), which now holds a 33.34% stake in Galp's stakeholders share capital. Shareholder structure as of December 31, 2016 7.00% 59.66% Parpública Free float The relationship with its stakeholders has strategic value for Galp, one that drives organizational excellence, Free float, of which: which builds relational capital and contributes to greater proximity, trust and risk minimisation. BlackRock 2% – 5% Henderson 2% – 5% Standard Life 2% – 5% A Galp subscribes 33.34% Templeton 2% – 5% to the 10 principals defined Amorim Energia by the Global Compact At the end of 2016, and according to the best information obtained by the Company, approximately 88% of the Galp in the capital markets free float, or the equivalent to 52% of the total shareholder base, was held by institutional investors, Shareholder Information from 36 countries. Investors located outside of Europe accounted for 44% of the free float, with institutional Galp’s share capital comprises 829,250,635 shares, 93% investors based in North America holding 36% of the of which are listed on Euronext Lisbon. The remaining Company's free float. Individual investors accounted for 58,079,514 shares, which correspond to 7% of the share about 4% of Galp's free float. capital, are indirectly held by the Portuguese State through Parpública – Participações Públicas, SGPS, S.A. Qualifying holdings (Parpública) and are not listed. The increase in free float contributed to a greater visibility of the Company in the capital markets. Several IPO’s 10th Anniversary entities have qualifying holdings in Galp's share capital, information which is disclosed by the Company in The 10th anniversary of Galp's IPO was celebrated in accordance with the provisions of articles 16 and 17 October 2016. During this period, market capitalisation of the Portuguese Securities Market Code (CVM). increased 121%, and shareholders benefited from a total return of 190%. The PSI-20, SXXP and SXEP Amorim Energia is based in The Netherlands indexes depreciated over the period. and its shareholders are Power, Oil & Gas Investments, In 2006, Galp's free float accounted for only 23% B.V. (35%), Amorim Investimentos Energéticos, SGPS, of the share capital and the Company was followed S.A. (20%) and Esperaza Holding, B.V. (45%). The first by four sell side institutions. Currently, the free float two companies are controlled, either directly or indirectly, represents 60% of the capital and the Company is by the Américo Amorim group, and the latter is controlled followed by 25 sell side institutions. by Sonangol, E.P., the Angolan state oil company. Parpública manages Portuguese State holdings in a number of companies. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance BlackRock, Inc. is a global investment management In 2016, 406 million Galp shares were traded on regulated firm founded in 1988. It is based in New York and listed markets, corresponding to 90% of Galp's free float. on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The average daily trading volume on Euronext Lisbon was 1.6 million shares, with the increase in the Company's Henderson Group plc is an investment management free float to 59.66% having contributed to a greater share firm founded in 1934, based in London and listed liquidity during the year. on the London Stock Exchange. The minimum price for the year 2016, of €9.03, occurred Standard Life Investments (Holdings) Limited, founded on 20 January; the maximum price of €14.86 was reached in 2006, is an investment management firm based on 12 December. in Edinburgh, in the United Kingdom. Sell-side coverage Templeton Global Advisors Limited is a financial investment firm based in San Mateo, California, Galp is covered by 25 sell-side institutions, listed on the NYSE. which regularly publish reports on the Company's activity and strategy. Galp share performance At the of 2016, the average target price At the end of 2016, Galp had a market capitalisation of analysts covering the stock was €14.04/share, of around €11.8 bn, corresponding to an appreciation with 44% of analysts recommending to Buy of 32% compared to the end of 2015. and the remaining 56% having a Neutral stance. During this period, the Galp share outperformed SXEP Price target by the analysts (€/share) (the European index for the Oil & Gas sector), which appreciated by 23%. It should be noted that Preço-alvo dos analistas Average Maximum Minimum Median the performance in the sector was influenced by 14.04 16.25 12.00 14.00 the evolution of the oil price, with dated Brent recovering around 55% during 2016. The PSI-20 (reference index of the Portuguese stock market) depreciated 12%. Visit the Investor section of Galp’s website for more information about the analysts. The total shareholder return during the year, considering the share price and the dividends paid, was 38%. Dividend distribution policy Galp share price, the SXEP index The dividend distribution policy that had been in place and the PSI-20 index in 2016 since March 2012, and which envisaged an average annual increase of 20%, was in effect until the end of 2016. 40% 30% In 2017, Galp’s Board of Directors will propose 20% to the General Shareholders Meeting the distribution 10% of a €0.497664 dividend per share, that is, 20% above 0% the dividend related to the previous financial year. -10% -20% Within the Company's objective of paying an interim -30% dividend in September, a distribution corresponding Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. to 50% of the proposed dividend for the 2016 financial year was made, in the amount of €0.248832 per share. Galp PSI-20 SXEP Source: Bloomberg Thus, based on the share price on December 31, 2016, the dividend yield of the Galp share was 4%. 74 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 5.2. Engagement with stakeholders In May 2016, Galp’s General Shareholders Meeting approved a dividend of €0.41472 per share for the 2015 financial year. Dividend and net income (€/share) 0.4147 2015 0.7701 0.4977 2016 0.5820 Dividend per share RCA earnings per share Galp will continue to ensure it has the capital required to implement the planned investment programme, which is critical to the success of the strategic execution. Maintaining its financial discipline and capital structure continues to be a priority for the Company, taking into account the macroeconomic context, the investment opportunities and the generation of cash flow. General Shareholders Meeting In 2016, Galp’s Annual General Shareholders Meeting was held on May 5 and its agenda included the approval of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, the deliberation on the proposal for the application of results for that year, and the general appreciation of the members of the Company's corporate bodies, in particular the Board of Directors. In 2016, 130 shareholders representing approximately 74% of the Company's share capital attended the General Meeting in person, duly represented or voted by mail. All the proposals submitted in the year to the deliberation of the General Shareholders Meeting were approved by a majority of votes. Bondholder information In 2013, Galp launched a programme for the issuance of medium-term debt instruments, the Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN). The Company made two debt issuances under the programme, in 2013 and 2014, for a total amount of €1 bn. These securities were listed on the London Stock Exchange. Debt issuance under the EMTN programme Date Yield at year Var. since Title ISIN Maturity Amount Coupon of issuance end (%) pricing (bp) Galp 4.125% PTGALIOE0009 25-11-2013 25-01-2019 €500 m 4.125% 0.75 -349.9 01.2019 Galp 3.000% PTGALJOE0008 14-07-2014 14-01-2021 €500 m 3.000% 1.65 -147.5 01.2021 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Sell-side coverage Engagement with customers Galp's notes traded in the capital markets are followed Galp continuously develops processes for monitoring by fixed income analysts which publish their credit analysis and following-up the expectations and needs on the Company. Visit the Investor section of Galp’s website of its customers, establishing as an objective to ensure for more information. an adequate and competitive offer of products and services. To measure its performance, Galp employs the European Costumer Satisfaction Index (ECSI), Exchangeable bonds a methodology for measuring the quality of goods In September 2010, Parpública issued bonds exchangeable and services. into Galp shares, for its entire 7% stake. The bonds have a maturity of seven years and pay a 5.25% coupon. In addition to providing an assessment of the various The exercise price was set at €15.25, dividend adjusted. products and services, in terms of image, expectations, loyalty and satisfaction, among others, this tool also In May 2013, Amorim Energia issued bonds exchangeable provides a platform for comparison at organisational, into Galp shares, corresponding to approximately 3% sector and country levels. of the Company's share capital. These bonds mature in 2018 and pay a 3.375% coupon. The exercise price During 2016, the results and leaders in the various was set at €15.89. markets, in Portugal, were announced, as shown in the chart below. Galp in the main sustainability indexes Results of the ECSI in Portugal in 2016 In 2016, the Company was once again recognised for its practices leading to the creation of sustainable value, Global Satisfaction continuing to be included in different sustainability indexes, notably the included in the Dow Jones Fuels Sustainability Indices (DJSI) and in CDP's The Climate A List – Driving Sustainable Economies (CDP). 7.4 Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes For the fifth consecutive year Galp has been included Natural Gas+ Bottled in the DJSI Indices, having been one of the three companies Electricity 7.1 8.0 gas (dual offer) selected in the Oil & Gas Upstream and Integrated sector within DJSI Europe and one of the 10 in the DJSI World. CDP – Driving Sustainable Economies Galp was included for the second consecutive year in CDP's The Climate A List , having been recognised 7.4 7.4 as a global leader for its actions and strategies Electricity Natural Gas in response to climate change, reflecting Galp's strategy, commitments and actions regarding energy and climate. Scale: 1 (weak) 10 (strong). From 6 the customer is considered as being satisfied. Galp is among the five companies in the energy sector globally that were included in “The Climate A List”, Digital transformation and focusing on customer which integrates only 9% of the total companies experience demands the implementation of continuous worldwide that take part in the CDP. innovation, not only in products and customer experience, but also in the Company's operational model. Galp aims for a greater customer interaction, ensuring greater availability and range of integrated services. 76 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 5.2. Engagement with stakeholders For more information on customer management framed Involvement with the community in the business model, refer to the Refining & Marketing and Gas & Power sections in 3. Strategy execution. The relationship with stakeholders is of strategic value to Galp, contributing to greater proximity, trust and risk Engagement with suppliers minimisation. With the aim of creating shared value, the Company addresses social needs, in line with the Galp is committed to build sound and prosperous Sustainable Development Goals, for each context and partnerships based on transparent relationships geography where it develops its activities. which promote continuous improvement and value creation throughout the supply chain. To this end, Galp Galp has been structuring its action with the main has effective tools for the analysis and assessment goal of maximising the benefits generated in the local of its suppliers. communities, having established in its Community Investment policy the following principles: In order to strengthen the alignment of practices between suppliers and business partners and the principles • aligning its action with the reality of the communities and references established by the Company, the values where it operates; of ethics, transparency and respect for human rights, • focusing on energy solutions; protection of people, environment and assets are integrated into the purchasing process. • acting in the areas of health and social welfare, of education and training, and of environment Galp manages the risk exposure of its supply chain and energy efficiency; by implementing various tools for this purpose, • promoting the involvement of the stakeholders in each in particular through its collaborative purchasing community; platform; through the supplier qualification process, based on a pre-qualification analysis and on external • creating conditions for social innovation audits; and also in the valuation of the Health, Safety and and the promotion of social and inclusive businesses; Environment (HSE) certifications and quality of suppliers. • monitoring and optimising the results generated by each contribution. In 2016, a total of €437 m of direct purchases were made, excluding raw materials and purchases related Taking into account the diversity of Galp's operations to non-operated projects, distributed by 3,654 suppliers, in the different geographies, its different economic, of which 1,806 are suppliers with contracts exceeding social and cultural contexts and realities, criteria have €5 k. It should be noted that there was an annual been set for defining Investment Programmes in the increase of 37% in the total number of HSE and quality Community. The criteria, as well as the description of all certifications related to contracted suppliers. the programmes are available on Galp's website. Within the E&P assets not operated by Galp, Community investment programmes the acquisitions of goods and services are governed by Joint Operation Agreements (JOA) with the business Promoting access to energy in communities partners. These agreements ensure the alignment, among in Mozambique all business partners, on the criteria of quality, social responsibility and HSE for the pre-qualification In partnership with Fundação Galp Energia (Galp of suppliers in the purchasing processes. Local contracting Foundation), the Company has a project underway for is a requirement, varying according to geography and taking the installation of solar panels in schools, clinics and into account the specificities of the concession contracts. administrative posts in Mozambique. This programme is set within the stategy of investment in the community and aims to ensure access to reliable, sustainable, modern and affordable energy for all (SDG 7). Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Galp Solidária Missão UP and Missão Power Up In 2013, Galp established a protocol with Confederação Missão UP | Unidos pelo Planeta (United for the Planet) Nacional das Instituições de Solidariedade (Portuguese is an educational project on energy efficiency developed Confederation of Charities), União das Misericórdias by Galp since 2010, that was extended, from 2013, Portuguesas (Union of Portuguese Charities), União to the project Missão Power UP (Power UP Mission), which das Mutualidades Portuguesas (Union of Portuguese uses an innovative educational platform, available online. Mutual Societies), and, in 2014, with Federação Nacional This project, which contributes to adopting more efficient de Cooperativas de Solidariedade Social ( Portuguese activities and behaviours, is directed at students from the Federation of Social Solidarity Cooperatives), which first to the third year of education and also their teachers, provides special conditions, under the Galp Solidária parents and guardians. Over the last six school years, more brand, for the access to its integrated offer of products than 3,000 energy classes have been taught, reaching more and services. than one million students with the project and its themes. Galp’s educational projects, Missão UP | Unidos pelo Planeta Galp Voluntária and Missão Power UP (UP Mission | United for the Planet In 2011, Galp created Galp Voluntária with the purpose and Power UP Mission) were recognised in 2016, once again, of promoting a culture of social responsibility by the Energy Globe Awards. This is the most prestigious and citizenship in the Company. The Company gives environmental award distinguishing regional, national its employees the possibility of using 48 hours a year and global projects that preserve resources such as energy for corporate volunteering. Since its creation, Galp Voluntária or use renewable sources or emission-free sources. has been focusing on the development of actions that aim to deepen the Company’s proximity relationship with Measurement and assessment the community, whilst involving and motivating of social impacts its employees. In 2016, 17 corporate volunteering actions were developed, resulting in a total of 35,475 volunteering In order to promote the generation of results and benefits hours, involving 2,004 volunteers. that are both long-lasting and transformative, Galp regularly monitors the performance of the projects Investment in Volunteering by SDG developed in the community, evaluating the benefits they generate for the entities, including their direct 0.14% beneficiaries, the environment and the Company. SDG 3 In this way, it aims to guarantee the careful and fair 7.01% allocation of resources, as well as the optimisation 91.22% SDG 4 of the results generated by each project. The goal SDG 2 is to induce opportunities for growth and wealth 0.65% SGD 10 generation in the community, in a context of shared 0.98% value creation among all stakeholders. To this end, Transversal projects the Company has been adopting several assessment and reporting methodologies, namely those listed below. SDG 2 Zero hunger London Benchmarking Group (LBG) SDG 3 Good health and well-being Galp integrated the LBG methodology in 2012 SDG 4 Quality education and started reporting its contributions according SDG 10 Reduced inequalities to the criteria defined in this methodology. In 2016, Transversal projects new reporting metrics were included, namely the inclusion of indicators of contribution relating to the volunteers' own time. 78 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 5.2. Engagement with stakeholders 2016 (€) Galp Foundation Motivation In fulfilling its social mission, Fundação Galp Energia Donations 2,412,806 developed in 2016 a wide range of projects in its three priority areas of intervention: social development, energy Investment in the community 3,335,208 and environment, and culture. Of these, there was Commercial initiatives 335,028 a greater focus on the first, intervening not only Geographic breakdown in response to social emergency situations but also in the aspect of social inclusion in schools and Rest of Europe 3,013,910 in the promotion of access to knowledge. Middle East and Africa 271,349 South America 2,797,783 To that effect, several programmes and projects have been developed, based on partnerships with entities Subject/focus that deal with these realities in the field. Education 996,764 Health 817,511 Find out more about the projects and social initiatives developed in 2016 by Fundação Galp Energia Economic development 0 at www.fundacaogalpenergia.com. Enviroment 938,205 Arts & Culture 528,302 Social welfare 2,139,817 Emergency relief 0 Other 662,444 Total excluding management costs 6,083,042 Total including management costs 6,374,476 Social Return On Investment (SROI) In 2016, Galp began the assessment of its social projects in accordance with the SROI methodology. This methodology is a cost-benefit analysis of the social value generated by the intervention of the organisations, which allows to assess and select projects, to invest in those that present greater impact potential. Two projects were assessed during the year: • Galp Solidária, with a SROI of 1.3:1, meaning that for each Euro invested in the programme, it creates €1.30 of social value; • renovation of social facilities in the Lisbon region, with a SROI of 2.22:1, meaning that for each Euro invested in this initiative, €2.22 of social value was created. Learn more about the Company's application of SROI on Galp's website. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 5.3. Valuing human capital In an increasingly competitive world, the Oil & Gas industry faces the challenge of competing for talent. It is crucial to ensure that it attracts and retains well-prepared employees in the current global context of high volatility. Sustainable Development Goal SDG Gender equality SDG Decent work and economic growth 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women. 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. It is essential to attract the right talent, to enhance learning and to plan correctly for successions, in order to efficiently guarantee the Company’s strategic execution. By the end of 2016, Galp had a total of 6,475 employees, of which 2,939 were allocated on-site, this is, to service stations in the Iberian Peninsula and Africa. Of the total number of employees, 228 were allocated to E&P, 5,482 to R&M and 178 to G&P. Age distribution Distribution by gender Distribution by nationality Professional < 30 30-50 > 50 Other TOTAL Men Women Portuguese category years years years nationalities Top managers 54 0 23 31 50 4 43 11 Middle managers 183 1 93 89 139 44 153 30 First line managers 426 2 280 144 266 160 345 81 Specialists 1,671 187 1,105 379 1,037 634 1,075 596 Other 4,141 482 2,865 794 2,330 1,811 1,890 2,251 TOTAL 6,475 672 4,366 1,437 3,822 2,653 3,506 2,969 Note: compared to previous years, the reported figures do not include employees of the GGND, according to the Company’s accounting rules. Galp considers it fundamental to promote diversity and equal opportunities in creating a multicultural and innovative organisational environment. During 2016, in the context of gender equality, Galp renewed the commitments made at the Fórum de Empresas para a Igualdade de Género (Portuguese Business Forum for Gender Equality) and triggered an internal review on this topic. This project aimed to perform a diagnosis in order to define the vision on gender equality for the Company, over five and ten years, and to structure an action plan with its respective communication and awareness actions. 80 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 5.3. Valuing human capital In 2016, the turnover rate, expressed in the voluntary The human capital strategy aims to promote value departure of employees. creation based on partnership, continuous learning and high performance, in order to support the sustainability Employee turnover (%) of Galp's business. 2014 2.1 In 2016, the performance management model, the learning and training strategy and the talent and potential 2015 2.6 management programmes were redefined, among other 2016 2.5 actions. These are structural changes that reflect a corporate culture based on autonomy, responsibility and meritocracy, and governed by Galp’s values: agility, partnership, Human capital strategy innovation, sustainability and trust. Galp positions itself as a competitive employer, offering Performance management conditions to attract, develop and retain its people, taking into account the strategic and context challenges In 2016, Galp defined a new performance management faced by the Company. model based on a continuous feedback culture. Among the main changes introduced by the new model, it must be highlighted: its universality; the focus on motivation Best i and development of people; guidance for meritocracy; n Current and clas coherence and integration, and objectivity. The new f ut s a ur s model particularly values the behavioral skills directly e o related to Galp values, due to the recognition of the ts foli Skills | Kno importance of how you do and not just what you do . en t | se ort Finally, the model's ability to differentiate the degree p tal urces | Attitu w-h of responsibility in achieving the objectives is also The value is explored highlighted. and extracted from t the assets through talented s so de ow In 2016, the performance appraisal process covered and engaged people Be Re approximately 97% of the Company's employees. working together o el m m Also, 87.6% of the 581 first line managers, middle managers and top managers were assessed according on it m gin e n t to the 360° Methodology, covering a total g of 730 employees in 2016. |C b e nt of Deep m involv e ense Reward strategy P u rp o s e| S The process of redefining Galp's reward strategy began during 2016, exploring the application of the total compensation concept. The aim is to extend the scope of In order to create value to all stakeholders, through remuneration beyond the basic salary concept. an adaptable, inspired and committed workforce, Galp has defined a human capital strategy focused In order to reinforce and enhance desired behaviours, on the following areas of activity: recruitment; induction; in line with its culture and values, Galp is developing new development; learning and training; performance recognition programmes, while creating greater proximity management; reward, as well as in information systems between employees and strengthen teamwork. that support these processes. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance People development Model 70:20:10, by McCall, Lombardo Galp believes that employees are a key factor in the and Eichinger success of the strategic execution and that only empowered and committed people can contribute to • 70% of on-the-job learning, through practice deliver the anticipated results. Galp redefined its talent and experience in the work context; management strategy based on the identification and • 20% informal and social learning, through others, assessment of the following features: such as managers and colleagues; I. technical and behavioural performance; • 10% formal learning, through courses and typical classroom training. II. motivation and ambition; III. commitment to the Company. The Company has several training models, with specific The combination and intersection of these features objectives, which look into converging in an advanced are meant to reflect talent@Galp. Talent at Galp must training center, promoting integrated training projects, reflect the Company leaders’ behaviour, whose roles oriented to the development of management, technical must go far beyond hierarchical and structural formality. and behavioural skills. Leaders should be visionaries, should lead by example and according to Galp's values. Leaders are expected to • FormAG Advanced Management Training Course motivate and to be drivers of change. -It has trained 748 Galp first line managers since 2010. In 2016, Galp had a set of programmes for the development -Training hour load in 2016: 13,023 of its human capital. • Generation Galp – a programme aimed at recruiting • EngIQ Doctoral Programme in Refining, Petrochemical young graduates of high potential and with and Chemical Engineering a remarkable ability to obtain results in highly -It has graduated 170 Galp employees through the demanding and competitive environments, contributing course of eight editions and 32 doctorates were to the rejuvenation of strategic positions at Galp. concluded in a business environment. The 2015/2016 programme ended with a retention rate of 100%, with 37 participants having been admitted. -Training hour load in 2016: 3,340 Since 2008, the cumulative retention rate of this programme was 87%, reflecting the value • CompeC Advanced Training Course in Business Skills proposition presented by the Company. -Since 2013, 218 customer managers have been • Mapping Potential – 145 employees have graduated in Portugal and Spain, corresponding been assessed in 2016. Within this programme, to the total number of eligible employees. and for these employees, assessment tools were developed, particularly individual reports, personal -Training hour load in 2016: 3,344 career development plans and specific training. • Assessments under FormAG (Leaders for the Future, • MScEP Masters in Petroleum Engineering Developing Leaders and Maturing Leaders) – 283 -Until its 3rd edition, it has graduated 74 young employees have been assessed since 2010. employees for the E&P area. In this programme, assessment takes place after the beginning of the training courses and the reward is -Training hour load in 2016: 10,500 continuing to be part of this programme in the long term. Galp has defined a new learning and training strategy, • CFO Simulator based on the 70:20:10 model and aligned with a new -In the first two editions, it covered a total culture and organisational values, focusing more of 51 employees. on learning methodologies that foster experience (using -Training hour load in 2016: 624 laboratories) and informal skills development (coaching, mentoring, employee resource groups, social learning). 82 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 5.3. Valuing human capital • Ace Academy are assessed, such as autonomy, career, diversity, -In the first edition, it covered a total of 25 employees. collaboration, communication, leadership, reward, recognition, strategy, culture and values. These are -Training hour load in 2016: 1,500 analysed to identify strengths and improvement opportunities to be developed. • Corporate Finance -In the first edition tailored-made to Galp employees In 2016, the climate diagnosis had a global participation it covered a total of 34 people. rate of 67%, this is 3,305 employees, and its result showed the following positive aspects of Galp: -Training hour load in 2016: 2,380 • strategic alignment within the Group; From the new approach to the training model, it must • spirit of collaboration and good relationship be highlighted the training focused on the accelerated between colleagues; development of personal skills and an advanced training in corporate financial management. • training and development; • environment, health and safety at work. Training in 2016 main areas On the other hand, the following improvement 24% opportunities have been identified, which will Health, safety, be considered in the human capital development environment and quality programmes: 17% Languages • work-life balance; 16% Advanced • career development and compensation and benefits. training 3% courses IT After this diagnosis, Galp will continue in 2017 10% Behaviour with actions that galvanise the culture and values 30% of the Company, enhancing engagement. Technical In 2016 there were 196,806 hours of training. Organisational climate It is a strategic objective for Galp to create an organisational climate that fosters a sense of belonging, with a career and development perspective, so that each employee feels the motivation and the sense of mission needed to carry out their job. This strategy allows each employee to reach their full potential, maximising the return on the Company’s investment in its people. The organisational climate diagnosis, which is done annually, aims to identify improvements in management practices, with a direct impact on people, in order to leverage organisational performance and map opportunities. In this survey, different dimensions Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 5.4. Achieving global objectives requires ensuring energy efficiency and minimising the intensity of GHG emissions along the value chain, as well as the ability to adapt Energy to the effects of climate change. These are conditions for Galp's operations, products and services, and constitute and climate areas of action with customers and business partners. The inclusion of carbon price in the assessment of investment projects represents a tool to reflect the overall objective of limiting average temperature rises. It is also a way of positively influencing the necessary Is Galp's goal to maintain a balanced business portfolio, technological transitions leading to maximising energy gradually investing in low carbon technologies, in natural efficiency and minimising the carbon footprint of activities gas projects and the use of new energy, in order to and products. Galp assumes this as a criteria in the manage the expected evolution in the global energy mix. valuation of its new projects. Sustainable Development Goals SDG Affordable and clean energy 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. SDG Climate action 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. Producing and delivering sustainable energy As part of the decarbonisation of the economy, Galp is committed to contribute to meeting the energy needs of the future in an efficient and responsible way, taking into account the challenges of energy and climate. Galp believes that a sustainable strategy ensures greater competitiveness and enables anticipating and managing opportunities and risks related to climate change, promoting the protection of long-term value. The structural transformation of energy demand in the global economy entails the creation of innovative and technologically sustainable solutions, at the economic, environmental and social levels, and therefore the Company has been actively promoting research. 84 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 5.4. Energy and climate + In 2016, Galp was included for the second Projeto Meet 2030 40 companies take part consecutive year in The Climate A List, within the in a collaborative way in the proposal of solutions initiatives and strategies related to climate change, for achieving the goal of Portugal’s carbon neutrality. by the prestigious CDP – Driving Sustainable Economies index. + Admission to the We Mean Business coalition, Galp advocates the adoption of responsible policies included in the NAZCA Tracking Climate Action based on a strategy for the reduction of the activity’s initiative, part of the United Nations Framework carbon intensity, based on a single market, cost-effective Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC). and sustainable in the long-term, shared throughout the world, transparent to society and whose main focus Learn more about the Climate Change Policy and is more on reducing emissions rather than setting specific Strategy, on Galp’s website. targets for energy production and energy efficiency. Galp's role in decarbonising In 2016, continuing the open dialogue with stakeholders and their active participation in the processes the economy of legislative and regulatory development, together Responsible E&P activities with BCSD Portugal, the Business Council for Sustainable Development, Galp promoted and leads Natural gas plays a key role in reducing global emissions the Meet 2030 project. in a low carbon transition economy. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Galp is committed to delivering the energy of the future, In 2016, Galp invested €4.1 m in eco-efficiency projects namely through the implementation of its development in the Sines refinery, avoiding the emission of more projects in Brazil and Mozambique, which include assets than 23 kton of CO2 equivalent. among the most competitive and resilient in the industry. The development of these axes is based on principles Galp develops and implements its E&P projects having such as the efficiency of resource consumption, the operational and energy efficiency as a premise, seeking development of innovative and lower carbon intensity to minimise its carbon intensity. production processes, and taking into consideration the low carbon scenarios in the medium and long-term. CO2 management in the pre-salt The success of the refining strategy is assessed Although there is no regulation in Brazil that requires independently against international benchmarks, in the injection of CO2, the partners in block BM-S-11 have particular with regard to positioning in terms of reliability taken the initiative, to separate and inject the CO2 from and energy efficiency. The goal is to achieve the first the natural gas produced since the beginning, reducing quartile Solomon reference for Western Europe by the end the operation’s ecological footprint and optimising the of the decade and to increase the integration maintenance of the reservoir’s pressure. This separation of the refining system. is carried out in the production unit through the selective permeation method, with the CO2 being injected back into In 2016, the Matosinhos refinery started using exclusively the reservoir using the WAG method. gas for energy production, consolidating and maintaining the position in the first reference quartile of Western Energy efficiency and carbon intensity Europe in energy efficiency. reduction in refining At the Sines refinery, there was a reduction Galp's refining activity is guided by a strategy aligned of 1.4 percentage points in the energy intensity indicator in five performance axes. (EII) compared to 2015, through a series of initiatives, such as the application of variable speed drives in the atmospheric distillation units and catalytic reformer. Reliability Reduction of 11% of the hydrocracker’s total electricity consumption Through the implementation of an innovative solution, the application of a continuous output More Energy electric system in a hydrocracker and the conversion Efficiency introduction of a power recovery process turbine, a reduction equivalent to 11% of the hydrocracker’s total electricity consumption (equivalent Refining to 2.5 MW) was achieved, which corresponds to 857 kg of equivalent CO2 avoided. The Sines refinery is expected to reach, by 2019, Flexibility Efficiency the first quartile reference in energy efficiency, following and of Processes the reconfiguration of the atmospheric distillation’s heat Innovation recovery train and the implementation of a flare gas recovery system. 86 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 5.4. Energy and climate These projects will contribute to reduce further the Energy efficiency in customers carbon intensity of its operation. and business partners Evolution of carbon intensity (kg CO2/CWT) Galp supports its customers in the implementation of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, 32.9 particularly focused at the business-to-business segment. 31.8 31.3 • 18 projects of energy services companies (ESCO) 30.0 29.4 implemented since 2009. • Over €5 m invested. 28.9 29.1 28.2 28.1 27.1 In this context, two programmes to promote energy efficiency must be pointed out: Galp ProEnergy SME 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and Galp Energy Manager. Sines refinery Matosinhos refinery Top performers Galp ProEnergy SME, focused on small and medium-sized enterprises (SME), was launched in 2015 in partnership with the Association of Energy and Environment Agencies Biofuels (RNAE), the Institute for Welding and Quality (ISQ) and the company Sair da Casca. By the end of 2016, Galp is present across the biofuels value chain, including this programme was attended by more than 900 the production of raw materials and the production companies from different sectors, providing free training of biofuels. The Company produces palm oil in Brazil, which to top managers and decision makers on the best includes a fresh fruit bunches (FFB) production process, practices in the use of electrical energy. During having produced 101.3 kton in 2016, a 196% increase from the year, five training actions took place and 30 SME 2015. were distinguished with the Galp ProEnergy seal. Downstream, Galp operates an industrial production The Galp Energy Manager programme was created unit in Sines, Enerfuel, dedicated to the transformation in 2016 in partnership with ISA Energy, and aims of waste oils and waste animal fats into second to equip SMEs in the industrial sector with monitoring, generation FAME biodiesel. management and control tools. Continuous and real time consumption monitoring allows companies to know • Production of 19 kton of second generation FAME their energy profile, identify unnecessary consumption biodiesel. and monitor the effectiveness of the efficiency measures • 438 k m3 of biofuels incorporated. implemented. By the end of 2016, 134 contracts were signed with 116 companies with annual • 907 kton of CO2 prevented. consumptions of 205 GWh/year. • 100% of biofuels with proven sustainability. Through this activity, Galp has been creating solutions and services that contribute to the achievement of the SDG, The Company will continue to diversify the residual origin in what concerns the adoption of responsible production and raw materials for the production of second generation consumption patterns. biodiesel, in order to contribute to reducing CO2 emissions by 83% or more compared to conventional fuel emissions. The Company also continued its educational programmes, Missão Up and Power Up, through which it promotes the Galp complies with the introduction of biofuels energy efficiency concepts to future consumers, inducing in Iberia, in accordance with the objectives set by the the adoption of new behaviours. Learn more about these European Commission and its Member States, in order to programmes in Involvement with the community . achieve the target of incorporating 10% in 2020, using the various renewable supplements at its disposal. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Furthermore, in 2016, Galp held the 10th edition of the Galp 20-20-20 Programme, considered to be the biggest Galp 20-20-20 Programme Portuguese research programme on energy efficiency. • 192 projects in 10 years This programme promotes the development of studies • Partnership with three universities on the identification of rational energy systems and • Average return on investment period from the measures behaviours, applicable in industry and buildings, with implemented: 3.8 years the purpose of transferring knowledge and innovation • Student hiring rate: 22% between business and academia. Under this programme, Galp awards 21 research grants annually for the • Average energy consumption reduction of 9-12% development of projects. and of GHG emissions of 12-15%. Energy efficiency 2016 To learn more, visit Galp’s website. • 7,522 tep • €2.7 m • 19,380 t CO2 Carbon footprint Minimising carbon footprint, particularly by reducing emissions and the operations’ carbon intensity, is a challenge, especially in a context of expanding activities. To this end, monitoring of carbon footprint is essential, and therefore Galp does it regularly and systematically, taking into account its evolution when defining the strategy, objectives and targets. Galp’s Carbon footprint Emissions Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 % without unit: t CO2e Total 2014 Total 2015 Total 2016 the use of 2016 2016 2016 products Total WITHOUT 3,997,326 4,435,548 4,532,691 3,759,931 717,950 600,810 100% using products Exploration & Production 11,981 2,562 2,123 2,123 0 0 0.05% (Operated) Refining & Marketing 3,611,694 4,134,479 4,195,632 3,427,781 168,873 598,978 92.56% Gas & Power 356,710 280,949 320,042 319,432 610 0 7.06% Others 16,940 17,559 14,895 10,596 2,467 1,832 0.33% Total WITH 32,578,971 40,241,528 40,385,366 3,759,931 171,950 36,453,485 using products Use of products 28,581,645 35,805,980 35,852,675 0 0 35,852,675 Exploration & Production 229,835 366,800 324,292 324,292 0 0 (non-operated) Direct emissions (Scope 1) can be monitored directly by the company and refer to emissions due to fuel consumption in the company's facilities: furnaces, heat or steam generators, company vehicles. Indirect emissions (Scope 2) caused by Company activity but using resources from other organisations: use of power grid, heat or steam, produced in non-company facilities. Indirect emissions (Scope 3) emissions from consumption of fuel in non-Company facilities: hire cars, aeroplanes, waste burning, logistics, services. The Company's carbon footprint in 2016 reached 4,532,691 tCO2, 2% higher than in 2015, due to the increase in oil and gas production. However, the carbon emissions of refining activities (representing approximately 87% of Galp's scope 1 and 2 emissions) was reduced by 1.2% at the Sines refinery and by 1.4% at the Matosinhos refinery. Scope 3 GHG emissions are strongly constrained by the sale and consumption of petroleum products to third parties in each year under analysis (around 98% of the total scope 3 GHG emissions and 89% of Galp's total carbon footprint). Under the EU Emissions Trading System (ETS), the refineries acquired 1,355,066 ton of emission allowances (EA) mostly for the production of electricity. 88 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 5.4. Energy and climate • ensure the incorporation of sustainability requirements 5.5. throughout the life cycle of assets and activities, consistent with the SDG; Protection • continuing to reduce the consumption of resources by activity level; of people, • maintain the trend of reducing atmospheric emissions by activity level; • increase the portion of recoverable waste; environment • reduce containment losses, maintaining zero accidents with environmental damage. and assets Refineries’ objectives and targets Sines refinery Ensuring the protection of people, environment and Performance Target assets throughout the entire life cycle is an indispensable Indicator Units 2016 2017 condition for the operations. Galp distinguishes itself for the transparency in communicating its performance, Standardised total water consumption per treated m3/ton 0.53 0.60 allowing all the interested parties to follow its progress. or processed feedstock Standardised NOx emissions per treated or g/ton 93.3 94.0 processed feedstock Sustainable Development Goals Standardised SO2 Good health and well-being emissions per treated or g/ton 418 460 SDG processed feedstock 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Emissions of standardised particulate matter per treated or processed g/ton 11.8 15.0 SDG Affordable and clean energy feedstock 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. Matosinhos refinery Performance Target SDG Responsible consumption and production Indicator Units 2016 2017 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. Standardised total water consumption per treated m3/ton 0.60 0.51 or processed feedstock SDG Life on land Standardised NOx 15 Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of land ecosystems. emissions per treated or processed feedstock g/ton 88.6 90.0 Standardised SO2 emissions per treated or g/ton 31 30 processed feedstock The Company has defined the following objectives: Emissions of standardised • zero personal, material and environmental accidents particulate matter per treated or processed g/ton 8.5 10.0 with significant impact – classes 3 and 4; feedstock • becoming a leader in the sector in terms of the accident frequency index (AFI) by 2020; The established goals follow the principles of continuous improvement considering the activity plans. Target for the LTIF in 2017: 0.6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The commitment, management’s leadership, skills and training of its employees are critical factors for success and achieving the goal of ensuring the protection of the environment, people and assets. In 2017, Galp will launch an advanced training programme on HSE and quality. Galp establishes sustainability performance indicators at the various levels of the Company, namely those associated with the objectives and targets of HSE and quality. These commitments, targets and objectives are available on Galp’s Sustainability Section (website). The life cycle model approach in operations In an external context as dynamic as it is today, and given the specifics of the sector in which it operates, Galp recognises the need to integrate, totally and systematically, the sustainability aspects into the management of all phases of its assets and activities. The life cycle model adopted by Galp defines phases and stages of decision making throughout the process of identifying and developing a business opportunity. The requirements to be met and the documents to be supplied depend on the level of risk identified for each dimension. This action allows obtaining the approval of the competent entities and the consent of the other interested parties, this being the condition for maintaining the social license to operate. Assessment of risks To ensure success, it is necessary to assess the environmental, social, health and opportunities and safety risks and opportunities by applying internal methodologies based on reference standards. Materialisation of Galp's The commitments made are materialised in specific requirements to be met, commitments and policies referred to as sustainability requirements (e.g., environmental, social, health and safety requirements). Applying a life cycle A management approach that takes into account the whole life cycle enables approach the identification, assessment and integration (compliance) of the sustainability requirements applicable at each development stage of a given business opportunity, from opportunity identification to decommissioning. This approach will support the decision-making process and contributes to the implementation of the business plan investments, within budgets and deadlines. Management system Monitoring of the results of the Environment, Quality, Safety and Energy (EQSE) audits, along with the respective key performance indicators – that make up the balanced scorecard (BSC) of business and management units – are relevant management tools. 90 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 5.5. Protection of people, environment and assets During 2016 37 EQSE audits were carried out, involving 62 internal auditors and 22 external auditors. The internal audits carried out the following observations and actions: 344 131 213 findings non-conformities improvement opportunities 316 141 175 actions arising from non-conformities arising from improvement opportunities In 2016, there was a positive evolution on the follow-up processes of actions arising from audits. In 2016, Galp maintained the 35 certifications of its management systems, in the areas of Environment (ISO 14001), Quality (ISO 9001), Safety (OHSAS 18001), Energy (ISO 50001) and laboratory accreditations (ISO/IEC 17025). The certification of suppliers is also a relevant aspect for Galp, in particular for biofuel production activities. Learn more about audits and certifications on Galp’s website. Environmental protection Galp guarantees the incorporation of the principles of environmental prevention, eco-efficiency and environmental impact valuation in its operations. In 2016, Galp invested c.€30 m in protecting people, environment and assets. In the refining area, through measures on energy efficiency, water reuse and waste recovery, Galp achieved savings of around €24 m. In addition to the economics, the environmental results achieved were also positive: 76% 73 % 87 % reduction of NOX emissions reduction of SO2 emissions reduction of particulate matter emissions Results compared to 2006. For more information on the objectives and targets associated with the operational eco-efficiency of refining, visit Galp’s website. Sustainable management of soils, water resources and biodiversity preservation Galp’s action with regard to soil and groundwater management, water resources and biodiversity preservation is responsible and proactive. In addition to the proper management of its potential impact in this domain, it communicates regularly and transparently the mapping of its operations according to the risk associated with the use of the water resource (GWT) and its interaction with the areas of biodiversity conservation and protection (IBAT). Learn more on Galp's website. During the 2016 financial year, the amount of provisions to face environmental liabilities, particularly in terms of soil and groundwater protection and abandonment of E&P blocks, was €139,060 k. Please see “Provisions” under Appendix 8.1 Consolidated accounts for more detail. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The Environmental and Social Management Plan, A responsible exploration and production associated with the planned activities, will ensure activity the implementation of the proposed mitigation Environmental and social management measures, namely those related to: in São Tomé and Príncipe • waste management; Galp is present in four offshore blocks in São Tomé • prevention and management of emergencies, and Príncipe, operating block 6 with a 45% stake. including a contingency plan for hydrocarbons spills; Under the planned exploration programme, the acquisition of seismic 3D is planned for 2017. • protection of mammals and sea turtles; • communication and reporting. Within the scope of the environmental license granted by the Government of São Tomé and Príncipe, Galp The plan will be monitored periodically during undertakes to respect the laws and regulations the project. Given possible uncertainties and changes, applicable in this geography, as well as to follow Galp will ensure that the gaps are identified, the risks the best international practices and standards applicable. and uncertainties are assessed and that its activity will comply with the internal procedures concerning The Environmental and Social Impact Assessment change management. carried out assessed the potential impact arising from this activity and, where appropriate, mitigation measures were identified to minimise any potential adverse effects to levels as low as reasonably achievable. For more information on the guidelines and operational procedures adopted, visit Galp’s website. Galp monitors and reports its non-financial performance quarterly, namely the indicators related to natural, social and relationship, human, intellectual and productive capitals. To this end, it has a IT platform across the Group, created with the aim of ensuring transparency and reliability in the reporting process. Indicador 2013 2014 2015 2016 Refining1 Direct energy consumption by primary sources (TJ) 48,919 44,922 49,286 45,712 99.0% Purchase of electricity (TJ) 1,781 1,862 2,008 1,728 89.2% Total consumption of raw water (10 m ) 3 3 12,342 10,058 10,535 10,176 88.4% Waste water (103 m3) 5,691 5,562 6,543 6,336 91.5% Waste produced (t) 20,631 22,680 25,434 27,215 86.6% Number of primary containment losses discharged 20 11 8 4 into the Environment 2 Volume of primary containment losses discharged 30 10 99 5 into the environment (m3) 2 GHG emissions under EU-ETS (t CO2 e) 3,874,161 3,211,746 3,496,077 3,424,131 NOx emissions – scope 1 (t) 2,145 1,295 1,691 1,571 SO2 emissions – scope 1 (t) 7,508 5,134 6,008 5,233 Particulate matter emissions – scope 1 (t) 350 243 250 183 Carbon footprint – direct emissions (t CO2 e) (scope 1) 4,148,633 3,481,132 3,766,626 3,759,931 Pegada de Carbono – indirect emissions (t CO2 e) (scope 2) 154,510 161,626 273,458 171,950 Gas Flaring – E&P (m3) 1,638,336 1,360,737 967,854 783,168 CO2 emissions – Flaring E&P (t) 4,039 3,354 2,386 1,964 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions Refineries (t) 3,489 3,235 3,234 N.D. 1 The refining activity is the segment with greater materiality in the environmental performance of the Company. 2 Includes containment losses> 150 l, excluding gaseous products. 92 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 5.5. Protection of people, environment and assets Safety and health LTIF by region in 2016 Safety 0.9 0.8 0.8 0.8 The goal of achieving zero accidents is the driving force 0.5 for the Company to act in accordance with the best safety practices. The purpose is to protect human capital – employees and contractors – as well as to preserve the Company's assets and the surroundings where Galp operates. The recording and reporting of incidents is a common 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 practice across the Company. In 2016, there was Total Contractors Employees a significant improvement in Galp's LTIF, as a result of awareness-raising activities among its employees, with themes related to human factors. The near-accident South America Africa Europe analysis and the dissemination of lessons learned were reinforced. In order to minimise risk and protect the environment, Lost time injury frequency (LTIF) Galp acts in the prevention of occurrences, in the (no. of accidents per million hours worked) preparation of emergency response and in the efficient operation in case of incidents. Evolution With regard to containment losses, there was a total 2014 2015 2016 volume of containment losses of approximately Employees 2.0 1.9 0.8 15,782 thousand liters in 2016, with about 5,425 thousand liters reaching the environment. Contractors 0.8 0.4 0.8 Total 1.4 1.3 0.8 Learn more about containment losses on Galp’s website. Containment losses volume (m3) LTIF by gender in 2016 124 1.1 99 0.9 0.8 0.8 0.6 22 16 10 5 0.0 2014 2015 2016 Total Contractors Employees Total Volume Volume that reached the environment Male Female Galp's area of intervention is not restricted to accident management, as it also acts on product and process safety. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance • Integrated health surveillance plan Process safety evolution Development and implementation of the integrated 0.54 health surveillance plan, with effective results in terms 0.50 of medical examinations. 0.39 • Corporate Health Strategy 0.32 The corporate health strategy review process 0.31 continued, and was extended to other geographies where Galp develops activities. 0.17 Promoting health and well-being Galp develops a set of initiatives to promote health and well-being, adapted to the different geographies where 2014 2015 2016 it operates and to the various risks to which its employees are exposed to: Tier 1 Tier 2 • training in epidemics and pandemics (malaria/HIV/Zika Learn more about the safety topics on Galp’s website. virus prevention programme); • occupational health; Security • prevention of ergonomic hazards; Galp recognises the importance of assessing the security • seasonal diseases; risk and the possible threats to which the Company is exposed to ensure the safety conditions of its employees • campaigns to promote health (prevention of obesity, and assets. The security strategy outlined intends to cardiovascular diseases). assess the risk levels of this aspect at the critical facilities of the Company and, consequently, to define active and Learn more on Galp’s website. passive measures aimed at reducing this risk. Health Galp continues to ensure an effective management of its employees’ health, based on applying the best practices, as indicated by international bodies and in compliance with a set of normative regulations and internal guidelines. The occupational health initiatives of 2016 encompassed two aspects: integrated health management and the promotion of wellness actions. • Monitoring and performance Monitoring and reporting of key performance indicators, with awareness and prevention actions also being monitored and followed-up on. • Health risks Health risk management. In 2016, special attention was given to the ergonomic risks in the head office building and the corresponding adaptation of the work stations was carried out. 94 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 5.5. Protection of people, environment and assets 5.6. The Company ensures the surveillance of the main variables of the business, promoting its scientific-technological empowerment and enhancing knowledge networks through Innovation, partnerships with reference players and the management of the innovation projects’ pipeline. research Galp has established the following key areas of activity: and technology Energy efficiency Designing solutions to improve energy efficiency in our customers' facilities and in internal project In the current context of decarbonisation of the economy implementation. We work towards the goal of turning and increasing energy demand, innovation is one of the main our Company into a reference in its sector. drivers of growth and value generation. Differentiated renewable energies Sustainable Development Goals Our value proposal resides in our commitment SDG Affordable and clean energy to offer integrated sustainable energy. This offer comprises 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. of renewable energy and better energy efficiency. SDG Decent work and economic growth Sustainable mobility 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive Presence in three axis: employment and decent work for all. • energy chain SDG Industry, innovation and infrastructure • mobility management 9 Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation • behavioural change and foster innovation. In 2016, it must be highlighted the strengthening Partnerships for the goals SDG of the business partners’ ecosystem and the connection 17 Strenghten the means of implemention and revitalise the global partnership to national and international start-up networks. Within the partnerships, the following clusters of competencies for sustainable development. were chosen as priorities: Industry, Digital, Media, Technology and Engineering, Mass Consumption and Services. Galp is focused on overcoming business challenges, combining knowledge, skills and implementation. For this end, it has been promoting a culture of innovation, stimulating an entrepreneurial attitude and operating with active agents in the process of innovation. Galp actively promotes the research, development and implementation of technologies and solutions that contribute to the incorporation of sustainability principles into business models along its value chain. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 95 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Extracting more value from E&P Twenty projects were submitted to ANP and seven of these are focused on the extraction and reuse of CO2. projects by investing in R&T To overcome the technological challenges posed Efficient R&D to E&P activities where it operates, Galp continued its investment in research and technological development: The TOP-REF project continued in 2016. It was launched in 2014 by Galp in partnership with nine other entities • funding of around 100 masters and PhD scholarships and aims to increase energy efficiency in refineries. Within by 2020; the EngIQ business doctoral programme, the following • investment of around €100 m, by 2020, R&T projects, in the final stages of conclusion, with the implementation of the R&D strategic plan must be highlighted: for E&P activities in Brazil. • optimising the acid gas treatment network of the Sines In 2016, several projects around four major technological refinery; areas began or continued, particularly in Brazil. • advanced process control based on inferential sensors. 1. Oil production Reducing CO2 emissions is one in carbonate of the most important global Sustainable mobility reservoirs challenges. As an integrated energy operator, Galp analyses holding fluids In this context, the technology the major trends in mobility worldwide. with high for the capture, separation, percentage and storage of carbon has been Being a reference operator in Portugal, the Company of CO2 the subject of research has been promoting sustainable mobility in the country. and development, since it helps In 2016, about 20% of the energy supplied by the electric to minimise emissions. Of the mobility network (MOBI-E) resulted from chargings projects initiated, seven are designed made in Galp's service areas. During 2016, the Company to capture and reuse CO2. extended the fast electric charging network available at its service stations by installing ten charging stations, 2. Modeling The modelling of the geomechanical thus enabling an electric mobility corridor from North of carbonate response of carbonate reservoirs to South of Portugal. This initiative was supported reservoirs has become particularly important by leading automotive brands such as BMW, Nissan, in recent years, due to the geological Renault and Volkswagen. heterogeneity that characterises carbonate reservoirs. This dynamic reinforces the strategy to support sustainable mobility, which includes expanding the energy 3. Flow assurance The hydrocarbons flow is one offer through the LPG network and the introduction of our biggest operational challenges. of CNG. Natural gas distribution 4. Production Our focus within E&P is the deep and equipment offshore production of hydrocarbons. and customer relations facilities It is therefore vital to invest in Within the regulated activity of natural gas distribution technological innovation in Portugal, Galp initiated a project in the context of production facilities of the Internet of Things – IoT, in partnership with and equipment. a telecommunications company, applied to the collection of information from the domestic gas meters. To find out more about these programmes and their various axes of development, visit Galp’s website. Galp intends to reinforce its knowledge in the collection and use of digital information associated and use this information in its future service developments towards the domestic consumers. 96 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 5.6. Innovation, research and technology Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97 6 Corporate governance To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance PART I A – Shareholding structure Information I Capital structure 1. Capital structure (share capital, number of shares, per shareholder, etc.), including unlisted shares, on the Company’s different categories of shares, rights and duties of the shares and the equity percentage that each category represents [Article 245(A) (1) (a)] shareholding The share capital of Galp is €829,250,635, fully paid and represented by 829,250,635 shares with a par value structure, of €1.00. organisation 771,171,121 shares, corresponding to 93% of the share capital and voting rights are listed on Euronext Lisbon. and governance The remaining 58,079,514 shares are indirectly held by the Portuguese state through Parpública – Participações Públicas, SGPS, S.A. (Parpública) and are not listed. These shares, which represent 7% of the share capital, are a special category of shares undergoing a privatisation process, and may be converted into ordinary shares on completion of this process, by simple request sent to Galp. Conversion is effective immediately on request, without the need for approval from any of the Company’s corporate bodies. Codes and tickers for the Galp share ISIN GALP PTGAL0AM0009 State-owned shares PTGALXAM0006 (shares subject to the privatisation process) Sedol B1FW751 WKN AOLB24 Bloomberg GALP PL Reuters GALP.LS 100 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance 2. Restrictions on the transferability of shares, such 5. Regime governing renewal or revocation as consent clauses for their disposal, or restrictions of defensive measures, in particular those which on share ownership [Article 245(A) (1) (b)] provide for limitation on the number of votes that can be held or exercised by a single shareholder Galp shares are freely transferable under the terms of the individually or by agreement with other shareholders. general scheme, with no statutory restrictions that may impede their transferability or ownership. Galp’s by-laws enshrine the one share, one vote principle, with no statutory provisions or other legal instruments 3. Number of treasury shares, corresponding providing for any limitation on the number of votes percentage of share capital and percentage of voting that can be held or exercised by a single shareholder rights corresponding to treasury shares [Article or by agreement with other shareholders. 245(A) (1) (a)] At the same time, Galp’s by-laws do not contain On 31 December 2016, Galp held no treasury shares. any provisions intended to prevent the success of takeover bids or to establish any voting caps. 4. Significant agreements to which the Company is a party to and which take effect, are amended 6. Shareholder agreements that are known or terminated in the event of change of control to the Company and may result in restrictions of the Company following a takeover bid, as well on the transfer of securities or voting rights as their respective effects, unless, by their nature, [Article 245(A) (1) (g)] disclosure of such agreement would be seriously damaging to the Company, unless the Company is The Board of Directors is not aware of any shareholder specifically obliged to disclose such information by agreements relating to Galp which could lead virtue of other legal requirements [Article 245(A) (1) (j)] to restrictions on the transfer of securities or the exercise of voting rights. Galp is not party to significant agreements that take effect, are amended or terminated in the event of a change of control of the Company following a takeover II Company shares and bonds held bid. In accordance with normal market practice, some 7. Identification of natural or legal persons financing agreements includes in the event of a change of that, directly or indirectly, are holders of qualifying control the possibility of a debt holders requesting early interests [Article 245(A) (1) (c) and (d) and Article 16], repayment of loans amounting to €468.3 million. with details of the percentage of capital and votes allocated and the source and causes of allocation. Galp does not adopt measures whose effect is to demand payments or the assumption of costs by the Company Similarly to other European countries, the shareholders in the event of a transfer of control or change and other entities must report to Portuguese Securities in the composition of the Board of Directors and which Market Commission (CMVM) and to Galp whenever might damage the free transferability of the shares the holdings that are attributable to them reach, and the free appraisal of the performance of the members exceed or fall below the limits of 2%, 5%, 10%, 15%, of the Board of Directors by the shareholders. 20%, 25%, 1/3, 50%, 2/3 and 90% of the voting rights corresponding to the Galp share capital. The voting rights allocation situations listed in Article 20 of the Securities Code (CVM) can be viewed at www.cmvm.pt. On 31 December 2016, qualifying holdings in Galp’s share capital, calculated in accordance with Article 20 of the CVM and that were reported to Galp, are presented in the following table. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Qualifying holdings in Galp share capital Transactions in qualifying holdings during 2016 on 31 December 2016 In early 2016, Templeton Global Advisors Limited Percentage (Templeton), BlackRock, Inc. (BlackRock) and Standard Number Shareholders of voting Life Investments (Holdings) Limited (Standard Life) held of shares rights a 2.03%, 2.45% and 2.112% shareholding, respectively, Amorim Energia, B.V. in Galp’s share capital, based on the information provided Holding 276,472,161 33.34% to Galp in April 2013, April 2014 and March 2015, respectively, which continued during 2016. Other attributable situations 0 0.00% Total attributed 276,472,161 33.34% In February 2016, CI Investments Inc. (CI Investments) Parpública Participações Públicas (SGPS), S.A. notified Galp that it reduced its indirect stake in Galp’s share capital, and corresponding voting rights, Holding 58,079,514 7% from 2.01% to 1.96%, thus no longer having a qualifying Other attributable situations 0 0% holding therein. Total attributed 58,079,514 7% In March 2016, Black Creek Investment Management Inc. BlackRock, Inc. (Black Creek) announced a reduction of its holding Holding 20,307,726 2.45% in the Company’s share capital, and of the corresponding Other attributable situations 0 0% voting rights, from 2.05% to 1.97%. Total attributed 20,307,726 2.45% In July 2016, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Henderson Group plc (BNYM) and Schroders plc (Schroders) announced Holding 19,465,726 2.34% a reduction of their holdings in the Company’s share capital to 1.99% and 1.965%, respectively, i.e., below the Other attributable situations 0 0% 2% limit for qualifying holding eligibility. Total attributed 19,465,726 2.34% Standard Life Investments (Holdings) Limited1 In September 2016, Amorim Energia announced the sale, in a private offering through accelerated book building, Holding 41,462,532 common shares, representing 5% of Galp’s Other attributable situations 24,142,849 2.91% share capital, and now holds qualified holding of 33.34% Total attributed 24,142,849 2.91% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights. Standard Life Investments Limited1 Also in September, Henderson Group plc (Henderson) Holding n.a. 2.70% announced an increase of its indirect holding Other attributable situations in the Company’s share capital to 2.34% of the share capital and voting rights. Total attributed n.a. 2.70% Templeton Global Advisors Limited In October 2016, Norges Bank announced an increase Holding 16,870,865 2.03% of its qualifying holding in Galp’s share capital and voting rights to 2.09%, and decreased it to 1.84% during Other attributable situations 0 0% the same month. Total attributed 16,870,865 2.03% 8. Indication of the number of shares and bonds 1 On 20 March 2017, Standard Life Investments (Holdings) Limited notified Galp on the held by the members of the Board of Directors position achieved on 26 March 2015 by its affiliate Standard Life Investments Limited, and the Audit Board which on that date increased its holding in Galp’s share capital to 2.703%, above the 2% threshold. Pursuant to this change, the group’s corresponding indirect holding in The number of shares held by or allocated to members Galp increased to 24,142,849 shares, corresponding to 2.911% of voting rights. of the Board of Directors and of the Audit Board, as well as changes occurred during the 2016 financial year, under Article 5 of the Commercial Companies Code (CSC), is presented in Annex 8.6 to this Report. 102 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance On 31 December, 2016, none of the members of the Board B – Corporate Bodies of Directors held any bonds issued by the Company. and Committees On 31 December 2016, the Chairman of the Audit Board held Galp Energia, SGPS, SA EMTN Notes, maturing on 25/01/2019 and had performed no transaction of those I General Shareholders Meeting instruments during 2016. a) Composition of the Board of the General 9. Special powers of the Board of Directors, Shareholders Meeting in particular in respect of resolutions on capital increases [Article 245(A)(1)(I)], indicating, regarding 11. Identification and position of the members such resolutions, the date on which the powers were of the board of the General Shareholders Meeting assigned, the term during which the power may and term (start and end) be exercised, maximum quantitative limit of the capital increase, the amount already issued under Under Article 11(2) of Galp’s by-laws, the Board the allocation of powers and mode of implementation of the General Shareholders Meeting consists of assigned powers of a chairman, vice-chairman and a secretary, elected by the General Shareholders Meeting. Galp’s Board of Directors has the typical powers of Company management set forth in corporate legislation The members of the Board of the General Shareholders for the respective corporate governance model. Meeting elected for 2015-18, starting on 16 April 2015 The by-laws do not provide for any special powers for that and ending on 31 December 2018, are the following: body, namely empowering the Board of Directors to make decisions on increases in Company share capital. Chairman: Daniel Proença de Carvalho Vice-Chairman: Victor Manuel Pereira Dias The General Shareholders Meeting held on 16 April 2016 granted the Board of Directors the power to acquire Secretary: Maria Helena Claro Goldschmidt and dispose of Company treasury shares and bonds. The timing and size of transactions are determined b) Voting rights depending on market conditions and a set of criteria defined and approved by the General Shareholders 12. Any restrictions on voting rights, Meeting. These criteria are available on the Galp website. such as limitations on voting depending on the number or percentage of shares held, The number of treasury shares may not exceed 10% time limits for the exercise of voting rights or systems of the Company’s share capital at any time and the Board of enhanced equity rights [Article 245(A) (1) (f)] of Directors may decide on the purchase or sale of Company shares over a period of 18 months from the Galp’s by-laws enshrine the one share, one vote principle, General Shareholders Meeting. with no statutory provisions or other legal instruments providing for any limitation on the number of votes Regarding bonds, from the date of the relevant decision, that can be held or exercised by a single shareholder the number of bonds to be purchased may not exceed individually or by agreement with other shareholders. the equivalent of 10% of the aggregate nominal amount of issued bonds. Bonds may be acquired or sold within Neither the by-laws nor any other instruments provide 18 months from the General Shareholders Meeting by any restrictions on voting rights, such as limitations decision of the Board of Directors. on exercising the vote depending on the number or percentage of shares held, imposition of time limits On 31 December 2016, Galp held no treasury shares or bonds. for the exercise of voting rights or systems of enhanced equity rights. 10. Information about significant relationships of a commercial nature between the owners Galp has not established any mechanisms whose effect of qualifying holdings and the Company is to create a discrepancy between the right to receive dividends or subscribe new securities and the voting In 2016, there were no significant relationships rights of each share. of a commercial nature between the owners of qualifying holdings and Galp. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 103 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The right to vote is exercised pursuant to Article 10 (1) of In any case, the letter for exercising the voting rights by Galp’s by-laws and shareholders may participate, discuss mail must contain proof of registration, on behalf of the and vote at the General Shareholders Meeting in person shareholder, of the shares with which it intends or by proxy, provided that on the date of registration, to exercise the right to vote, in an account of book-entry i.e. 00:00 (GMT) of the 5th trading day prior to the date securities. Letters with voting declarations are opened by of the General Shareholders Meeting, they are the holders the Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders of at least one share. Meeting at the start of the meeting and postal votes are counted in determining whether or not the Meeting Ownership of shares is proved by sending a declaration quorum is met, with the postal vote for each agenda item issued and sent, including by email, by the broker with disclosed at the point to which it relates to. Postal votes information on the number of shares registered will be counted as votes against proposals submitted and the registration date, to the Chairman of the Board or amended after the vote is cast, except in the case of the General Shareholders Meeting before the end of elective resolutions, where such votes are considered of the 5th trading day prior to the date of the General as not cast. Shareholders Meeting. The right of postal vote may be exercised electronically, Participation in the General Shareholders Meeting also in accordance with the requirements defined by requires the shareholder to state such intention in writing the Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders and to send it, including by email, to the Chairman Meeting when notification is sent of each General of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting Shareholders Meeting, to guarantee authenticity and to the financial intermediary with whom and confidentiality. the individual registration account is open, by the end of the 6th trading day prior to the date of the General 13. Indication of the maximum percentage of voting Shareholders Meeting. rights that may be exercised by a single shareholder or shareholders related to said shareholder The exercise of these rights is not affected by as per Article 20(1) the transfer of the shares at any time after 00:00 (GMT) on the date of registration and is not affected by any Galp’s articles of association do not provide any limitation blocking between that date and the date of the General on the voting rights that may be exercised by a single Shareholders Meeting. However, shareholders who, having shareholder or shareholders in any of the relationships declared their intention to participate in the General with said shareholder that contribute to the allocation Shareholders Meeting, transfer ownership of shares of voting rights under Article 20(1) of the CVM. between 00:00 on the date of registration and closure of the General Shareholders Meeting shall immediately 14. Identification of shareholder resolutions that, inform the Chairman of the Board of the General by statutory requirement, may only be taken with Shareholders Meeting and the CMVM. a qualified majority, in addition to those provided by law and indication of these majorities In its by-laws [Article 10(6) to (9)] Galp permits voting by mail, without any restrictions. Galp’s by-laws establish, in accordance with applicable corporate law, that resolutions of the General Shareholders may exercise their voting rights by mail Shareholders Meeting are passed by simple majority on each agenda item by sending a registered letter to of the votes cast, except where the law or by-laws require the Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders a qualified majority. Abstentions do not count in voting Meeting at the registered office of the Company, on resolutions of the General Shareholders Meeting. where it must be received by the day before the date of the General Shareholders Meeting, accompanied The Company’s by-laws establish the requirement by a photocopy of the identification document. If the for the resolutions of the General Shareholders Meeting shareholder is a legal entity, the vote declaration must to be adopted by a qualified majority of two-thirds of the be signed by the attorney. votes cast only when they relate to the following matters: 104 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance a) resolutions on matters relating to the Company’s shareholders and other corporate bodies, the duties management submitted to the General Shareholders of the Executive Committee – which are delegated Meeting by the Board of Directors; by the Board of Directors – are operational in nature and entail the day-to-day management of business units b) amendments to the by-laws, including capital and corporate services. increases, as well as limitation or withdrawal of the pre-emption rights of shareholders; The existence of matters that are the exclusive remit c) demerger, merger, transformation or dissolution of the Board of Directors ensures that this body monitors of the Company. and controls Galp’s strategic issues. In relation to the resolutions of the General Shareholders The allocation of responsibility for coordinating specific Meeting on the matters referred to in b) and c) or other management areas of the Executive Committee to each matters for which the law requires a qualified majority, of its members, without prejudice to the collective nature the deliberating quorum of two thirds of the votes of the exercise of management functions by this body, is applicable in both the first and the second call, promotes the effective monitoring of the Company’s even if shareholders holding at least half of the capital management and the use of synergies within are present or represented. The mentioned deliberating each business unit and in the Company as a whole. quorum aims to ensure an adequate representativity of shareholders when passing resolutions about matters The chairman of the Board of Directors has, in addition that are strategic for the Company. to such other authority and responsibilities as are provided by applicable laws or regulations, the authority and responsibility to coordinate and supervise relations II Management and supervision between the Company and its shareholders, including (Board of Directors, Executive Committee majority shareholders, in accordance with the Company’s and General and Supervisory Board) objectives, the long-term interests of shareholders and in the interest of ensuring the sustainable development a) Composition of the Galp Group’s business. 15. Identification of the governance model adopted Under the legal provisions applicable to the relationship between the non-executive members of the Board Galp’s corporate governance model uses a management of Directors and the Executive Committee, namely structure comprising a Board of Directors, an Executive in respect of monitoring by non-executive members Committee with powers delegated by the Board to exercise of the Executive Committee’s activity, in accordance day-to-day management, a supervisory framework with Article 407(8) of the CSC, the right to attend including the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor, and a the meetings of the Executive Committee was granted Company Secretary providing specialist support to the chairman of the Board of Directors, as well to the Company’s corporate bodies. as a member specially designated for finacial matters, by the Board of Directors at its meeting of April 24, 2015. The corporate bodies within the governance model are mandatory for companies with shares listed in a In turn, the Audit Board is responsible for exercising the regulated market and which adopt the one-tier model oversight functions of company business in four key areas: under Article 278(1)(a), Article 413(1)(b) and (2)(a) and (i) supervision of Company activity; (ii) control Article 446(A)(1) of the CSC. of the Company’s financial information; (iii) oversight of the internal risk management, control and internal Galp’s governance model is designed to ensure auditing systems; and (iv) receipt (and processing) the transparency and effectiveness of the Group through of whistle blowing. The Statutory Auditor is also responsible a clear separation of powers between the different for control of the Company’s financial information. corporate bodies. Whilst the Board of Directors exercises oversight, control and supervision of strategic matters, as well as the management of relations between Annual Report and Accounts 2016 105 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 16. Statutory rules on procedural and substantive d) the General Shareholders Meeting cannot proceed to elect other directors until the election of the requirements applicable to the appointment director proposed by the minority shareholders that, and replacement of members, as applicable, of the Board individually or grouped with other shareholders for this of Directors, the Executive Committee and the General purpose, are holders of share capital with voting rights and Supervisory Board [Article 245(A) (1) (h)] of at least 10% and at most 20%, unless such lists are not submitted; The General Shareholders Meeting is responsible for appointing and replacing the members of the Board e) the above rules apply to the election of the substitute of Directors, including the Chairman. member director. In the event of permanent absence or impediment If no list is submitted under the above provisions, of any member of the Board of Directors, this body shall or when the above procedure is concluded, the other proceed to co-opt a replacement member and must directors are elected, including the Chairman of the Board submit this proposal for endorsement by the next general of Directors. The shareholders who voted successfully shareholders meeting. in favour of the director proposed under the procedure outlined in the preceding paragraphs may not participate Galp’s by-laws establish that members of the Board in this election. of Directors are appointed for a renewable term of four calendar years, with the year of appointment counting The other directors, including the Chairman as a full year. Members of the Board of Directors take of the Board of Directors, are elected by a vote from office at the time of appointment and remain in office until any lists submitted for this purpose, with the proposal the nomination, co-option or appointment of a substitute, obtaining the highest number of votes in favour being except that a member who has resigned or been removed deemed approved. remains in office for the periods established in the CSC. If the approved proposal includes the maximum number Members of the Board of Directors are elected from a list, of directors allowed by the by-laws, and a director with an indication of the proposing shareholders, with has been elected under the procedure referred the vote only applying to the full list and not to every to in Article 14(2) of the Company’s by-laws, the director single one of its members, as provided by the law. thus elected shall replace the person appearing in 13th place in the proposal that has been successful; Minority shareholders that, either individually or as an if the approved proposal does not include the maximum established group, have a voting interest in the company number of directors allowed by the by-laws, the director of at least 10% and not greater than 20%, have the right elected under the procedure referred to in a) to d) above to individually nominate one director, as per the following is added to the number of directors elected under terms of Article 14(2) of the Company’s by-laws: the terms above mentioned. a) each list must propose at least two candidates For the purposes of the scheme for the replacement for each office to be filled; of directors due to permanent absence, provided in Article 393(1) of the CSC, the Company’s by-laws b) the same shareholder cannot subscribe to more provide that a director is deemed permanently absent than one list; when, without justification accepted by the Board c) if lists are presented by more than one group of Directors, s/he misses three consecutive meetings of shareholders for an individual election, voting will be or five non-consecutive meetings. based on all the lists; 106 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance In accordance with the Company’s by-laws, 17. Membership, as applicable, of the Board if the proposal for the election of directors (except of Directors, the Executive Board and the General the director to be elected by the minority shareholders and Supervisory Board, indicating the statutory who, individually or grouped with other shareholders minimum and maximum membership, statutory term for the purpose, are holders of share capital with voting of office, number of permanent members, rights of at least 10% and at most 20% under the above date of first appointment and end date of each terms) is not approved by a majority of 55% of votes member’s term of office cast and with at least 40% of the share capital with voting rights, the shareholders that: (i) are qualified to In accordance with Galp’s by-laws, the Board of Directors participate in this election (not having voted has a minimum of 19 and a maximum of 23 directors in the election of the director appointed by the minority who are appointed for four year terms and may shareholders); (ii) have voted against that proposal be re-elected one or more times. or have voted in favour of a proposal that has not been successful; and (iii) hold, themselves or in a group formed Although the members of the Board of Directors for this purpose, shares representing at least 25% are appointed for terms of four years, their continuance of the share capital with voting rights, may submit as directors depends on a positive outcome from annual and vote on proposals, electing among themselves performance assessments in the form of a vote of praise a number corresponding to one third of the elected and/or confidence given by shareholders in a General directors (not including the director elected by the Shareholders Meeting under its powers provided minority shareholders who, by themselves or grouped by Article 376 (1) of the CSC. The lack of a positive with others for this purpose, are holders of share outcome from annual performance assessments, through capital with voting rights of at least 10% and at most a motion of no confidence results in the removal 20% under the above terms). If the total number of of the director in question in accordance with elected directors is not divisible by three, the number applicable law. of directors to be elected will be rounded up to the next whole number. Directors elected under this procedure The current 19 full members of the Board automatically replace those who are in the final places of Directors, elected at the General Shareholders Meeting of the initially approved list. of 16 April, 2015 for the four-year term 2015-18, are listed in the following table, as well the respective As required by law, if the appointed directors have dates of first appointment and term end date. a current employment contract with the Company to which they were appointed or a company in a controlling In order to promote the strengthening of women’s or group relationship with this Company, the contract participation in the Company’s decision-making, shall be terminated if it has been in effect for less than on 30 June 2015, before the Portuguese Government, one year or is suspended if it has been in effect for more Galp engaged itself to develop measures aimed at than one year. achieving the objective of having a female member participation in the Board of Directors of 30% until 2018, or at the beginning of the subsequent term. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 107 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Members of the Board of Directors Name Position Date of first appointment Term end date Paula Amorim Chairman 2012.04.24 2018.12.31 Miguel Athayde Marques Vice-Chairman 2012.11.23 2018.12.31 Carlos Gomes da Silva Vice-Chairman 2007.04.26 2018.12.31 Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Member 2012.07.26 2018.12.31 Thore E. Kristiansen Member 2014.10.03 2018.12.31 Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo Member 2012.07.26 2018.12.31 Abdul Magid Osman Member 2012.07.26 2018.12.31 Marta Amorim Member 2016.10.14 2018.12.31 Raquel Vunge Member 2014.10.03 2018.12.31 Carlos Costa Pina Member 2012.04.24 2018.12.31 Francisco Rêgo Member 2015.04.16 2018.12.31 Jorge Seabra de Freitas Member 2012.11.23 2018.12.31 José Carlos da Silva Costa Member 2012.11.23 2018.12.31 Pedro Ricardo Member 2015.04.16 2018.12.31 Tiago Câmara Pestana Member 2015.04.16 2018.12.31 Rui Paulo Gonçalves Member 2008.05.06 2018.12.31 Luís Todo Bom Member 2012.11.23 2018.12.31 Diogo Tavares Member 2006.02.22 2018.12.31 Joaquim Borges Gouveia Member 2008.05.06 2018.12.31 Note: On 14 October 2016, Américo Amorim resigned as chairman of the Board of Directors. On the same day, Paula Amorim was appointed chairman of the Board of Directors, Marta Amorim was co-opted a member of the Board of Directors and Miguel Athayde Marques was appointed vice-chairman of the Board of Directors. 18. Distinction between executive and non-executive b) in the past three years, they have provided services members of the Board of Directors and, or established a significant business relationship for non-executive members, identification of members with the Company or a company with which who may be considered independent or, if applicable, it is in a controlling or group relationship, either directly identification of independent members of the General or as a partner, director, officer or manager and Supervisory Board of a legal entity; c) they are in receipt of remuneration paid In accordance with the CMVM Recommendation, by the Company or by a company with which the independence of the members of the General it is in a controlling or group relationship, in addition and Supervisory Board and of the members of the to remuneration earned as a director; Audit Board is ascertained in accordance with current legislation and the other members of the Board d) is the partner, spouse or relative in the first degree of Directors are considered independent if they and up to and including the third degree of a director are not associated with any specific interest group or an individual with a direct or indirect qualifying holding; in the Company and are not in any situation that might e) is a qualifying shareholder or representative affect their impartiality of analysis or decision-making, of a qualifying shareholder. in particular because: a) they have been employees of the Company or of a company with which it has been in a controlling or group relationship in the past three years; 108 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Executive directors Non-executive independente directors Carlos Gomes da Silva Name Position Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Miguel Athayde Marques Non-executive vice-chairman Thore E. Kristiansen Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo Non-executive director Carlos Costa Pina Abdul Magid Osman Non-executive director José Carlos da Silva Costa Luís Todo Bom Non-executive director Pedro Ricardo Joaquim Borges Gouveia Non-executive director Tiago Câmara Pestana At its meeting of 16 April 2015, the Board of Directors approved the appointment of the independent Non-executive directors non executive directors Sergio Gabrielli and Abdul Paula Amorim Magid Osman to the special role of monitoring the development of two of Galp’s structural markets: Miguel Athayde Marques Brazil and Mozambique. Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo Abdul Magib Osman On 14 October 2016, Galp reinforced the participation of independent directors in the Board of Directors Marta Amorim with the appointment of the independent non-executive Raquel Vunge director since 2012 and holder of a respected professional Francisco Rêgo career in the financial sector and university field Miguel Athayde Marques, to the role of vice-chairman of the Jorge Seabra de Freitas Board of Directors. Rui Paulo Gonçalves Given the governance model adopted, the size Luis Todo Bom of the Company, its shareholder structure Diogo Tavares and the respective free float, Galp believes that Joaquim Borges Gouveia the proportion of independent directors (42% of the non-executive members of the board) is suitable given the number of executive directors and the total number On 31 December 2016, the Board of Directors of directors. had 12 members with non-executive roles (who remain in office on this date), providing an adequate number 19. Qualifications and other relevant details of non-executive members, given Galp’s shareholder of the professional experience of each member, structure and capital dispersion. They engage as applicable, of the Board of Directors, the General in monitoring activities and continuous evaluation and Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee of the Company to ensure effective capacity for monitoring, supervision, oversight and evaluation The table in the following page is a mapping and of the activity of the executive members. systematised representation of the skills, knowledge and experience of Galp’s directors. It is a resource Considering the criteria for determination for reflection within the Board of Directors that of independence referred to above with respect was developed to evaluate the suitability and to non-executive members of the Board of Directors complementarity of the skill set of the board in terms and, based on their self-assessment, Galp’s Board of alignment with the challenges that Galp will face of Directors considers the following five Company in the future, as well as support for future directors for financial year 2016 to be independent: appointment processes. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 109 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The members of the Board of Directors have The Board of Directors believes that the skills, knowledge acknowledged skills and a diversity of academic and experience of its directors are, together, appropriate backgrounds and professional experience. considering the activities pursued by the Company and the strategy defined for the coming years. Education Main area of expertise Operational experience Others Experience as Chief Financial Asser Procurement/Purchase United Nations Development Real estate/Hotels & Resorts Business Administration and Environmental Associations Experience as Chairman of Experience as Charmain of Securities and Derivatives Paper & Forest Products International experience Oil and Gas organisations Telecommunications Social Responsibility Economics/Finance Management (including Risk Energy/Oil & Gas Financial Services Beverage Industry Textile Industry Officer (CFO) Investor Relations and Management Programmes Engineering Management) Government Market Board of Directors Executive Committee (CEO) Marketing Associations Law Scholar Retail Finance Legal Paula Amorim Non(Chairman) executive Carlos Gomes Executive da Silva (CEO) Miguel Athayde NonMarques executive Filipe Crisóstomo Executive Silva Thore Executive E. Kristiansen Carlos Costa Pina Executive José Carlos Executive da Silva Costa Pedro Ricardo Executive Tiago Câmara Executive Pestana Sérgio Gabrielli Nonde Azevedo executive NonAbdul Magid Osman executive NonMarta Amorim executive Francisco NonRêgo executive NonRaquel Vunge executive NonRui Paulo Gonçalves executive NonLuís Todo Bom executive NonDiogo Tavares executive Joaquim Borges NonGouveia executive Jorge Seabra Nonde Freitas executive 110 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance 20. Significant family, professional and business relationships of the members, as applicable, of the Board of Directors, the General and Supervisory Board and Executive Committee with shareholders to whom qualifying interests above 2% of the voting rights are allocable. Director Shareholder with qualifying interest Relationship Paula Amorim Amorim Energia Director Marta Amorim Amorim Energia Director Rui Paulo Gonçalves Amorim Energia Director Jorge Seabra de Freitas Amorim Energia Director Francisco Rêgo Amorim Energia Director 21. Management charts or tables relating to the distribution of powers among the Company’s various corporate bodies, committees and/or departments, including information on the delegation of powers, in particular about the delegation of the daily management of the Company Organic and Functional Structure General Shareholders Audit External Auditor Meeting Board Remuneration Committee Statutory Internal Auditing Auditor Sustainability Board Committee of Directors Corporate Galp • Strategy and Investor Relations Company • Office of the Presidency Secretary and Communications • Legal and Governance • Human Resources Specialised Committees Executive Corporate Centre • Corporate Planning and Control • Corporate Finance • Risk Management • Risk Management Committee • Advisory and M&A • Ethics and Conduct Committee • Labour Relations • Gas & Power Regulation, Business Pricing and Risk Committees Units Galp Solutions • EQS Board • Procurement and Contracts • Accounting & Taxation • Information Systems • Asset Management Exploration Refining Gas & Galp Tec & Prodution and Marketing Power • Research & Technology • Environment, Quality, Safety & Sustainability • Engineering and Project Management Annual Report and Accounts 2016 111 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Galp’s current organisational structure is based units in such diverse areas as planning and control, on three business units and a corporate centre, accounting, legal advice and human resources, under the coordination of each of the executive directors as well as to generate significant synergies and provide in accordance with the functional allocation an interface between the Company and its stakeholders. of performance areas established by decision of the chairman of the Executive Committee, In summary: based on guidelines provided by the Board of Directors, as described in section 29 of this Report’s chapter. • Galp Corporativa brings together the main functions of governance, strategy, guidelines and corporate The guiding principles of this structure are horizontality, control, monitoring the implementation flexibility, simplicity, efficiency and delegation of the Company’s policies and goals; of responsibility, to create value for shareholders, • Galp Soluções brings together service functions in particular by the capture of synergies within of a more transactional nature, with the clear objective and between the business units. of efficiency/ effectiveness and a focus on metrics and quality of service provided at a competitive cost; The Corporate Centre consists of three clusters of functions that reflect bespoke objectives, cultures • Galp Tec brings together critical cross-cutting expertise and operating approaches (Galp Corporativa, Galp to increase and protect the value of Galp. Soluções and Galp Tec) and whose leadership is divided among the executive directors of Galp. The goal of the The Corporate Centre consists of the divisions Corporate Centre is to provide services for the business presented below. Galp Corporate Mission Define Galp’s strategic guidelines, promoting clear strategic, operational and financial perception Strategy and Investor of the Company for its stakeholders and ensuring that the Company has suitable organisation Relations and human capital for the pursuit of its strategy. Assist the chairman in management, coordination and relationships with the governing bodies of the Organisation and in devising the Group’s internal and external communication strategy, to ensure Office that it is suitable for its target audiences and to promote a consistent, positive, clear and rigorous of the Presidency perception and effective management of Galp’s brand, in line with the strategy and size of the Group and Communications as an integrated and global energy player. Coordinate and manage the corporate responsibility policy of the Organisation so that Galp can be seen as an active agent of development of the communities in which it operates, in Portugal and abroad. Exercise and manage legal and compliance functions and the corporate secretariat, in an integrated and cross-cutting way for the Galp Group, particularly in aspects of legal support for business decisions, Legal and Governance monitoring legal compliance and policies for compliance, definition and implementation of the process of Organisation, operation and decision-making of the governing bodies, litigation management and prevention of legal risks. To act as agent and facilitator for change, by attracting, integrating and developing the best talents, as well as ensuring their alignment with the Company’s culture, values and strategy. Human Resources Promote an environment of value creation based on partnership, continuous learning and high performance, in order to support the sustainability of Galp’s businesses. Set, monitor and consolidate Galp’s budgeting, planning and control processes, challenge Corporate Planning the performance of the business units and the Corporate Centre and ensure their alignment with the Galp and Control Group’s strategic objectives. Propose and implement the Galp Group’s financing strategy, ensuring the optimisation and diversification Corporate Finance of its financial resources and integrated Treasury management. Promote the implementation of the risk management policies defined by the Executive Committee in conjunction with the Galp Group’s different business units. Propose insurance policies, negotiate Risk Management and manage the related contracts at whole Group level and manage health and medicine plans (curative and occupational). Developing mechanisms for evaluating Galp’s and the Group’s Organisational Units, testing strategic Advisory & M&A requirements and evaluating macro opportunities for strategic growth and its impact on the company’s value, and coordinating mergers and acquisitions. Developing the relationship with organisations that represent workers, contributing to the stability Labour Relations of the social and professional environment and ensuring negotiations with the trade unions. 112 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Galp Solutions Mission Maximise Galp’s purchasing power, thus contributing to the sustained improvement of the Group’s results, by obtaining better value for money, while safeguarding health, safety and sustainable Procurement and Contracts criteria and practices in the purchase of goods and services to ensure the implementation of procedures that demonstrate transparency and ethics in purchasing processes and the introduction of innovations that optimize the supply chain. Ensure the preparation of the consolidated accounts of the Galp Group and of all the sub-holdings and the individual accounts of all the Group companies, in accordance with national and international standards and at replacement prices. Draft the respective management information reports from Accounting and Taxation a general and cost accounting perspective. Propose, implement and monitor the Group’s permanent capital structure (through integrated management of intra-group flows capital, services, supplies and dividends). Ensure compliance with tax obligations under international taxation and the tax laws of the countries where it operates. Promote the development and sustainability of Galp’s business through efficient, effective, reliable, Information Systems consistent, innovative information system management, oriented towards controlled processes and costs. Ensure the management of the Galp Group’s “non-operational” assets by proposing and carrying out the purchase or development of assets to ensure their permanent appreciation and the optimisation of their cost/benefit ratio. Develop, implement and manage strategy Asset Management for the provision of services to Management/Business Units to ensure high quality, safety and environmental standards in compliance with current regulations. Establish partnerships with the business unit for sharing best practices. Galp Tec Mission Define and enact integrated policies and projects in innovation, technological and energy efficiency research, within the structure of the Galp Group’s strategy and given the principles of value Research & Technology creation. Create and maintain a forum to ensure access to the best available technology and knowledge required for a suitable response to the technological challenges that the Galp Group may face. Environment, Quality, Promote the efficiency of processes, aiming at protecting people’s environment and assets, Safety & with the creation of value for all stakeholders in mind. Sustainability Manage Galp’s projects to support its business units, from the design phase until commercial Engineering and Project commissioning, ensuring quality of execution and compliance with budgets and deadlines for each Management project and promoting the development of key technical skills, updating knowledge and ensuring consistency in the processes and standards that enhance and protect Galp’s value. The current existing business units are the following: in order to facilitate a greater operational efficiency. Defines strategy, coordinates and controls activities Exploration & Production Its mission is to access, that enable short and medium-term maximisation find and produce hydrocarbons safely, sustainably and sustainability of integrated margins throughout and ethically, with the objective of maximising value the oil value chain, the development and optimisation for shareholders and employees, relying mostly of trading, supply and logistics activity, the maximisation on differentiated, integrated, flexible and geologically of assets values and customer satisfaction. motivated partners in developing its activities. Marketing has the mission to ensure the marketing of oil Refining and Marketing The Refining ensures the supply products for the Fuel and Non-Fuel Retail business in the of crude oil and petroleum products in order to meet Iberia and in Africa and to define the marketing strategy the supply needs of commercial areas, provides to support and develop the Galp brand’s position, the highest levels of availability and reliability of refineries for the creation of value and adequate profitability, Annual Report and Accounts 2016 113 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance providing customer satisfaction and loyalty, thus and regulatory changes. Thus, it is ensured that these contributing to the profitability of the capital invested. matters are duly integrated into the Company’s risk management system. During 2016, the working group Gas & Power (G&P) G&P’s mission is to guarantee focused on the most critical risks in these matters the procurement of natural gas and liquefied natural gas, and reported the findings of its evaluation to the committee. so that the supply needs of the business areas are covered; operating in the trading activity of the international Through the representation of the Risk Management market and ensuring the marketing of Galp’s gas Division in Risk and Credit Committees of the various output. It also acts as a benchmark operator, ensuring business units, as well as in working groups dedicated the development of a set of regulated and deregulated to the Group’s main projects, the alignment of risk activities, including the operation of natural gas management practices and effective communication infrastructure in a regulated system and marketing with the Risk Management Committee is ensured. through the combined supply of natural gas, electricity and services to end customers in Iberia. Regulation, Pricing, Risk and Gas & Power Committees The organisational model of Galp also foresees In the G&P business unit, there are three committees the existence of specialised commissions that contribute that accompany regulatory affairs, market information to the decision-making process by obtaining information and risk management issues, and internal control of the and alignment on the implementation of policies natural gas and electricity distribution business: the G&P and practices with transversal impact in a number Regulation, G&P Pricing and G&P Regulation Committees. of areas of the Company, which are presented below. The G&P Regulation committee is responsible Risk Management Committee for monitoring statutory matters relating to natural gas and electricity distribution, as part of the industry’s The Risk Management Committee’s mission is to support regulatory framework. Its membership consists and monitor the development and implementation of the executive director holding the G&P unit portfolio of Galp’s risk management strategy and policy, jointly and the heads of the specific areas of Regulation with the Risk Management Division and the heads and Pricing and Planning and Control. of the Company’s management units, which comprise the executive director, who is responsible for the risk This body met regularly during 2016 and addressed management Division (Chief Risk Officer), the Head the issues identified as most relevant, such as: of the Audit Division, the Head of the Risk Management Division and the Chief Financial Officer. • the ERSE regulatory parameters proposals for the 2016-19 Regulatory Period and tariffs This body met regularly during 2016, and routinely for the 2016-17 Gas Year; addressed the issues identified as most relevant from a risk • matters regarding disputes with official entities, perspective for the Galp Group. Among other things, in particular those relating to distribution concession it is worth noting the monitoring of the main mitigating contracts and to CESE tax for natural gas; actions on the Company’s main risks, such as cybersecurity, business continuity, credit, emerging risks, access • issues connected to the ERSE’s penalty by-laws to reserves, dependence on partners, geopolitical events, and issues associated with subsoil occupancy rates; as well as the results from risk assessments that are deepened whenever deemed appropriate. The G&P Pricing Committee seeks to monitor market The Executive Committee was informed about the matters information at the level of natural gas and electricity addressed therein and the resulting resolutions. marketing, to analyse the competitiveness of offers in the Iberian residential and industrial markets Within the sphere of the Risk Management Committee, and to monitor international markets in natural gas it is worth stressing the work group that is subordinated and LNG trading and supply. to issues related to environment, quality and safety, In addition to the executive director responsible for the G&P business unit, this Committee’s members include 114 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance the heads of the specific areas of regulation and pricing, Ethics and Conduct Committee marketing, natural gas procurement and trading, planning and business control. Following the entry of the new Code of Ethics and Conduct, the Ethics and Conduct Committee This body met regularly during 2016 and addressed was created (CEC), with membership consisting the issues identified as most relevant, such as: of the heads of internal audit, human resources and legal matters, appointed by the Audit Board as proposed by • analysis of change in the market shares of natural gas Galp’s Executive Committee. and electricity in the various segments; The CEC is the independent and impartial internal • monitoring of natural gas and electricity margins structure responsible for monitoring the implementation in the various segments; and interpretation of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, • analysis of Galp residential campaigns: GalpOn as defined in the respective Regulation, replacing and Plano Energia3 plan; the previous, disbanded, Commissions for the Verification • quarterly review of natural gas reference prices; of Compliance with the Code of Ethics and Anti-Corruption Policy Monitoring. It also responsible for receiving • setting Galp’s electricity reference prices and processing information sent to it under the Reporting for the year 2017. of Irregularities Procedure (”Open Talk” Ethics Line) in force in Galp and Affiliated Companies, relating to alleged The G&P Risk Committee was established to monitor risk violations of the provisions of the Code of Ethics management and internal control issues within the G&P and Conduct or its implementing regulations or rules business unit; its membership consists of the respective that deal with the topics listed therein, in the fields executive director and the heads of the specific areas of accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing of these units, as well as the directors of Legal services and the fight against bribery, banking and financial crime. and Risk Management. Galp’s Audit Board is the governing body that oversees This body met frequently during 2016 to address issues the proper operation and implementation of the Code corresponding to the main risks, by: of Ethics and Conduct through the frequent and regular reporting of the CEC. • monitoring the debt of Portuguese and Spanish clients in the various segments and main indicators; During the year 2016, the CEC held three meetings for analysing and deciding on forwarding reports • monitoring the TOP 10 Matrix of the unit risks; of irregularities that were received and participated • monitoring the evolution of the company’s main KPIs; in three meetings of the Audit Board, in which the due report was given to this body. • identifying and monitoring risk mitigation actions. EQS Board The EQS Board’s mission is to assist the Executive Board in promoting the principles that underpin Galp’s EQS culture by ensuring the implementation of the EQS strategic policies and objectives. The Board is chaired by the executive director responsible for the EQS area and includes the heads of the relevant business areas and corporate divisions. In 2016, it met twice and addressed the EQS performance (objectives and targets) and the monitoring of the strategic EQS initiatives in the business units. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 115 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance b) Operation 22. Existence and location for consultation of the operating rules, as applicable, of the Board of Directors, the General and Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee Galp’s Board of Directors operates in accordance with the regulations governing organisation and operation approved by this body at its meeting of 16 April, 2015, to take effect during the term of 2015-18, in accordance with Article 16 of the by-laws, available on the official Galp website at http://www.galpenergia.com/EN/Investidor/GovernoCorporativo/ Orgaos-sociais/Documents/Regulamento_CA_EN_Web.pdf 23. Number of meetings held and attendance of each member, as applicable, of the Board of Directors, the General and Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee In accordance with the provisions of Article 16(2) of Galp’, the Board of Directors meets ordinarily once a month, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors and, in addition to this, whenever convened by the Chairman or by any two directors. Galp’s by-laws provide for the possibility that the meetings of the Board of Directors will be held by electronic means and will allow postal voting. In 2016, the Board of Directors held thirteen meetings, four of which were held by electronic vote. The degree of attendance of the Members of the Board of Directors to this body’s nine in-person meetings in 2016 is as follows: Directors Presence Representation Absence % Attendance Paula Amorim 9 0 0 100% Miguel Athayde Marques 9 0 0 100% Carlos Gomes da Silva 9 0 0 100% Filipe Crisóstomo Silva 9 0 0 100% Thore E. Kristiansen 9 0 0 100% Sérgio Gabrielli 4 5 0 44.4% Abdul Magid Osman 6 3 0 66.6% Marta Amorim 1 3 0 0 100% Raquel Vunge 5 0 4 55.5% Carlos Costa Pina 9 0 0 100% Francisco Rêgo 9 0 0 100% Jorge Seabra de Freitas 9 0 0 100% José Carlos da Silva Costa 8 1 0 88.8% Pedro Ricardo 9 0 0 100% Tiago Câmara Pestana 9 0 0 100% Rui Paulo Gonçalves 9 0 0 100% Luis Todo Bom 8 1 0 88.8% Diogo Tavares 9 0 0 100% Joaquim Borges Gouveia 7 2 0 77.7% 1 Since the date of election for the 2015-2018 term. 116 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance 24. Indication of the Corporate Bodies with powers 26. Availability of each member, as applicable, to evaluate the performance of the executive directors of the Board of Directors, the General and Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee, indicating the The Remuneration Committee conducts the annual positions held simultaneously in other companies performance review of the executive and non-executive inside and outside the Group, and other relevant directors under the powers of said committee, activities of said members during the year in accordance with the term conferred upon it by the General Shareholders Meeting in accordance with The positions held by the members of the Board Article 8 of the Company’s by-laws. The Committee of Directors in other companies inside and outside consults non-executive members to assess the qualitative the Galp Group, and other relevant activities carried performance of the executive members of the Board out by members of these bodies in the 2016 financial year of Directors and considers compliance with economic, are presented in Annex 8.8. financial and operational objectives, as defined annually by the Company’s remuneration policy. In general, the members of Galp’s Board of Directors have a high degree of availability for the exercise of their Furthermore, the non-executive members, as part of their functions, without prejudice to the natural accumulation oversight role, monitor the performance of the executive of functions by executive directors in Group companies directors. and rare situations of accumulation of functions by non-executive directors in companies outside Also, the shareholders in a General Shareholders Meeting the Group, which do not affect the exercise under their powers provided by Article 376 of the CSC, of their positions involving the monitoring, evaluation make a general appreciation of the management and supervision of executive management. of the Company in general and of each of the directors in particular, on an annual basis. That appreciation As is apparent from the table in Annex 7.9, directorship is expressed through a vote of confidence or distrust, duties exercised in other companies by Galp’s executive leading the latter to the removal of the concerned director. directors are in the administrative bodies of Galp’s direct or indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, they are fully 25. Pre-determined criteria for the performance available for the positions of executive members of Galp’s evaluation of executive directors Board of Directors, as is confirmed by their attendance at the meetings of the Board of Directors and The performance of the executive directors is evaluated based of the Executive Committee and by their work in Galp, on fulfilment of certain economic, financial and operational as annually certified by the Remuneration Committee objectives, as defined annually by the remuneration policy under the qualitative performance assessment submitted by the Remuneration Committee and approved of the executive directors. by the General Shareholders Meeting. With regard to the non-executive directors with the highest The predetermined criteria for the performance number of positions held in other companies, it is noted evaluation of the executive directors for financial year that they perform these functions in the Amorim or Américo 2016 are set out in section 69 of this Report’s chapter. Amorim group. This availability has been confirmed by their attendance at Board meetings. The legal and statutory regime of absences from the Board of Directors meetings provides for the removal from office or replacement of the member of the Executive Committee in question by another director, with the other director becoming non-executive. On another hand, Galp has the legal, statutory and regulatory mechanisms to prevent and deal with any conflicts of interest between directors and the Company in the exercise of other positions outside the group. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 117 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Indeed, as required by law under Article 398 of the CSC, c) Committees within the Management or the directors shall not: Supervisory Board and Delegated Directors • engage in any activity in competition with the Company 27. Identification of the committees created within, or a company in a controlling or group relationship with as applicable, the Board of Directors, the General it, alone or on behalf of a third party or perform duties and Supervisory Board and Executive Committee, in a competing company or be appointed for it, except and where the operating regulations can be viewed if authorised by the General Shareholders Meeting; Executive Committee • hold any position with an employment contract, which will be deemed terminated or suspended if agreed less than or more than one year ago, respectively. The current Board of Directors, at its meeting of 16 April, 2015, appointed an Executive Committee In particular, Article 14 of the Board of Directors of seven members and approved its delegation of powers Regulation establishes, for the purposes of Article and the regulations defining the basic principles and rules 398 paragraphs (3) and (4) of the CSC, the special of its Organisation and operation, which can be viewed arrangements for access to sensitive information on Galp’s official website at http://www.galpenergia. applicable to members of the Board of Directors who com/EN/Investidor/GovernoCorporativo/Orgaos-sociais/ are in a situation of conflict of interest due to the exercise Documents/Terms_of_reference_for_the_executive_ of an activity in competition with Galp, as authorised committee_2012.pdf by the General Shareholders Meeting. Galp’s Board of Directors considers that specific committees Also to protect the Group’s interest in possible situations are not required for matters such as performance evaluation of conflict of interest between the Company and its directors of management or corporate governance. arising from business between them and the Company or companies in a controlling or group relationship with it, This is due to the corporate governance model adopted Galp’s regulatory standard governing Group transactions by the Company, which includes a Board of Directors with related parties makes the implementation by Galp that assesses the operation of the corporate governance (or any entity in which it holds ownership or voting rights system and largely consists of non-executive members or where it can appoint members of the management body) (including the chairman), who monitor the overall of significant transactions with related parties, subject performance of the Board of Directors and whether to prior opinion of the Audit Board, as per the definitions of directors’ profiles are appropriate for the exercise that standard. Those definitions include the members of their duties. In this context, it should also be noted of Galp’s board of directors and the bodies in which they are: that there is: a Remuneration Committee, which evaluates (i) a partner with limited liability, manager, particularly the performance of executive directors with the support as a member of the administrative or supervisory bodies of non-executive directors; and a Audit Board, which or with regular access to inside information and involvement analyses the structure and governance practices adopted in management decisions and entity strategy or (ii) holder, in order to verify their effectiveness. individually or jointly, of at least half of the share capital or voting rights, as well as entities that have been established Sustainability Committee for the benefit of any person referred to above. At Galp, management for sustainability is deemed strategic Moreover, Galp’s by-laws subordinate approval and involves the incorporation of principles, approaches of business with shareholders in an amount exceeding and practices that favour the long-term value creation €20 million to a deliberation in favour thereof component. It therefore involves managing for the creation by a qualified majority of two thirds of the current of sustainable and lasting value that generates confidence directors, reflecting the special corporate governance in the future for the various stakeholders. requirement to which these transactions are subject. With the aim of creating sustainable value, in 2012 the Sustainability Committee was set up. Its mission is, therefore, to ensure the integration of sustainability 118 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance principles in the management of the Group companies, In view of the national legal framework, there is no by promoting best industry practices in all business appointment committee at Galp. In fact, although there and corporate areas. is no legal impediment to its existence, such a committee could not substitute for the competence of the shareholders The Committee is chaired by the independent vice-chairman in the election of the members of the Board of Directors, of the Board of Directors, while its permanent members in accordance with Article 391 of the CSC. are the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the executive manager who coordinates the area of sustainability 28. Composition, as applicable, of the Executive and the heads of the business areas and relevant corporate Committee and/or identification of delegated divisions. This body reports directly to the Executive director(s) Committee and to the Board of Directors. Galp’s Executive Committee currently consists In 2016, the Sustainability Committee met four times of the following seven directors: with the agendas covering the following matters: • analysis of Galp’s performance, commitments, Chairman: Carlos Gomes da Silva (CEO) objectives and goals; Members: Filipe Crisóstomo Silva (CFO) Thore E. Kristiansen • analysis and sharing of Galp’s sustainability context, Carlos Costa Pina as a support to the strategy and development José Carlos da Silva Costa of operations; Pedro Ricardo • integration of sustainability practices in business Tiago Câmara Pestana development; 29. Indication of the powers of each of the committees • alignment of Galp’s sustainability practices with the best international practices and benchmarking created and summary of their activities in the exercise with peers and benchmark performers; of those powers • monitoring of the stakeholder consultation process The Executive Committee is the body responsible and analysis of the materiality of sustainability issues; for Galp’s ongoing management, in accordance with • information analysis and preparation the strategic guidelines defined by the Board of Directors for communication and dialogue with stakeholders; and under the powers delegated to it by the Board. • integration of the carbon price in the investment The delegation of the Company’s ongoing management analysis for new projects. to the Executive Committee approved by the Board of Directors, pursuant to Articles 17 and 18 Other specialised committees of the by-laws and Article 407(3) and (4) of the CSC has the following limits: The Board of Directors approved the appointment of the two independent non-executive directors Sérgio Gabrielli 1. The following are not delegated to the Executive and Abdul Magid Osman to the special role of monitoring Committee: the development of the Brazilian and Mozambiquean markets’ evolution, respectively, with the aim to ensure f) choice of the Chief Executive Officer; a strategic analysis of two geographically central markets g) co-opting of directors; for the Company’s business. h) convening the Company’s General Shareholder Meetings; i) approval of management and annual accounts reports; j) provision of deposits and personal or real guarantees by the Company; k) change of registered office and capital increases, as provided in the Company’s by-laws; Annual Report and Accounts 2016 119 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance l) Company merger, demerger and transformation Notwithstanding the limits on the delegation of powers projects. referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 above, the Executive Committee has a special duty of initiative and proposal, 2. The following are not considered ongoing Company to the Board of Directors, in respect of the acts management powers and are therefore not delegated and matters referred to in section 2 above. to the Executive Committee: For the purposes of the delegation of powers a) approval of the strategic investments of the Company to the Executive Committee, the expression “controlled and of the companies controlled by the Company companies” means the following companies or those and approval of the financing thereof; that succeed them: b) approval of the strategic divestments of the Company a) Petróleos de Portugal – Petrogal, S.A. and of the companies controlled by the Company; b) Galp Exploração e Produção Petrolífera, S.A. c) investment, particularly through the direct or indirect acquisition of interests in companies that do not engage c) Galp Energia, S.A. in the main operational activities pursued by the companies controlled by the Company (i.e. exploration, d) Galp Gás Natural, S.A. production, refining, transportation, marketing e) Galp Gas & Power, SGPS, S.A. and distribution of oil and gas); f) Galp Energia España, S.A.U. d) establishment of strategic partnerships in the context of the main operating activities pursued g) Lisboagás GDL – Sociedade Distribuidora de Gás by the companies controlled by the Company; Natural de Lisboa, S.A. e) approval and modification of the strategic plans h) Lusitaniagás – Companhia de Gás do Centro, S.A. of the Company and of the companies controlled by the i) Petrogal Brasil, S.A. Company engaged in the Galp Group’s main activities; j) Petrogal Angola, Lda. f) approval of the Galp group’s annual budget and business plans and amendments thereto in excess k) Petrogal Moçambique, Lda. of 20% of the value of the budget item in question l) Petrogal Guiné-Bissau, Lda. or 10% of the total annual budget amount; m) Galp Energia E&P, B.V. g) transactions of the Company or of the companies controlled by the Company, with related parties n) Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V. or with any shareholders of the Company, in a unit or total amount exceeding €20,000,000.00 At the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 16 April, (twenty million Euros); 2015, the chairman of the Executive Committee defined a functional allocation, among the members h) definition and organisation of the Galp Group’s of the Executive Committee, of areas of action in respect corporate structure of the business and activities of the Company and i) proposal and exercise of voting rights in the election of its controlled or subsidiary companies, under the terms of the Boards of Directors of the companies controlled set forth in its Regulations, notwithstanding the collective by the Company; exercise of the powers of this body, as mentioned in the j) issuance of bonds or other debt instruments by the following page. Company or by companies controlled by the Company; k) demerger, merger or dissolution projects of any companies controlled by the Company; l) signing, by the companies controlled by the Company, of subordination agreements or parity group agreements. 120 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Specific Operation Areas of Executive Directors Board Directors Internal Audit 1 Carlos Gomes Filipe Thore E. José Carlos Tiago Câmara Pedro Carmona Carlos Costa da Silva Silva Kristiansen Silva Pestana Ricardo Pina CEO CFO COO COO COO COO CRO Business Iberian and Exploration Supply, Refining International Gas & Power New Energies Units & Production and Planning Oil Marketing Office of the Presidency and Corporate Communication Planning and Strategy Corporate Control and Investor Risk Corporate Relations Management Galp Human Finance Resources Advisory and M&A Legal and Governance Procurement Galp Accounting and Contracts Information Solutions and Taxation Asset Systems Management Engineering Galp Research and EQS and Tec and Project Technology Sustainability Management 1 Hierarchical report to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, functional report to the Audit Board and administrative report to Carlos Costa Pina. For matters of the ongoing management in the context The Executive Committee functions in accordance of the requests of the operators of the various oil with the basic principles and rules set out in its regulations exploration blocks in which Galp is involved, including and must meet once a week. It met 46 times in 2016. the development plans of the blocks and the approved budget and action plans, the Executive Committee In order to ensure effective and efficient monitoring delegated approval of the respective decisions, namely by the non-executive members of the activity of the AFEs, Cash Calls and ballots to the executive directors Executive Committee and to facilitate the related duty Thore Kristiansen, Filipe Crisóstomo Silva and José Carlos to inform, a range of mechanisms were adopted to ensure Silva, namely authorisations for expenditures, cash effective monitoring and coordination of the work of the calls and ballots. Executive Committee by the members with non-executive functions, under the following terms. The calls and minutes of the meetings of the Executive Committee are sent to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and to the Chairman of the Audit Board. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 121 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance In accordance with the Regulations of the Board i) approval of the comfort letters from Group Companies; of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee j) definition of the voting behaviour and appointment regularly informs the Chairman of the Board of Directors of representatives in the General Shareholder Meetings about the agenda of the meetings of the Executive of subsidiaries and other companies. Committee, the decisions taken in its meetings and other matters deemed relevant for the proper use of the powers and responsibilities of the Board of Directors. III – Supervision The Chairman of the Board of Directors and any other two non-executive directors may ask the Chairman (Audit Board, Audit Committee or General of the Executive Committee directly for information and Supervisory Board) on the business of the Executive Committee. a) Composition Under the terms of Article 407 (8) of the CSC, the Chairman of the Board of Directors and a member 30. Identification of the supervisory body (Audit especially appointed for this purpose by the Board Board, Audit Committee or General and Supervisory of Directors at its meeting of 24 April 2015 were granted Board) corresponding to the model adopted the right to attend the meetings of the Executive Committee. According to the government model adopted, In accordance with the Regulations of the Executive the Audit Board is the body in charge of supervising the Committee, the Chairman of the Executive Committee Company. regularly informs the Chairman of the Board of Directors on any matters deemed relevant for the proper use Under the terms of Article 413(1) (b) of the CSC, because of the powers and responsibilities of the Board of Directors. Galp is a public company, its financial statements Each and every member of the Executive Committee have to be examined by Statutory Auditors, with their is duty bound, when so requested by other members responsibilities stated in Article 446 of the CSC, and who of governing bodies, to supply information promptly and have to be independent from the Audit Board. in a form that is appropriate to the nature of the request. 31. Composition, as applicable, of the Audit Board, The main activities performed by the Executive Committee the Audit Committee, the General and Supervisory during 2016 in the exercise and within the limits Board or the Commission for Financial Affairs, with an of its responsibilities involve, among other things: indication of the statutory minimum and maximum number of members, statutory duration of term, a) approval of operations to be carried out by the Group’s the number of permanent members, date of first business units and companies; appointment and end date of each member’s term. A reference may be included to the part of the report b) assessment of monthly results; where this information is already noted, pursuant to c) approval of proposals for submission to the Board the provisions of section 18 of Directors on matters pertaining to its exclusive powers, as set out in the by-laws and Regulations Under the Company’s by-laws, the Audit Board consists of the Board of Directors; of three permanent members and one substitute member, d) approval of significant transactions; elected by the General Shareholders Meeting, which will also elect its chairman. e) assessment of information from specialist committees, particularly in the area of risk management The members of the Audit Board are elected in for a fourand sustainability; year term, together with the members of the remaining f) approval of capital increase and reduction operations corporate bodies. of the Galp Group companies, performance and reimbursements of ancillary services and supplies; The Company’s Audit Board was elected at the General Shareholders Meeting of 16 April, 2015 for the term g) change to the by-laws of the Group Companies; 2015-2018. h) real estate purchases and sales; 122 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance The following table lists the members of the Audit Board, their appointment dates and the end date of their term. Name Position Date of first appointment Term end date Daniel Bessa Chairman 2006.10.05 2018.12.31 Gracinda Raposo Board member 2011.05.30 2018.12.31 Pedro Antunes de Almeida Board member 2012.11.23 2018.12.31 Amável Calhau Substitute member 2006.10.05 2018.12.31 32. Identification, as applicable, of the members 33. Professional qualifications, as applicable, of of the Audit Board, the Audit Committee, the each of the members of the Audit Board, the Audit General and Supervisory Board or the Commission Committee, the General and Supervisory Board or the for Financial Affairs who are considered independent, Commission for Financial Affairs and other relevant under Article 414(5) of the CSC. A reference may information about their professional experience. be included to the part of the report where this A reference may be included to the part of the report information is already noted, pursuant to the where this information is already noted, pursuant provisions of section 19 to the provisions of section 21 Under Article 414 (5) of the CSC, any member of the Audit The members of the Audit Board have professional skills Board is considered independent if they are not associated and qualifications suitable for their roles. Each member’s with any specific interest group in the company and are professional profile is presented in Annex 8.7. not in a situation that might affect their exemption from analysis or decision making, namely because: b) Operation a) they are holders or are acting on behalf of holders 34. Existence of and location where the regulations, as of qualified shareholdings greater than or equal to 2% applicable, of the Audit Board, the Audit Committee, of the company’s share capital; the General and Supervisory Board or the Commission for Financial Affairs, can be consulted. A reference b) they have been re-elected for more than two terms, may be included to the part of the report where whether or not they are consecutive. this information is already noted, pursuant to the provisions of section 24 The Audit Board currently has two independent members, namely: Gracinda Raposo and Pedro Almeida. As for The powers of the Audit Board and its operating rules are the Chairman of the Audit Board, his appointment defined in the regulations of this body, approved to complete the 2005-2007 term occurred following on 16 April, 2015 and available on the Galp website changes in the shareholder structure of Galp and rules at http://www.galpenergia.com/EN/Investidor/ agreed upon by the shareholders regarding the election GovernoCorporativo/Orgaos-sociais/Paginas/Conselhoof the members of the corporate bodies (Shareholders’ Fiscal.aspx Agreement, entered into in 2006). In this sense, the 2008-2010 term should be considered as the first appointment. Taking the above into account and considering the recognised and prestigious reputation and business and scientific quality of the Chairman of Galp’s Audit Board, the Company believes that his independence must also be recognised. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 123 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 35. Number of meetings held and level of attendance at the meetings, as applicable, of each member of the Audit Board, the Audit Committee, the General and Supervisory Board or the Commission for Financial Affairs. A reference may be included to the part of the report where this information is already noted, pursuant to the provisions of section 25 Under Article 10(2) of its Regulations, the Audit Board must meet at least once a quarter and shall also meet whenever the chairman convenes it, at his own initiative or at the request of the chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Statutory Auditor. In 2016, the Audit Board held 13 meetings. The attendance of the Audit Board members to the meetings hold on 2016 was the following: Directors Presence Representation Absence % Attendance Daniel Bessa 13 0 0 100% Gracinda Raposo 12 0 1 97.4% Pedro Antunes de Almeida 13 0 0 100% 36. Availability of each member, as applicable, of the Audit Board, the Audit Committee, the General and Supervisory Board or the Commission for Financial Affairs, indicating the positions held simultaneously in other companies inside and outside the Group, and other relevant activities of said members during the year. A reference may be included to the part of the report where this information is already noted, pursuant to the provisions of section 26 In general, the members of the Galp Audit Board have a high level of availability for the performance of their roles. Annex 8.8 presents the relevant positions held by the members of the Audit Board during the financial year 2016. c) Powers and roles 37. Description of the procedures and criteria applicable to the supervisory body’s activity in procurement of additional services from the external auditor In accordance with the legal framework for audit supervision approved by Law No 148/2015 of 9 September, which transposed into national law Directive 2014/56/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April, procurement by Galp or any of its subsidiaries or group companies of additional services from the external auditor or from any entity with which there is an investment relationship or which is part of the same network, is preceded by an opinion of the Audit Board, which evaluates the reasons for the procurement and compliance with the independence requirements of the auditor, requesting, where appropriate, relevant information from the areas involved. Additional services provided by the external auditor in 2016 are described in sections 46 and 47 of this Report. 38. Other functions of the supervisory bodies and, where applicable, of the Commission for Financial Affairs The role of the Audit Board is to monitor the effectiveness of the risk management, internal control and internal audit systems, as well as to annually assess the operation of the systems and their internal procedures, thus strengthening the internal control environment, through recommendations and suggestions for adjustment to the operation of the internal control and risk management systems. The Audit Board monitors the operation of the corporate governance system adopted by Galp and compliance with legal and statutory requirements, as well as legislative and regulatory changes in the field of corporate governance, in particular the recommendations and regulations issued by the CMVM, and presents proposals for improvement of the Company’s governance. 124 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance In accordance with the legal regime of Audit Supervision and registered with the CMVM under No. 20161485, mentioned above, Galp’s supervisory body also has represented by António Joaquim Brochado Correia, the following duties: (i) informing the Board of Directors Statutory Auditor No. 1076, or by Ana Maria Ávila de of the results of the statutory audit and explain how Oliveira Lopes Bertão, Statutory Auditor No. 902, for role it has contributed to the integrity of the process of Statutory Auditor; and José Manuel Henriques Bernardo, of preparation and disclosure of financial information, Tax ID Number 192184113, Statutory Auditor No. 903, with and the role of the supervisory body in that process; address at Rua Ilha dos Amores, 52, Bloco A, 1.º Dto., (ii) monitoring the preparation and disclosure of financial 1990-375 Moscavide, as substitute Statutory Auditor. information and make recommendations or proposals to ensure its integrity; (iii) monitoring the effectiveness 40. Indication of the consecutive number of years of internal quality control and risk management and during which the statutory auditor has been operating internal audit systems in relation to the preparation and for the Company and/or Group disclosure of financial information, without violating their independence; (iv) monitoring the statutory audit Galp’s Statutory Auditor has been in the role since of the individual and consolidated annual accounts, 16 April, 2015. namely their execution, taking into account any findings and conclusions of the CMVM, in its capacity of the 41. Description of other services that the Statutory competent authority for audit supervision; (v) verifying Auditor provides for the Company and monitoring the independence of the Statutory Auditor or Statutory Audit Firm in accordance with Description of other services that the Statutory Auditor the law, and in particular verifying the adequacy and provides for the Company is in sections 46 and 47 approval of the provision of other services, in addition to of this Report’s chapter. audit services; (vi) selecting statutory auditors or audit firms to be proposed to the General Shareholders Meeting for election and justifiably recommending a preference V External auditor for one of them. 42. Identification of the external auditor appointed pursuant to Article 8 and of the partner representing The Audit Board’s functions also include issuing an them in accordance with these functions, as well opinion on business between the Company and related as the respective CMVM registration number parties and receiving reports of irregularities submitted by the Company’s shareholders, employees, customers The Galp Group’s current external auditor or suppliers. is PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados – Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda., represented by its partner António Joaquim Brochado Correia, IV Statutory auditor Statutory Auditor No. 1076. 39. Identification of the statutory auditor and the partner representing the statutory auditor 43. Indication of the consecutive number of years during which the external auditor and the respective partner Under Article 420(2) (b) of the CSC, the Audit Board representing them in accordance with its functions have is responsible for proposing the appointment of the been operating for the Company and/or Group Statutory Auditor or Company of Statutory Auditors to the General Shareholders Meeting. The external auditor and the respective partner representing them have been operating consecutively Accordingly, the general shareholders meeting held with Galp and its Group since 2011, when they were on 16 April 2015 approved the proposal from the Audit appointed by tender, for the term 2011-2013. Board to elect, for the four-year term, 2015-18: At the proposal of the Audit Board and in the Company’s PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados – Sociedade interest in ensuring continuity in the provision of audit de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda., Corporate Tax Number services, Galp extended the external audit contract with 506628752, with registered office at Palácio Sottomayor, PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados – Sociedade de Rua Sousa Martins, 1 – 3.º, 1069-316 Lisbon, entered Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. the 2014 and in the Institute of Statutory Auditors under No. 183 2015-2018 terms. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 125 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 44. The rotation policy and frequency of rotation with the information and other conditions required for the external auditor and the partner for the respective service to be performed. representative in the exercise of these functions Each year the Audit Board, in its annual business report, Galp’s external auditor rotation policy provides shall present an assessment of the external auditor. for the selection by the Audit Board of the external auditor and related statutory auditor partner at the 46. Identification of work, other than audit, performed end of three terms, through a process of prior by the external auditor for the Company and/or its consultation with the main internationally renowned subsidiaries, and indication of the internal procedures auditors for a period of three years. for the approval of procurement of such services, indicating the reasons for their procurement Taking into account the aforementioned rotation policy and the recently published legislation on this matter, In 2016 the external auditor provided the Company at the end of the current term (31 December 2018) and its subsidiaries with other audit services as follows: the new rules of mandatory rotation of the statutory auditor/external auditor will be complied with through a • support for surveys and assessment of human selection of a new auditor by a tender process. resources;* • support in the preparation of non-financial information 45. Indication of the body responsible for evaluating on sustainability;* the external auditor and the frequency of this evaluation • administrative and legal advice;* • study on governance and internal control; The Audit Board, the contact point in the Company and the first recipient of information prepared by the external • consultancy for various projects. auditor, annually evaluates the activity of the external auditor, with a critical appraisal of its reports and other The different audit services represented 29.1% of the total documentation. value of the services provided by the external auditor. The Audit Board represents the Company, for all When procuring services from the external auditor, purposes, before the external auditor and shall be sufficient internal procedures are in place to safeguard responsible, in accordance with Article 19(4) of its the independence of the auditors, through careful by-laws, for proposing the appointment of the Statutory definition of the work to be procured. In order to Auditor/Company of Statutory Auditors and their safeguard the independence of the external auditor, remuneration to the General Shareholders Meeting. it is expressly forbidden to purchase any type of service that might compromise such independence. The external auditor’s specific role in the legal audit/examination of accounts includes checking Service provision proposals submitted by the auditor the application of the policies and systems governing are analysed and evaluated and, where possible, undergo the pay of corporate bodies and the efficacy and market consultation and, subsequently, are sent operation of the internal control mechanisms and reports to the Audit Board for approval. any deficiencies detected to the Audit Board. The services provided by the external auditor in 2016, The Audit Board is also responsible for appointing and in the area of human resources, did not include any type dismissing the external auditor, under the approved of support for the work of the Remuneration Committee. regulations, and for suggesting the respective remuneration. The services of governance and internal control provided by the auditor were related to benchmarking of best The Audit Board ensures that the management practices. organisation of the Company, particularly the relationship with the Board of Directors and the Executive *Services iniciated in 2015 and previous years. Committee, involves providing the external auditor 126 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance 47. Indication of the annual remuneration paid II Reporting of irregularities by the Company and/or by its subsidiaries or group companies to the auditor or other natural 49. Company reporting of irregularities policy or legal persons belonging to the same network and resources and breakdown of percentage of the following services: [For the purposes of this information, the notion Galp bases its operations on the principles of loyalty, of network is as provided in European Commission correctness, honesty, transparency and integrity, with Recommendation No. (2002) 1873, dated 16 May] full respect for the law and best international practices, with a particular emphasis on creating internal regulation In 2016, the remuneration paid to the auditor and to other to ensure conduct that implements these principles and natural or legal persons belonging to the same network employee training on such issues, in all Group companies. was as presented in the following table. The approval of the new Galp Code of Ethics and Conduct by Galp’s Board of Directors at their meeting of 24 July By the Company 2015 and its subsequent approval by the boards Value of audit services 18,400.00 € 1.2% of directors of the subsidiary companies, is one Value of assurance services 17,250.00 € 1.1% of the main measures for implementation of the Group’s corporate culture. Value of tax advice services 0€ 0% Value of other non-audit services 0€ 0% The submission of complaints in this area is regulated in the Reporting of Irregularities Procedure Ethics Line adopted on 3 December 2015 by the Audit Board By other Group companies and distributed internally to all of the employees of Value of audit services 608,750.00 € 39.9% Galp and its subsidiaries via the normal means of Value of assurance services 439,209.74 € 28.8% communication and externally through the official Galp website at http://www.galpenergia.com/EN/Investidor/ Value of tax advice services 0€ 0% GovernoCorporativo/Documents/Procedure_on_ Value of other non-audit services 443,717.98 € 29.1% Reporting_Irregularities_EthicsLine.pdf The Reports of Irregularities Procedure seeks to enable any party related to Galp, including employees, members C – Internal Organisation of corporate bodies, shareholders, investors, customers, suppliers or business partners to report to the Ethics I by-laws and Conduct Committee any knowledge or suspicion of irregularities or instances of non-compliance with 48. Rules applicable to amendment of the Company’s the Code of Ethics and Conduct, of standards that refer by-laws [Article 245-A(1) (h)] to them or that deal with the topics referred to, in the areas of accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing, Under Article 12(4) of the Company’s by-laws, resolutions anticorruption measures, banking and financial crimes. of the General Shareholders Meeting on amendments to the Company’s by-laws must be approved by The said procedure applies to Galp and all the companies a qualified majority of two-thirds of the votes cast. in which Galp directly or indirectly holds 50% or more of the share capital or in which it exercises management control, in all countries where the Group operates. Complaints submitted under the ethical line are received and processed by Galp’s CEC, which was set up by and reports to the Audit Board, the corporate body responsible for oversight of the Company. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 127 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The security of Reporting of Irregularities information In the event of disciplinary or court procedure, the data and the related records is ensured by Galp’s internal rules, will be retained for a maximum of six months following in accordance with relevant legislation on data protection the end of this procedure. and information security or any legislation that may replace it. Each Reporting of Irregularities case will be treated as confidential and all people with access to the information Personal data processed under the Reporting in cases of alleged irregularities are required to maintain of Irregularities Procedure is covered by Authorisation confidentiality. No. 7924/2015, granted by the National Data Protection Commission (CNPD), whose conditions and limits For confidentiality reasons the only people who have are set in that Authorisation and in CNPD Resolution access to Reporting of Irregularities cases are: Audit No. 765/2009 or any that may replace it. Board members, CEC members and, on a strictly need to know basis, Executive Board members Information reported under this procedure shall be used and employees or external consultants specifically only for the purposes set forth herein. appointed to support the work of the CEC. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Code of Ethics All instances of Reporting of Irregularities must and Conduct, the Reporting of Irregularities Procedure be submitted in writing, by email or by letter, to the CEC, is of a voluntary nature, so failure to apply it does not at the following address: entail any penalties. Email: The person identified by the complaint is entitled opentalk@galp.com to information about the entity responsible, the content of the complaint and the purpose of the processing Postal address: and is entitled to access the data about himself/herself Comissão de Ética e Conduta da Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. and has the right to demand its correction or deletion Edifício Galp, Torre A if it is inaccurate, incomplete or ambiguous. Rua Tomás da Fonseca 1600-209 Lisboa, Portugal Galp and its subsidiaries guarantee that entities reporting an irregularity or suspected irregularity or providing Reporting of irregularities must adopt a format that: information as part of a Reporting of Irregularities guarantees confidentiality until it is received by the CEC; investigation shall not be subject to any retaliation, identifies the whistle-blower, whose identity will be kept intimidation or discrimination, including disciplinary confidential; contains a description of all the circumstances action or withholding or suspension of payments. and information to enable the reported irregularity to be evaluated; or, if it is a suggestion, the specific elements that Abuse or use in bad faith of the Reporting of Irregularities might prevent or reduce the likelihood of an irregularity. procedure may lead to disciplinary or court action, as applicable, if the conduct justifies it as provided Communication with the CEC must take place through in the Code of Ethics and Conduct. the above channels, notwithstanding the possibility that the CEC may request any meetings required Complaints about the quality of the products supplied to clarify the information received. or services provided shall not be considered. Employees who reported irregularities are required In the event of preliminary archiving of the case, to provide the CEC with all information in their possession the Audit Board shall ensure that the reported and to cooperate in the investigation process. and collected information is destroyed. Personal data subject to complaint will be immediately destroyed In 2016, approximately ten cases were reported if revealed to be inaccurate or useless. Where there to the CEC and investigated under the Reporting is no need for disciplinary or court procedure, the data will of Irregularities Procedure, which were analysed be destroyed within six months of conclusion of the case. and reported to the Audit Board for decision. 128 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance III Internal control and risk 51. Explicit definition, including a management management chart, of the hierarchical and functional dependency relationships with other Company bodies 50. People, bodies or committees responsible and committees for internal audit and/or for the implementation of internal control systems The existence of a robust regulatory framework and a disciplined approach to risk are important elements Matters relating to the definition of Galp’s internal control in an organisation with wide geographical diversification system are functions assigned to the Risk Management to ensure that the execution is carried out in accordance and Legal and Governance Matters Divisions, part with the strategic objectives that the accepted risks of the Corporate Centre. are duly rewarded and that surplus value is created in the long term for the shareholders. The Internal Auditing Division, the External Auditor and the Audit Board are all responsible for monitoring At Galp the organisation and governance structure the effectiveness of the internal control system and for of risk management is based on the “three lines assessing the operation of the system and its internal of defence” model in accordance with generally accepted procedures. best practices, as outlined in the chart below. Daily risk management, standardisation and monitoring of the main The Board of Directors is responsible for defining the risk risks, and the assurance of the risk, correspond to the management supervision strategy, to be monitored first, second and third lines of defence, respectively. by the Executive Committee, in particular by its member with the responsibility for Galp’s risk management. The functions of the Statutory Auditor and the External Auditor include evaluation of the internal control mechanisms of the key functional cycles of the Group companies with impact on financial reporting. The implementation of the internal control systems is the responsibility of the local risk control and management units (Local Risk Officers) of the company and group business units. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 129 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Board of Directors Executive Committee 3rd line of defence Risk assurance Internal audit Audit Board 2nd line of defence Standardization and monitoring Other Risk Risk Management Committee corporate Legal and management of main risk Governance areas Division A B C (Specialised committees) 1st line of defence LRO Local Risk Officers Daily risk management activities Business Units Galp’s Enterprise Risk Management is addressed in its risk strategy with this risk level. Although these management policy. This approach enables a consistent are responsibilities of the Board of Directors, the board relationship between daily risk management activities, may delegate powers to the Executive Committee. the supervision of the strategic and corporate risk, and the supervision of risk and assurance of governance, In fact, it is the Executive Committee’s responsibility that enable to: to oversee risk management with a focus on the main risks that the Galp Group faces, including strategic, • identify and understand the risk environment, evaluate operational, financial and regulatory risks, identified and communicate the potential value of exposure and described in section 53 of this Report’s chapter. to risk, determine and implement the best way of capturing or mitigating this exposure to the risk Supported by the Risk Management Committee, 1st line of defence; the Executive Committee monitors the most material risks as well as the implementation of critical projects • monitor corporate risk level, define standards and from the risk point of view. regularly report risk and the by-laws of action plans to the Risk Management Committee, the Executive Committee, the Audit Board and the Board of Directors The member of the Board of Directors responsible 2nd line of defence; for Galp’s risk management is a member of the Executive Committee and chairman of the Risk Management • supervise and evaluate, by recourse to independent Committee, thus ensuring that discussions of the topics internal and external entities, the effectiveness are consistent and effective at all levels. The Chief Risk of the risk management and the internal control Officer is responsible for overseeing and coordinating process – 3rd line of defence. risk assessment processes and respective mitigation actions throughout the Organisation, as well as for their Based on the approved strategy, the Board of Directors adequate management, ensuring that the guidelines is the highest authority for establishing the level of risk of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board that Galp is willing to accept the risk appetite are complied with and they are reflected in policies and risk-tolerance and for ensuring the alignment of the and procedures. 130 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance The Internal Auditing Division independently The relationship model between the agencies, and systematically assesses the proper functioning of the departments and committees responsible Group’s internal control systems and risk management, as for the implementation of internal control systems well as the effectiveness and efficiency of implementation favours the centralised management of the risks of mitigation controls and actions, regularly informing at the level of the Risk Management Division. and alerting the Board of Directors and the Audit Board of the most relevant facts, identifying opportunities for This department is responsible for defining, monitoring improvement and promoting their realisation. and evaluating risks and mitigation measures, ensuring alignment with approved policies and strategies It is intended, therefore, to ensure the effective by ensuring the consistency of the principles, concepts, application of the risk management system through methodologies and tools for the risk assessment and risk continuous control of its adequacy and effectiveness, management of all the business units and companies to ensure the permanent monitoring of the risks Galp of the Group. is subject to and the implementation of the control mechanisms pertaining thereto. The mission of the Risk Management Division is to ensure the effective application of the risk management system, Annually, the Internal Auditing Division defines an audit through the relationship with the Executive Committee, plan, based on the results of the risk assessment of Galp’s Risk Management Committee and focal points different processes and the various business units of the business units and companies of the Group. and strategic priorities that are approved by the chairman It is its responsibility to: of the Board of Directors and by the Audit Board. • promote the implementation and coordination Although it depends hierarchically on the chairman of the policy and the acceptable levels of risk of the Board of Directors, the Internal Audit reports (risk appetite and risk tolerance); functionally to the Audit Board, which approves • propose and ensure the application of a risk the annual plan of internal audit activities and supervises management strategy appropriate to the approved their implementation. risk profile; The role of the Audit Board is to monitor • develop risk assessment methodologies and ensure the effectiveness of the internal control and internal audit consistency across the entire Company; systems, as well as to assess annually the functioning • lead the process of evaluating, monitoring and mitigating of the systems and the respective internal procedures, risks in collaboration with the business units; thus strengthening the internal control environment. • support the Risk Committee, the Executive Committee Within the framework of its supervisory function, and the Board of Directors in defining the risk strategy the Audit Board accompanies the work plans and and policies on the supervision of risks and respective mitigation measures at the Group level; resources entrusted to the Internal Auditing Division and to the Legal and Governance Matters Division, • monitor the risk profile and report to the Risk Compliance and Corporate Secretary, which is the Committee, the Executive Committee and the Board recipient of periodic reports made by these services, of Directors. as well as information on matters related to accountability, identification or resolution of conflicts The Local Risk Officers are responsible for identifying, of interest and the detection of potential illegalities. evaluating and managing the risks in the respective business units, in light of the defined risk management The risk management functions identified in the previous standards. They are also responsible for incorporating point are monitored by the Risk Management Committee. risk information in their decision-making process, ensuring compliance with the risk management policies Within the sphere of the Risk Management Committee and procedures. Furthermore, they are responsible there is a work group that is subordinated to issues for compiling, reporting and publishing information related to safety, health and environment, quality on exposure to risk in their business unit. and regulatory changes. Thus it is ensured that these matters are duly integrated into the Company’s risk management system. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 131 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 52. Existence of other functional areas with risk Main risks (in alphabetical order): control powers • credit; As noted and described above, all Galp’s management • partner dependency; structures are responsible for controlling their risks. • discovery and development of resources and oil In addition to those described in point 50 above, and natural gas reserves; we highlight the Division of Environment, Quality, Safety • disruptive events; and Sustainability and the Division of Information Systems, notwithstanding the involvement of all Galp • project execution; teams in the implementation of the risk control process • geopolitical risks; in the course of their activities. • regulatory and compliance uncertainties; Indeed, the Division of Environment, Quality, Safety • IT and cybersecurity; and Sustainability have been assigned powers of corporate management of environmental, safety and security risk, • volatility of prices and markets. particularly to define and propose methodologies for the environmental and security risk assessment of Galp Group Galp’s main risks and uncertainties are managed, activities and product quality, in conjunction with monitored and reported at the counterparty, project, the business units, ensuring the definition and scheduling industrial and geographical sector level, according of actions to remove or minimise the risks. to the case. The cyber-security area of the Division of Information The risks identified through our risk management process Systems is responsible for defining and managing are organised according to their degree of priority the cyber-security policy of the Group’s information and, depending on the respective probability, severity systems and data and for supporting the business units and detectability, are communicated to the director in managing risk and business continuity. responsible for the Risk Management Division. These risks are discussed in the business unit responsible 53. Identification and description of the main types for them (“owner” of the risk) and their alignment of risks (economic, financial and legal) to which with Galp’s acceptable levels is checked jointly the Company is exposed in its business operations with the Enterprise Risk Management team. Galp’s commercial operations are of a long-term nature, The responsibility for risk management, and the related which implies that many of the risks to which it is exposed periodic analysis, is assigned to the Company or to the are permanent. However, the triggering factors of the functional leader. Galp has risk management strategies internal or external risks, are changeable and can develop available that classify the risks per response categories and evolve over time, and may vary in probability, according to whether it is decided to avoid, transfer, severity and detectability. reduce or accept the risk. These strategies are defined in such a way so as to ensure that the risks are within We identify below the risks with high priority with regard the acceptable guidelines by Galp’s Executive Committee. to specific supervision which should be carried out, by the Board of Directors and its various committees. Depending on the nature of the risk involved It is stressed, however, that they may undergo updates and the Company or specific job affected, Galp uses during the year, in response to changes caused a wide range of mitigation strategies. by exogenous or endogenous factors. The incorporation of the insurance activity It should be noted that there can still be no certainty in the Company’s Risk Management Division allows as to the efficacy of our risk management activities, namely for optimising the risk transfer, whenever that proves in what concerns mitigating those risks or any other risk. to be the best option. 132 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Main Risk Description and impact Forms of migration Credit Risk arises from the possibility of a counterpart Credit risk is managed at the business not fulfilling its contractual payment obligations, unit level, in accordance with the meaning that the level of risk depends upon Executive Committee’s directives, its financial capacity. specifically in relation to credit exposure limits and actions designed The risk includes both the possibility of one of the to minimise or eliminate risk parties not fulfilling the payment obligations they in operations with clients or financial assumed by entering into financial investment counterparties. The actions mentioned or hedging agreements (relating to exchange rates, include: prior assessment and analysis interest rates, and others), such as the risks arising of a client’s credit (credit management from commercial relations between the Company manual, limit and rating) or of their and its clients. financial counterparty; management The increase in the exposure to risk may, of hedges through bank guarantees, in a significant and adverse manner, affect Galp’s credit insurance or others; monitoring operational results and financial position. of matured credit; sufficient efforts to recover debts and efficient dispute management; careful drafting of agreements, with the inclusion of suitable commercial conditions; monitoring of the client’s profitability, including potential reimbursements; optimisation of sales and distribution channels. Partner dependency Many of Galp’s main projects are carried out through Despite Galp not operating in the partnerships, and may be operated by third parties majority of the most relevant E&P and managed by joint venture agreements. In these projects in its portfolio, it is actively partner agreements, the Company may be vulnerable involved in the respective execution. to events that affect their partners, even though they In effect, Galp monitors the activities are not related to Galp. of each project on a daily basis, using internal, multidisciplinary teams, The Company’s partners could also approve certain and maintaining direct contact with matters without the Company’s consent. the operators, which essentially The partners may not have the ability to fulfil their consist of well-respected international obligations on certain projects or in relation to third companies with vast experience parties and, as such, they could affect the viability in the sector. of the projects. Galp utilises a decision-making All these risks could place the execution of projects process that involves prior screening at risk and, ultimately, constrain and interfere with in relation to the selection of its the implementation of Galp’s strategy, with this strategic partners, and also using due possibly having a negative impact on its operational diligence processes. The Company also results and financial position. develops a long process of negotiations that includes the drafting, analysis and signing of Joint Operating Agreements (JOAs) in order to ensure Galp’s rights and powers in the governance structures under joint venture systems. The Company can exercise possible veto rights on certain matters within the consortia. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 133 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Main Risk Description and impact Forms of migration Partner dependency Within the scope of the E&P assets (cont.) not operated by Galp, the acquisitions of goods and services are governed by JOAs signed with the partners. These agreements ensure alignment among all partners on quality, social responsibility and HSE criteria for the pre-qualification of suppliers in the purchasing processes. Local contracting is a requirement, varying according to the geographical area and taking into account the specifics of the concession contracts. Galp feels that its proven and diverse experience, combined with the knowledge acquired in the various projects in which it is involved, is a key factor that allows it to have influence in the partnerships in which it participates. However, the Company’s objective consists of continuing to develop its E&P activities, which tend to increase its ability to control and influence. Discovery Galp’s future production of oil and natural Galp has a set of exceptional assets. and development gas depends on its success in the consistent All projects undertaken by the of resources and profitable acquisition, discovery and development Company are rigorously analysed and oil and natural of new reserves to replace the reserves that have and submitted to the management gas reserves already been produced. However, the Company’s team for approval, which is only given ability to acquire and find new resources and reserves when the expected value exceeds is subject to a number of risks. the estimated cost of the capital. Estimates with respect to oil and natural gas reserves The Company has a multidisciplinary and resources are based on available geological, team, under the responsibility of the technological and economic data and is therefore director of the E&P area, dedicated subject to a large number of uncertainties. to identifying and assessing new areas The accuracy of these estimates depends on that may contribute to the expansion numerous factors, assumptions and variables, some of its resource base. Galp of which are outside the Company’s control. These has been making efforts to broaden factors include changes in the prices of oil and natural its knowledge base and strengthen gas, which may have an impact on the amount the expertise of its teams, helping of proven reserves (given that reserves are calculated to provide better understanding on the basis of the prevailing economic conditions and control over the different areas on the date of the respective calculation); changes of exploration and production activities, in the applicable tax regime or other regulations and including the estimate of reserves contractual conditions, which occur after the date and resources in the portfolio. of calculation of the reserves (which can have an impact on the economic viability of the development of these reserves); and certain actions of third parties, including the operators that carry out activities in areas where Galp is involved. 134 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Main Risk Description and impact Forms of migration Discovery E&P activities are usually carried out in extremely It should also be mentioned that Galp and development challenging environments with potential risks applies a phased approval mechanism of resources of technical failures and natural disasters. A number to its key projects which considers and oil and natural of factors, such as unexpected drilling or pressure the maturity and the risk of the project gas reserves conditions, or irregularities in geological formations, in question. This process allows equipment malfunctions or accidents, adverse for the assessment of the risk profile (cont.) weather conditions, non-compliance with the of the project over various phases, requirements imposed by government entities, supporting a decision for as well as failures or delays in the availability its optimisation. of drilling rigs and equipment supply, may lead to higher costs or downsizing (decrease in staff) At this point, and considering and delay or suspension of drilling activities. the existing forms of mitigation, Galp has a considerable base of contingent In addition, the production blocks of oil and natural resources which give it a comfortable gas are typically made available by government and sustainable position with regards authorities. Galp is subject to strong competition to the future development of its in the bidding for these blocks, particularly with assets. respect to those which are considered to be potentially more attractive in terms of resources. Due to this Every year, Galp uses an external competition, Galp may not be able to obtain the independent verification company desired production blocks, or may have to pay a higher to carry out the certification of its price to obtain them, which may affect the economic reserves and resources that it holds. viability of subsequent production. The projects may be sanctioned based on incorrect assumptions or inadequate information. The projects may be delivered late, exceed the budget or have levels lower than the operational reliability standards. If the Company is not successful in de-risking the resources and in the development of reserves, its total proven reserves may decrease and Galp may run the risk of not achieving its production targets. This may negatively affect the results and the Company’s financial position. Disruptive events The variety and the complexity of Galp’s operations Galp understands that the environment, [including – namely in exploration and production in ultra-deep health and safety of its employees, any interruption waters or in the refining process – entail considerable customers and the community, of the operations potential risks. These risks include incidents such combined with the protection of the industrial as natural disasters, civil unrest, war and terrorism. of its assets, is key to ensure that Exposure to generic operating risks, health the Company is sustainable. unit, which give and personal safety risks and risks related to criminal Consequently, the Company rise to catastrophic activities are also included. has established a commitment impacts in terms to integrating the most important of Health, Safety aspects of HSE in its strategy and Environment and activities, as well as ensuring (HSE)] continuous improvement in its performance. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 135 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Main Risk Description and impact Forms of migration Disruptive events A major incident of this type may cause injury, loss It is also important to highlight [including any of life, environmental damage or destruction the HSE management system. interruption of the of facilities. Depending on the cause and severity, When implementing the guidelines operations of the any of these incidents may affect Galp’s reputation, of this system in the Company’s industrial unit, operating performance and financial position. daily operations, the business units can identify and manage their own which give rise operating risks, through the full cycle to catastrophic of the different projects, equipment impacts in terms and assets. of Health, Safety and Environment Galp also has an insurance programme (HSE)] that includes civil liability, to minimise the impact of any potential risks that (cont.) actually occur, among others. Project execution The organic growth of the Company depends At Galp, the final investment decision on the creation of a portfolio of high quality assets in a project is taken after a detailed and on the investment in the best options. If Galp review of feasibility studies, is unable to make an efficient selection and does the evaluation of key variables not develop its investments, the result may be in the implementation stage, a loss in value and/ or higher investment costs, thus the definition of the concept jeopardising the implementation of its strategic plan. of development, as well as the mitigation measures that can protect The success of large-scale projects is, therefore, the future execution of the project. essential for Galp’s future growth. The non-execution of these projects within the established budget In addition to the teams that analyse and time limits, and in conformity with predefined in detail the feasibility of each project, specifications, may have an influence on the Galp has a team that analyses execution of Galp’s strategy, as well as on its results, the portfolio of projects/assets reputation and financial position. and how these fit into the Company’s strategy. The goal is to ensure that However, the implementation of projects is exposed Galp chooses its investments to a variety of risks, particularly in terms of health, so as to effectively protect shareholder safety and environment, economic, technical, value and ensure the Company’s commercial, regulatory and legal risks. sustainability. At the same time, Galp’s activities depend In the execution phase, the Company on the performance of their partners, various service constantly monitors the critical factors providers and other contracted parties, therefore in order to identify potential risks the Company is being exposed to the risk of execution as quickly as possible, thus ensuring through these entities the timely implementation of corrective measures. Also with respect to the projects where it is not an operator, the Company monitors activities and participates in the various phases of the project, with multidisciplinary internal teams. 136 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Main Risk Description and impact Forms of migration Project execution The information collected in each project, (cont.) and subsequently used for other projects is also important, enabling the Company to benefit from the experience and learning curve. Galp participates in numerous projects worldwide, which enables it to take advantage of the diversified knowledge and experience that it has acquired, by applying various techniques and experience curves from one region to another. Regarding the risk that results from the performance of its partners, it should be noted that Galp develops partnerships with leading companies in the sector, recognised for their knowledge and experience. On this topic, it is recommended to read the section “Partner Dependency” on risk. With respect to the risk that arises from contracting suppliers, service providers and other third parties, Galp analyses and implements a selection and contracting process, combining multiple operational, compliance and HSE criteria. Geopolitical Galp carries out its most important E&P projects Galp is permanently aware of all in countries that are not part of the Organisation the events occurring in the countries for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), in which it conducts its activities which may raise some issues with respect to security and that may have implications for the failures, civil disturbance or expropriation of assets Company’s activities, particularly and, consequently, compromising and negatively in Brazil, Angola and Mozambique. affecting the results of Galp’s operations and financial position, and placing the implementation In the case of Brazil, the Company’s of the Company’s strategy at risk. presence and the relationships that it has built with the oil company, The Lula/Iracema project in Brazil is currently Petrobras, facilitate the opening the biggest contributor to the Company’s oil of a channel of communication and and natural gas reserves base. Although, to date, allow it to react in a timely manner, Galp has not had any material problems with its especially with respect to the operations in that country, there is no guarantee decision-making process and that these events may not occur in the future. its subsequent ability to influence Thus, although the authorities and the Brazilian stakeholders at the local level, government have been cooperating in terms including its partner company. of developing the country’s oil and natural gas reserves, any adverse circumstances that may arise during the development phase of Galp’s E&P projects could jeopardise the operations in this country. Therefore, the production targets set by the Company could be compromised and negatively impact the results and the financial position of the Company. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 137 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Main Risk Description and impact Forms of migration Regulatory Galp’s main E&P projects are located in non-European With respect to the risks of a regulatory and compliance countries, whose economies are under development nature and of compliance to which uncertainties or whose regulatory and political situation have the Company may be exposed in its E&P a history of instability. activities, Galp operates on two distinct fronts. Furthermore, Galp is supplied with natural gas for its supply & trading business by Algeria and Nigeria First, the Company has been building and sells oil products in other African countries. a balanced portfolio of projects, entering Therefore, a portion of Galp’s income is derived from, a wide range of new geographical areas, and will increasingly be derived from, or dependent which has helped to reduce its exposure on countries with greater associated economic to the risk related to any one country. and political risks. The level of exposure to regulatory risks These include the possible expropriation is analysed in the process of entry into and nationalisation of assets, significant increases new areas, and potential amendments in taxes and royalties on oil and natural gas by the lawmakers or regulators of those production, among others. countries are permanently monitored, and Galp acts accordingly and Moreover, political changes may lead to changes in order to protect the interests in the context in which the Company develops of its stakeholders. its activities, such as regulatory changes on matters such as allocating licenses for exploration and In compliance with best compliance production, and the imposition of specific obligations practices, Galp has implemented on drilling and exploration activities. a procedure in which transactions with new counterparties are subject to due Although Galp has not experienced to date, diligence. major disturbances resulting from economic or political instability, changes in the legal, regulatory At the same time, Galp has a code or tax framework, potential future disruptions may of ethics and conduct and negatively affect its activity, its operating results an anti-corruption policy aimed and its financial position. at the public announcement of its commitment to permanently ensuring Downstream activities in Iberia are also subject full compliance with the best practices to risks of a political, legal and regulatory nature. and international law. In fact, any changes in these levels can have an impact on the business context in which the Company In accordance with the update operates, potentially affecting Galp’s activities of its code of ethics and conduct, and its operating results. Galp has implemented a new version of its procedure for communication Significant changes in the tax systems in force of irregularities occurring in companies in the countries where Galp carries out its of the Group. This procedure is in downstream activities may have a materially adverse conformity with the best practices impact on the Company’s operating results of corporate governance and the and its financial position. applicable rules and regulations of the capital markets. And it is in line with the principles of loyalty, rectitude, honesty, transparency and integrity, on which Galp’s activities are based, in order to promote a responsible and ethical culture and prevent or prohibit improper or illegal practices. 138 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Main Risk Description and impact Forms of migration Regulatory and Galp considers that it operates in accordance with compliance the international standards applicable in all uncertainties the countries in which it carries out its activities. (cont.) However, any (real or alleged) irregularities may have a very important adverse effect on Galp’s capacity to develop its activity. Failures in System failures, whether accidental, or resulting Galp mitigates these risks through information systems from intentional actions, such as computer attacks a series of measures, including control and cyber-security or others, including those that are caused by network, procedures, backup systems, and hardware or software failures, may have adverse protection systems, such as firewalls, impacts at various levels. antivirus and building security. These failures may namely affect, the quality In addition, Galp has implemented of Galp’s activities or cause an interruption of these information security policies activities, may lead to loss, misuse or abuse and regularly conducts audits, of sensitive information, loss of lives, damage to the complementing them with computer environment or assets and breaches in the legal risk assessments with respect or regulatory sphere, with the possibility of fines to the most important assets. or any other type of measures imposed by the regulatory authorities. These events can have consequences for the Company’s reputation, may severely compromise Galp’s operations and result in significant costs. Volatility The prices of oil, natural gas, LNG and oil-derived Galp’s simultaneous presence of prices products are affected, at any time, by the dynamics in upstream and downstream and markets of market supply and demand. In turn, these products has allowed a natural hedge to form are influenced by different factors, such as economic in relation to its activities. and operational circumstances, natural disasters, weather conditions, political instability, armed conflicts New projects and investments or supply constraints of oil exporting countries. Over are evaluated internally, taking into the course of its operations and trading activities, Galp’s consideration an analysis of their results are therefore exposed to the volatility of the sensitivity to key variables, particularly prices of oil, natural gas and oil-derived products. commodity prices. Even though, in the long term, the operational costs The risk associated with the volatility tend to be in line with the rises and falls of the prices of raw material prices, particularly of raw materials and products, there is no guarantee the refining margin, is managed at that this will happen in the short term. Consequently, the business unit level, balancing the a reduction in the price of oil or natural gas could obligations of sourcing and supply. compromise investment plans, including exploration The aforementioned risk is managed and development activities. by means of the instrument made On the other hand, the increase in the prices of oil available by over-the-counter or natural gas could affect the value and profitability (OTC) or Intercontinental Exchange of Galp’s assets. Even though the prices that the (ICE) markets. Company charges its clients reflect market prices, they cannot be adjusted immediately, and may not entirely reflect the changes in market prices. Furthermore, the significant differences in price that are seen between the purchase of the raw materials and the sale of refined products, could negatively affect Galp’s operational results and financial position. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 139 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Main Risk Description and impact Forms of migration Volatility Galp is also exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates The interest rate, the exchange rate of prices due to the fact that the results and the cash flow and other financial risks, including and markets generated by the sale of oil, natural gas financial investments and debt, and refined products are usually related to US dollars are managed centrally. Risk (cont.) and Brazilian Reais, and are affected by the exchange management of the interest rate rates associated with these currencies. seeks to reduce the volatility of interest charges through the use In those countries where Galp is developing commercial of simple derivative instruments, such activities, be it directly or indirectly, the operational as swaps. With the aim of mitigating results are also exposed to the fluctuations of the the exchange rate risk, Galp can, relevant exchange rates. whenever it deems it necessary, hedge Galp is also exposed to the risk of exchange rates its position by means of derivatives, in relation to the value of its financial assets and for which a liquid market exists. investments, mainly those that are defined in US dollars and in Brazilian Reais, which could have an impact on the Company’s financial position, given that the financial statements are expressed in Euros. Despite the ability to access the market instruments designed to hedge the interest rate risk, Galp’s financing costs could be affected by volatility in market rates, which could, in turn, negatively influence its results. Attraction and The successful execution of Galp’s strategy depends Galp positions itself as an attractive retention of qualified on the competence and efforts of its teams employer, offering the conditions human capital of employees and managers. to attract, develop and retain the talent of employees, considering the strategic In the energy sector, particularly in oil and gas, and context challenges that the the competition for qualified and experienced human Organisation faces. capital is very strong. To this end, the Company has If Galp does not manage, in the future, to attract, defined a human capital strategy retain and motivate the right human capital, focused on the following areas: that could compromise the Company’s success recruitment, development, performance and, consequently, its operational results management, compensation, and financial position. information systems, welcoming, learning and training. Competition The energy industry is extremely competitive In view of the competition that exists and is also exposed to players from other sectors. in the energy sector, and to reduce the exposure to risks associated with The competition puts pressure on the prices of raw the high level of operational complexity materials and products, namely affects the marketing in the sector, Galp systematically applies activities relating to oil products, and demands the sector’s best practices. a constant focus on cost control and increased efficiency while, at the same time, guaranteeing the safety of the operations. 140 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Main Risk Description and impact Forms of migration Competition Within this context, implementation of the Company’s The Company has implemented (cont.) strategy requires considerable effort, in relation a solid culture of innovation and research to innovation and constant technological progress, in an attempt to continually track the including the progress achieved in terms of exploration, most recent advances in the industry, production, refining and energy efficiency. and is committed to the development of competencies, be it internally The Company’s performance may be affected or through partnerships, that will if its competitors develop or acquire intellectual allow for the creation, study and property rights or technology that the Company implementation of new and better needs, or if the Company is not able to keep up with technical and technological solutions. the sector in terms of innovation. In relation to the fact that some of Galp’s Some of Galp’s competitors are operators that are well competitors are much bigger operators, established in the reference markets, with a relevant with greater potential financial capacity size and access to a relevant number of resources. and with the possibility of access to The weight of these companies in the market is due a greater amount of resources, attention to a combination of factors, including: diversified should be drawn to the fact that the and reduced risk; the financial capacity necessary Company makes the best use of its for the developments that require high levels competitive advantages. of investment, the capacity to benefit from economies In the E&P business, Galp is involved of scale in terms of technology and organisation; in two of the most important, global-scale and a size that allows them to benefit from advantages development projects – the pre-salt related to the competencies acquired, infrastructures region in the Santos Basin in Brazil, established and reserves. In this way, these companies and the LNG project in the Rovuma Basin have the capacity to make competitive proposals in Mozambique, a situation which favours with direct impacts on the effectiveness of Galp’s its competitiveness in relation to other operations. companies in the sector. In addition, Galp The intense competition to which the Company has a series of competitive advantages is subject can affect its activities, operational results as well as a solid capital structure that and financial position. supports its activities in E&P. In the downstream business, Galp develops a wide range of activities along the value chain, being a leading operator in Iberia, its core market, and having developed relevant skills that contribute to the expansion of its activity in the International market, particularly in the scope of its trading activities. Funding Due to its investment strategy and plan, One of Galp’s strategic pillars and liquidity it is expected that Galp will need significant funds. is the maintenance of a solid capital needs structure, specifically by means Galp expects to finance a substantial part of strong financial discipline, of its investment plan using operational cash flow, which should facilitate access cash and equivalents and other available liquidity. to diverse sources of financing at competitive costs. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 141 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Main Risk Description and impact Forms of migration Funding However, if its operations do not generate enough cash The solid capital structure and the and liquidity flow, the Company may have to turn to other sources resilient cash flow generated by the needs of external financing, in addition to those which had downstream businesses, together with (cont.) originally been planned, including bank loans, the expected cash flow generated by the the placing of debt and equity on the capital market, increase of production in Brazil, will be or establishing partnerships. essential for an improvement of credit conditions, allowing to extend maturity There is no guarantee that Galp will be able to satisfy periods and negotiate competitive rates, all of its financial needs to execute its investment plan as well as for a diversification of the under commercially acceptable conditions. sources of financing. If the Company is unable to deal with its financing In addition, Galp has maintained and liquidity needs, it may have to reduce its the lines of credit at a level that was investment plan, which could have a negative impact considered suitable, thus providing them on the Company’s strategic plan, on its activities with flexibility in terms of cash needs. and, consequently, on its operational results. Losses resulting During the course of its activities, Galp is subject Galp has implemented a set from trading to operational risks that are inherent to the activities of procedures aimed at reducing activities of cash and trading management. the risk of trading activities. Galp operates on the derivatives market, making For a trading activity to be successful, use of procedures that are periodically performed it is essential to ensure sufficient and designed to limit its exposure to risks involved sourcing of oil-derived products and raw in the operations in question. materials, such as oil and natural gas. Galp therefore aims to create a diverse In relation to the physical market of raw-materials and flexible mix of sourcing of crude oil, connected with Galp’s activities, there is no guarantee natural gas, LNG and electricity. that, in the future, the Company will not come to suffer losses due to the tendency of the prices In relation to the trading of petroleum of the raw materials in question to fall, or other factors products, the Company’s priority that could influence the Company’s commercial is to place them in the most attractive positioning. The effective control of these activities markets, such as in the Iberia, the depends on Galp’s ability to process, manage United States of America and selected and monitor a large number of complex operations African markets. Galp plans its in different markets and currencies. In relation to this, production in an appropriate way, any event that results in losses could have a negative analysing the best markets to place impact on Galp’s activities, operational results products available for trading in. and financial position. In relation to the trading of LNG, in addition to ensuring sourcing of a diverse and flexible sourcing mix, Galp seeks to maintain a stable basis of demand for natural gas in the Iberia, which will allow risks to be taken in the provision and management of the portfolio. In addition, Galp periodically performs control procedures designed to limit the exposures to risk that involve trading operations. 142 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance 54. Risk identification, evaluation, monitoring, control The control environment is the basis of the internal and management control system. It influences how the Company’s strategy and goals are defined, how operating activities The internal control system consists of a set of policies are structured and how the Company’s risk culture and procedures adopted for the purpose of ensuring, is assumed. It consists of various elements, including with a reasonable probability of success, compliance values, general attitude and management style. with the Company’s objectives with respect to: Galp’s control environment is based on a set of internal • conducting their activities in an orderly and efficient codes, policies, standards and procedures, which define manner; principles of ethical conduct and ensure scrutiny of the different management acts, in line with the best • safeguarding their assets; international practices and in conformity with the legal • preventing and detecting fraud and errors; and regulatory requirements, which were adopted in order to ensure, with reasonable probability, compliance with • complying with laws and regulations; and the Company’s goals and the expectations • reliability of financial reporting. and requirements of the Group’s internal and external stakeholders. This system is based on the guidance of the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission Timely identification of the factors and the resulting risk (COSO) concerning the main aspects of Galp’s internal assessment enables the Company to identify potential control: environment of control, risk assessment, control events that may affect achieving corporate objectives. activities, information and communication, and monitoring. Accordingly, Galp promotes continuous identification of factors and a systematic assessment of the major risks Assessment Methodology that could compromise the goals of the business units. This is a bottom up process, which is the responsibility and risk management of the Galp Group of the various business units “owners of the risk”. Through a process that involves Enterprise Risk 2 Management and the business units, the appropriate options for mitigation of risk are identified and selected, considering not only the effect of these options 7 3 Identification of the main on the likelihood and impact of events, but also the cost risks of each option in relation to the respective benefits. After choosing the option, the business unit prepares Assessment a response action plan to mitigate, transfer, avoid Periodic of inherent monitoring or accept the risk. 1 risks Control activities to ensure that risk responses are effective, and allow the achievement of the objectives, The are the responsibility of each business unit. However, 6 Company’s strategy 4 the risk management team and the committees set up for this purpose are also involved. The residual risks are Assessment assessed and deviations regarding the level of risk taken Implementation in the business unit’s business plan are identified, and that of action plans 5 of controls and definition of action plans ensures the mitigation plan’s monitoring and reporting. This process is in accordance with what is recommended Assessment of residual by COSO and is illustrated in the previous chart, risks which also shows the sequence and dependencies of various activities. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 143 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance To ensure an effective internal control system, Galp promotes Main duties the exchange of relevant information, maintaining permanent communication with the various stakeholders, both internal The DERI performs all the duties of the investor support and external. office. This department reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and its duties include devising, Given that the inherent risks and the effectiveness of internal managing and coordinating all the activities required controls depend on internal and external variables, this to achieve Galp’s objectives in respect of relations with process is not static. For this reason, it is a good practice the capital market, namely, shareholders, whether those to conduct a periodic re-evaluation of the risk of Galp’s main referred to as leading ones or the holders of minority activities, in order to ensure that there is alignment between interests, institutional investors and financial analysts. the risk profile, decided by the Board of Directors, and the mitigation plan implemented by the business units. The Investor Relations (IR) team is responsible for ensuring that communications with capital markets result Finally, operational, compliance and financial audits in an integrated and consistent perception of Galp’s are carried out, as well as revisions of information systems, strategy and operations so that investors are capable in order to test the effectiveness of the internal control of making informed decisions. To this end, the IR team mechanisms that have been implemented. provides the market with relevant, clear and accurate information about Galp, regularly, transparently and 55. The key elements of the internal control and risk promptly, aiming at information symmetry in the market. management systems implemented in the Company for the financial information disclosure process The IR team is also responsible for meeting the legal [Article 245(A) (1) (m)] obligations to report to the regulator and the market, including drawing up reports disclosing Galp’s results The process for disclosing financial information and activities, drafting and disseminating communiqués by Galp is accompanied not only by the management on important matters, answering requests for information and supervisory bodies but also by the business units from investors, financial analysts and other capital and corporate services. The documents for presenting market participants. It also supports the Executive financial information to the capital markets are prepared Committee in aspects relating to Galp’s status by the Strategy and Investor Relations Division (DERI of a publicly traded company. in Portuguese), based on information provided by the business units, the Accounting and Taxation and The IR team monitors change in Galp’s share price the Corporate Planning and Control divisions. Before and those of comparable companies and supports disclosure, the documents are sent to the administrative the management team in direct and regular contact with and supervisory bodies. All the documents presenting national and foreign financial analysts and institutional financial information are approved by these two bodies investors, in conferences and collective presentations, before being released. addressed to investors and in bilateral meetings. Information disclosed IV – Investor support 56. Service responsible for supporting investors, Galp’s capital market communication policy aims composition, duties, information provided by these to provide all relevant information to enable reasoned services and contact details judgements to be made about the evolution of the Company’s activity, expected and achieved results and the Composition various risks and opportunities that can affect its activity. The service responsible for supporting investors is part of the Strategy and Investor Relations Division (DERI) To this end, Galp promotes transparent and consistent and has the following members: communication, based on explanations of the criteria used in the provision of information and clarification Diretor: Pedro Dias of the reasons for any amendments to it, in order Investor Relations Officer: Otelo Ruivo to facilitate the comparison of information provided Employees: Cátia Lopes, João G. Pereira, in different reporting periods. João P. Pereira, Teresa Rodrigues 144 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Strategy execution Financial calendar Galp provides information on its strategy, as well as on In accordance with the best international practices, the development of the activities inherent to its execution. in December Galp announces the event dates of interest Its website www.galp.com includes a description of the to shareholders that will take place in the following year. Company’s activities and strategy, including presentations directed to the capital market. 2016 Calendar: Corporate governance Event Date 4th Quarter 2015 Trading Update 25 January Galp provides information on the Company’s corporate governance, in compliance with the regulations in force 4th Quarter 2015 Results 8 February in the Portuguese market and in accordance with the Capital Markets Day 2016 15 March best international practices. Information on its by-laws Annual Report & Accounts 2015 (Audited) 5 April and Corporate Bodies, among others, is available on the Company’s website. In the section dedicated to the General 1 Quarter 2016 Trading Update st 15 April Shareholders’ Meeting, you can consult all the relevant 1 Quarter 2016 Results st 29 April information, such as the notice, the proposals, procedures Annual General Shareholders Meeting 5 May and deliberations. 2 Quarter 2016 Trading Update nd 15 July Results 2 Quarter 2016 Results nd 29 July 3rd Quarter 2016 Trading Update 14 October The information disclosed to the market includes a summary of the operating information for each quarter, 3rd Quarter 2016 Results 28 October called the trading update, usually published two weeks before the announcement of the quarterly results. The expected 2017 calendar is as follows:* Reports and quarterly earnings presentations and their supporting files are usually released before the market Event Date is opened, on the date that is previously announced, 4 Quarter 2016 Trading Update th 31 January and the audio and transcription of the conference calls on the presentation of results are published afterwards. Capital Markets Day 2017 21 February and 4th Quarter 2016 Results Consensuses Annual Report & Accounts 2016 11 April (Audited) Galp also publishes estimates by analysts 1st Quarter 2017 Trading Update 18 April of quarterly, medium and long term results covering the Company’s action, with a summary of the analysts’ 1 Quarter 2017 Results st 2 May recommendations on the share price. Annual General Shareholders Meeting 12 May 2nd Quarter 2017 Trading Update 17 July Galp share 2nd Quarter 2017 Results 31 July With more focus on the capital market, the website 3 Quarter 2017 Trading Update rd 16 October includes a section with the Galp share price history, 3rd Quarter 2017 Results 30 October comprehending comparisons with the evolution of PSI20 and comparable company share prices. Detailed *These dates are subject to change. information about the Company’s shareholder structure, including a description of qualifying holdings, as well as detailed and historical information about the payment of dividends, is also available thereon. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 145 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Communication to the market 57. Representative for market relations All relevant information is disclosed, preferably, before Galp’s representative for market relations is Pedro Dias, the Euronext Lisbon opens, or after it closes and Head of DERI. is made available in Portuguese and in English through the CMVM’s information dissemination system. 58. Information on the proportion of and the response The information is also provided to facilitate access, time to requests for information received during the quickly and without specific costs, to a non-discriminatory year, or pending from previous years database, sent by email to all investors and other stakeholders who have requested so in advance. To promote a close relationship with the capital markets The database already has over 2,300 contacts. The relevant community, the Director of DERI responds to information information is disclosed simultaneously in the “Investors” requests received, including by telephone and email. section of Galp’s website: http://www.galpenergia.com/EN/ investidor/Noticias/Paginas/Home.aspx Responses and clarifications are provided as quickly as possible, adjusting the response time to the nature Contacts and complexity of issues at hand, and always ensuring transparency, symmetry and consistency of available Galp promotes a close relationship with the financial market information. The average response time during community and is actively involved in meetings with 2016 was one business day (in line with the target institutional investors and analysts, in order to provide defined). regular and consistent information on the Company’s strategy and implementation. V Website In March 2016, Galp organized an event for the capital 59. Address(es) market, for information on the strategic update and financial perspectives until 2020. The Company also held Galp publishes information on its website: four conference calls, public to the capital market, to discuss http://www.galp.com quarterly results and update its strategic execution. 60. Location of information about the firm, its public In addition, throughout the year, Galp participated in 17 company status, headquarters and other details set conferences and 15 roadshows. In all, including ad-hoc out in Article 171 of the Commercial Companies meetings and conference calls, the IR team held about 210 meetings with institutional investors, covering a total The information set out in Article 171 of the CSC can be of 230 investment funds in Europe, North America, Latin found on the Galp website at: http://www.galpenergia.com/ America and Asia. Approximately 53% of these meetings EN/Contactos/Paginas/ContactoGeral.aspx were attended by at least one member of the Executive Committee, underlining the management team’s high 61. Location of the by-laws and regulations for commitment level to communicating with the investors governing bodies or committees regarding the Company’s strategy and its implementation in the capital market. Galp’s by-laws are posted on Galp’s website at: http:// www.galpenergia.com/EN/Investidor/GovernoCorporativo/ During the year 2016, the IR team responded to over 350 Documents/Articles_of_association_2012.pdf information requests, and it is a principle of the IR team to ensure high availability and speed of response to all The Regulations of Galp’s Audit Board can be found market players. on Galp’s website at: http://www.galpenergia.com/ EN/Investidor/GovernoCorporativo/Orgaos-sociais/ During the working hours of Euronext Lisbon, Documents/Supervisory-board-regulations-2015.pdf the contact with the IR team can be done through the e-mail address investor.relations@galp.com and by calling +351 217 240 866. 146 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance The Regulations of Galp’s Board of Directors can be 65. Location of the historical record of resolutions found on Galp’s website at: http://www.galpenergia. made in General Shareholders Meetings of the com/EN/Investidor/GovernoCorporativo/OrgaosCompany, share capital represented and the results of sociais/Documents/Regulamento_CA_EN_Web.pdf votes, for the past three years The Regulations of Galp’s Executive Committee can be The historical record of recent years with resolutions found on Galp’s website at: http://www.galpenergia. made in the Company’s General Shareholders Meetings, com/EN/Investidor/GovernoCorporativo/Orgaosshare capital represented and the results of votes, can be sociais/Documents/Terms_of_reference_for_the_ found on Galp’s website at: http://www.galpenergia.com/ executive_committee_2012.pdf EN/investidor/AssembleiaGeral/Arquivo/Paginas/Home.aspx 62. Location of information on the identity of the members of the corporate bodies, the Market liaison D – Remuneration officer, the Investor Support Office or equivalent service, its functions and access channels I Remuneration setting powers Information on the members of the corporate bodies can 66. Indication regarding powers to set the be found on Galp’s website at: http://www.galpenergia. remuneration of the governing bodies, of the members com/EN/Investidor/GovernoCorporativo/Orgaosof the Executive Committee, or the CEO and the sociais/Paginas/Orgaos-sociais-da-Galp-Energia.aspx Company’s managers Information on the market liaison officer and the Under the provisions of Article 8 of Galp’s by-laws, the Investor Relations area can be found on Galp’s website Remuneration Committee is the governing body responsible at: http://www.galpenergia.com/EN/Investidor/Paginas/ for setting the remuneration amounts payable to members Equipa.aspx of Galp’s governing bodies and Executive Committee and consists of three shareholders elected by the General 63. Location of accounting documents, which must Shareholders Meeting who are not members of the Board of be accessible for at least five years, and the sixDirectors or the Audit Board. month calendar of corporate events, released at the beginning of each semester, including, among Galp’s management, as per the provisions of Article 248(B) other events, the General Shareholders Meetings, (3) of the CVM, are the members of the Board of Directors disclosure of annual and, if applicable, quarterly, and the Audit Board of the Company. Indeed, beyond the accounts members of these bodies, no manager has regular access to inside information or participates in decisions about the The accounting documents are available on the Galp’s company’s management and business strategy. website at: http://www.galpenergia.com/EN/Investidor/ Relatorios-e-resultados/Paginas/Home.aspx and the calendar is available at: http://www.galpenergia.com/ II Remuneration Committee EN/Investidor/Calendario/Paginas/home.aspx 67. Membership of the Remuneration Committee, including the identification of the natural or legal persons 64. Location of notice convening the General recruited to provide it with support and statement on the Shareholders Meeting and all preparatory independence of each member and advisor and subsequent information relating to it The Company’s current Remuneration Committee was The notice convening the General Shareholders Meeting elected at the General Shareholders Meeting of 16 April 2015 and all preparatory and subsequent information related for the term 2015-18 and has the following members: to it are posted on Galp’s website at: http://www. galpenergia.com/EN/Investidor/AssembleiaGeral/ • Amorim Energia Paginas/Home.aspx • Jorge Armindo Carvalho Teixeira • Joaquim Alberto Hierro Lopes Annual Report and Accounts 2016 147 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The members of the Remuneration Committee are independent of the executive members of the Board III Remuneration structure of Directors of the Company, in fulfilment of Article 8 69. Description of the remuneration policy of the of the Company’s by-laws which stipulates that those management and supervisory bodies, as provided in positions are incompatible. Article 2 of Law No. 28/2009 of 19 June The fact that the non-executive directors Paula Amorim, Marta Amorim, Francisco Teixeira Rêgo, Rui Paulo Under its mandate conferred by the General Gonçalves and Jorge Seabra de Freitas are members Shareholders Meeting, under Article 8 of the by-laws, of Amorim Energia’s Board of Directors does not affect the Remuneration Committee submitted to the approval the independence of that body as a member of Galp’s General Shareholders Meeting, held on 5 May, of the Remuneration Committee, given that these 2016, a statement on the remuneration policy for the members do not make, alone or together, the decisions directors and supervisory bodies, describing the process of the Board of Directors of Amorim Energia. for setting and implementing Galp’s remuneration policy for 2016, as well as its general objectives and principles, In 2016, the Remuneration Committee held two meetings. in accordance with Law 28/2009 of 19 June and in line with the CMVM Regulation No 4/2013 and the In 2016, no natural or legal person was recruited to support Corporate Governance Code (2013 Recommendations), the Remuneration Committee in the performance in order to ensure greater clarity and effectiveness in of its duties. communicating the remuneration policy, both to the market and to shareholders. This policy is available on 68. Knowledge and experience of the members the official Galp website at http://www.galpenergia. of the Remuneration Committee in matters com/EN/Investidor/AssembleiaGeral/Arquivo/2016/ of remuneration policy Lists/DocumentosPropostas/Item_6.pdf, and a brief description thereof is given below. The members of the Remuneration Committee have control over the remuneration policy based on their Board of Directors academic background and extensive corporate experience and are considered suitable for reflection and decisionNon-executive members fixed monthly sum, paid 12 times making on all matters under the remit of the Remuneration a year, in an amount set by the Remuneration Committee, Committee, as evidenced by their biographical information taking account of standard market practice, which may in Annex 8.9. be differentiated, in the case of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, in recognition of the special functions of Specifically, the Remuneration Committee member Jorge Company representation assigned to him and in the case Armindo Carvalho Teixeira has vast professional experience of non-executive members of the Board of Directors who including work in listed companies, management positions, perform special functions of supervision and monitoring including as Chairman, giving him appropriate knowledge of the Company, as a result of a special duty assigned in matters of remuneration in governing bodies of this by the Board of Directors or as part of the committees company type. established by that body, currently existing, or that may be created in the future. The remuneration of non-executive members of the Board of Directors does not include any amount determined based on the Company’s performance. 148 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Executive members Galp Added Value (33.3%) Fixed Quantitative Total Shareholder Return performance (TSR) (33.3%) (65%) Remuneration Annual (50%) Qualitative EBITDA at replacement cost (33.3%) performance Variable (35%) (potential maximum of 60% based on the total Total Shareholder Return annual fixed (TSR) (50%) remuneration) Quantitative performance (65%) EBITDA a replacement cost Three-yearly (50%) (50%) Qualitative performance (35%) Board executive members remuneration of 2016 involves iii) Galp’s EBITDA, at replacement cost, 33.3%. three main components: Three-yearly variable remuneration represents 50% Fixed remuneration the fixed part of the remuneration of total variable remuneration, with the appropriate is a monthly payment, in 14 annual instalments, amount set based on the following indicators: whose amount is set by the Remuneration Committee taking account of the nature of the assigned roles and i) TSR Galp vs comparable companies, 50%; responsibilities and market practice in equivalent positions ii) Galp’s EBITDA, at Replacement Cost, 50%. in large national and international companies operating in the same sectors. The executive members of the Board of Directors are also entitled to an amount equal to 25% of their fixed Annual variable remuneration represents 50% of total remuneration, which is paid 14 times a year for the purpose variable remuneration, with the appropriate amount set of establishing a savings plan or similar financial product. based on the following indicators: The executive members of the Board of Directors also i) Galp Added Value (GVA) (Galp’s “Economic Value receive the fringe benefits in force at Galp for the exercise Added”), 33.3%; of their role, in accordance with the Company’s terms and conditions. ii) Total Shareholder Return (TSR), 33.3%, to enable comparison with the change in Galp’s stock market performance (including dividend payments) compared Executive directors who have to travel from their place to the following group of comparable companies: of residence are entitled to receive a supplement for Neste Oil, Repsol, OMV, MOL and ENI, and the accommodation expenses, set by the Remuneration PSI 20 index; Committee. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 149 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The remuneration of the Galp directors includes all component, under the terms of the above-mentioned remunerations due for posts held on corporate bodies remuneration policy for 2016. in other Group companies. Accordingly, the use of qualitative criteria oriented Audit Board towards a strategic medium-term perspective in the development of the company, the three-year period The remuneration of the members of the Audit Board considered for setting the multi-annual variable consists of a fixed monthly payment, in 12 instalments, remuneration amount and the existence of a ceiling with the chairman of the Audit Board receiving a different on variable remuneration, are key elements in promoting rate from the other members of the Audit Board, given management aligned with the medium and long term the special functions assigned to that position. interests of the Company and its shareholders. The remuneration of the Audit Board members includes The executive members of the Board of Directors shall no variable component. not enter into contracts, either with the Company or with third parties, whose effect is to mitigate the inherent risk Statutory Auditor of their variable remuneration set by the Company. The Statutory Auditor is remunerated for the work 71. Reference, if applicable, to any variable of review and legal certification of the accounts remuneration component and information on any of the Company in an amount that is contractually impact of performance evaluation on this component set under normal market conditions. In 2016, the remuneration of executive directors Board of the General Shareholders meeting included a variable component set based on the degree of compliance with certain economic, financial and The remuneration of the members of the board of the operational objectives in respect of financial year 2015, General Shareholders Meeting is set following market as set out in the remuneration policy for 2016. practice in similar duties and is paid in a single instalment each year. The total variable remuneration amount for each year is set by the Remuneration Committee in accordance with 70. Information on how remuneration is structured the fulfilment of the previously defined specific targets, so that it aligns the interests of the members of the with a maximum potential of 60%, by reference to fixed Board of Directors with the long-term interests of the annual total remuneration. Company, and on how it takes account of performance assessment and discourages excessive risk-taking The above-mentioned performance indicators contribute 65% to the definition of the applicable annual and three To achieve better alignment of the activities of the directors yearly variable remuneration. The remaining 35% with the Company’s long-term objectives, a three-year of each of these components is based on the result of the policy setting multi-year goals was introduced in 2012. Remuneration Committee’s qualitative assessment of the work of the executive directors during the financial year Indeed, as provided by the remuneration policy described or during the relevant three-year period, as appropriate. in section 69, the variable remuneration of directors holding executive office includes annual and three-yearly Given the need to maintain consistency between variable components, of the same weighting (50% each). the results obtained and the total amount of variable That weighting is based on performance assessment remuneration paid, this depends on Galp’s net profit and carried out by the Remuneration Committee using specific, loss. Accordingly, if Galp achieves net proﬁt under 80% measurable and pre-defined criteria which, together, of budget, there will be no entitlement to payment look at the Company’s growth indicators and the wealth of variable remuneration. created for shareholders in a sustained manner in the short, medium and long term, with a three-year time lag For 2016, the Remuneration Committee set the for the year in question in the case of the multi-annual annual variable remuneration at 50% of total variable remuneration, in line with generally recognized practice in the national market and representing a reasonable balance between the variable and fixed remuneration components. 150 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance For 2016, the Remuneration Committee also set the 74. Criteria used for the allocation of variable three-year variable remuneration at 50% of total remuneration in options and indication of the deferral variable remuneration, in line with generally recognized period and price paid to exercise such options practice in the national market and the arrangements applicable to banking institutions defined in Annex II (1) (n) Galp currently has no system for the allocation of Directive 2011/61/EU of 8 June 2011, which sets of variable remuneration in options. a minimum amount of 40% for deferred variable remuneration. 75. Main parameters and rationale of any annual bonus scheme and any other non-cash benefits 72. Deferred payment of variable remuneration, with specification of the deferral period Galp is not establishing any annual bonus scheme and no other significant non-cash benefits are planned. The remuneration policy for 2016 provides for the three-year deferral of 50% of the variable remuneration component, 76. Main characteristics of supplementary pension in successive and overlapping three-year periods. or early retirement schemes for directors and date of approval by the General Shareholders Meeting The three-yearly variable remuneration is annually in individual terms set by the Remuneration Committee, which establishes a provisional amount based on evaluation in each year The remuneration policy for 2016, approved by the of the three year period. However, the actual deferred General Shareholders Meeting and described in section amount of the three-year variable remuneration depends, 69 of this Report’s chapter, provides for a retirement first, on fulfilment of the overall objectives for the savings plan or similar financial product for the benefit three-year period and, secondly, qualitative assessment of the members of the Executive Committee, through by the Remuneration Committee, following consultation the application of an amount equal to a percentage with the non-executive directors, such that of the annual fixed remuneration. the provisional amounts may be reduced or increased at the end of the three-year period in question, This savings plan entails no cost for Galp in the future, as a result of the assessment. insofar as it represents the allocation of an amount for financial investment, while the members of the Executive The first three-year period to be considered was 2013-15. Committee perform their duties and does not fall under the terms of Article 402(1) of the CSC. 73. Criteria used for allocation of the variable remuneration in shares as well as retention by the executive directors of these shares in any contracts IV Remuneration disclosure relating to these shares, namely hedging or risk 77. Indication of the annual remuneration amount transfer contracts, the respective limit and their ratio received, aggregated and individually, by the members to the total annual remuneration sum of the administrative bodies of the Company, coming from the Company, including fixed and variable Galp currently has no system for the allocation remuneration and, for the latter, specification of variable remuneration in shares. of the different components giving rise to it The gross annual amount of remuneration received in aggregate form by the members of the Company’s Board of Directors during financial year 2016, as set by the Remuneration Committee, was €6,045,407.85, of which €4,012,000.00 was fixed, €952,455.00 in variable remuneration, €761.500.00 for the retirement savings plan and €319,452.85 in other benefits. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 151 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The table below presents the itemized individual gross remuneration received by the members of the Board of Directors in 2016. Individual remuneration of members of the Board of Directors for the year 2016 (€) Executive Directors Fixed Variable Others Total Name Position PPR Remuneration Remuneration 1 beneficts Remuneration Vice-chairman and Carlos Gomes da Silva 980,000.00 285,600.00 245,000.00 110,769.24 1,621,369.24 executive chairman Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Executive 420,000.00 159,600.00 105,000.00 0 684,600.00 Thore E. Kristiansen Executive 490,000.00 110,250.00 122,500.00 116,375.89 839,125.89 Carlos Costa Pina Executive 420,000.00 159,600.00 105,000.00 0 684,600.00 Carlos Silva Costa Executive 420,000.00 130,305.00 0 92,307.72 642,612.72 Pedro Ricardo Executive 368,000.00 53,550.00 92,000.00 0 513,550.00 Tiago da Câmara Executive 368,000.00 53,550.00 92,000.00 0 513,550.00 Pestana Total 3,466,000.00 952,455.00 761,500.00 319,452.85 5,499,407.85 Non-executive Directors Fixed Variable Others Total Name Position PPR Remuneration Remuneration 1 beneficts Remuneration Paula Amorim 2 Non-executive chairman 33,133.00 0 0 0 33,133.00 Miguel Athayde Non-executive 42,000.00 0 0 0 42,000.00 Marques vice-chairman Sergio Gabrielli Azevedo Non-executive 84,000.00 0 0 0 84,000.00 Abdul Magid Osman Non-executive 84,000.00 0 0 0 84,000.00 Marta Amorim 3 Non-executive 8,867.00 0 0 0 8,867.00 Raquel Vunge Non-executive 42,000.00 0 0 0 42,000.00 Francisco Rêgo Non-executive 42,000.00 0 0 0 42,000.00 Jorge Seabra de Freitas Non-executive 42,000.00 0 0 0 42,000.00 Rui Paulo Gonçalves Non-executive 42,000.00 0 0 0 42,000.00 Luis Todo Bom Non-executive 42,000.00 0 0 0 42,000.00 Diogo Tavares Non-executive 42,000.00 0 0 0 42,000.00 Joaquim Borges Non-executive 42,000.00 0 0 0 42,000.00 Gouveia Total 546,000.00 546,000.00 Former non-executive Américo Amorim 4 0 0 0 0 0 chairman 1 Corresponds to the variable annual remuneration for 2015 and variable multiannual remuneration for the three-year period 2013-2015. 2 Remuneration earned as non-executive administrator; the current chairman of the Board of Directors did not receive remuneration from the date of her appointment (October 14, 2016). 3 Remuneration earned since her appointment as a non-executive director (October 14, 2016). 4 The former chairman of the Board of Directors donated his remuneration to the Galp Energia Foundation. 152 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance The members of the Board of Directors did not receive The following are the individual remuneration amounts any payments from the companies in Galp’s control chain. paid to the permanent members of the Audit Board in 2016. The variable remuneration is set under the provisions of section 72 of this report. Fixed Name Position remuneration (€) 78. Any amounts paid by other companies in a controlling Daniel Bessa Chairman 42,000.00 or group relationship or under common control Gracinda Raposo Member 25,200.00 The remuneration of Galp’s directors includes Pedro Antunes Almeida Member 25,200.00 all remunerations due for posts held on corporate bodies Total 92,400.00 in other Group companies. Any amounts paid by other companies in a controlling V Agreements with remuneration or group relationship or under common control were implications not, therefore, paid. 82. Indication of remuneration in the reference year 79. Remuneration paid in the form of profit sharing paid to the Chairman of the General Meeting and/or bonus payments and the reasons why such bonuses and/or profit sharing were paid In 2016, the Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting received remuneration Galp is not establishing any other remuneration system in the amount of €3,000.00. for directors in the form of profit sharing and/or payment of bonuses, so no such payments were made. 83. Contractual limitations provided for compensation for unfair dismissal of a director and ratio to variable 80. Compensation paid or due to former executive remuneration component directors because of termination of duties during the year In accordance with the remuneration policy for 2016, Galp has no agreements in place that provide There was no compensation paid or owed to former for payment in the event of unfair dismissal of a director. executive directors because of termination of their duties during the 2016 financial year. In the event of unfair dismissal of a director, the amounts due are those determined by legal provisions but there 81. Indication of the annual remuneration is no provision for the payment of remuneration sums amount received, in aggregate and individually, in respect of the variable component if the net proﬁt by the members of the Company’s supervisory body, of the Galp group is under 80% of the budget. for the purposes of Law 28/2009 of 19 June The resolution of the Remuneration Committee that sets In accordance with the remuneration policy for 2016, the remuneration of the members of the corporate bodies approved at the General Shareholders Meeting of 05 May is the legal instrument under which the legal rules in force 2016, the remuneration of the Audit Board members is a are applicable to the director removed due to inadequate fixed monthly sum, paid 12 times a year. performance, and no indemnity or compensation that goes beyond this legal regime is required. The aggregate remuneration paid to the members of the Audit Board in 2016, as per the terms set by the Remuneration Committee, was €92,400.00. The Audit Board members do not receive variable remuneration. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 153 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 84. Reference to description, if any, with indication VI Share and/or stock options plans of amounts involved, of agreements between the company and the Board of Directors and other 85. Identification of the plan and its beneficiaries managers, within the meaning of Article 248 (B) (3) of the Portuguese Securities Code, providing Galp has no share plans or share purchase options. for compensation in the event of resignation, dismissal without valid reason, or termination 86. Characterization of the plan (allocation conditions, of the employment relationship following a change share inalienability clauses, criteria relating to share in company control. [Article 245(A) (1) (l)] price and price for exercise of options, period during which options may be exercised, characteristics Galp is not party to any agreements between the company of shares or options to be allocated, incentives for and the Board of Directors and other managers, within the purchase of shares and/or exercise of options) the meaning of Article 248 (B) (3) of the CVM, providing for compensation in the event of resignation, dismissal Galp has no share plans or share purchase options. without valid reason, or termination of the employment relationship following a change in company control. 87. Option rights allocated for purchase of shares (stock options) of which company employees Taking into account the evolution of the international and collaborators are beneficiaries recruitment market of senior executives with experience and commitment of medium/long-term availability Galp has no share plans or share purchase options. and the need to assure the Company the competitive conditions of recruitment and retention, Galp’s 88. Control mechanisms provided for any employee remuneration policy in exceptional and duly justified share-ownership scheme insofar as voting rights are cases, namely by the special business criticality not directly exercised by such employees [Art. 245(A) of the duties to be performed allows the application (1) (e)] of specific mechanisms of compensation or incentive, for a maximum period of two successive terms. Galp has no share plans or share purchase options. Within the framework of this scheme and taking into account the specific relevance of its functions in a phase of unequal E Transactions with related parties growth of the Company and accelerated development of the E&P activity, on 20 July, 2016, at a meeting, the I Control mechanisms Remuneration Committee approved the implementation of an incentive/compensation mechanism for the retention of and procedures the Chairman of the Executive Committee and of the Director 89. Mechanisms implemented by the Company for the responsible for the coordination of the E&P business area, purposes of control of transactions with related parties pursuant to which the respective maintenance is promoted (refer to IAS 24) for two terms by awarding, in the event of early termination without just cause or lack of re-election for the second term, As part of the qualitative improvement of good an additional compensation besides the one that is legally governance practice, the Board of Directors’ meeting payable, corresponding, respectively, to triple and double the of 20 March 2015, at the proposal of the Audit Board, total annual remuneration earned by each of those directors. approved the regulatory standard on the control of transactions between Galp and related parties, in order Galp’s management, as per the provisions of Article to safeguard the Group’s interest in situations of potential 248(B) (3) of the CVM, are the members of the Board of conflict of interest, as well as the adoption of internal Directors and the Audit Board of the Company. Indeed, procedures for compliance with the relevant accounting beyond the members of these bodies, no manager has standards, in particular IAS 24. regular access to inside information or participates in decisions about the company’s management and This standard establishes the internal rules and procedures business strategy. for identification, internal reporting and responding in situations of transactions with related parties. 154 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance 90. Indication of transactions subject to control access to inside information and involvement in during the year management decisions and entity strategy or (iii) holder, individually or jointly, of at least half of the share capital In 2016, there were no transactions with related parties or voting rights, as well as entities that have been subject to the control of the Audit Board. established for the benefit of any person referred to above. 91. Description of the procedures and criteria applicable to the involvement of the Audit Board for the purposes For the purposes of the said regulation, the expression of evaluation of any transactions between the “Significant Transactions” means transactions Company and owners of qualifying holdings or entities in the following situations: in any relationship with them, in accordance with Article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code a) funding, supplies and financial investments with an aggregate annual debt amount, in individual Galp’s engagement in business with the holders or aggregate terms, in excess of €10 million, except of qualifying interests or entities within any relationship for operations undertaken under pre-existing with them, in accordance with Article 20 of the CVM, is contractual conditions subject to the prior opinion subject to the prior opinion of the Audit Board, pursuant to of the Audit Board; “Regulations applicable to Galp Group transactions with related parties”, approved by the Audit Board, to safeguard b) acquisition or disposal of company shareholdings; the Group’s interest in situations of potential conflict of interest notwithstanding compliance with the regulatory c) acquisition, sale, marketing or supply of energy products and statutory legal provisions in force, which can be and/or related products and services with an economic viewed at http://www.galpenergia.com/EN/Investidor/ value in excess of €10 million; GovernoCorporativo/Documents/Terms-of-referencerelated-parties-transactions.pdf d) any transaction not provided for in the above paragraphs with an economic value in excess of €5 million; This regulation applies to significant transactions between Galp (or any entity in which it has a shareholding, or voting e) any transaction that does not fall under any of the rights, or in which it is able to appoint members of the materiality criteria defined above but is considered Board of Directors) and related parties. significant for this purpose by the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee by virtue of its nature For the purposes of the regulation, “Related Party” means or particular susceptibility to conflict of interest. any of the following: Business with related parties not subject to the prior a) Galp’s shareholders (or the shareholders of any company in opinion of the Audit Board, in accordance with the above a controlling or group relationship with it) holding qualifying requirements, shall subsequently be reported to this body interests (greater than or equal to 2% of the voting rights for assessment of fulfilment of the principle under which corresponding to the respective share capital), including transactions must be carried out under normal market the situations referred to in Art. 20 of the CVM; conditions. b) members of the administrative and supervisory bodies The Executive Committee, through the Secretary of the of Galp (or of any company in a controlling or group Company, is required to subject a proposed Significant relationship with it); Transaction, previously approved by Galp’s Executive Committee or Board of Directors, to the prior opinion c) spouse or person living in de facto union with a person of the Audit Board, as the body that is empowered referred to in the previous paragraph, dependent to approve the transaction in question along with the descendants and other family members cohabiting supporting information provided by Galp’s organisational with him/her for over a year; d) the entities of which any person referred to in the preceding paragraphs is (i) a partner with limited liability, (ii) manager, particularly as a member of the administrative or supervisory bodies or with regular Annual Report and Accounts 2016 155 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance and management structures (or any entity in which it c) preparing a six-monthly report on related party transactions previously and subsequently evaluated; holds an interest or voting rights or where it can appoint members of the Board of Directors) proposing the d) annually assessing the adequacy of the regulation transaction, including, in particular, its economic value, applicable to Galp Group transactions with related specification of the contractual formation procedures parties and, where necessary, proposing its review adopted and demonstration of the compliance of the to the Board of Directors. transaction conditions with normal market conditions. II Business-related elements The Audit Board must issue an opinion within ten business days, otherwise the opinion will be deemed favourable. If, 92. Indication of the location of the accounting for exceptional reasons, duly justified and explained, it is documents where information is available not possible to request the approval of the Audit Board on transactions with related parties prior to the transaction, authorization must be requested retrospectively with monitored regularization of the Information on transactions with related parties, justification. If the Audit Board issues an unfavourable in accordance with IAS 24 is available in Note 28 opinion, a Significant Transaction can only be approved of the Annex to Galp’s consolidated accounts. by the Executive Committee or Board of Directors, as applicable, if it is specifically grounded in terms of the pursuit of the corporate interest of Galp or companies in a control relationship of with them. As part of its oversight functions and to prevent conflicts of interest, the Audit Board is responsible for: a) asking the Executive Committee or Board of Directors, as appropriate, for information on the transaction in question, through the Company Secretary; b) making recommendations to the Executive Committee or the Board of Directors, as appropriate, in particular on measures for the prevention and identification of conflicts of interest, as well as measures aimed at making Galp’s corporate interest or the corporate interest of companies in a controlling or group relationship with Galp, compatible with the completion of the transaction in question; 156 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART II C  orporate Governance allocation of results Assessment PART II Corporate 2. Analysis of the Corporate Governance Code adopted Governance The Company’s corporate governance has evolved towards best corporate governance practices and the Assessment CMVM Governance Code and it has adopted the vast majority of the applicable recommendations. Indeed, out of a total of 40 recommendations, Galp has fully adopted 31, six of which are not applicable while three have not been adopted for the reasons listed in the table below. The justification of compliance with each 1. Identification of the Corporate recommendation or reference to the point of this Report Governance Code adopted where the matter is addressed at length (chapter, title, section, page) is also indicated in the following table, Under and for the purposes of Article 2 of CMVM together with the justification of any non-compliance Regulation No. 4/2013, Galp decided voluntarily to be or partial compliance and indication of any alternative governed by the CMVM Corporate Governance Code, mechanism adopted by the Company for the purpose approved in 2013 (CMVM recommendations), available of pursuing the same objective of the recommendation. on the CMVM website at www.cmvm.pt. Company Reference governance to this CMVM Recommendation practice Justification Report I Company vote and control I.1 Companies must encourage their shareholders Adopted Chapter 6, to participate and vote in General Shareholders Meetings, Part I, B, namely by not setting an excessively high number title I b), of shares necessary for voting rights and by implementing point 12, the essential resources for exercising the right to vote page 103 by post and electronically. I.2 Companies must not adopt mechanisms that impede Not adopted The quorum for passing resolutions of two shareholder decision-making, namely by setting a quorum thirds of the votes cast, provided for passing resolutions that is higher than that provided by-laws, for some resolutions of the in law. General Shareholders Meeting, in addition to the matters provided in law, seeks to ensure that the shareholders are adequately represented in the adoption of resolutions on matters that are strategic for the Company. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 157 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Company Reference governance to this CMVM Recommendation practice Justification Report I.3 Companies must not establish mechanisms whose effect Adopted Chapter 6, is to create a time lag between the right to receive Part I, B, dividends or to subscribe new securities and the voting title I b), right of each ordinary share, unless properly justified based point 12, on the long-term interests of the shareholders. page 103 I.4. Company by-laws that provide for limitation on the Not Galp’s by-laws provide for one share, one Chapter 6, number of votes that may be held or exercised by a single applicable vote, and do not provide for any limitation Part I, B, shareholder, individually or by agreement with other on the number of votes that may be title I b), shareholders, must also provide that, at least every five held or exercised by a single shareholder, point 12, years, the General Shareholders Meeting shall decide individually or by agreement with other page 103 whether to change or maintain this statutory provision shareholders. without quorum requirements beyond legal provisions and this resolution shall count all votes cast without the limitation applying. I.5. Galp must not adopt measures whose effect is to demand Adopted Chapter 6, payments or the assumption of costs by the company Part I, A, in the event of a transfer of control or change in the title I, composition of the Board of Directors and which might point 4, damage the free transferability of the shares and the free page 101 appraisal of the performance of the members of the Board of Directors by the shareholders. II Supervision, management and oversight II.1.1. Within the limits established by Law and unless the Adopted Chapter 6, company is of a reduced size, the Board of Directors shall Part I, B, delegate the day-to-day running of the company and the title II a), delegated duties should be identified in the Annual Report points 21 and on Corporate Governance. 29, pages 111 and 119 II.1.2. The Board of Directors shall ensure that the company acts Adopted Chapter 6, in accordance with its goals and should not delegate its Part I, B, duties, namely in what concerns: i) the definition of the title II a), company’s general strategy and policies; ii) the definition point 29, of the corporate structure of the group; iii) decisions to be page 119 considered strategic due to their amount, risk or special features. II.1.3. The General and Supervisory Board, in addition to Not Galp’s governance model does not include a the exercise of the supervisory powers entrusted to it, applicable General and Supervisory Board, wherefore shall assume full responsibilities in terms of corporate the recommendation is not applicable. governance, so that, by statutory provision or by equivalent means, the requirement shall be enshrined for this body to deliberate on the strategy and main policies of the company, by defining the corporate structure of the group and decisions to be considered strategic due to their amount or risk. This body must also evaluate compliance with the strategic plan and the implementation of the main policies of the company. 158 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART II C  orporate Governance allocation of results Assessment Company Reference governance to this CMVM Recommendation practice Justification Report II.1.4. Unless the company is of a reduced size, the Board Adopted Chapter 6, of Directors and the General and Supervisory Board, Part I, B, in accordance with the model adopted, shall set up the title III b), necessary Committees to: points 24 and a) ensure competent and independent assessment of the 27, pages 117 performance of the executive directors as well as their and 118 own overall performance, and the performance of all existing committees; Chapter 5, b) r eflect on the adopted governance structure, system Part I, and practices, assess their efficiency and propose sub-chapter measures to be implemented with a view to improvement B, title III c), of the competent bodies. points 27 and 38, pages 118 and 124 II.1.5. The Board of Directors or the General and Supervisory Adopted Chapter 6, Board, in accordance with the applicable model, Part I, C, must set targets for risk-taking and create systems title III c), for risk control to ensure that the risks actually incurred points 50 to are consistent with those goals. 52, pages 129 to 132 II.1.6. The Board of Directors shall include a number of Adopted Chapter 6, non-executive members to ensure it has efficient capability Part I, B, for supervision, oversight and assessment of the activity title II a), of the other members of the Board of Directors. point 18, page 108 II.1.7. The non-executive directors must include an adequate Adopted Chapter 6, proportion of independent directors, given the adopted Part I, B, governance model, the company’s size and its shareholder title II a), structure and respective free float. The independence point 18, of the members of the General and Supervisory Board page 108 and of the members of the Audit Committee is ascertained in accordance with current legislation and the other members of the Board of Directors are considered independent if they are not associated with any specific interest group in the Company and are not in any situation that might affect their impartiality of analysis or decision-making, in particular because: a) they have been employees of the company or of a company with which it has been in a controlling or group relationship in the past three years; b) in the past three years they have provided services or established a significant business relationship with the company or a company with which it is in a controlling or group relationship, either directly or as a partner, director, officer or manager of a legal entity; c) t hey are in receipt of remuneration paid by the company or by a company with which it is in a controlling or group relationship, in addition to remuneration earned as a director; d) is the partner, spouse or relative in the first degree and up to and including the third degree of a director or an individual with a direct or indirect qualifying holding; e) is a qualifying shareholder or representative of a qualifying shareholder. II.1.8. Directors with executive duties, when so requested by Adopted Chapter 6, other members of governing bodies, to supply information Part I, B, shall do so promptly and in a form that is appropriate title I c), to the nature of the information requested. point 29, page 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 159 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Company Reference governance to this CMVM Recommendation practice Justification Report II.1.9. The Chief Executive Officer or the Chairman of the Adopted Chapter 6, Executive Committee shall send the calls and minutes Part I, B, of the respective meetings, as applicable, to the Chairman title I c), of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Audit Board, point 29, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the page 119 General and Supervisory Board and the Chairman of the Financial Matters Committee. II.1.10. If the Chairman of the Board of Directors has executive Not The Chairman of the Board of Directors of powers, this body shall appoint one of its members as an applicable Galp does not perform executive functions. independent director to ensure coordination of the work of the other non-executive members and the conditions for ensuring that they can make independent and informed decisions, or find another equivalent mechanism for ensuring such coordination. II.2.1. Depending on the applicable model, the Chairman of the Not adopted The Chairman of the Audit Board was Audit Board, the Audit Committee or the Financial Matters re-elected for the third time. However, Committee shall be independent, in accordance with the we should note that the respective applicable legal standard and shall have appointment for completion of the the necessary skills to carry out his/her functions. 2005-07 term followed changes in Galp’s shareholder structure and rules agreed by the shareholders regarding the election of members of the governing bodies (Shareholders’ Agreement of 2006). To this end, the 2008-10 term is considered to be the first appointment. Given the above and the recognised and prestigious reputation for entrepreneurial and scientific excellence of Galp’s Chairman of the Audit Board, the Company has no doubt about his independence. II.2.2. The supervisory body shall be the main point of contact Adopted Chapter 6, for the external auditor and the first recipient of the Part I, B, respective reports, responsible, among other things, title V, for proposing the respective remuneration and ensuring point 45, that the company has suitable conditions in place for the page 126 provision of the services. II.2.3. Every year, the supervisory body must assess the external Adopted Chapter 6, auditor and propose its removal or the termination of the Part I, B, contract for the provision of its services to the competent title V, body, whenever there is a just cause for that. point 45, page 126 II.2.4. The Audit Board shall evaluate the operation Adopted Chapter 6, of the internal control and risk management systems Part I, C, and propose any necessary adjustments. title III, points 50 and 51, page 129 II.2.5. The Audit Committee, the General and Supervisory Board Adopted Chapter 6, and the Audit Board shall decide on work plans and the Part I, C, resources allocated to the internal auditing services and title III, the services that ensure compliance with the standards points 50 applicable to the company (compliance services); reports and 51, page produced by these services must be sent to these bodies 129 at least when they relate to matters of accounting, identification and resolution of conflicts of interest and detection of potential illegalities. 160 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART II C  orporate Governance allocation of results Assessment Company Reference governance to this CMVM Recommendation practice Justification Report II.3. Remuneration setting II.3.1. All members of the Remuneration Committee or equivalent Adopted Chapter 6, body must be independent of the executive members Part I, D, of the Board of Directors and there must be at least one title II, point 67, member with knowledge and experience in remuneration page 147 policy matters. II.3.2. No natural or legal person currently providing or having Adopted Chapter 6, in the last three years provided services to any body Part I, D, dependent on the Board of Directors, to the Company’s title II, point 67, Board itself, or who has a current relationship with the page 147 Company or with an advisor of the Company, shall be recruited to support the Remuneration Committee in the exercise of its duties. This recommendation also applies to any natural or legal person connected with such an employment or service provision contract. II.3.3. The statement on the remuneration policy of the Adopted Chapter 6, management and supervisory bodies, as provided Part I, D, in Article 2 of Law No. 28/2009 of 19 June, must also title III, contain the following: point 69, a) identification and explicit statement of the criteria page 148 for determining remuneration paid to the members of the governing bodies; b) information on any maximum amount, in individual and aggregate terms, to be paid to the members of the corporate bodies and identification of the situations in which these maximum amounts may be due; c) information as to the enforceability or unenforceability of payments for dismissal or termination of directorial functions. II.3.4. Proposals for approval of plans for allocation of shares Not Galp has no share allocation plans or share and/or share purchase options or based on share price applicable purchase options. variations to the members of the corporate bodies must be submitted to the General Shareholders Meeting. The proposal shall mention all the necessary information for a correct assessment of the plan. II.3.5. Proposals for approval of the establishment of any system Not adopted In accordance with the provisions of Article of retirement benefits for the members of the corporate 8 of Galp’s by-laws, the Remuneration bodies must be submitted to the General Shareholders Committee, elected by the General Meeting. The proposal shall mention all the necessary Shareholders Meeting, is the body with information for a correct assessment of the system. powers to approve the pension or pension compensation, paid by the Company, to which the executive directors are entitled. III Remuneration III.1. The remuneration of the executive members of the Adopted Chapter 6, Board of Directors must be based on actual Company Part I, D, performance and must discourage excessive risk-taking. title III, point 70, page 150 III.2. Remuneration of non-executive members of the Board Adopted Chapter 6, of Directors and remuneration of the members of the Part I, D, Audit Board shall not include any component whose value title III, depends on company performance or value. point 69, page 148 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 161 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Company Reference governance to this CMVM Recommendation practice Justification Report III.3. The variable component of the remuneration must Adopted Chapter 6, be in reasonable proportion to the fixed remuneration Part I, D, component and maximum limits must be set for all title III, components. point 71, page 150 III.4. A significant part of the variable remuneration shall Adopted Chapter 5, be deferred for a period not less than three years and the Part I, D, right to receive it shall depend on the company’s ongoing title III, positive performance during that period. point 72, page 151 III.5. The members of the Board of Directors shall not enter Adopted Chapter 6, into contracts, either with the Company, or with third Part I, D, parties, whose effect is to mitigate the inherent risk of their title III, variable remuneration set by the company. point 70, page 150 III.6. Until the end of their terms, the executive directors shall Not The executive directors were not allocated retain the company’s shares allocated to them under applicable any company shares by way of variable variable remuneration schemes, up to twice the value remuneration. of total annual remuneration, except those that need to be sold for the payment of taxes on the income from the shares. III.7. When the variable remuneration includes options, Not Variable remuneration does not include the start of the period for exercising them shall be deferred applicable allocation of share options. for a period not less than three years. III.8. When the director’s dismissal is not due to serious breach Adopted Chapter 6, of duties or unsuitability for the normal exercise of the Part I, D, functions in question, but is still attributable to inadequate title III, performance, the company must have recourse to suitable point 83, and necessary legal instruments to ensure that any page 153 damages or compensation, beyond what is legally due, are not enforceable. IV Audit IV.1. The external auditor shall, as part of his/her powers, verify Adopted Chapter 6, the application of corporate body remuneration policies and Part I, B, systems, the effectiveness and operation of internal control title V, mechanisms and shall report any short comings to the point 45, company’s supervisory body. page 126 IV.2. The company or any entities in a controlling relationship Adopted Chapter 6, with it shall not recruit the external auditor, or any entities Part I, B, in a group relationship with the external auditor or in title V, the same network, to provide services other than audit points 46 services. and 47, pages If there are reasons for procuring such services which 126 and 127 must be approved by the supervisory body and explained in its Annual Corporate Governance Report they shall not account for more than 30% of the total amount of the services rendered to the company. 162 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders PART II C  orporate Governance allocation of results Assessment Company Reference governance to this CMVM Recommendation practice Justification Report IV.3. Companies shall promote the rotation of auditors after two Adopted Chapter 6, or three terms, respectively, depending on whether terms Part I, B, last three or four years. Retaining them beyond this period title V, must be based on a specific opinion of the Audit Board that point 44, expressly weighs up the conditions of independence of the page 126 auditor and the cost/benefits of replacement. V Conflicts of interest and related party transactions V.1. The company’s business with holders of qualifying Adopted Chapter 6, interests or entities with which they are in any relationship, Part I, D, pursuant to Art. 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code, title III, shall be transacted under normal market conditions. point 10, page 103 V.2. The supervisory or oversight body must establish Adopted Chapter 6, the required procedures and criteria for setting the Part I, E, relevant level of business with shareholders with qualifying title I, interests or with entities in a relationship with them points 89 as provided in Article 20(1) of the Portuguese Securities and 91, Code supervision of business of significant relevance pages 154 dependent on the prior opinion of that body. and 155 VI Information VI.1 Companies must provide, through their websites, Adopted Chapter 6, in Portuguese and English, access to information providing Part I, C, title V, knowledge of their development and current situation points 59 in economic, financial and governance terms. and 65, pages 146 and 147 VI.2 Companies shall ensure the existence of an investor support Adopted Chapter 6, and market liaison service, to respond to requests from Part I, C, investors promptly. A record must be kept of requests title IV, submitted and their processing. point 56, page 144 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 163 7 Proposal for allocation of results To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A., under individual accounts, closed the 2016 financial year with a net income of €413,783,597.68. This result is presented in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Pursuant to the law, the Board of Directors proposes that the net income from the 2016 financial year, be allocated as per the following: €1,095,409.66 to retained earnings and €412,688,188.02 to be distributed as dividends. The amount to be paid to shareholders in 2017, concerning the financial year 2016, will be of €206,344,094.01 (€0.248832/share), since €206,344,094.01 has already been paid last September, in the form of an advance on profit for the year, which corresponds to a total dividend of €0.497664 per share. Lisbon, 7 April 2017 The Board of Directors Chairman Paula Fernanda Ramos Amorim Vice-chairman Miguel Athayde Marques Vice-chairman Carlos Nuno Gomes da Silva Members Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Thore E. Kristiansen Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo Abdul Magid Osman Marta Cláudia Ramos Amorim Barroca de Oliveira Raquel Rute da Costa David Vunge Carlos Manuel Costa Pina Francisco Vahia de Castro Teixeira Rêgo Jorge Manuel Seabra de Freitas José Carlos da Silva Costa Pedro Carmona de Oliveira Ricardo João Tiago Cunha Belém da Câmara Pestana Rui Paulo da Costa Cunha e Silva Gonçalves Luis Manuel Pego Todo Bom Diogo Mendonça Rodrigues Tavares Joaquim José Borges Gouveia 166 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results Annual Report and Accounts 2016 167 8 Appendices To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Index Consolidated statement of financial position 171 4.6.1. Joint operations – oil consortium 241 Consolidated income statement 172 4.6.2. Joint operations – jointly controlled entities 245 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 173 5. Operating income 246 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 174 6. Operating costs 248 Consolidated statement of cash flow 176 7. Segment reporting 249 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 8. Financial income and costs 254 as at 31 december 2016 177 9. Income tax 254 1. Introduction 177 10. Earnings per share 262 2. Significant accounting policies 179 11. Goodwill 263 2.1. Basis of presentation 179 12. Tangible and intangible assets 266 2.2. Consolidation methods 185 12.1. Movements in tangible assets: 266 2.3. Tangible assets 189 12.2. Movements in intangible assets: 270 2.4. Intangible assets 190 12.3. Main events occurring during the year ended 2.5. Non-current assets held for sale 191 31 december 2016: 274 2.6. Impairment of non-current assets, except goodwill 191 12.4. Impairment on tangible and intangible assets 274 2.7. Leases 193 12.5. Amortisation, depreciation and impairment losses 2.8. Inventories 194 in the year 275 2.9. Government grants and other grants 195 12.6. Split of tangible and intangible assets in progress 275 2.10. Provisions 195 12.7. Exploration segment assets 276 2.11. Retirement benefits 196 12.8. Stress analysis for impairment tests over tangible and intangible assets 278 2.12. Other retirement benefits – healthcare, life insurance and defined contribution minimum 13. Government grants 280 benefit plan 197 14. Other receivables 280 2.13. Foreign currency balances and transactions 197 15. Trade receivables 287 2.14. Income and accrual basis 197 16. Inventories 288 2.15. Financial costs on loans obtained 199 17. Other financial investments 290 2.16. Income taxes 199 18. Cash and cash equivalents 291 2.17. Financial instruments 200 19. Share capital 292 2.18. Fair value hierarchy 202 20. Reserves 293 2.19. Co2 emission licences 202 21. Non-controlling interests 296 2.20. Classification in the consolidated statement 22. Loans 308 of financial position 202 23. Post employment and other employee benefits 311 2.21. Subsequent events 202 24. Other payables 328 2.22. Segment reporting 202 25. Provisions 330 2.23. Estimates and judgments 202 26. Trade payables 333 2.24. Equity management policy 204 27. Other financial instruments – financial derivatives 333 2.25. Risk management and hedging 204 28. Related parties 336 2.26. Changes in accounting policies 205 29. Remuneration of the board 346 3. Consolidated companies 207 30. Dividends 350 3.1. Consolidation perimeter 207 31. Oil and gas reserves 350 3.2. Changes in the consolidation perimeter 218 32. Financial risk management 351 4. Financial investments 220 33. Contingent assets and liabilities 355 4.1. Investments in joint ventures 220 34. Financial assets and liabilities at book value 4.2. Investments in associates 230 and fair value 358 4.3. Financial assets held for sale 239 35. Information on environmental matters 358 4.4. Results from financial investments 240 36. Subsequent events 359 4.5. Dividends from financial investments 241 37. Approval of the financial statements 359 4.6. Joint operations 241 38. Explanation added for translation 360 170 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. and subsidiaries Consolidated statement of financial position as of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 (Amounts stated in thousand Euros €k) Assets Notes December 2016 December 2015 Non-current assets: Tangible assets 12 5,910,111 5,215,723 Goodwill 11 86,758 137,035 Intangible assets 12 267,551 1,402,977 Investments in associates and joint ventures 4 1,431,598 1,113,576 Financial assets available for sale 4 2,735 2,487 Trade receivables 15 1,081 24,162 Other receivables 14 245,535 298,149 Deferred tax assets 9 334,984 462,134 Other financial investments 17 26,402 24,430 Total non-current assets: 8,306,755 8,680,673 Current assets: Inventories 16 868,924 872,518 Trade receivables 15 1,041,070 804,880 Loans to Sinopec 14 610,003 722,936 Other receivables 14 555,814 576,960 Other financial investments 17 18,953 4,458 Cash and cash equivalents 18 1,033,498 1,130,606 Subtotal current assets: 4,128,262 4,112,358 Non current assets held for sale 3.2 4,128 Total current assets: 4,132,390 4,112,358 Total assets: 12,439,145 12,793,031 Equity and Liabilities Notes December 2016 December 2015 Equity: Share capital 19 829,251 829,251 Share premium 82,006 82,006 Reserves 20 3,095,103 2,682,394 Retained earnings 795,014 1,055,861 Consolidated net income for the year 10 179,097 122,566 Total equity attributable to shareholders: 4,980,471 4,772,078 Non-controlling interests 21 1,562,936 1,416,046 Total equity: 6,543,407 6,188,124 Liabilities: Non-current liabilities: Bank loans 22 911,873 1,151,416 Bonds 22 1,665,656 1,908,109 Other payables 24 305,076 551,287 Post-employment and other employee benefits liabilities 23 359,122 421,540 Deferred tax liabilities 9 65,813 109,384 Other financial instruments 27 1,222 2,498 Provisions 25 429,487 428,762 Total non-current liabilities: 3,738,249 4,572,996 Current liabilities: Bank loans and overdrafts 22 308,308 246,791 Bonds 22 16,855 245,756 Trade payables 26 850,412 656,346 Other payables 24 884,008 844,333 Other financial instruments 27 17,056 29,471 Current income tax payable 9 75,440 9,214 2,152,079 2,031,911 Liabilities associated with non current assets held for sale 3.2 5,410 Total current liabilities: 2,157,489 2,031,911 Total liabilities: 5,895,738 6,604,907 Total equity and liabilities: 12,439,145 12,793,031 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated statement of financial position as of 31 December 2016. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 171 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Consolidated income statement Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. and subsidiaries Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December, 2016 and 2015 (Amounts stated in thousand Euros €k) December 2015 Notes December 2016 restated Operating income: Sales 5 12,487,942 14,869,272 (a) Services rendered 5 631,314 634,481 (a) Other operating income 5 121,336 101,193 (a) Total operating income: 13,240,592 15,604,946 (a) Operating costs: Cost of sales 6 10,135,520 12,793,197 (a) External supplies and services 6 1,284,500 1,227,917 (a) Employee costs 6 333,848 343,498 (a) Amortisation, depreciation and impairment losses on fixed assets 6 834,858 719,635 Provisions and impairment losses on receivables 6 10,785 31,125 Other operating costs 6 97,540 66,350 (a) Total operating costs: 12,697,051 15,181,722 (a) Operating result: 543,541 423,224 (a) Financial income 8 38,643 32,387 Financial costs 8 (72,026) (79,700) Exchange (losses) gains (8,661) (9,792) (a) Income from financial investments and impairment losses on Goodwill 4 and 11 17,238 19,308 Income from financial instruments 27 17,392 (12,776) Income before taxes: 536,127 372,651 (a) Income tax 9 (260,385) (151,431) (a) Energy sector extraordinary contribution 9 (68,047) (67,002) Consolidated net income for the year 207,695 154,218 Income attributable to: Non-controlling interests 21 28,598 31,652 Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. Shareholders 10 179,097 122,566 Consolidated net income for the year 207,695 154,218 Earnings per share (in Euros) 10 0.22 0.15 (a) These amounts were restated considering the changes in the accounting classification referred in Note 2.26. The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2016. 172 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. and subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 (Amounts stated in thousand Euros €k) December 2016 December 2015 Atributtable Non-controlling Atributtable Non-controlling Notes to the interests to the interests Shareholders (Note 21) Shareholders (Note 21) Consolidated net income for the year 10 179,097 28,598 122,566 31,652 Other comprehensive income for the year which will not be recycled in the future through net income of the year: Actuarial Gains and losses pension fund: Actuarial Gains and losses pension fund 23 (1,718) (12) (22,699) Tax related to actuarial gains and losses pension fund 9 (293) 1,867 1 (2,011) (12) (20,832) 1 Other comprehensive income for the year which will be recycled in the future through net income of the year: Currency exchange differences: Currency exchange differences (Group companies) 20 240,686 98,471 75,202 64,197 Currency exchange differences (Associates/joint ventures) 4 and 20 41,502 58,212 Currency exchange differences Goodwill 11 and 20 815 2,157 Currency exchange differences Financial allocation (quasi capital) 20 183,447 78,621 (232,534) (99,657) Deferred tax related to components of Currency exchange 9 and 20 (62,372) (26,731) 79,061 33,883 differences Financial allocations (quasi capital) 404,078 150,361 (17,902) (1,577) Hedging reserves: Increases/(decreases) in hedging reserves (Group companies) 27 and 20 7,353 (1,134) Deferred tax related to hedging reserves components 9 and 20 (1,654) 265 (Group companies) Increases / (decreases) in hedging reserves (Associates/ 27 and 20 (223) (42) joint ventures) Deferred tax related to hedging reserves components 20 50 (11) (Associates/joint ventures) 5,526 (922) Other increases/decreases Changes on the financial interests held in the share capital (17,921) of subsidiaries (Note 21 g) Other increases/decreases 10 (4) 10 (17,925) Other Comprehensive income for the year net of taxes 407,593 150,359 (39,656) (19,501) Comprehensive income for the year atributtable to shareholders 586,690 82,910 Comprehensive income for the year atributtable to non-controlling 21 178,957 12,151 interests Total Comprehensive income for the year 586,690 178,957 82,910 12,151 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated statement of comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2016. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 173 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. and subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 (Amounts stated in thousand Euros €k) Retained earnings Translation actuarial Gains Consolidated Non-controlling Share Other reserves Hedging reserves Retained Changes in the year Notes Share capital reserves and losses net income Sub-Total interests Total premium (Note 20) (Note 20) earnings (Note 20) pension fund for the year (Note 21) (Note 23) Balance as of 1 January 2015 829,251 82,006 17,669 2,684,414 (744) (99,570) 1,664,905 (173,394) 5,004,537 1,420,184 6,424,721 Consolidated net income for the year 10 122,566 122,566 31,652 154,218 Other gains and losses recognised in Equity (17,902) (922) (20,832) (39,656) (19,501) (59,157) Comprehensive income for the year (17,902) (922) (20,832) 122,566 82,910 12,151 95,061 Dividends distributed/Interim dividends (315,248) (315,248) (7,722) (322,970) Increase in share capital of subsidiaries (121) (121) (8,567) (8,688) Increase of reserves by appropriation of profit (173,394) 173,394 Balance as of 31 December 2015 829,251 82,006 (233) 2,684,293 (1,666) (120,402) 1,176,263 122,566 4,772,078 1,416,046 6,188,124 Balance as of 1 January 2016 829,251 82,006 (233) 2,684,293 (1,666) (120,402) 1,176,263 122,566 4,772,078 1,416,046 6,188,124 Consolidated net income for the year 10 179,097 179,097 28,598 207,695 Other gains and losses recognised in Equity 404,078 5,526 (2,011) 407,593 150,359 557,952 Comprehensive income for the year 404,078 5,526 (2,011) 179,097 586,690 178,957 765,647 Dividends distributed/Interim dividends 30 (378,297) (378,297) (12,547) (390,844) Changes in the consolidation perimeter 3 and 21 3,061 44 4,536 (7,641) (19,520) (19,520) Increase of reserves by appropriation of profit 122,566 (122,566) Balance as of 31 December 2016 829,251 82,006 403,845 2,687,354 3,904 (117,877) 912,891 179,097 4,980,471 1,562,936 6,543,407 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2016. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 175 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Consolidated statement of cash flow Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. and subsidiaries Consolidated statement of cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 (Amounts stated in thousand Euros €k) Notes December 2016 December 2015 Operating activities: Cash received from customers 15,156,153 17,665,676 Cash (payments) to suppliers (9,093,921) (11,420,662) (Payments) relating to Tax on oil products (ISP) (2,752,218) (2,632,665) (Payments) relating to VAT (1,412,350) (1,624,430) (Payments) relating to Royalties, levies, PIS and Cofins and Others (78,823) (50,022) Operating gross margin 1,818,841 1,937,897 Salaries, contributions to the pension fund and other benefits (payments) (214,432) (209,348) Withholding income taxes (payments) (83,165) (85,246) Social Security contributions (75,074) (76,389) Payments relating to employees (372,671) (370,983) Other receipts/(payments) relating to the operational activity (80,078) (46,074) Cash flows from operations 1,366,092 1,520,840 (Payments)/receipts of corporate income taxes (Corporate income tax CIT, oil income tax IRP, (172,408) (127,016) special participation tax) Cash flows from operating activities (1) 1,193,684 1,393,824 Investing activities: Cash receipts from disposal of tangible and intangible assets 946 68,893 Cash (payments) for the acquisition of tangible and intangible assets (1,042,556) (989,812) Cash receipts relating to financial investments 3 and 4 164,210 35,370 Cash (payments) relating to financial investments (189,604) (308,346) Financial investment (1,067,004) (1,193,895) Cash receipts from loans granted 133,843 260,784 Cash (payments) relating to loans granted (6,818) (400) Cash receipts from interests and similar income 17,581 21,855 Cash receipts relating to dividends 4 and 5 70,115 72,901 Cash flows from investing activities (2) (852,283) (838,755) Financing activities: Cash receipts from loans obtained 2,536,836 1,282,504 Cash (payments) relating to loans obtained (2,568,791) (1,407,753) Cash receipts/(payments) from interests and similar costs (137,277) (132,411) Dividends paid 30 (387,409) (318,211) Other financing activities 395 1,904 Cash flows from financing activities (3) (556,246) (573,967) Net change in cash and cash equivalents (4) = (1) + (2) + (3) (214,845) (18,898) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes in cash and cash equivalents 130,630 41,393 Cash changes by changes in the consolidation perimeter 3 (38,441) (1,040) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,044,851 1,023,396 Cash and cash equivalents related to non-current assets held for sale 3 1,048 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 18 923,243 1,044,851 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated statement of cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2016. 176 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated marketing activity, using the Galp brand, also includes financial statements Angola, Cape Verde, Spain, Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique and Swaziland through subsidiaries. as at 31 december 2016 b3) Natural gas activity and energy production 1. Introduction and supply a) Parent Company: The Gas & Power (G&P) business segment encompasses the areas of procurement, supply, Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. (hereinafter referred to as Galp or distribution and storage of natural gas and electric and the Company) has its head office in Rua Tomás da Fonseca thermal power generation. in Lisbon, Portugal and its activity is to manage equity stakes in other companies. Galp natural gas business encompasses a set of activities, including the supply and marketing to final The Company shareholding structure as of 31 December customers in Iberia. 2016 is stated in Note 19. The natural gas activity, including Procurement and The Company is listed on the Euronext Lisbon stock supply of natural gas, supplies natural gas to large exchange. industrial customers, with annual consumption of more than 2 million m3, power generation companies, natural b) The Group: gas distribution companies and autonomous gas units. So as to meet the demand of its customers, Galp has As of 31 December 2016 the Galp group (the Group) consists long-term supply contracts with Algerian and Nigerian of Galp and its subsidiaries, which includes, among others: suppliers. (i) Galp Energia E&P, B.V. and its subsidiaries integrating the oil and gas exploration and production activities and The natural gas subsidiaries of the Galp group which biofuels, (ii) Petróleos de Portugal – Petrogal, S.A. (Petrogal) supply natural gas in Portugal operate based on and its subsidiaries, which carry out their activities in the concession contracts entered into with the Portuguese refining of crude oil and distribution of its derivatives; (iii) State. At the end of the concession period, the assets Galp Gás & Power, SGPS, S.A. and its subsidiaries, which relating to the concessions will be transferred to the operate in the natural gas sector, electricity sector and Portuguese State and the companies will receive an renewable energy sector; and (iv) Galp Energia, S.A. which amount corresponding to the book value of these integrates the corporate support services. assets at that date, net of depreciation, financial co-participation and Government grants. b1) Upstream activities Under the terms covered by the sectorial regulations The Exploration & Production (E&P) business segment applicable in Portugal, approved by the respective is responsible for the presence of Galp in the oil regulator (ERSE www.erse.pt), described in the respective industry upstream sector, which consists in the regulations in more detail, there are: management of all activities relating to exploration, development and production of hydrocarbons, essentially in Brazil, Mozambique and Angola. b2) Midstream and Downstream activities The Refining & Marketing (R&M) business segment owns two refineries in Portugal and also includes all activities relating to the retail and wholesale marketing of oil products (including LPG). The Refining & Marketing segment also comprises the oil products storage and transportation infrastructure in Portugal and Spain, for both export/import and marketing of its products to the main consumer centres. This retail Annual Report and Accounts 2016 177 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Distribution Network Operators: Usually the long-term natural gas purchase contracts define a minimum annual quantity to acquire and a flexible • Access to the Natural Gas National Transportation margin for each year. These contracts usually establish Network (NGNTN) and the Natural Gas National an obligation to take or pay, which obliges the purchase Distribution Network (NGNDN) activities developed by the of the agreed quantities of natural gas, regardless of the distribution network operators. respective need that may or not occur. These contracts • Natural gas distribution activity exercised by the allow the transfer of quantities from one year to another distribution network operators. within certain limits, if demand is lower than the established minimum annual levels. Last resort wholesale supply When Galp was listed on the stock exchange, an analysis • Natural Gas purchase and sale activity in connection to of these contracts was performed in order to detect any the management of the long-term supply contracts in the embedded derivatives, namely contractual clauses that Take or Pay (ToP) scheme signed prior to the publication could be considered as financial derivatives. Joint analysis of Directive 2003/55/ EC of 26 June, exercised by the carried out by external consultants and the Group, did not Natural Gas National System (NGNS) supplier. detect financial derivatives that should be recognised at fair value, since the characteristics of these contracts are To cover the planned natural gas requirements in Portugal, intrinsic to the gas activity. a natural gas purchase contract of 2.3 bcm per year was signed, for a period of 23 years, with Sonatrach, a company When embedded derivatives are noted in other financial owned by the Algerian State. The commencement of this instruments or other contracts, they are treated as contract and the first deliveries of natural gas started in separately recognised derivatives in situations where the January 1997, simultaneously with the connection of the risks and characteristics are not closely related to contracts Europe-Maghreb gas pipeline to the transport network and in situations where the contract is not stated at fair in Portugal. value with unrealized gains or losses recorded in the income statement. Additionally, three contracts were signed for a period of 20 years, with NLNG, a Nigerian Company, to acquire a total of Although the maturity of the contracts is of less than 20 3.5 bcm of LNG per year. The supply under these contracts years, long-term supply contracts provide for the possibility started in 2000, 2003 and 2006, respectively. of renegotiation over the term of the contract in accordance with contractually defined rules. Natural Gas and LNG acquisition contracts: The natural gas purchase and sale activity for supply to the Quantity Period last resort wholesaler, includes the following functions: Contracts Country Initial year (mm3/year) (years) NLNG I Nigeria 420 20 2000 • natural gas purchase and sale function, resulting from the acquisition of natural gas, directly or through auctions, NLNG II Nigeria 1,000 20 2003 under long-term supply contracts, of the supplier of NLNG + Nigeria 2,000 20 2006 natural gas national system; Sonatrach Algeria 2,300 23 1997 • natural gas purchase and sale function in organized markets or through bilateral contracts (not applicable to Galp for the year under review). The purchase price of natural gas under long-term purchase agreements is generally calculated according to a set price formula based on the price of alternative fuels, as the benchmark price of crude oil and other elements, including inflation and exchange rates. Typically, the price formula of these contracts foresees a periodic adjustment based on variations of the chosen benchmark. 178 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Last resort retail supply 2. Significant accounting policies The natural gas marketing activity, exercised by the last The significant accounting policies used by the Group to resort retailers, includes the following functions: prepare the consolidated financial statements are explained below. During the year ended 31 December 2016 changes • natural gas purchase and sale; in accounting policies occurred, expressed in note 2.26, in relation to those used to prepare the financial information • access to the NGNTN and NGNDN; for the preceding year. There were no prior year material • natural gas marketing. errors. The Group Power business includes the generation of energy 2.1 Basis of presentation through the portfolio of cogeneration plants in Portugal and the sale of electricity to end customers. This business The accompanying financial statements are presented in is complementary to the natural gas business, by means of thousands of Euros, unless otherwise stated. natural gas auto consumptions in cogeneration plants and combined electricity and gas supply. Galp consolidated financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis, at historical cost except for The activity of the Power sub-segment currently consists of financial derivative instruments which are stated at fair operating cogeneration plants and wind power through joint value (Note 2.17), based on the accounting records of the ventures. companies included in the consolidation (Notes 3 and 4) maintained in accordance with International Financial Geographic markets for developed activities are as follows: Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, effective for the period beginning in 1 January • natural gas supply; 2016. These standards include International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International • natural gas distribution: Portugal; Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and International • natural gas and electricity sale: Portugal and Spain; Accounting Standards (IAS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC) and respective • electricity production: Portugal. interpretations – SIC and IFRIC, issued by the Standing Interpretation Committee (SIC) and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee (IFRIC). These standards and interpretations are hereinafter referred to as IFRS. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 179 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The IFRS standards published by the IASB and approved and published in the Official Journal of the European Union (OJEU) during 2016, applicable to subsequent years are presented in the tables below: Standards and Interpretations published by IASB but not endorsed by the EU: Publishing date Estimated date Year to which IAS Standard Comments in IASB of approval by EU it applies IFRS 14 Regulatory Tariff Deviations 30 January 2014 Not applicable Impact of the application of the IFRS 16 Leases 13 January 2016 2nd Semester 2017 2019 standard still to be determined Amendments to IAS 12 Income taxes 19 January 2016 2nd Quarter 2017 2017 No estimated impact Impact on disclosures in Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of cash flow 29 January 2016 2nd Quarter 2017 2017 the notes to the financial statements Clarification to IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts Impact of the application of the 12 April 2016 2nd Quarter 2017 2018 with customers standard still to be determined Amendments to IFRS 2 Shared based payments 20 June 2016 2nd Semester 2017 2018 Not applicable Amendments to IFRS 4 Insurance contracts 12 September 2016 2017 2018 No estimated impact Annual improvements to IFRS 2014-2016 8 December 2016 2nd Semester 2017 2017/2018 No relevant accounting impacts IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions 8 December 2016 2nd Semester 2017 2018 No estimated impact and advance consideration Amendments to IAS 40 Investment property 8 December 2016 2nd Semester 2017 2018 No estimated impact Standards and interpretations to be applied in subsequent years, if applicable: Date Publishing date Year to which IAS Standard of accounting Comments in OJEU it applies application Impact on hedging financial derivatives, classification of IFRS 9 Financial instruments 29 November 2016 1 January 2018 2018 financial assets and calculation of impairment losses on accounts receivable Impact still to be determined, in IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers 29 October 2016 1 January 2018 2018 revenue recognition 180 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Standards and Interpretations addopted, if applicable: Date of Publishing date Year to which IAS Standard accounting Comments in OJEU it applies application Amendment to IFRS 10, 12 and IAS 28: Investment entities applying consolidation 23 September 2016 1 January 2016 2016 Not applicable exemption Amendment to IAS 27 Separate financial 23 December 2015 1 January 2016 2016 No impact statements Amendment to IAS 1 Disclosure initiative 19 December 2015 1 January 2016 2016 No relevant accounting impacts Annual Improvements to IFRS 2012 2014 16 December 2015 1 January 2016 2016 No relevant accounting impacts Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Acceptable methods of depreciation and 3 December 2015 1 January 2016 2016 Not applicable amortisation calculation Amendment to IFRS 11 Accounting for the Potential impact in new 25 November 2015 1 January 2016 2016 acquisition of interests in joint operations acquisitions of joint operations Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 25 November 2015 1 January 2016 2016 Not applicable Agriculture: bearer plants Annual Improvements to IFRS 2010 2012 9 January 2015 1 February 2015 2016 No relevant accounting impacts Amendments to IAS 19 Defined benefit 9 January 2015 1 February 2015 2016 No relevant accounting impacts plans: Employee contributions Standards and Interpretation published by IASB or finance, with IFRS 16’s approach to lessor accounting but still not endorsed by the European Union: substantially unchanged from its predecessor, IAS 17. IFRS 14 – Regulatory Tariff Deviation Galp is still determining the impact of this new standard on its activities. As a result of a preliminary analysis, Galp The standards allow an entity which is a first-time adopter clarifies that this standard on leases will not have impact of International Financial Reporting Standards to continue on Signature bonuses (Mineral rights) related to the E&P to account, with some limited changes, for ‘regulatory business. However, it continues to analyse all the impacts deferral account balances’ in accordance with its previous from this standard. GAAP, both on initial adoption of IFRS and in subsequent financial statements. Regulatory deferral account balances, Amendments to IAS 12 – Income taxes and respective movements, are presented separately in the statement of financial position, income statement and other The amendments in IAS 12 refer to the recognition of comprehensive income, and specific disclosures are required. deferred tax assets for unrealised losses, and clarify the following aspects: As Galp is not a first-time adopter of the IFRS, this standard does not apply. Additionally, the European Union decided i) unrealised losses on debt instruments measured at fair not to endorse this standard. value and measured at cost for tax purposes give rise to a deductible temporary difference regardless of whether IFRS 16 – Leases the debt instrument’s holder expects to recover the carrying amount of the debt instrument by sale or This standard specifies how leases should be recognised, by use; measured, presented and disclosed. The standard provides ii) the carrying amount of an asset does not limit the a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to estimation of probable future taxable profits; recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has iii) estimates for future taxable profits exclude tax a low value. Lessors continue to classify leases as operating deductions resulting from the reversal of deductible temporary differences; Annual Report and Accounts 2016 181 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance iv) an entity assesses a deferred tax asset in combination associated with a share-based payment and pay that with other deferred tax assets. Where tax law restricts amount to the tax authority. the utilisation of tax losses, an entity would assess a deferred tax asset in combination with other deferred This amendment has no accounting impact in Galp’ financial tax assets of the same type. statements, has there are no share-based payment plans. It is not expected that this clarification in IAS 12 will have any impact on the calculations and records for deferred Amendments to IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts taxes made by Galp. This amendment allows for two different solutions for IAS 7 – Statement of cash flows: Disclosures insurance companies: temporary exemption of IFRS 9 for entities fulfilling specific requirements (applied at the Requires an entity to disclose information on the changes in consolidated level); and “overlay approach”. liabilities related to the financing activity, namely: However, it is estimated that IFRS 4 will be replaced by the i) changes in financing cash flows; new standard for insurance contracts. Consequently, it is expected that both the temporary exemption as well as the ii) changes arising from obtaining or losing control “overlay approach” are no longer applicable when the new on subsidiaries or other businesses; insurance standard is enforced. iii) the effect of changes in exchange rates; iv) changes in fair value; and Galp considers premature to determine eventual impacts of these amendments, as the same as still subject to future v) other changes. modifications. This amendment will have impact on the future disclosures Annual improvement IFRS 2014-2016 to be presented in the notes to the financial statements. • IFRS 1 – First time adoption of IFRS Clarification on IFRS 15 – Revenue from contracts with customers This improvement deletes the short term exemptions for IFRS 7, IFRS 10 and IAS 19 because they were no longer The clarification refers to additional procedures to perform applicable, for first time adopters of IFRS. in order to determine the performance obligations of a contract, the timing for revenue recognition for an • IFRS 12 – Disclosure of interest in other entities intelectual property licence, review of indicators to classify the relationship between principal versus agent, and new This improvement intends to clarify the scope of IFRS 12 regimes established to simplify the transition. with respect to interests in entities within the scope of IFRS 5 and that the only exemption refers to the disclosure Galp is analysing the future impact of this standard of summarized financial information for those entities particularly in the recognition of revenue in the various activities developed. • IAS 28 – Investments in associates and joint ventures Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification This improvement clarifies that investments in associates and measurement of share-based payment or joint ventures held by a venture capital organization transactions are allowed to be measured at fair value in accordance with IFRS 9, on a standalone basis. This improvement also This amendment clarifies the measurement basis for cashclarifies that an entity that it is not an investment entity settled, share-based payments and the accounting for but holds investments in associates and joint ventures that modifications to a share-based payment plan that change are investment entities, is entitled to retain the fair value the classification of an award from cash-settled to equitymeasurement of the associate’s and joint venture’s interest settled. It also introduces an exception to the principles in its own subsidiaries. in IFRS 2 that will require an award to be treated as if it was wholly equity-settled, where an employer is obliged to withhold an amount for the employee’s tax obligation 182 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Galp considers that the amendments referred above clarify • the recognition of credit impairment (through the expected credit losses model); and the standards in force, not presenting relevant impacts on the measurement or presentation of financial statements. • the hedge accounting requirements and recognition. IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions Galp considers that the IFRS 9 will change the recognition and advance consideration of accounts receivable impairment, the classification and measurement of financial assets, as well as impact the This Interpretation intends to determine the date of hedge accounting, as the referred standard will be more transaction which determines the exchange rate used aligned with the economic hedging. Galp is still determining to translate the foreign currency transactions. The the impacts of this standard. Interpretation is applied when an entity either pays or receives consideration in advance for foreign currency IFRS 15 – Revenue from contracts with customers denominated contracts and defines that: This new standard applies only to contracts with customers i) the transaction date, for determination of the Exchange to provide goods or services, and requires an entity to rate, is the date of initial recognition of the non-financial recognise revenue when the contractual obligation to asset or the non-financial liability resulting from the deliver the goods or services is satisfied and by the amount consideration in advance; that reflects the consideration the entity is expected to be entitled to, following a five step approach. ii) if several payments or receipts in advance are noted, a date of transaction is established for each payment or receipt. Galp is analysing the future impact of the referred standard, namely in revenue recognition of the several activities it Galp considers that this Interpretation has no accounting performs. impact in its financial statements, as Galp is already performing accounting in accordance with this Standards and interpretations endorsed which are Interpretation. effective as at 1 January 2016, if applicable: Amendments to IAS 40 Investment Property Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investment entities: applying consolidation This amendment clarifies when assets are transferred to, exemption or from investment properties, the evidence of the change in use is required. A change of management intention in This amendment clarifies that the exemption from the isolation is not enough to support a transfer. obligation to prepare consolidated financial statements by investment entities applies to an intermediate parent which Galp estimates that the amendment will not have an is a subsidiary of an investment entity. The policy choice to accounting impact on its financial statements. apply the equity method, under IAS 28, is extended to an entity which is not an investment entity, but has an interest Standards and interpretations endorsed in an associate, or joint venture, which is an investment entity. by the European Union, to be applied in subsequent years, if applicable: These amendments are not applicable to Galp. IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments Amendments to IAS 27 – Equity method in separate financial statements IFRS 9 replaces the guidance in IAS 39, regarding: This amendment allows entities to use equity method • the classification and measurement of financial assets to measure investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and liabilities, introducing a simplification in the and associates in separate financial statements. This classification based on the business model defined by the amendment applies retrospectively. management; Galp maintains its accounting policy, recognising its • the recognition of “own credit risk” in the fair value financial investments at acquisition cost in separate measurement of liabilities classified voluntarily as at fair value; financial statements, therefore the referred amendments have no impact on its financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 183 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure initiative Amendments to IAS 16, ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and IAS 38 ‘Intangible assets’. This amendment provides guidance on materiality and aggregation, the presentation of subtotals, the structure of This amendment clarifies that the use of revenue-based financial statements, the disclosure of accounting policies methods to calculate the depreciation / amortization of an and Other Comprehensive Income items presentation when asset is generally presumed to be an inappropriate basis arising from investments measured at equity method. for measuring the consumption of the economic benefits embodied in an asset. Galp considers that the following amendments have no relevant impact on the financial statements. Galp considers this amendment as not applicable, as it does not depreciate/amortize its assets in accordance with Annual improvements IFRS 2012-2014 the revenue obtained, but in accordance with the technical depreciation of the referred assets. • IFRS 5 – ’Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations’ Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for the acquisition of interests in joint operations This improvement clarifies that when an asset (or disposal group) is reclassified from “held for sale” to “held for This amendment adds new guidance on how to account distribution”, or vice versa this does not constitute a change for the acquisition of an interest in a joint operation that to a plan of sale or distribution. constitutes a business, through the application of IFRS 3’s principles. • IFRS 7 – ‘Financial instruments: disclosures’ This amendment to IFRS 11 is applicable to future This improvement provides guidance on what is meant acquisitions of joint arrangements by Galp. by continuing involvement in a transfer (derecognition) of financial assets, for the purpose of required disclosures. Amendments to IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture • IAS 19 – ‘Employee benefits’ This amendment defines the concept of a bearer plant This improvement clarifies that, when determining the and removes it from the scope of IAS 41 – Agriculture, to discount rate for post-employment defined benefit the scope of IAS 16 – Property, plant and equipment, with obligations, this must refer to high quality bonds with the the consequential impact on measurement. However, the same currency in which liabilities are denominated. produce growing on bearer plants will remain within the scope of IAS 41 Agriculture. • IAS 34 – ‘Interim financial reporting’ This amendment is not applicable to Galp group subsidiaries This improvement clarifies the meaning of “information and therefore, has not relevance in the measurement or disclosed elsewhere in the interim financial report” and presentation of its financial statements. requires the cross referencing to that information. Amendments to IAS 19 Defined benefit plans – Galp considers that the following amendments clarify Employee contributions the standards in force, having no relevant impacts in the disclosure and amounts presented. This amendment applies to contributions from employees or third parties to defined benefit plans and aims to simplify the accounting when contributions are not associated to the number of years of service. Galp considers that this amendment has no relevant accounting impacts. 184 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Improvements IFRS 2010 – 2012 Galp considers that these amendments to the standards have no relevant impact on its accounting policies. • IFRS 2 – ‘Share based payments’ Estimates that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, This improvement amends the definitions of vesting income and costs were used in preparing the accompanying conditions that considers that only two type of conditions consolidated financial statements. The estimates and exist, the performance conditions and the service assumptions used by the Board of Directors were based conditions. The new definition of performance condition on the best information available regarding events and foresees that only conditions attached to the entity are transactions in process at the time of approval of the considered. financial statements. • IFRS 3 – ‘Business combinations’ In the preparation and presentation of consolidated financial statements Galp group complies with the IAS / This improvement clarifies that an obligation to pay IFRS and their interpretations SIC / IFRIC adopted by the contingent consideration is classified in accordance with IAS European Union and effective as at 31 December 2016. 32, as liability or equity, if it meets the financial instrument definition. The contingent consideration which classifies as 2.2 Consolidation methods a liability shall be measured at fair value through profit and loss. The consolidation methods adopted by the Group are as follows: • IFRS 8 – ‘Operating segments’ a) Investments in Group companies This improvement amends IFRS 8 to require disclosure of the judgments made by management in aggregating Investments in companies in which the Group holds control, operating segments and the reconciliation of segment namely if it has cumulatively: assets with the entity’s total assets in financial statements, when the information is reported. • power over the investee; • exposure or rights in relation to variable results through • IFRS 13 – ‘Fair value’ its relationship with the investee; and This improvement clarifies that the ability to measure short• ability to use its power over the investee to impact the term receivables and payables at the invoiced amounts amount of the results to the investors, were included in where the impact of not discounting is immaterial, was not these consolidated financial statements in accordance removed by IFRS 13. with the full consolidation method. The Companies consolidated in accordance with the full consolidation • IAS 16 – ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and IAS 38 method are disclosed in Note 3. ‘Intangible assets’ Equity and net result for the year corresponding to third This improvement clarifies how the gross carrying amount party participation in subsidiaries are reflected separately and the accumulated depreciation/ amortization are in the consolidated statement of financial position and in treated, when an entity uses the revaluation model for the consolidated income statement, respectively, in the subsequent measurement of PP&E and intangible assets, caption “Non-controlling interests”. The gains and losses foreseeing two models. This clarification is significant when attributable to non-controlling interests are allocated to useful lives or depreciation/ amortization methods are them, even if they exceed, in case of losses, the amount reviewed in the revaluation period. invested by the non-controlling interests. • IAS 24 – ‘Related parties’ The assets and liabilities of each Group company are recorded at fair value as of the date of acquisition, as This improvement amends IAS 24 to include as a related established in IFRS 3, and can be reviewed over a period of party an entity that provides key management personnel 12 months after that date. Any excess of cost over the fair services to the reporting entity or to the parent of the value of the net assets and liabilities acquired is recognised reporting entity. as Goodwill (Note 2.2.d)). If the difference between the cost Annual Report and Accounts 2016 185 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance and the fair value of the net assets and liabilities acquired b) Investments in joint arrangements (joint is negative, it is recorded as income of the year. ventures and joint operations) When, at the date of the control acquisition, the Group Galp holds interests in Joint Arrangements in which already holds a previously acquired interest, its fair value is joint control consists on the contractually agreed used to determine Goodwill or negative Goodwill. sharing of control over an agreement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the Transaction costs directly attributable to business unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. combinations are immediately recognised in profit and loss. The classification of a joint arrangement as a joint Non-controlling interests include the third parties’ portion operation or a joint venture depends on the rights and of the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities as obligations of the parties in the agreement. of the date of acquisition of the subsidiaries. A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the When control is acquired for a percentage below 100%, parties that hold the joint control agreement have rights to under the purchase method, non-controlling interests may the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to this be measured at fair value or at the ratio between acquired Agreement. These parts are called joint operators. assets fair value and acquired liabilities fair value, being the option defined for each transaction. A joint venture is a joint agreement whereby the parties who have the agreement of joint control have rights to the The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the net assets of the agreement. These parts are called joint year are included in the consolidated income statement venturers. from the date of acquisition or the date of the exercise of control up to the date of disposal. The classification of investments in joint ventures or joint operations is determined based on the agreements that Subsequent disposal or acquisition transactions of regulate the joint control. Therefore, when Galp classifies financial investments on non-controlling interests, a share or consortium as a joint agreement it takes into which do not involve changes in control, do not result in consideration various legal aspects, contractual terms recognition of gains, losses or Goodwill, being any resulting and requirements of the accounting standards for their difference between the transaction amount and the appropriate accounting classification. carrying amount of the transacted investment recognised in Equity. Investments in joint arrangements are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements in Whenever necessary, adjustments are made to the accordance with the equity method as from the date joint financial statements of subsidiaries to be in accordance control is acquired. The joint ventures recognised by the with the Group’s accounting policies. Transactions equity method are listed in Note 4. The excess of cost in (including unrealised gains and losses on sales between relation to the fair value of the identifiable assets and Group companies), balances and dividends distributed liabilities of each joint venture at the date of acquisition between Group companies are eliminated in the is recognised as Goodwill and presented as part of the consolidation process, except the losses which are financial investment in the caption “Investments in indicators of impairment losses in the assets transferred. associates and joint ventures”. If the difference between acquisition cost and fair value of the assets and liabilities Where the Group has, in substance, control over other acquired is negative, it is recognised in the income structured entities, even if it does not have a direct statement caption “Share of results of investments in participation in their capital, these are consolidated in associates and joint ventures”, after confirmation of the accordance with the full consolidation method. When such fair value. entities exist, they are detailed in Note 3. The recoverable amount of investments in joint ventures is assessed for impairment when there are triggers that 186 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements suggest the investments may be impaired, being the c) Investments in associates and affiliates impairment losses recorded in the income statement. If the impairment losses recorded in previous years are Investments in associates (companies in which the Group no longer applicable, these are reversed. has significant influence but does not have control or joint control through participation in the company’s financial When the Group’s share of cumulative losses in a joint and operating decisions, normally where it holds between venture exceeds its book value, the investment is written20% to 50%) are recorded in accordance with the off, except when the Group has assumed commitments equity method. in favour of the joint venture, in which case the Group recognises a loss and a liability for the amount for which Investments in affiliates (companies in which the Group the Group has taken responsibility. does not have significant influence or control, normally where it holds less than 20%), are recorded at fair value or Unrealised gains and losses on transactions with joint alternatively, at cost, when the affiliates are not listed and ventures are eliminated in proportion to the Group’s their value cannot be measured reliably. interest in the joint venture, recorded against the investment in the same entity. Unrealised losses are also The Investments in affiliates are classified as Assets held for eliminated but only up to the point that the losses do not sale in accordance with the classification of IAS 39 and are indicate that the transferred asset is impaired. classified as non-current assets. Joint operations in oil exploration consortiums are In accordance with the equity method, investments are recognised for accounting purposes in accordance with the recorded at the acquisition cost and subsequently adjusted established contracts. Therefore, these joint operations by the Group’s share of the post-acquisition changes in are recognised in the accounting based on the share held net equity (including net result) of the associates, recorded (working interest) in the consortium. against income statement caption “Share of results of investments in associates”, as well as by dividends received. The E&P activity of the Group is carried out mainly through consortiums with other entities reflected in The excess of acquisition cost in relation to the fair value the consolidated statement of financial position and of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the associate consolidated income statement in accordance with the at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill and percentage held by the Group in these consortiums. included in the value of the investment. If the difference between acquisition cost and fair value of the assets and In detail, Galp recognises the following items in its liabilities acquired is negative, it is recognised in the income consolidated financial statements, whenever it qualifies as statement caption “Share of results of investments in a joint operator in a joint operation: associates”, after confirmation of the fair value. • group assets contributed to the operation; An assessment of investments in associates is performed when there are indications that the investment may be • own liabilities associated with the joint operation; impaired, and impairment losses that are noted are then • share of assets acquired and liabilities incurred in carrying recorded. When impairment losses recognised in prior years out the joint operation; no longer exist, they are reversed. • share of revenues generated by the sale of the operation’s output; When the Group’s share of cumulative losses of an associate exceeds the book value of the investment, the • any income from the sale of its share of the output, investment is written-off, except where the Group has together with its share of the costs incurred in the assumed commitments in favour of the associate, in which operation; and case the Group recognises a loss and a liability for the • own expenses and losses incurred with the operation. amount for which the Group has taken responsibility. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 187 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Unrealised gains and losses on transactions with liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity associates are eliminated in proportion to the Group’s can only be determined provisionally) Galp group recognises interest in the associate and recorded against the the business combination using the information available. investment in the associate. Unrealised losses are also The amounts determined provisionally are adjusted when eliminated, but only up to the point that the loss does not the fair value of the assets and liabilities are accurately provide evidence that the transferred asset is impaired. determined, up to a period of 12 months after the acquisition date. During that period, Goodwill or any other Investments in associates and assets held for sale recognised gain will be adjusted by an amount equal to the are detailed in Note 4.2 and 4.3, respectively. adjustment to the fair value at the date of acquisition of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable being d) Goodwill recognized or adjusted and the comparative information presented for the periods prior to the completion of the The positive differences between the acquisition cost initial accounting of the combination. This includes any of subsidiaries and the fair value of the identifiable assets depreciation, amortisation or other additional gain or loss and liabilities of these companies at the date of acquisition recognised as result of completing the initial recognition. (or during a period of 12 months after that date), are recognised as goodwill (when it results from goodwill in When performing impairment testing on Goodwill, the Group companies) (Note 11) or as investments in associates Goodwill amount is added to the respective cash generating (when it results from associates). The negative differences unit. The recoverable value of Goodwill is estimated on are recognised immediately in the income statement. the basis of value in use and is determined by the present value of the estimated future cash flows of the cash The positive differences between the acquisition cost generating unit. The discount rate used reflects Galp group of investments in foreign entities and the fair value of the WACC before tax (Weighted Average Cost of Capital) for identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition the reporting segment and country to which the cash (or during a period of 12 months after that date), are generating unit belongs to. recognised in their functional currencies and translated to the Group’s functional currency (Euros) at the rate of e) Translation of foreign entities financial statements exchange at the end of the reporting period. Exchange rate differences resulting from the translation are recorded Entities (subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and in equity in the caption “Translation reserve”. branches of the incorporating company) operating abroad that have organisational and financial autonomy, with Goodwill on acquisitions prior to the date of transition to functional currency different from the Group reporting IFRS (1 January 2004) has been maintained at the amounts currency are considered foreign entities. recorded in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Portugal (deemed cost) as at that date and was Foreign entities’ assets and liabilities are translated to subject to impairment tests at the reporting date. Goodwill Euros at the exchange rates in force at the end of the stopped being amortised as at that date, but is subject to reporting period and income and costs and cash flows impairment tests, at least annually, to determine if there are in these financial statements are translated to Euros at impairment losses. the average exchange rates for the year. The translation differences arising after 1 January 2004 (date of transition Any impairment losses are recorded immediately in to IFRS) are recognised in the equity caption “Translation the statement of financial position as a deduction to reserve”. Exchange rate differences arising up to 1 January the amount of the assets and are recorded against the 2004 (date of transition to IFRS) were written-off against income statement caption Results from investments in “Retained earnings” (Note 20). associates and impairment losses on Goodwill, included in financial results. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign entities are treated as assets If initial recognition of a business combination can only and liabilities of these entities and translated to Euros be determined provisionally at the end of the period according to the exchange rate in effect at the date in which the concentration occurred ( due to the fact of the financial statements. that the fair value attributed to the identifiable assets, 188 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements When a foreign entity is disposed, the accumulated Tangible assets in progress refer to tangible assets in translation difference is transferred from the equity construction and are recorded at cost less cumulative caption “Translation reserve” to the income statement impairment losses. Tangible assets are depreciated as from caption “Other gains (losses)”. date the assets are substantially completed or the assets are ready for use. Shareholder loans in a different functional currency from the parent company that do not have defined repayment Deemed cost (for acquisitions up to 1 January 2004) or terms are considered as net investments in the foreign acquisition cost depreciation is calculated on a straightentities. The translation differences arising in translating the line basis (on a monthly basis), as from the year the assets balances of shareholder loans to the company’s reporting are available for use, as intended by management, at the functional currency that are not cancelled out in the rates considered most appropriate to depreciate the assets consolidation process are reclassified to the shareholders’ during their estimated economic useful life, limited, when equity caption “Translation reserve” in the consolidated applicable, to the concession period. financial statements. The average annual depreciation rates used are as follows: The financial statements of foreign entities included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements were Rates 2016 Rates 2015 translated to Euros at the following exchange rates Land and natural resources 0.10% Buildings and other constructions 4.48% 4.41% Average Year end Machinery and equipment 10.25% 9.04% for the year Currency 2016 2015 2016 2015 Transport equipment 17.41% 16.97% Gambian Dalasi 44.10 42.19 45.77 44.57 Tools and utensils 19.38% 17.63% Moroccan Dirhams 10.61 10.75 11.52 11.57 Administrative equipment 18.99% 19.39% United States Dollars 1.05 1.09 1.11 1.11 Reusable containers 13.43% 13.12% Cape Verde Escudos 110.27 110.27 110.27 110.27 Other tangible assets 8.61% 8.40% CFA Francs 655.96 655.96 655.96 655.96 Swazi Lilangeni 14.42 16.78 16.07 14.23 The capital gain/loss resulting from the write-off or Mozambican Meticais 74.94 50.50 69.10 43.14 disposal of tangible assets is determined by the difference between the sale price and the net book value as of the Angolan Kwanzas 184.48 147.11 182.04 132.89 date of the write-off/disposal. The net book value includes Brazilian Reais 3.43 4.31 3.86 3.70 accumulated impairment losses. The resulting accounting capital gains/losses are recorded in the consolidated income 2.3 Tangible assets statement “Other operating income” or “Other operating costs” captions, respectively. General Recurring repair and maintenance costs are expensed in Tangible assets acquired up to 1 January 2004 (date of the year they are incurred. Major overhauls involving the transition to IFRS) are measured according with IFRS 1 replacement of parts of equipment or of other tangible option, at deemed cost, which corresponds to cost, assets are recorded as tangible assets if the replaced parts revalued, when applicable, in accordance with the legislation are identified and written off, and depreciated over the in force up to that date, less accumulated depreciation and remaining period of economic useful life of the respective cumulative impairment losses. tangible assets. Tangible assets acquired after that date are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and cumulative impairment losses. Acquisition cost includes the invoice price, transport and assembly costs and financial costs incurred during the construction phase. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 189 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Oil exploration and production activity proportion of the interest held (working interest) in the oil consortium. The E&P activity is divided in three phases: exploration, development and production. Development expenses are depreciated in accordance with a coefficient calculated based on the proportion of the What distinguishes the three phases is essentially the volume produced in each period in relation to the proven stage of the works performed and the discovery or not developed reserves at the end of the period plus production of commercially viable reserves. Thus, in the exploration for the period. phase the company performs expenditures on research (i.e. seismic, drilling, geological and geophysical studies). Exploration expenses are depreciated based on a coefficient At this stage IFRS 6 is applied, and Galp has adopted calculated by the proportion of the volume of production in the accounting criteria accepted by the standard, thus each period in relation to the total proven developed reserves maintaining its previous accounting policy, which in this at the end of the period plus production for the period. case consists of the capitalisation of these operating expenses. At this stage, there are contingent and The proven developed reserves, used by the Group prospective resources, and the company performs periodic to determine the depreciation rate in accordance with the impairment analysis, recognising dry wells (i.e. no proven UOP method, were determined by a specialised reserves or without subsequent use) as a cost of the year. and independent entity. The company may incur some expenses prior to the Exploration expenses relating to fields which are still in acquisition of mineral rights, which are recognised as costs the exploration and development phase are classified as of the year. tangible assets in progress in the caption “Tangible assets”. In the development phase there are already commercially 2.4 Intangible assets viable reserves, not yet developed. Thus, Galp starts carrying out investments for the extraction of these General reserves, related to platforms, pipelines and expenses with internal and contracted technical labour. Galp capitalises Intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated technical labour internal expenses with engineers and amortization and impairment losses. Intangible assets are geologists hired by Galp for the development of resources only recorded if it is probable that they will result in future and reserves for the extraction of those minerals. economic benefits to the Group, they are controlled by the Group and can be reliably measured. Finally in the production phase there are proven developed reserves, and as a result such mineral resources commence Development expenses are only recognised as intangible being extracted and sold. assets if the Group has the technical and financial ability to develop the asset, decides to complete the development At any of these stages, including production, the company and starts commercializing or using it, and it is probable performs periodic impairment tests in order to rule out any that the asset created will generate future economic evidence of non-recoverability of the investment. benefits. If the development costs do not fulfil these requirements, they are recorded in profit and loss for the Tangible assets related to oil exploration and production year when occurred. are recorded at acquisition cost and mainly relate to costs incurred in the exploration and the development of the Research expenses not related to oil exploration exploration area, including overheads incurred up to the and production activities are recognised as an expense beginning of production and are recorded in tangible assets of the period. in progress. When the oil field begins production, these costs are transferred from tangible assets in progress to tangible Intangible assets include costs incurred on information fixed assets and depreciated at the Unit of Production systems development, exclusivity bonuses paid to retailers method (UOP) according to the expenses’ nature. of Galp products and rights on land use costs, which are amortised over the period of the respective contracts (which Joint operations in oil exploration consortiums are ranges from ten to twenty years). recognised in accordance with the established agreements. Therefore, these jointly operations are recorded by the Intangible assets with finite useful life are amortised on a straight-line basis. 190 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The amortisation rates are set in accordance with the period Non-current assets (and the set of assets and liabilities to of the existing contracts or expected use of the intangible be disposed with those assets) held for sale are measured at assets. the lower of book value and fair value less costs to sell. Oil exploration and production activities The assets and liabilities of a disposal group are measured in accordance with the principles of IFRS 5, unless they are Intangible assets recognised in oil exploration and excluded from the scope of measurement of the standard, production are recorded at acquisition cost and are mainly in which case the accounting provisions of the standards related with acquiring oil exploration and production that apply to these assets and liabilities should be applied. licences (signature bonus), and are amortised on a straight-line basis, as from the date production starts, Regarding the classification of financial investments as held over the remaining period of the licence. for sale: Natural gas operations i) In respect of subsidiaries, these subsidiaries continue to be consolidated until the date of their disposal, but As result of IFRIC 12, Galp, recognises natural gas all their assets and liabilities must be classified as held assets included in the concession arrangements whose for sale and accounted for at the lower of book value remuneration is defined by ERSE in accordance with the and fair value less costs to sell, ceasing to recognise intangible assets model. Consequently, the tangible assets depreciation/amortization; of regulated activities are recognised as intangible assets, ii) In respect of associates and joint ventures measured by in the caption “Service Concession Arrangements”, and the equity method, these are measured at the lower of amortised in accordance with their economic useful life, book value and fair value less costs to sell, ceasing the namely in accordance with the economic benefits model application of equity accounting. used by for effects of establishing the regulated tariffs and consequently the Group regulated revenue. Due to changes in the circumstances of the group, noncurrent assets, and/or disposal groups may cease to be The natural gas infrastructures, namely the gas classified as held for sale. When this occurs, these assets distribution networks, are amortised over the concession and/or disposal groups will be reclassified according to the period (45 years) or of the exploration licence (20 years). underlying nature of the assets. The Group capitalises costs relating to the conversion of When reclassified to held for use, the assets and / or groups natural gas consumptions, which involves costs incurred for disposal shall be remeasured by the lower between: adapting the installations. The Group considers that it can control the future economic benefits resulting from i) the book value before being classified as held for sale, this conversion through the continued sale of gas to its adjusted for any depreciation / amortization expenses, clients (Dec-law 140/2006 of 26th of July). These costs if these assets were not classified as held for sale; and are amortised on a straight-line basis up to the end of the ii) the recoverable amounts of the items at the date they natural gas distribution company’s concession period. are reclassified according to their underlying nature. 2.5 Non-current assets held for sale These adjustments are recognized in the income statement. Non-current assets (and the set of assets and liabilities 2.6 Impairment of non-current assets, to be disposed with those assets) are classified as held for except Goodwill sale if it is expected that their book value will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing Impairment tests are performed as of the financial use. This condition is considered to exist when the sale is statements date and whenever a decline in the asset value highly probable and the asset (and the set of assets and is identified. Whenever the carrying amount of an asset liabilities to be disposed with those assets) is available exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is for immediate sale under current conditions. Additionally, recorded against income statement caption “Amortisation, there should be in place actions that demonstrate that depreciation and impairment loss of tangible assets”. the sale will occur within 12 months after the date of the reclassification. The recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value and the value in use. Fair value is the amount that would be Annual Report and Accounts 2016 191 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance obtained from selling the asset in a transaction between the Group corresponds to the present value of the expected independent knowledgeable parties, less the costs directly future cash flows determined based on annual budgets and attributable to the sale. Value in use corresponds to business plans for each service station, using the WACC the present value of the future cash flows generated by discount rate of that business segment, according to its the asset during its estimated economic useful life. The specific risk. recoverable amount is estimated for the asset or cash generating unit to which it belongs. The discount rate used Impairment tests are also performed on other assets of reflects the WACC used by Galp for the reporting segment the R&M segment, including refineries and tangible assets and country of the asset. The cash generating unit subject associated with logistics and storage activities. to impairment analysis depends on the reporting segment: in the R&M segment the cash generating unit is the The period of the projections of the cash flows varies as a service station network in each country; in the exploration function of the cash generating unit’s average useful life. segment the cash generating unit is the property (commonly referred as Block) or the country, depending Gas & Power assets on the stage of the investment; and in the gas & power segment the cash generating unit is the set of assets Whenever there are impairment indicators in the G&P generating the economic benefits. assets, the Company performs impairment tests. The CGU of the gas segment is defined as the gas networks and Impairment losses recorded in previous periods are respective concessions. For the Power segment, the defined reversed when it is concluded that they no longer exist CGUs are the specific cogeneration plants. or have decreased. Such tests are made whenever there are indications that an impairment recorded in The impairment tests carried out by the Group are an earlier period has reverted. Reversal of impairment based on the estimated recoverable amount of each is recognised as a decrease in the income statement CGU compared to its net book value at the end of each caption “Amortisation, depreciation and impairment loss reporting period. The recoverable amount (value in use) of tangible assets”. However, impairment losses are only determined by the Group corresponds to the present value reversed up to the amount the asset would be recorded of the expected future cash flows determined based on (net of amortisation or depreciation) if the impairment annual budgets and business plans for each CGU at its loss had not been recorded previously. present condition, using the WACC discount rate of that business segment, according to its specific risk. Refining & Marketing assets The period of the projections of the cash flows varies as a Tangible and intangible assets related with R&M are function of the cash generating unit’s average useful life. assessed by the Group for impairment at the end of each reporting period, considering internal and external sources In the case of activities in which the assets are regulated of information, namely the Portuguese and Spanish the impairment analysis is based on the Regulated Asset service station networks. In its annual impairment tests in Base (RAB). This analysis is based on the value of the respect of the oil distribution segment, the Group considers remunerated assets for regulated rate purposes. the cash generating unit (CGU) to be the service station network of each country, and has applied this criterion Exploration & Production assets consistently given the importance of the interdependence of income resulting from the existence of loyalty and fleet The impairment losses on E&P assets are determined when: owner’s cards that the company provides to its customers. This is based on the fact that management information • economically feasible reserves are not found; is analysed in this way, and operational decisions and • the licensing period ends and the exploration licence is investments are made on that basis. not expected to be renewed; The impairment tests carried out by the Group are based on • when an acquired area is returned or abandoned; the estimated recoverable amount of each service station • when the expected economic future benefits are less compared to its net book value at the end of each reporting than the investment made. period. The recoverable amount (value in use) determined by 192 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Tangible and intangible assets related with E&P are the expectation of the Company and legal information assessed periodically (annually and quarterly when available; and indicators are noted) by the Group for impairment. The selected cash generating unit is the country or block (v) and (vi) is that contained in the five year budget of Galp depending on the stage of maturity of the investments. group and constant after that period. The assessment for block/country impairment is made The assessment of impairment by country is similar to that in accordance with the Expected Monetary Value (EMV described by block, however the estimated cash flows only model), comparing the carrying amount of the investments take into account the information contained in paragraphs with the present value of the expected future cash flows (iii) to (ix) above, since probable reserves are not yet using the WACC discount rate, calculated considering determined. the estimates of: Galp prepares impairment testing in any stage of i) probable reserves; Exploration and Production, meaning, in the Exploration, Development and Production stages. ii) investment and future operating costs needed to recover the probable reserves; In the Exploration phase, the CGU (Cash Generating Unit) iii) contingent resources, adjusted by a factor of probability depends on investment characteristics in each country of success; where the investment is made. At an early investment iv) investment and future operating costs required to stage in a country the CGU is the country, given that the recover the contingent resources; investment comprises investment in signature bonuses and any generic research performed in the area/total areas. v) reference price of a barrel of Brent; When the total areas are divided by the official authorities vi) exchange rate Euro/U.S. dollar; of the country in blocks, Galp sets as CGU the block, downlevelling the assessment in impairment tests. At this stage vii) block/country taxation mechanisms; as there are no reserves, Galp uses in the impairment tests viii) Estimated production level and concession period; and the prospective and contingent resources with very low P.O.S. Thus, if reserves discovery occurs, the investment ix) Abandonment costs and environmental restoration. passes to the next stage, development, having previously been subject to impairment tests. The EMV model considers in its calculation the P.O.S. (Probability of Geological Success or Probability of In the development and production stages, Galp considers Success), which is a conditional statistical probability as CGU the block. Also, in these stages the model considers (Bayesian probability). This probability used in the Geology P.O.S., higher than the one considered in the first stage, science considers a probability matrix based on seismic since there are already commercially viable reserves. information and other geological & geophysical information. Impairment tests are performed based on 2P reserves This information is measured taking into account the (proven and probable reserves), since these are used by Galp quantity, quality and certainty (data control) thereof. and its partners in the consortium in the decisions to carry out or not the investments. The cash flow projection period is equal to the recovery of reserves and resources period, limited to the period of the 2.7 Leases concession contracts, when applicable. Lease contracts are classified as: The information contained in paragraphs: • Finance leases if all the risks and benefits of ownership (i) is determined by independent experts for the are substantially transferred, and quantification of the estimated oil reserves; • Operating leases when this does not occur. (ii), (iii), (iv), (vii), (viii) and (ix) is internally determined by Finance and operating leases are classified based on the Galp, or, whenever available, through information provided substance rather than the form of the legal contract. by the operator of each Block, namely the information included in the approved development plans, adjusted to Annual Report and Accounts 2016 193 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Leases in which the Group is the Lessee Other raw materials (excluding general materials) – The cost includes the invoice price, transport and insurance costs. Tangible assets acquired under finance lease contracts and The cost of sales is determined on a weighted average the corresponding liabilities are recorded in accordance basis, by family of products, determined considering the with the financial method. In accordance with this method characteristics of the different materials. the cost of the assets (the lower of the fair value or the discounted amount of the lease instalments) is recorded General materials – The cost includes the invoice price, in tangible assets, the corresponding liability is recorded transport and insurance costs. The cost of sales is and interest included in the lease instalments and determined on a weighted average basis. depreciation of the fixed assets, calculated as explained in Note 2.3, are recorded as a financial cost and amortisation b) Products and work in progress and depreciation cost in the income statement of the year to which they relate, respectively. In the case of operating leases, Production cost includes the cost of materials, external the lease instalments are recorded as costs for the year, on supplies and services and overheads. a straight‑line basis over the period of the contract, in the income statement caption “External supplies and services”. c) Finished and semi-finished products The Group does not hold materially relevant operating or Crude oil – Crude oil produced in the E&P activity held in finance leases, other than the ones disclosed in Note 24. inventory as at 31 December of each year, corresponds to the Company’s share of the total inventory of each Floating production storage and offloading (FPSO) rents development area. Such inventories are measured at their that are being used in the E&P business are derived from production cost, which includes direct production costs, contracts established within existing consortium and are the depreciation for the year and abandonment provision charged to the Group in the proportion of the share held in costs. The cost of sales is determined on a weighted each of the consortium. average basis. However, extracted crude oil, namely in Brazil, is valued at net realizable value in the statement of 2.8 Inventories financial position, as there is a contract with the operator for the sale of crude oil and also as this is a common Inventories (merchandise, raw and subsidiary material, practice for oil producers to value their crude stock at the finished and semi-finished products, and work in progress) net realizable value, in accordance with IAS 2.3 par. a) are stated at the lower acquisition cost (in the case of and IAS 2.4. merchandise and raw and subsidiary material) or production cost (in the case of finished and semi-finished products and Oil products Finished and semi-finished products are work in progress) or net realizable value. measured at production cost, which includes the cost of raw and other materials consumption, direct labour costs Net realizable value corresponds to the normal selling price and production overheads. If acquired from third parties less costs to complete production and costs to sell. they are measured at cost, which includes the invoice price and transport and insurance costs. The cost of Whenever cost exceeds net realizable value, the difference is sales is determined on a weighted average basis applied recorded in the operating cost caption “Cost of sales”. to families of products considering the characteristics of the products. As such, the cost of inventories used/sold is determined as follows: The Petrogal Group includes in the caption finished and semi-finished products the Tax on Oil Products (Imposto a) Raw and subsidiary materials sobre Produtos Petrolíferos – ISP) relating to finished goods dispatched for consumption which are subject Crude oil – The cost includes the invoice price, transport to that tax, and is stated at cost (since it is similar to and insurance costs, being the cost of sales determined on a customs duty). The cost of sales is determined on a weighted average basis, applicable to a single family of a weighted average basis. This tax is reflected in Cost products, which includes all crude oil types. of Sales when the sale of finished goods occurs and it is also reflected in the selling price of the products in equal value. Galp details the amount recognized as cost of sale in Note 6. 194 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Other finished and semi-finished products – Production in accordance with the exemption referred in paragraph 5 costs include raw materials and variable and fixed (own use exemption). production costs. The cost of sales is determined on a weighted average basis. f) Advance payments from third parties for the constitution of the strategic reserve d) Goods Galp constitutes, under the law in force, the strategic Cost includes the invoice price, transport and insurance costs. reserves of certain entities for which it is required to do so The cost of sales is determined on a weighted average basis. and that are Galp’ customers. Strategic reserves, as the remaining stock in the statement of financial position, are The cost of imported natural gas also includes the costs valued at the lower of book value (Weighted Average Basis) relating to transport and rights of passage through and the market price. The advance payments are valued Moroccan territory incurred up to the Portuguese border. at market value, depending on the contractual terms of each customer/operator and are updated on monthly basis. As mentioned above, the Group also includes, in the Market prices are those of refined products which constitute inventories caption, Tax on Oil Products relating to goods the strategic reserves. Galp charges a storage fee in respect already dispatched which are subject to that tax. of the strategic stock stored for third parties. Raw materials supplies and goods in transit are not 2.9 Government grants and other grants available for consumption or sale and are segregated from other inventories and valued at specific cost. Government grants are recorded at fair value when there is certainty that they will be received and that Group e) Under/Over Lifting companies will comply with the conditions required for them to be granted. It is industry practice to do under or overliftings of its share in crude. This under/overlifting intends to optimize Government grants for operating costs are recorded in the the transport costs between the partners. In underlifting, consolidated income statement in proportion of the costs the partner has made a sale on behalf of the company. incurred. Thus, an account receivable is recorded (Note 14) and a sale is recognized. This account receivable is tested for Non-repayable government grants for tangible and impairment. So, in a situation where the crude market intangible assets (conversions) are recorded as deferred price as of the end of the reporting period is lower than the income in the caption ”Other payables” and recognised price considered in the valuation of the account receivable in the consolidated income statement as other operating (accrual) an impairment is recognised in the income income, in proportion to the depreciation and amortisation statement (gross margin). In overlifting, the Company of the granted assets. recognises a sale and then defers it through Other accounts payable. Underlifting is in fact, on a substance 2.10 Provisions over form basis, a sale made by the partner of stock which by right belongs to Galp (entitlement), and therefore falls General under the scope of IAS 18.14. Overlifting is a sale made by Galp of stock that by right belongs (entitlement) to the Provisions are recorded when, and only when, the Group partner. Therefore, the revenue recognition principle is not has a present obligation (legal, contractual or constructive) satisfied and for this reason the sale is deferred through resulting from a past event, it is probable that an outflow other accounts payable (Note 24). Payments and receipts of resources embodying economic benefits will be required of over and underlifting are compensated in a subsequent to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be date in barrels of crude, as defined in the Production made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are Sharing Agreement (PSA). The Company considers that reviewed and adjusted on each consolidated statement in terms of substance over form the production shared of financial position date so as to reflect the best estimate under the Production Sharing Agreement is not subject to at that date. price risk since the operation is for use of the contractors and the settlement of the under and overlifting is made Galp measures the uncertain tax positions, including through physical delivery (barrels of crude). Therefore, the provisions for taxes, by the tax estimate amount and not by accounts receivable and accounts payable are not under probabilities. the scope of IAS 39, that is, the measurement at fair value, Annual Report and Accounts 2016 195 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance E&P activities (Block abandonment) and survivor pensions to current employees and retired personnel and, in the case of Petrogal, also to pre-retired Provisions for abandonment costs are intended to cover all and early retired personnel. However, Petrogal Pension Fund the costs incurred by the Company at the end of the useful does not cover the liability for early retirement and preproduction life of oil fields. retirement pensions, Social Security of pre-retired personnel and the payment of voluntary social insurance and Provisions are based on the operator’s estimate of retirement bonuses. These liabilities are covered by specific total abandonment costs. The company recognises the provisions included on the statement of financial position abandonment provisions proportionally, as it builds each caption Post-employment and other employee benefits production well in order to meet its decommissioning liabilities (Note 23). obligations. Therefore, it apportions the expenditure with the dismantling of the wells and environmental recovery by At the end of each reporting period the companies obtain the number of wells that it estimates to build, recognizing actuarial valuations by a specialised entity in accordance over time the obligation in proportion to the wells already with the Projected Unit Credit Method and compare the constructed. The estimated expenditure’s net present amount of their liabilities with past services with the market value is calculated at a risk-free interest rate and a value of the funds and with the balance of the liabilities corresponding amount is capitalised in tangible assets. recognised, in order to determine any additional liabilities The provision for abandonment is subsequently increased that need to be recorded. by the risk-free interest rate and increased or decreased by changes in the operator’s estimates. Changes to estimates Actuarial gains and losses determined in each year and for also affect the valuation of the asset. each of the benefits granted, resulting from adjustments to the demographic assumptions, experience adjustments, Estimated expenditure to be incurred and capitalised are recorded in the statement of comprehensive income in tangible assets is depreciated using the UOP method, impacting the financial position. in which that expenditure is multiplied by a coefficient that is the proportion of the volume produced in each The discount rate is determined by the actuary through depreciation period in relation to the proven developed developed models that take into account the maturity reserves at the end of the period plus production for of the liabilities and characteristics of the population for the period. each plan. The discount rate consists of half-yearly rates (i.e. zero coupon) developed from high-quality corporate 2.11 Retirement benefits bond pricing and yield information in accordance with IAS 19. Some Group companies have assumed the commitment to pay their employees’ pension supplements for retirement Net interest related with retirement benefits is reflected on due to age, disability and pensions to surviving relatives, the income statement caption Net interest on retirement as well as early retirement and pre-retirement pensions. benefits and other benefits. With the exception of early retirement and pre‑retirement pensions, these payments are calculated on an The benefit plans identified by the Petrogal Sub-Group for incremental basis in accordance with the years of service the calculation of these liabilities are: of the employee. Early retirement and pre-retirement pensions mainly correspond to the employee’s wage. When • pension supplements for retirement, disability and applicable, these commitments also include the payment surviving orphans; of Social Security of pre-retired personnel, voluntary social • pre-retirement; insurance of early retirees and retirement bonuses payable upon normal retirement. • early retirement; • retirement bonus; The Group has created autonomous pension funds managed by external entities (Fundo de Pensões Petrogal, • voluntary social insurance; Fundo de Pensões Sacor Marítima and Fundo de Pensão • defined contribution minimum benefit plan. Galp Energia España) to cover their liabilities relating to pension supplements for retirement due to age, incapacity 196 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The benefit plans identified by the GDP Sub-Group for the 2.13 Foreign currency balances and transactions calculation of these liabilities are: Transactions are recorded in the separate financial • pension supplements for retirement, disability and statements of subsidiaries in their functional currencies, surviving orphan; at the exchange rates in force on the dates of the transactions. • early retirement; • pre-retirement; All foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities in the separate financial statements of subsidiaries are translated • defined contribution minimum benefit plan. to the functional currency of each subsidiary using the exchange rates in force at the end of each reporting period. On 31 December 2002 the Portuguese Insurance Institute Foreign currency non-monetary assets and liabilities authorised the creation of the Galp defined contribution recorded at fair value are translated to the functional Pension Fund. In 2003 Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. created currency of each subsidiary at the exchange rate in force on a defined contribution Pension Fund for its employees and the date fair value is determined. allowed employees of other Group companies to join this fund. Petróleos de Portugal – Petrogal, S.A., GDP – Gás Gains and losses resulting from differences in exchange de Portugal, SGPS, S.A., Lisboagás GDL – Sociedade rates in force on the dates of the transactions and those Distribuidora de Gás Natural de Lisboa, S.A. and Galp prevailing at the date of collection, payment or at the eNova S.A. (on 17 December 2003 Galp eNova S.A. was end of the reporting period are recorded as income merged into Galp Energia, S.A.) as associates of the Fund, and expenses, respectively, in the consolidated income allowed their employees to elect between this new defined statement captions in which the respective transactions contribution pension plan and the previous defined benefits are recognized, except for those relating to non-monetary plan. When the new plan is chosen, Group companies items, that are recorded directly in equity. contribute with an annually defined amount to the fund, corresponding to a percentage of the salary of each Translation differences arising from intra-group loans and employee, which is recorded as a cost for that year. that are part of the net investment in foreign operations are recorded in the consolidated financial statements 2.12 Other retirement benefits – Healthcare, directly in equity. Life insurance and Defined contribution minimum benefit plan When the Group intends to reduce its exposure to exchange rate risk, it contracts derivative instruments (Note 2.17.f)). The Group’s costs with respect to healthcare, life insurance and defined contribution minimum benefit plan are 2.14 Income and accrual basis recognised over the period the employees entitled to these benefits are in service of the respective companies, the Sales income is recognised in the income statement when liability being reflected in the statement of financial position the risks and benefits of ownership of the assets are caption Post-employment and other employee benefits transferred to the buyer and the amount of the income liabilities (Note 23). Payments to the beneficiaries are can be reasonably measured. Sales are recorded at the fair deducted from the liability. value of the amount received or receivable, net of taxes except for tax on oil products in the distribution of oil At the end of each reporting period the companies obtain products segment, discounts and other costs incurred to actuarial valuations calculated by a specialised entity realise them. in accordance with the Projected Unit Credit Method and compare the amount of their liabilities with the Costs and income are recorded in the period to which they market value of the funds and with the balance of the relate, independently of when they are paid or received. liabilities, in order to determine the additional liabilities When the actual amounts of costs and income are not to be recorded. known, these are estimated. Actuarial gains and losses determined in each year are The “Other current assets” and “Other current liabilities” recorded as explained in Note 2.11 above. captions include the income and costs from the current period for which revenues or expenses will only occur in future periods, as well as revenues or expenses that have Annual Report and Accounts 2016 197 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance already occurred, relating to future periods and that will to the negative differences in regulated revenue, which are be recorded to profit and loss in upcoming periods. recorded as liabilities and costs. The interest received is recorded in accordance with the In previous years, differences to the regulated revenue accruals principle, taking into account the debt amount and recorded by the Group were incorporated in the respective the effective interest rate during the period until maturity. tariff calculations in accordance with the established mechanisms. Revenue from dividends is recognized when it established the right of the company to recognize the appropriate amount. In the distribution and retail last resort supply activities, the Group books in accruals and deferred income the difference Natural gas activity between the effective invoicing through sales of the natural gas regulated tariff and the regulated revenue defined The sales price of natural gas to electricity production for each Gas Year by ERSE, allocated to each semester companies is based on specific commercial agreements. in accordance with the agreed seasonality coefficient of included for the compensation mechanism by the natural The regulated tariffs used for invoicing natural gas in the gas companies – Regulated revenue (Notes 14 and 24). national natural gas system are established by ERSE, so that they allow the recovery of the estimated regulated In the wholesale last resort supply activity, the Group revenue for each Gas Year calculated for each regulated books in accruals and deferred income the difference activity. Regulated revenue includes, in addition to operating between the effective invoicing through the sales of natural costs for each activity, the following remuneration: (i) for gas regulated tariff and the effective cost of natural gas the supply activity, remuneration for the purchase and sale acquired – Energy Tariff Deviation (Note 14). of natural gas, which corresponds to the effective cost of natural gas and remuneration of the operating supply costs Since the natural gas regulated system is intended to plus a supply margin; and (ii) for the activities of receipt, result in a uniform tariff (applicable to all the country’s transport and storage of natural gas, remuneration on regions) and considering the various levels of efficiency of the fixed assets net of depreciation and grants relating to the companies in the regulated market, ERSE published these activities. The regulated revenue of the pass-through the compensation mechanism to be practiced between the activities/functions assumes the recovery of the costs companies in the sector, so as to allow approximation of incurred. Consequently, each activity is compensated for income recovered by application of the regulated tariffs to the costs incurred plus an additional remuneration, when regulated revenue of these companies. Therefore ERSE, in applicable. its documents “Tariffs and prices of natural gas” for each Gas Year, identifies the amount of compensation to be Following the above, and as the Group holds credit risk transferred (charged) between companies of the national related to the tariff invoiced to final customers, the gas system. In order to ensure a practical, objective and regulated Group companies, as trading companies to end transparent procedure for the referred settlement, the customers, include in their income, the tariffs that include companies have agreed seasonal coefficients to be applied the remuneration/recovery of all the previous activities. in the issuance of the invoice for the uniform tariff. The seasonality differences between distribution and supply Given the regulatory framework and legislation in place, activities reflect the difference in payment terms. the differences between regulated revenues meet some conditions (measurement reliability; financial The meter reading, invoicing and respective collection asset remuneration; entitlement to their recovery and related to the gas distribution and supply activities are transmissibility, among other) that support their recognition performed directly by the companies or, in respect of the as income and asset in the year they are calculated, namely meter reading and collection activities, by subcontracted that they can be reliably measured and the certainty external partners. that economic benefits will flow to the Company. The regulated revenue calculation formula for the Gas Year n, Un-invoiced gas sales are recorded monthly in the caption in the first and second regulated periods as published in “Other receivables” based on the estimated amount to be the Tariff Regulation, include the differences in regulated invoiced according to historical information or meter reading revenue in the Gas Year n-2. This rationale is also applied depending on the client type, and corrected in the income statement in the period in which they are invoiced (Note 14). 198 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Regarding construction contracts included under IFRIC12, tax assets recorded based on the current expectation of the construction of concession assets is outsourced to their future recovery (Note 9). specialised entities which themselves assume the risk of construction activity, and income and costs associated with Deferred taxes are recorded in the income statement for the building of these assets (Notes 5 and 6) are then recognised. year, unless they result from items recorded directly in equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recorded in equity. 2.15 Financial costs on loans obtained Exploration and Production activity Financial costs on loans obtained are recorded as financial costs on an accruals basis. Oil Income Tax – Angola Financial costs on loans to finance investments in tangible The Oil Income Tax (IRP) is regulated under the Law 13/04, assets are capitalised in fixed assets in progress in of 24 December (Lei sobre a Tributação das Atividades proportion to the total costs incurred on the investments, Petrolíferas – Tax Law for Oil Activities), in Angola. net of government grants received (Note 2.9), up to As referred in paragraph 18 of the referred Law, this is a tax the time they start operating (Notes 2.3 and 2.4), the calculated on the “taxable income calculated in accordance remaining financial costs being recorded in the income with this law”. The rate applicable to the Production Sharing statement caption “Financial costs” (Note 8). Any interest Agreement contracts is of 50% on the “profit oil” of the income on amounts obtained from loans that are obtained Company. The “profit oil” of the Company is calculated by directly to finance tangible assets in construction is the difference between the crude oil sold, accrued of the oil deducted from the capitalised financial costs. activities additional income (including gains on disposal of participation interests), deducted of the cost recovery oil Financial costs included in tangible assets are depreciated (meaning “cost-oil”), which includes the costs considered over the period of useful life of the assets. recoverable. The amount of the “profit oil” does not include, on the other hand, the part of the “profit oil” that should 2.16 Income taxes be shared with the National Concessionaire (Sonangol), in accordance with the Production Sharing Agreement. The General calculation of the tax is in all terms similar to an income tax. Thus, the oil companies subject to this tax are not subject Income tax is calculated based on the taxable results of to other income taxes in Angola. the companies included in the consolidation in accordance with the applicable tax rules in force in the area each Galp Whenever the Group performs a sale, it pays the IRP to company head office is located. the Angolan Government, accounting the amount actually paid in the income statement caption “Income tax”. Deferred taxes are calculated based on the liability method However, not all of the tax paid represents tax expense for and reflect the temporary differences between the amounts the year as the Group borrows barrels from its partners of assets and liabilities recorded for accounting purposes in the consortium in order to perform sales in accordance and their amounts for tax purposes. with the agreement signed between all partners in block 14, leading to a situation of “Overlifting” (Note 9). Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated and reviewed annually using the tax rates expected to be in As such, a deferred tax asset is recorded based on the force when the temporary differences revert. borrowed barrels, so that there is a direct relationship between the activity’s margin and its tax expense. As such, Deferred tax assets are recorded only when there is tax expense only relates to sold barrels which are property reasonable expectation of sufficient future taxable income of the Group. The deferred tax asset is reversed in direct to use them or whenever there are taxable temporary proportion of recognition of the margin through the group differences that offset the deductible temporary differences production. in the period they revert. Temporary differences underlying deferred tax assets are reviewed at each statement of When the Group grants loans (“Underlifting”), IRP is financial position date in order to recognise deferred tax calculated on the granted barrels, which are recorded in assets that were not recorded in prior years as they did not income tax payable for the year. fulfil all requisites and/or to reduce the amounts of deferred Annual Report and Accounts 2016 199 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Special Participation Tax Brazil Investments are initially recorded at cost, which is the fair value of the price paid, including transaction costs, Under the terms of the Decree no. 2.705, of 3 August except for investments measured at fair value through 1998, the ANP (Agência Nacional Do Petróleo, Gás profit and loss. Natural e Biocombustíveis – ANP in Brazil), Special Participation Tax (SPT) is a financial compensation, After initial recognition, investments at fair value through due on a quarterly basis, by the concessionaires of oil profit or loss and available-for-sale investments are and natural gas exploration and production. The SPT revalued to fair value by reference to their market value is calculated on a determined income (resulting from at the financial statements date, with no deduction multiplying volumes produced by reference prices used for transaction costs which could be incurred upon in the sale of oil/gas), to which a set of operational costs sale. For equity instruments not listed on a regulated related to the production of hydrocarbons are deducted. market, where it is not possible to reliably estimate their fair value, these are maintained at cost less any Galp considers that these taxes are under the scope non‑reversible impairment losses. of IAS 12. Gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value 2.17 Financial instruments of available-for-sale investments are recognised in the equity caption “Fair value reserve” until the investment Financial assets and liabilities are recorded in the statement is sold, redeemed or in some way disposed of, or until the of financial position when the Group becomes a contractual fair value of the investment falls below cost over a long party to the financial instrument. period, at which time the accumulated gain or loss is recorded in the income statement. The financial assets and liabilities are not offset, unless there is legal or contractual conditions that allow it. Interest income, calculated using the effective interest rate method, as well as exchange gains and losses related a) Investments to debt instruments classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are recognized in the income statement Investments are classified as follows: for the period. • held-to-maturity investments; Dividends obtained from equity instruments, classified as available-for-sale financial assets, and impairment losses • investments at fair value through profit and loss; for all these financial assets are also accounted for in the • available-for-sale investments. income statement for the period. Held-to-maturity investments are classified as non-current Gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value of investments, unless they mature in less than 12 months investments at fair value through profit or loss are recorded from the consolidated statement of financial position date. in the income statement. These investments have a defined maturity date, and the Group intends and has the ability to retain them up to their b) Receivables maturity. As at 31 December 2016 the Group does not own held-to-maturity investments. Receivables are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any Investments at fair value through profit or loss are classified impairment losses, recognised in the caption Impairment as current investments. losses on receivables. Available-for-sale investments are classified as non-current Usually, amortised cost of these assets does not differ assets, for the investments in affiliates. from their nominal value. All purchases and sales of these investments are recorded on the date of the signature of the respective purchase and sale contracts, independently of the financial settlement date. 200 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Equity or liability classification • there is adequate documentation of the hedge at the beginning of the operation; and Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified in • the hedged transaction is highly probable. accordance with substance of the contractual arrangement, independent of their legal form. Financial derivatives are initially recorded at fair value c) Loans calculated by independent external entities using generally accepted valuation methods (such as “Discounted CashLoans are recorded at their nominal received amount, net of flows”, Black-Scholes model, Binomial and Trinomial models issuance expenses pertaining to those loans. Subsequently, and Monte-Carlo simulations, among others, depending on the loans are measured at amortised cost. the type and nature of the financial derivative). Financial costs are calculated at the effective interest rate Changes in the fair value of these instruments are and recognised in the income statement on an accrual basis. presented in the equity caption “Hedging reserves”, being transferred to the income statement when the hedged Financial costs include interest and any origination fees instrument affects profit and loss. incurred relating to project finance. In fair value hedge, the derivatives are recorded at their d) Trade and other payables fair value through profit and loss. In situations where the hedged instrument is not measured at fair value (i.e. Accounts payable are initially recorded at fair value and commodity trading contracts), the effective portion of subsequently measured at amortised cost, by the effective the hedge is adjusted to the book value of the hedged interest rate method. Usually, the amortised cost of these instrument through the income statement. liabilities does not differ from their nominal value. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative e) Derivative instruments instruments mature or are sold. Where the derivative instrument stops qualifying as a hedging instrument, the Hedge accounting accumulated fair value differences deferred in the equity caption “Hedging reserves” are transferred to the income The Group uses derivative instruments in managing its statement or added to the book value of the asset which financial risks as a way to hedge such risks. Derivative gave rise to the hedging transaction, and subsequent instruments to hedge financial risks are not used for revaluations are recognised directly in the income statement. trading purposes. A review was made of the Galp group’s existing contracts Derivative instruments used by the Group to hedge so as to detect embedded derivatives, namely contractual cash flows mainly relate to commodities price hedging clauses that could be considered as financial derivatives and (electricity). The indices are as identical as possible to actual no financial derivatives that should be recognised at fair purchases. Derivative instruments used by the Group to value have been identified. hedge fair value mainly relate to commodities price hedging (natural gas). The indices are identical to the contracts When embedded derivatives exist in other financial signed with customers. instruments or other contracts, they are recognised as separate derivatives in situations in which the risks and The following criteria are used by the Group to classify characteristics are not intimately related to the contracts derivative instruments as cash flow and fair value hedging and in situations in which the contracts are not reflected at instruments: fair value with unrealised gains and losses reflected in the income statement. • the hedge is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in the cash flow of the hedged risk (cash flow Trading instruments hedge) or changes in the fair value (fair value hedge); To manage the risk related to the variance in the Group’s • the hedging effectiveness can be reliably measured; refining margin, the Group uses derivative financial instruments, essentially crude oil and finished product Annual Report and Accounts 2016 201 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance swaps. Although these instruments are contracted 2.20 Classification in the consolidated statement to hedge financial risk in accordance with the Group’s of financial position risk management policies, they do not comply with the requirements of IAS 39 for hedge accounting, and so Assets realizable and liabilities payable in more than one changes in their fair value are recorded in the income year from the consolidated financial statements date are statement for the period in which they occur. These classified as non-current assets and non-current liabilities, investments are measured at fair value. respectively. f) Cash and cash equivalentes 2.21 Subsequent events The amounts included in the caption “Cash and cash Events that occur after the financial statements date that equivalents” includes cash, bank deposits, term deposits provide additional information on conditions that existed and other treasury applications that mature in less than at the end of the reporting period are recorded in the three months, and that can be realised immediately with consolidated financial statements. Events that occur after insignificant risk of change in their value. the financial statements date that provide information on conditions that exist after the financial statements date, For cash flow statement purposes the caption “Cash and if material, are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated cash equivalents” also includes bank overdrafts included financial statements (Note 36). in the statement of financial position caption “Bank loans and overdrafts”. 2.22 Segment reporting 2.18 Fair value hierarchy A business segment is a group of assets and operations of the Group that are subject to risks and returns different In accordance with IFRS 13 an entity must classify the fair from other business segments, being reported on a value measurement, based on a fair value hierarchy that consistent way with the management internal reporting. reflects the meaning of the inputs used in measurement. The fair value hierarchy must have the following levels: The accounting policies for segment reporting are consistently used in the Group. All inter-segmental • Level 1 the fair value of assets or liabilities is based revenues are at market prices and are eliminated on active liquid market quotation at the date of the in the consolidation process. statement of financial position; Financial information related to income for identified • Level 2 the fair value of assets or liabilities is determined segments is provided in Note 7, where they are identified through valuation models based on observable market inputs; and characterised. • Level 3 the fair value of assets or liabilities is determined 2.23 Estimates and judgments through valuation models, whose main inputs are not observable in the market. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires estimates 2.19 CO2 Emission licences to be made that affect the recorded amount of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities CO2 emitted by the Group’s industrial plants and at the end of each year and income and costs recognised the CO2 emission licences attributed to it under the each year. The actual results could be different depending National CO2 Licence Allotment Plan do not give rise to on the estimates made. any financial statement recognition provided that: (i) it is not estimated that there will probably be a need for costs Certain estimates are considered critical if: (i) the nature to be incurred by the Group to acquire emission licences in of the estimates is considered to be significant due to the market, which would be recognised by the booking of the level of subjectivity and judgment required to record an accrual or (ii) it is not estimated that such licences are situations in which there is great uncertainty or are very sold. In the event that these excessive licences are sold, susceptible to changes in the situation and; (ii) the impact income would be recognised. of the estimates on the financial situation or operating performance is significant. 202 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The accounting principles and areas that require the expected future cash flows from the cash generating units, greatest number of judgments and estimates in the as well as an appropriate discount rate to calculate the preparation of financial statements are: (i) proven crude present value of the cash flows. The amount of goodwill is oil reserves relating to the oil exploration activity; referred in Note 11. (ii) tangible and intangible assets, financial investments and goodwill impairment; (iii) provision for contingencies Impairment of tangible and intangible assets and environmental liabilities; (iv) demographic and financial and financial investments assumptions used to calculate retirement benefits; (v) accounts receivable impairment; (vi) tangible and Identifying impairment indicators, estimating future intangible assets useful lives and residual values; cash flows and determining asset fair value imply a high (vii) deferred tax assets, (viii) abandonment provisions and judgment level from the Board of Directors in respect to the (ix) estimates over uncertain tax positions. identification and evaluation of the different impairment indicators, expected cash flows, applicable discount rates, Crude oil reserves useful lives and residual amounts. The estimate of crude oil reserves is an integral part of Provisions for contingencies the decision-making process relating to exploration and development of crude oil activities assets, in addition The final cost of lawsuits, settlements and other litigation to supporting the development or implementation of can vary due to estimates based on different interpretations secondary recovery techniques. The volume of proven of the rules, opinions and final assessment of the losses. crude oil reserves is used to calculate depreciation of Consequently, any change in circumstances relating to the oil exploration and production assets in accordance these types of contingency can have a significant effect on with the UOP method, and the volume of proven reserves the recorded amount of the provision for contingencies. and contingent and prospective resources are used, depending on the prospection stage they are at, to value Environmental liabilities impairment of investment in assets relating to that activity. Estimated proven crude oil reserves are also used Galp makes judgments and estimates to calculate to recognise annual abandonment costs. provisions for environmental matters such as CO2. Every year Galp is entitled to free licences (EUA – Emission Unit Estimated proven reserves are subject to future revision, Allowances) from the Portuguese Environment Agency based on new information available, such as information in order to address greenhouse gas emissions. In case relating to the development activities, drilling or production, the free licences are insufficient to address greenhouse exchange rates, prices, contract termination dates and gas emissions, Galp can acquire the EUAs or other development plans. The volume of crude oil produced and equivalent/complementary allowances green certificates cost of the assets are known, while the proven reserves (ERU – Emission Reduction Units) in the market, giving are very likely to be recovered and are based on estimates rise to cost which is recorded in caption “Other operational subject to adjustment. The impact on depreciation and costs”. However, if greenhouse gas emissions are above provision for abandonment costs, of changes in the licences and green certificates in portfolio at the end of estimated proven reserves is treated on a prospective basis, the year, costs are accrued based on the best estimate the remaining net book value of the assets being depreciated of the expense to be incurred at the market spot rate and the provision for abandonment costs being adjusted, of the licences and/or certificates. The current portfolio respectively, based on the expected future production. of allowances is referred in Note 35. The quantity and type of oil reserves used for accounting Galp also makes judgments and estimates to calculate purposes are described in Note 31. its known obligations relating essentially to the known requirements of soil decontamination, based on current Goodwill impairment information relating to expected intervention costs and plans. Such costs can vary due to changes in the legislation The Group performs annual impairment tests on goodwill, and regulations, change in conditions of a specific location, as explained in Note 2.2.d). The recoverable amounts of the as well as in decontamination technologies. Consequently, cash generating units were determined based on their value any change in the circumstances relating to such provisions, in use. In calculating value in use, the Group estimated the as well as in the legislation and regulations can significantly Annual Report and Accounts 2016 203 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance affect the provisions for such matters. The provision for Estimates over uncertain tax positions environmental matters is reviewed annually. The measurement of uncertain tax positions with respect The provision for environmental liabilities is referred in to tax estimates is carried out at its most probable value Note 25 and Note 35. and not at a value weighted by associated probabilities. Demographic and financial assumptions used in Regarding uncertain tax positions that are provisioned the retirement benefits liabilities See Note 2.10. See Note 23. 2.24 Equity management policy Accounts receivable impairment As at 31 December 2016, Galp had equity amounting to €6.5 bn and as part of its equity management policy The credit risk of the accounts receivable balances is has had a self-imposed indebtedness ceiling of 2x Net evaluated at each reporting date, taking into consideration Debt/EBITDA, even though the contracts signed with the historical client information and its risk profile. Accounts financial institutions allow the setting of a ratio between receivable are adjusted by the evaluation made by 3.5 and 3.75. Net debt at the end of 2016 amounted management of the estimated collection risks existing at to €1,870.6 m, setting this target ratio at 1.35. the date of the statement of financial position, which may differ from the actual risk for impairment to be incurred. The organization of the Group is supported by three Sub‑holdings, one for the E&P business, one for the R&M Tangible and intangible assets business and another for th G&P. Determining the assets useful lives, as well as the method of Galp Energia E&P B.V. covers all the E&P business, in depreciation/amortisation to apply, is essential to determine US dollars, and finances its subsidiaries primarily with the depreciation/amortisation amount to recognise in each Equity and internal loans. Capital employed in the business period’s consolidated statement of comprehensive income. lies essentially in Galp E&P B.V. and in Galp Sinopec Brazil These two parameters are defined accordingly to the best Services B.V. and amounts approximately to €4.9 bn. judgment made by the Board of Directors for the assets and businesses in question, and also considering the practices The R&M business, developed by Petrogal, S.A. and adopted by companies in the sector internationally. its subsidiaries, has a capital employed of €2.8 bn. Petrogal has been financed with shareholder loans and Deferred tax assets supplementary capital contributions, amounting to €2.2 bn, in conformity with a reasonable ratio of Net Debt/EBITDA. Deferred tax assets are recognised only when there is strong assurance that future taxable profits will be available for The G&P business is mainly supported by Galp Gás use of the temporary differences or when there are deferred Natural, S.A., with a capital employed of €0.6 bn. tax liabilities for which a reversal is expected within the same period that the deferred tax assets are reversed. 2.25 Risk management and hedging Evaluation of deferred tax assets is made by management at the end of each period, taking into account expectations The Group’s operations lead to exposure of the following for the Group’s future performance. risks: (i) market risk, as a result of the volatility of prices of oil, natural gas and its derivatives, exchange rates and Abandonment provisions interest rates; (ii) credit risk, as a result of its commercial activity; (iii) liquidity risk, as the Group could have See Note 2.10 difficulty in obtaining the financial resources to cover its commitments. The Group has an organisation and systems that enable it to identify, measure and control the different risks to which it is exposed to and uses several financial instruments to hedge them in accordance with the 204 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements corporate directives common to the whole Group. The contracting of these instruments is centralised. The description of these hedge is explained in further detail in the accounting policies described in this section. 2.26 Changes in accounting policies The Company decided to change its accounting policy regarding the presentation of exchange rate differences in the income statement arising from Other receivables balances in foreign currency (trade receivables and other receivables) and Other accounts payable balances in foreign currency (trade payables and other payables). Such exchange rate differences were presented in Financial Income, along with other exchange rate differences generated during the financial year. Thus, from 2016 exchange rate differences generated in Other accounts receivable foreign currency balances and Other payable foreign currency balances referred above will be presented in the same operational nature income statement caption where the income and losses associated with these transactions are reflected. The Company believes that this change in accounting policy follows the recommendations of IAS 8§14 par. b) and better reflects the operational and financial events of the Group. As such, and in accordance with the standard IAS8§19 par. b), the Company retrospectively reflected the impact on their corresponding figures. In addition, the Group reclassified i) €73,747 k that were recorded under the caption “External Supplies and services – Transport of goods” to the caption “Cost of sales” and ii) €16,106 k that were recorded under the caption “External Supplies and services – Other costs related to cross campaigns” to the caption “Sales”. The Company believes that this reclassification better reflects the nature of the operation. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 205 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The financial statements were restated as at 31 December 2015, being the impacts in the income statement described in the table below: Income statement: unit: €k Restatement Exchange December 2015 Notes December 2015 Reclassifications differences restated Operating income: Sales 5 14,883,581 (16,106) 1,797 14,869,272 Services rendered 5 632,920 1,561 634,481 Changes in value of investment properties Other operating income 5 100,181 1,012 101,193 Total operating income: 15,616,682 (16,106) 4,370 15,604,946 Operating costs: Cost of sales 6 12,693,354 73,747 26,096 12,793,197 External supplies and services 6 1,316,406 (89,853) 1,364 1,227,917 Employee costs 6 343,304 194 343,498 Amortisation, depreciation and impairment losses on fixed 6 719,635 719,635 assets Provisions and impairment losses on receivables 6 31,125 31,125 Other operating costs 6 63,491 2,859 66,350 Total operating costs: 15,167,315 (16,106) 30,513 15,181,722 Operating result: 449,367 (26,143) 423,224 Financial income 8 32,387 32,387 Financial costs 8 (79,700) (79,700) Exchange (losses) gains (35,196) 25,404 (9,792) Income from financial investments and impairment losses 4 and 11 19,308 19,308 on Goodwill Income from financial instruments 27 (12,776) (12,776) Results from investment properties Income before taxes: 373,390 (739) 372,651 Income tax 9 (152,170) 739 (151,431) Energy sector extraordinary contribution 9 (67,002) (67,002) Consolidated net income for the year 154,218 154,218 Income attributable to: Non-controlling interests 21 31,652 31,652 Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Shareholders 10 122,566 122,566 Consolidated net income for the year 154,218 154,218 Earnings per share (in Euros) 10 0.15 0.15 206 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 3. Consolidated companies 3.1 Consolidation perimeter The companies included in the consolidation, their head offices, percentage of interest held and their main activities are as follows: Percentage Head office Companies of interest held Main activity Notes City Country 2016 2015 Group companies Parent Company Management of equity participations in other companies Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. e3) Lisbon Portugal in the energy sector, as an indirect form of realising business activities. Subsidiaries: Galp Energia, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Business management and consultancy services. Galp Energia E&P Subgroup: Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, as well as trading in oil, natural gas and oil products; management Galp Energia E&P, B.V. e2) Rotterdam The Netherlands 100% 100% of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Subsidiaries: Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, as well Galp Sinopec Brazil as trading in oil, natural gas and oil products; management Services, B.V. and Rotterdam The Netherlands 70% 70% of investments in other companies and financing of subsidiary: businesses and other companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, as well Galp Sinopec Brazil as trading in oil, natural gas and oil products; management Nicosia Cyprus 100% 100% Services (Cyprus), Limited of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, as well Galp E&P Brazil, B.V. as trading in oil, natural gas and oil products; management Rotterdam The Netherlands 100% 100% and subsidiary: of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Research, exploration, development and production of crude oil, natural gas and biofuels, import, export, refining, marketing, distribution, transportation and storage of oil Galp Energia Brasil, S.A. Recife Brazil 100% 100% and oil products; marketing of natural gas and biofuels, as well as any other activities related to the main activities, and may also participate in consortium of companies that may be necessary for the development of its objectives. Management of investments in other companies and Petrogal Brasil, B.V. financing of businesses and other companies dedicated Rotterdam The Netherlands 100% 100% and subsidiary(ies): to exploratIon and production of oil and natural gas, as well as trading of oil, natural gas and oil products. Petrogal Brasil, S.A. Research and exploration of oil and natural gas, oil Recife Brazil 70% 70% and subsidiary: transport, distribution and supply. Fundo Vera Cruz Recife Brazil 100% 100% Exclusive open investment fund. Galp Exploração Serviços Recife Brazil 100% 100% Business management and consultancy services. do Brasil, Lda. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 207 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Percentage Head office Companies of interest held Main activity Notes City Country 2016 2015 Management of investments in other companies and Galp East Africa, B.V. financing of businesses and other companies dedicated Rotterdam The Netherlands 100% 100% and subsidiary(ies): to exploration and production of oil and natural gas, as well as trading of oil, natural gas and oil products. Exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas, as well as trading of oil, natural gas and oil products; Galp Energia Rovuma B.V. Amsterdam The Netherlands 100% 100% management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and companies. Galp Energia Rovuma, B.V. Maputo Mozambique Exploration and production of oil and natural gas. (Mozambique branch) Galp Exploração e Produção e2) Management of equity participations in other companies Petrolífera, SGPS, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% e4) as an indirect exercise of economic activity. and subsidiary: Galp Energia São Tomé Sao Tome and Development of all activities related to the research e Principe Unipessoal, e4) Sao Tome 100% 100% Principe and exploration of natural resources Limitada Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading Galp Energia Overseas, of oil, natural gas and oil products, management of shares e2) Amsterdam The Netherlands 100% 100% B.V. and subsidiaries:: of other societies and financing businesses and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading Galp Energia Overseas of oil, natural gas and oil products, management of shares e2) Rotterdam The Netherlands 100% 100% Block 14, B.V. of other societies and financing businesses and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading Galp Energia Overseas of oil, natural gas and oil products, management of shares Block 14, B.V. Branch in e2) Luanda Angola of other societies and financing businesses Angola and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading Galp Energia Overseas of oil, natural gas and oil products, management of shares e2) Rotterdam The Netherlands 100% 100% Block 32, B.V. of other societies and financing businesses and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading Galp Energia Overseas of oil, natural gas and oil products, management of shares Block 32, B.V. Branch in e2) Luanda Angola of other societies and financing businesses Angola and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading Galp Energia Overseas of oil, natural gas and oil products, management of shares e2) Rotterdam The Netherlands 100% 100% Block 33, B.V. of other societies and financing businesses and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading Galp Energia Overseas of oil, natural gas and oil products, management of shares Block 33, B.V. Branch in e2) Luanda Angola of other societies and financing businesses Angola and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading Galp Energia Overseas of oil, natural gas and oil products, management of shares e2) Rotterdam The Netherlands 100% 100% LNG, B.V. of other societies and financing businesses and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading Galp Energia Overseas of oil, natural gas and oil products, management of shares LNG, B.V. Branch in e2) Luanda Angola of other societies and financing businesses Angola and companies. 208 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Percentage Head office Companies of interest held Main activity Notes City Country 2016 2015 Pursuit of activities related with biofuels projects, including but not limited to research, production, processing, logistics, marketing of grain, vegetable oil, Galp Bioenergy, B.V. Amsterdam The Netherlands 100% 100% biofuel products and their derivatives; management of shareholdings in other companies and business and company financing. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, as well as trading of oil, natural gas and oil products; Galp Energia Tarfaya, B.V. c) Rotterdam The Netherlands 100% management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, as well as trading of oil, natural gas and oil products; Galp Energia Tarfaya, B.V. c) Rabat Morocco and development of commercial activities related to (Branch in Morocco) exploration and production of oil and natural gas. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, as well as trading of oil, natural gas and oil products; Windhoek PEL 23, B.V. Rotterdam The Netherlands 100% 100% management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, as Windhoek PEL 23, B.V. well as trading of oil, natural gas and oil products; Windhoek Namibia (Branch in Namibia) management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, as well as trading of oil, natural gas and oil products; Windhoek PEL 24, B.V. Rotterdam The Netherlands 100% 100% management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, as Windhoek PEL 24, B.V. well as trading of oil, natural gas and oil products; Windhoek Namibia (Branch in Namibia) management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, as well as trading of oil, natural gas and oil products; Windhoek PEL 28, B.V. Rotterdam The Netherlands 100% 100% management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, as Windhoek PEL 28, B.V. well as trading of oil, natural gas and oil products; Windhoek Namibia (Branch in Namibia) management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Development of trading activity of crude oil, oil products, petrochemicals and natural gas; ship chartering activities Galp Trading, S.A. Geneve Switzerland 100% 100% for maritime transport of the products that the company trades. Tagus Re, S.A. Luxembourg Luxembourg 100% 100% Reinsurance of all products, excluding direct insurance. Research and oil exploration, distribution, transport, Galp Alentejo E&P, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% storage and commercialisation of liquid and gaseous fuels, base oils and lubricants and other oil products . ISPG Centro Rio de Brazil 100% 100% Management of equity participations. Tecnológico, S.A. Janeiro ISPG Centro Rio de Brazil 100% 100% Management of equity participations. Tecnológico, S.A. Janeiro Annual Report and Accounts 2016 209 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Percentage Head office Companies of interest held Main activity Notes City Country 2016 2015 Petrogal Subgroup: Refining of crude oil and derivatives trading; Transport, distribution and commercialisation of crude oil and e1) Petróleos de Portugal derivatives and natural gas; Research and exploration e3) Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Petrogal, S.A. of crude oil and natural gas; and any other industrial, e4) commercial and investigation activities and rendering of services relating to these areas. Refining of crude oil and derivatives trading; Transport, distribution and commercialisation of crude oil and Petróleos de Portugal – Chacao derivatives and natural gas; Research and exploration Petrogal, S.A. (Branch in Venezuela 0% 0% Municipality of crude oil and natural gas; and any other industrial, Venezuela) commercial and investigation activities and rendering of services relating to these areas. Petróleos de Portugal – Management of participations in other refined products Petrogal, S.A. (Branch Madrid Spain 0% 0% distributor companies in the Iberia. in Spain) and subsidiaries: Galp Energia España, S.A. Storage, transport, import, export and sale of all oil Madrid Spain 100% 100% and subdidiaries: products, chemical products, gas and its derivatives. Galpgest Petrogal Estaciones de Servicio, Madrid Spain 100% 100% Management and operation of service stations. S.L.U. Multiservicios Galp Managing the supply of aviation business in the Barcelona (*) Barcelona Spain 50% 50% Barcelona Airport. Galp Açores Distribuição e Comercialização Ponta Distribution, storage, transport and commercialisation of de Combustíveis Portugal 100% 100% Delgada liquid and gas fuel, lubricants and other oil derivatives. e Lubrificantes, S.A. and subdidiary: Saaga Sociedade Construction and operation of filling stations and related Ponta Açoreana de Armazenagem Portugal 67.65% 67.65% storage facilities of LPG and other fuel in the Autonomous Delgada de Gás, S.A. Region of the Azores. Galp Madeira Distribuição e Comercialização Distribution, storage, transport and commercialisation of Funchal Portugal 100% 100% de Combustíveis liquid and gas fuel, lubricants and other oil derivatives. e Lubrificantes, S.A. and subsidiaries: Installation and operation of liquid and gas fuel storage CLCM Companhia facilities, as well as the respective transport, reception, Logística de Combustíveis Funchal Portugal 75% 75% movement, filling and shipping structures and other da Madeira, S.A. industrial, commercial and investigation activities and the rendering of services relating to these activities. Distribution, storage, transport and commercialisation of liquid and gas fuel, base oils, lubricants and other oil derivatives and the direct and indirect operation in fuel stations and service stations and complementary activities, Gasinsular Combustíveis Funchal Portugal 100% 100% namely service stations, vehicle repair and maintenance do Atlântico, S.A. workshops, the sale of motor vehicle parts and accessories, restaurants and hotels, as well as any other industrial commercial and investigating activities and the rendering of services relating to the activities mentioned in its objects. Sacor Marítima, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Maritime transport in own and chartered vessels. 210 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Percentage Head office Companies of interest held Main activity Notes City Country 2016 2015 C.L.T. Companhia Logística de Terminais Matosinhos Portugal 100% 100% Technical management of ships, crews and supply. Marítimos, S.A. Galp Energia Portugal Management of participations in other companies of the Amsterdam The Netherlands 100% 100% Holdings, B.V. energy sector as an indirect form of economic activity. Retail sale of food products, domestic utensils, presents Sempre a Postos and other articles, including newspapers, magazines, Produtos Alimentares Lisbon Portugal 75% 75% records, videos, toys, drinks, tobacco, cosmetics and e Utilidades, Lda. hygiene, travel and vehicle accessory items. Tanquisado Terminais Setubal Portugal 100% 100% Development and operation of Maritime Terminals. Marítimos, S.A. Galp Exploração e Produção Oil industry, including prospecting, research and Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% (Timor Leste), S.A. exploration of hydrocarbons in East Timor. Direct and indirect operation of service stations, fuel Galpgeste Gestão de stations and related or complementary activities, such as Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Áreas de Serviço, S.A. service stations, workshops, the sale of lubricants motor vehicle parts and accessories, restaurants and hotels. Design and construction of underground LPG storage Sigás Armazenagem and of the additional surface facilities needed to move (*) Sines Portugal 60% 60% de Gás, A.C.E. products. Management and exploration of the cave including surface facilities, tanks and LPG spheres . Executing the operation and maintenance of the Perafita (*) Pergás Armazenagem Park, ensuring the development of the import, reception, and Matosinhos Portugal 51% de Gás, A.C.E. storage, filling and expedition activities of GPL by the a) respective members. Studies, projects, installation, production and marketing Enerfuel, S.A. e3) Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% of biofuels, treatment, valuation and and waste recovery, purchase and sale of equipment. Production, transport and distribution of electric and Portcogeração, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% thermal energy from co-generating systems and renewal energy. Research and oil exploration, distribution, transport, storage and commercialization of liquid and gaseous fuels, Galp Marketing lubricants and base oils and other oil products and the Internacional, S.A. and e1) Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% operation of service stations and vehicle assistance service subsidiaries: stations, as well as any industrial activities, business, marketing, research or provision of services related to this subject. Distribution, transport, storage and commercialisation Petrogal Guiné-Bissau, of liquid and gas fuel, base oils, lubricants and other oil Bissau Guinea-Bissau 100% 100% Lda. and subsidiaries: derivatives and the operation of fuel stations and vehicle assistance stations. Petromar Sociedade de Abastecimentos de Bissau Guinea-Bissau 80% 80% Commerce of maritime banks. Combustíveis, Lda. Petrogás Importação, Armazenagem e Bissau Guinea-Bissau 65% 65% Import, storage and distribution of LPG. Distribuição de Gás, Lda. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 211 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Percentage Head office Companies of interest held Main activity Notes City Country 2016 2015 Import, processing, distribution, transportation, storage, trading and re-export of hydrocarbons and their derivatives, including bitumen, base oils and lubricants, the operation of storage facilities, as well as their primary transport infrastructure within and between islands, Empresa Nacional de (**) reception, handling, loading and shipment of liquid and Combustíveis Enacol, Mindelo Cape Verde 48% 48% e1) gaseous fuels, the operation of filling stations and service S.A.R.L and subsídiaries: areas, vehicle assistance, production, distribution and other forms of non-fossil energy, including solar, wind, water and the other renewable sources, the use of their facilities as well as other industrial, commercial, research or provide services associated with this principal object. Enamar Sociedade (**) Transportes Marítimos, Mindelo Cape Verde 100% 100% Maritime transport and related activities. e1) Sociedade Unipessoal, S.A. Import and trading, supply management, exploring areas (**) of service stations and fuel supply, design and project EnacolGest, Lda. Mindelo Cape Verde 100% 100% e1) management of maintenance and construction of facilities and service stations. Distribution, transport, storage, commercialisation of liquid Galp Gambia, Limited f) Banjul Gambia 100% 100% and gas fuel, oil and operation of service stations. Distribution, transport, storage, commercialisation of liquid Petrogal Moçambique, Lda. Maputo Mozambique 100% 100% and gas fuel, oil and operation of service stations. Storage, commercialisation and distribution, import, export Galp Moçambique, Lda. Maputo Mozambique 100% 100% and transport of oil and its derivatives, as well as all types of oil, whether vegetable, animal or mineral. Storage, commercialisation and distribution, import, export Galp Moçambique, Lda. Blantyre Malawi and transport of oil and its derivatives, as well as all types (Branch in Malawi) of oil, whether vegetable, animal or mineral. Galp Swaziland (PTY) Distribution, transport, storage, commercialisation of liquid Matsapha Swaziland 100% 100% Limited and gas fuel, oil and operation of service stations. Production, distribution and commercialisation of liquid and Petrogal Angola, Lda. Luanda Angola 100% 100% gas fuel, base oil and lubricants and operation of service stations. GDP Subgroup: Galp Gás e Power, Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Management of equity investments. SGPS, S.A. Subsidiaries: GDP Gás de Portugal, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Business management services. Lisboagás Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Natural gas last resort retail supply. Comercialização, S.A. Lusitaniagás Aveiro Portugal 100% 100% Natural gas last resort retail supply. Comercialização, S.A. Setgás Setubal Portugal 100% 67% Natural gas last resort retail supply. Comercialização, S.A. Carriço Cogeração Production through cogeneration and sale of electric and Sociedade de Geração de Lisbon Portugal 65% 65% thermic energy. Electricidade e Calor, S.A. Purchase and sale of electricity, as well as the rendering Galp Power, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% services and realisation of activities directly or indirectly related with energy. 212 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Percentage Head office Companies of interest held Main activity Notes City Country 2016 2015 Production,through cogeneration, and sale of electric and Agroger Sociedade de thermic energy, including the conception, construction, Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Cogeração do Oeste, S.A. financing and operation of co-generating installations and all the related activities and services. Import of natural gas, storage, distribution through high Galp Gás Natural, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% pressure networks, construction and maintenance of and subsidiaries: networks. Transgás Armazenagem Storage of natural gas on a public service sub-concession Soc. Portuguesa Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% basis, including the construction, maintenance, repair and de Armazenagem operation of all the related infrastructure and equipment. de Gás Natural, S.A. Transgás, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Natural gas last resort wholesale supply. Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, SGPS, S.A. d) Lisbon Portugal 100% Management of equity investments. and subsidiaries: Beiragás Companhia b) Operation, construction and maintenance of regional Viseu Portugal 59.51% de Gás das Beiras, S.A. d) natural gas distribution networks. Dianagás Sociedade Operation, construction and maintenance of regional Distribuidora de Gás d) Lisbon Portugal 100% natural gas distribution networks. Natural de Évora, S.A. Duriensegás Sociedade Operation, construction and maintenance of regional Distribuidora de Gás d) Vila Real Portugal 100% natural gas distribution networks. Natural do Douro, S.A. Lisboagás GDL Operation, construction and maintenance of regional Sociedade Distribuidora de d) Lisbon Portugal 100% natural and other gas distribution networks. Gás Natural de Lisboa, S.A. Lusitaniagás Companhia Operation, construction and maintenance of regional d) Aveiro Portugal 96.84% de Gás do Centro, S.A. natural and other gas distribution networks. Medigás Sociedade Operation, construction and maintenance of regional Distribuidora de Gás d) Lisbon Portugal 100% natural and other gas distribution networks. Natural do Algarve, S.A. Paxgás Sociedade Operation, construction and maintenance of regional Distribuidora de Gás d) Lisbon Portugal 100% natural and other gas distribution networks. Natural de Beja, S.A. Natural gas distribution in medium and low pressure, exercised in the public interest under the rules applicable in the geographical area of the concession, covering in Setgás Sociedade particular the construction and operation of infrastructure de Produção e Distribuição d) Setubal Portugal 99.93% to integrate the National Network for Natural Gas de Gás, S.A. Distribution, the promotion of construction, facilities conversion or adequacy for natural gas use, but also other activities related to the main subject, including exploitation of spare capacity of telecommunications network installed. (*) As of 1 January 2014, due to mandatory application of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements , the group identified Sigás – Armazenagem de Gás, A.C.E., Pergás – Armanzenamento de Gás, A.C.E., and Multiservicios Galp Barcelona, UTE as entities in which the shareholders have operational and financial control over the assets and liabilities of the company. Therefore, the assets, liabilities, gains and losses were incorporated in the consolidated financial statements for the percentage held in those entities, 60%, 51% and 50%, respectively (Note 4.6.2). (**) Although Galp group holds through its subsidiary Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. only 48.29% of the equity of Empresa Nacional de Combustíveis Enacol S.A.R.L, the Group controls its financial and operational policies, and is expected to continue to do so by means of a representative majority of votes at the Board of Directors meetings. Thus, Galp has, in accordance with IFRS 10 (a) power over the investee, (b) exposure or rights to variable results via its relationship with the investee and (c) ability to use its power over the investee to affect the value of the results for investors, and due to these facts, the subsidiary is consolidated using the full consolidation method. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 213 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The place of activity (e.g. country) of subsidiaries with c) Companies dissolved and settled: non-controlling interests is the same as shown in the table above. On December 21, 2016 the subsidiary Galp Energia Tarfaya B.V. and its branch in Morocco, 100% owned by Empresa Nacional de Combustíveis Enacol S.A.R.L. Galp Energia E&P, B.V., was dissolved. As a result of this holds interests in the following subsidiaries: operation, the Group recognised in the consolidated income i) Enamar Sociedade Transportes Marítimos, Sociedade statement the amount of €13,712 k (Note 4.4) related to Unipessoal, S.A. (100%); ii) EnacolGest, Ld.ª (100%); losses related to the exchange differences of the financial and iii) Sodigás-Sociedade Industrial de Gases, S.A.R.L. statements of the subsidiary Galp Energia Tarfaya B.V., (44%) (Note 4.2). denominated in foreign currency (USD) which were recorded in equity under the currency translation reserves. Interests held in Enamar Sociedade Transportes Marítimos, Sociedade Unipessoal, S.A. and in EnacolGest, d) Disposal: Lda are consolidated using the full consolidation method and Sodigás Sociedade Industrial de Gases, S.A.R.L. On 27 July 2016, Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A., through its is included in the caption “Investments in associates” (Note 4.2). subsidiary Galp Gas & Power, SGPS, S.A. (GGP), reached an agreement with a consortium led by Marubeni Corporation, During the year ended 31 December 2016, the following to establish a joint venture covering Galp’s natural gas changes occurred in the consolidation perimeter: regulated infrastructure business. a) Companies established: This partnership is consistent with Galp’s portfolio management strategy and reflects the specific nature of the On April 23, 2015, a Joint arrangement was established, regulated infrastructure business and the historically low called “PERGÁS – Armazenamento de Gás, ACE”, held interest rate environment, allowing Galp to crystallise value 51% by subsidiary Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A., and to enhance its growth strategic options. 30.75% by Rubis Energia Portugal, S.A. and 18.25% by Repsol Gás Portugal, S.A., not carrying out any operation The agreement establishes the acquisition by the in that year. In the year ended 31 December, 2016, consortium of a 22.5% stake in the share capital of Galp its activity was initiated, being its Assets, Liabilities, Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. (GGND), for a consideration Gains and Losses included in the consolidated financial of €138 m, and the sharing of certain governance rights statements by the interest held (Note 4.6.2). within the joint venture. b) Companies acquired: Prior to transaction completion, Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. raised stand-alone funding to reimburse On 3 August 2016, through its subsidiary Galp Gás existing shareholder loans of €568 m. Natural Distribuição, S.A., the Group acquired 0.01473% of the share capital of the subsidiary Beiragás – For that purpose GGND established on 25 August 2016, Companhia de Gás das Beiras, S.A. by the amount of €5 an EMTN Programme (“EUR 1,000,000,000 Euro k. With this acquisition, the Group now holds 59.51941% Medium Term Note Programme”) and obtained of the share capital of this subsidiary. an investment grade rating from Standard & Poor’s. The subsidiary Beiragás – Companhia de Gás das Under the EMTN Programme, on 19 September 2016, Galp Beiras, S.A. was already controlled by the Group and Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. issued notes in the amount consolidated by the full method (held by 59.50468%). of €600,000 k, maturing on 19 September 2023 with a The difference between the amount paid and the equity coupon of 1.375%, listed on the London Stock Exchange. book value at the acquisition date was recognised in the consolidated income statement under the caption Income from financial investments in the amount of €1 k (Note 4.4) 214 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements On October 27, after regulatory approval, Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A., through its subsidiary Galp Gas & Power, SGPS, S.A., completed the sale of 22.5% of GGND to Meet Europe, owned by Marubeni Corporation (50%) and Toho Gas Co., Ltd. (50%). The final price was €140,950 k, based on the agreed initial price plus adjustments, as established in the Sale and Purchase Agreement. Considering that GGND carried out, in September, a repayment to Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. of the shareholder loan in the amount of €568 m, the total proceeds to Galp resulting from this transaction was €709 m. Following completion, Galp ceased to fully consolidate GGND into its Group accounts, and the entities comprising this subgroup were classified as joint ventures. The financial investments of the Galp Gás Natural Distribuição Subgroup were recognized at fair value at the date the group ceased to have control of the GGND subgroup. As a result of this operation, the Group recognized in results under the caption Results from financial investments a gain in the amount of €131,561 k (Note 4.4) and transferred to the retained earnings the amount of €7,641 k: % held at the disposal date 100.00% -22.50% 77.50% Disposal amount 138,100 Adjustment to the initial disposal amount 2,850 Amount received 140,950 Provisions for Other risks Shares Purchase Price Ajustment (Note 25) (7,476) Disposal amount deducted from the Provision for other risks and charges 133,474 Assets Liabilities 264,587 Non controlling interests (Note 21) (19,520) Book value of the financial investment at the disposal date 245,067 (55,140) 189,927 Allocation of Fair Value to the 77.5% of the interest held after disposal 53,227 Fair value of the financial investment at the date of the loss of control [*] (Note 4.1) 243,154 Gain from disposal [A] 78,334 Gain from the allocation of fair value to the 77.5% [B] 53,227 Results from financial investments ( [A] + [B] ) 131,561 (Note 4.4) Actuarial gains and losses pension funds (20,157) 5,609 Tax related to actuarial gains and losses pension fund 4,774 (1,073) Hedging reserves (Associates/Joint ventures) (259) 59 Deferred tax related to hedging reserves components 65 (15) Other Reserves (Note 20) 2,598 2,598 Special Reserves (Note 20) 463 463 Retained earnings (7,641) *For calculation of fair value was considered the Regulatory Asset Base (RAB) for the GGND Group as at 31 October 2016. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 215 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance e) Corporate restructuring: e1) The subsidiary Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A., holds financial participations in companies based on the African continent operating in the oil distribution segment. These interests are gradually being transferred under the control of the subsidiary Galp Marketing Internacional, S.A. On 29 April 2016 Petróleos de Portugal – Petrogal, S.A. sold to Galp Marketing Internacional, S.A. the participation held in the subsidiary Empresa Nacional de Combustíveis Enacol, S.A.R. (48.2871%), which respectively holds participation interests in the subsidiaries i) Enamar Sociedade Transportes Marítimos, Sociedade Unipessoal, S.A. (100%) and ii) EnacolGest, Lda (100%). e1) On 10 August 2016, through equity contribution made by Galp Energia E&P, B.V., the subsidiary Galp Energia Overseas B.V. became held 62.16216% (previously 53.33333%) by the subsidiary Galp Energia E&P B.V. and 37.83784% (previously 46.66667%) by Galp Exploração e Produção Petrolífera, S.A. e2) On 30 August 2016 Petróleos de Portugal – Petrogal, S.A. disposed 5% of the financial interest held in the subsidiary Enerfuel, S.A. to Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. With this operation the subsidiary Enerfuel, S.A. is now held 10.5556% by Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. and 89.44444% by Petróleos de Portugal – Petrogal, S.A. e3) On 4 March 2016 Petróleos de Portugal – Petrogal, S.A. ceded to Galp Exploração e Produção Petrolífera, SGPS, S.A. all the shares (100%) held in the subsidiary Galp Energia São Tomé e Príncipe Unipessoal, Limitada. Given that the transactions referred above are between group companies, there was no impact on the consolidated financial statements of the group. f) Non-current assets held for sale On 17 October, 2016, Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. and Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. reached an agreement to sell to Premiere Investment Group, SAL, 0.02% and 99.98%, respectively, of the share capital of the subsidiary Galp Gambia, Limited. In the year ended 31 December, 2016, as a result of this agreement, the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary Galp Gambia, Limited were presented in the consolidated financial statements of Galp Energia, SGPS as non-current assets held for sale and liabilities associated with non-current assets held for sale. The amount of €5,327 k received is recognised under Other accounts payable Advances on account of the disposal of financial investments (Note 24). On 17 January, 2017, the sale was completed. The final price was €4,873 k, based on the agreed initial price plus adjustments, as established in the Sales and Purchase Agreement. 216 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Reconciliation of Receivables from Financial Investments presented in the consolidated statement of cash flows – Investing Activities The amount of €164,210 k under Receipts from Financial Investments in the consolidated statement of cash flows – Investing Activities is detailed as follows: unid: €k Investing activities receipts from financial investments related to: Notes 2016 Participation interest from Galp Gás e Power, SGPS, S.A. Disposal of 22.5% of GGND to Meet Europe, detained by Marubeni Corporation (50%) 3.1 d) 140,950 and by Toho Gas Co., Ltd. (50%). Participation interest from Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A.: Decrease in share capital from the associate C.L.C. Companhia Logística de Combustíveis, S.A. 4.1 13,000 Participation interest from Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A and Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Advance payment related to the agreement signed with Premiere Investment Group, SAL, for the disposal 3.1 f) 5,327 of 100% of the share capital of Galp Gambia, Limited. Participation interest from Galp Gás Natural, S.A. Decrease in share capital from the associate Gasoduto Extremadura, S.A. 4.2 2,691 Decrease in share capital from the associate Gasoduto Al-Andaluz, S.A. 4.2 2,242 164,210 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 217 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 3.2 Changes in the consolidation perimeter Changes in the consolidation perimeter for the period ended 31 December 2016 had the following impact in the consolidated statement of financial position of the Galp group: unit: €k Disposal (Note 3.1 d) (*) Non-current assets held Total related to for sale Subsidiaries Associate disposed and Statement of financial position held for sale subsidiaries Dianagás Duriensegás Lisboagás GDL Medigás Setgás Total related to IntraGroup IntraSubGroup Beiragás Lusitaniagás Paxgás Soc. Tagusgás Galp Gás Natural Soc. Distrib. Soc. Distrib. Sociedade Soc. Distrib. Sociedade de disposed and Eliminations Galp Gás Natural Eliminations Companhia Companhia de Distrib. de Empresa de Galp Gambia, Distribuição, S.A. de Gás de Gás Distribuidora de Gás Produção e held for sale Galp Energia, Distribuição, S.A. Galp Gás Natural de Gás das Gás do Centro, Gás Natural Gás do Vale Limited and Subsidiaries Natural de Natural do de Gás Natural Natural do Distribuição subsidiaries SGPS, S.A. Distribuição, S.A. Beiras, S.A. S.A. de Beja, S.A. do Tejo, S.A. Évora, S.A. Douro, S.A. de Lisboa, S.A. Algarve, S.A. de Gás, S.A. Assets Tangible assets 2,688 547 547 547 2,141 Goodwill 2,275 2,275 2,275 2,275 Intangible assets 1,110,495 1,110,306 (3,320) 1,113,626 70,427 11,866 36,066 520,335 278,669 5,518 17,918 172,827 189 Investments in associates and joint ventures 14,996 14,996 14,996 270,576 (270,576) 14,996 Financial assets available for sale 3 3 3 3 Trade receivables 45,886 45,886 45,886 545,118 (540,109) 2,333 106 1,074 19,179 13,279 16 235 4,655 Deferred tax assets 17,561 17,561 829 16,732 1 509 243 978 13,862 568 12 320 239 Total non-current assets: 1,193,904 1,191,574 (2,491) 1,194,065 817,970 (810,685) 73,269 12,215 38,118 553,376 292,516 5,546 18,473 178,271 14,996 2,330 Inventories 1,676 1,367 1,367 180 44 145 520 270 20 73 115 309 Trade receivables 10,594 10,263 10,263 1,225 (1,496) 637 393 903 5,165 1,678 117 323 1,318 331 Other receivables 69,808 69,240 69,240 16,768 (34,102) 2,409 2,723 3,164 45,737 16,628 877 1,536 13,500 568 Cash and cash equivalents 39,275 38,684 38,684 28,251 6,431 156 320 914 1,697 124 224 567 591 Subtotal current assets: 121,353 119,554 119,554 46,274 (41,114) 11,200 3,316 4,535 52,336 22,175 1,138 2,178 17,516 1,799 Subtotal current assets: (4,128) (4,128) Total current assets: 117,225 119,554 119,554 46,274 (41,114) 11,200 3,316 4,535 52,336 22,175 1,138 2,178 17,516 (2,329) Total assets: 1,311,129 1,311,128 (2,491) 1,313,619 864,244 (851,799) 84,469 15,531 42,653 605,712 314,691 6,684 20,651 195,787 14,996 1 Liabilities: Bank loans 33,922 33,922 33,922 10,856 18,462 4,604 Bonds 595,378 595,378 595,378 595,378 Other payables 236,909 236,909 236,909 61 (540,109) 18,474 12,037 31,115 359,631 209,518 4,677 17,283 124,222 Post-employment and other employee 54,602 54,602 54,602 3 297 19 24 53,424 259 7 14 555 benefits liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 11,065 11,065 11,065 206 113 296 3,029 3,593 16 71 3,741 Provisions 31,734 31,734 31,734 1,949 293 886 16,395 7,466 155 437 4,153 Total non-current liabilities: 963,610 963,610 963,610 595,442 (540,109) 31,782 12,462 32,321 450,941 225,440 4,855 17,805 132,671 Bank loans and overdrafts 15,080 13,441 13,441 5 2,700 6,154 2,371 2,211 1,639 Trade payables 19,454 16,146 16,146 1,505 (2,526) 936 158 368 5,198 5,150 176 242 4,939 3,308 Other payables 40,486 40,089 40,089 19,363 (33,073) 3,877 1,264 2,781 20,568 15,065 383 967 8,894 397 Current income tax payable 13,322 13,255 13,255 450 (5,516) 1,675 209 454 9,346 4,615 69 218 1,735 67 Subtotal current liabilities: 88,342 82,931 82,931 21,323 (41,115) 9,188 1,631 3,603 41,266 27,201 628 1,427 17,779 5,411 Liabilities associated with non-current assets (5,410) (5,410) held for sale Total Liabilities: 1,046,542 1,046,541 1,046,541 616,765 (581,224) 40,970 14,093 35,924 492,207 252,641 5,483 19,232 150,450 1 Assets minus Liabilities 264,587 264,587 (2,491) 267,078 247,479 (270,575) 43,499 1,438 6,729 113,505 62,050 1,201 1,419 45,337 14,996 Non controlling interests (19,520) (19,520) 78 (19,598) (19,598) Book value of financial investment 245,067 245,067 (2,413) 247,480 247,479 (290,173) 43,499 1,438 6,729 113,505 62,050 1,201 1,419 45,337 14,996 % held at disposal date 100.00% 59.519% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 96.84% 100.00% 100.00% 99.93% 41.33% 100.00% % disposed -22.50% % held after loss of control (Note 4) 77.50% 46.13% 77.50% 77.50% 77.50% 75.05% 77.50% 77.50% 77.45% 32.03% (*) Statement of financial position as at 31 October 2016 218 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 219 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 4. Financial investments 4.1 Investments in joint ventures The financial investments in joint ventures, the head offices, the percentage or interest held and the activities detained as at 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: unit: €k Percentage Head office interest held Book value Companies Main activity City Country 2016 2015 2016 2015 Tupi, B.V. (e) Rotterdam The 10.00% 10.00% 1,026,728 890,515 Management, construction, purchase, sale and rental of (j) Netherlands materials and equipment for exploration, development and production of hydrocarbons, including platforms, ships, FPSOs (floating production, storage, and off-loading), ships to transport crude, supply vessels and other types of vessels. Belem Bioenergia Brasil, (d) Belém Brazil 50.00% 50.00% 38,000 57,599 Production, logistics and marketing of vegetable oil, as well S.A. as any other products, byproducts and related activities, research and development in agro-industrial processes, raw materials, supplies, products, by-products and applications, production, logistics, processing and marketing of raw materials and supplies, including but not limited to bunch of fresh fruit, seeds and seedlings, generation and sale of electricity associated with its operations. C.L.C. Companhia (b) Aveiras de Portugal 65.00% 65.00% 7,045 20,157 Installation and operation of liquid and gas storage facilities, Logística de (i) Cima as well as the related transport structures, other industrial, Combustíveis, S.A. commercial and investigation activities and of services related to those activities. Galp Disa Aviacion, S.A. (f) Santa Cruz Spain 50.00% 50.00% 6,766 7,184 Service rendered of aviation oil service supply, either directly de Tenerife or through participation in companies with the same business. Parque Eólico da Penha (a) Oeiras Portugal 50.00% 50.00% 1,572 1,600 Production of electrical and wind energy. da Gardunha, Lda. Moçamgalp Agroenergias (g) Maputo Mozambique 50.00% 50.00% 712 456 The exercise of agriculture and related activities, including de Moçambique, S.A. (h) the transformation of oil seeds into vegetable oil that are raw or semi-finished materials for use in other industries, namely for the manufacture of biodiesel and sale of them nationally or internationally, consequently including their transport, as well as the rendering of any other services and technical assistance in that activity. Asa Abastecimento e (b) Lisbon Portugal 50.00% 50.00% 36 28 Service rendered of aviation oil service supply Serviços de Aviação, Lda. Caiageste Gestão de (c) Elvas Portugal 50.00% 50.00% (34) (27) Management, and operation of service areas in the Caia Áreas de Serviço, Lda. area, including any activities and services related with such establishments and installations, namely: the supply of fuel and lubricants, the commercialisation of products and articles to convenience stores and supermarkets, the management and operation of restaurants and hotel or similar units, service stations and gift and utility selling points. Galpek, Lda. (m) Lisbon Portugal 50.00% 491 Production, transportation and marketing of chemical products and other similar or derivative products, including paraxilene, benzene, refined, other aromatics and remaining subproducts; conducting studies and projects and design, construction operating and exploring production and storage facilities of the products referred in the previous paragraph; and any other industrial, comercial, and research activities, and rendering services related to the activities previously referred. Ventinveste, S.A. and (a) Lisbon Portugal 35.00% 35.00% (1,498) (1,604) Construction and operation of industrial units for the subsidiaries (j) construction and assembly of wind turbine components and construction and operation of wind farms. Parque Eólico da Serra do (j) Lisbon Portugal 35.00% Construction and operation of wind farms. Oeste, S.A. (l) Parque Eólico de (j) Lisbon Portugal 35.00% Construction and operation of wind farms. Torrinheiras, S.A. (l) Parque Eólico do Cabeço (j) Lisbon Portugal 35.00% Construction and operation of wind farms. Norte, S.A. (l) Parque Eólico de Vale (j) Lisbon Portugal 35.00% 35.00% Construction and operation of wind farms. Grande, S.A. 220 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements unit: €k Percentage Head office interest held Book value Companies Main activity City Country 2016 2015 2016 2015 Parque Eólico do Pinhal (j) Lisbon Portugal 35.00% Construction and operation of wind farms. Oeste, S.A. (l) Parque Eólico do Planalto, (j) Lisbon Portugal 35.00% Construction and operation of wind farms. S.A. (l) Âncora Wind Energia (k) Lisbon Portugal 17.00% 17.00% The production, distribution and sale of electricity using wind Eólica,S.A e subsidiárias power , through the construction and operation of wind farms and electricity transmission lines , as well as carrying out any other activity related to the use of renewable wind energy Parque Eólico do Douro (k) Lisbon Portugal 17.00% 17.00% Construction and operation of wind farms. Sul, S.A. Parque Eólico de Vale do (k) Lisbon Portugal 17.00% 17.00% Construction and operation of wind farms. Chão, S.A. Galp Gás Natural (n) Lisbon Portugal 77.50% 241,633 Management of equity investments. Distribuição, S.A. and subsidiaries Beiragás Companhia de (n) Viseu Portugal 46.19% Operation, construction and maintenance of regional natural Gás das Beiras, S.A. gas distribution networks. Dianagás Soc. Distrib. (n) Lisbon Portugal 77.50% Operation, construction and maintenance of regional natural de Gás Natural de Évora, gas distribution networks. S.A. Duriensegás Soc. (n) Vila Real Portugal 77.50% Operation, construction and maintenance of regional natural Distrib. de Gás Natural do gas distribution networks. Douro, S.A. Lisboagás GDL (n) Lisbon Portugal 77.50% Operation, construction and maintenance of regional natural Sociedade Distribuidora and other gas distribution networks. de Gás Natural de Lisboa, S.A. Lusitaniagás (n) Aveiro Portugal 75.05% Operation, construction and maintenance of regional natural Companhia de Gás do and other gas distribution networks. Centro, S.A. Medigás Soc. Distrib. de (n) Lisbon Portugal 77.50% Operation, construction and maintenance of regional natural Gás Natural do Algarve, and other gas distribution networks. S.A. Paxgás Soc. Distrib. de (n) Lisbon Portugal 77.50% Operation, construction and maintenance of regional natural Gás Natural de Beja, S.A. and other gas distribution networks. Setgás Sociedade de (n) Setúbal Portugal 77.45% Natural gas distribution in medium and low pressure, Produção e Distribuição exercised in the public interest under the rules applicable in de Gás, S.A. the geographical area of the concession, covering in particular the construction and operation of infrastructure to integrate the National Network for Natural Gas Distribution, the promotion of construction, facilities conversion or adequacy for natural gas use, but also other activities related to the main subject, including exploitation of spare capacityof telecommunications network installed. Tagusgás Empresa de (n) Santarém Portugal 32.03% Production and distribution of natural gas and other fuel Gás do Vale do Tejo, S.A. gases Book value of financial 1,321,451 975,908 investments Provisions for investments in joint (o) (1,532) (1,631) ventures (Note 25) Book value of financial investments in joint 1,322,983 977,539 ventures (a) Participation held by GDP – Gás de Portugal, SGPS, S.A. (d) Participation held by Galp Bioenergy B.V. (b) Participation held by Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. (e) Participation held by Galp Sinopec Brazil Services B.V. (c) Participation held by Galpgeste Gestão de Áreas (f) Participation held by Galp Energia España, S.A. de Serviço, S.A. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 221 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance (g) Participation held by Galp Exploração e Produção Additionally in the year ended 31 December, 2016, Petrolífera, S.G.P.S., S.A. Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. acquired, 0.08842% of the share capital of the subsidiary (h) Control over Moçamgalp Agroenergias de Beiragás Companhia de Gás das Beiras, S.A. Moçambique, S.A., is shared between: Galp for the amount of €31 k, holding from that date Exploração e Produção Petrolífera, S.G.P.S., S.A., 59.5931% of the subsidiary’s share capital. Ecomoz – Energias Alternativas Renováveis, Lda. and Petromoc S.A.RL, that held respectively 50%, (o) As of 31 December 2016 and 2015, the provision 49% and 1% of its share capital. for investments in joint ventures reflects the Group’s commitment with its joint ventures which had (i) Although the Group holds more than a 50% interest, a negative equity. the entity is classified as a joint venture since there are Shareholder agreements that provide shared control of financial and operational management of the company. (j) Although the Group holds less than 50% interest, the entity is classified as a joint venture since there are Shareholder agreements that provide shared control of financial and operational management of the company. (k) Through the joint venture company Ventiveste, S.A, and under the existing wind farm project, Galp group established a set of agreements with suppliers and financial entities for the construction of four wind farms. The project, named “Âncora”, is developed under a partnership between Ventiveste and Ferrostaal GmbH and is financed through project finance. Control of the entity Âncora Wind-Energia Eólica,S.A. is shared between Ventiveste, S.A. and Ferrostaal GmbH, which held 50% each of the share capital of the entity. (l) Subsidiary of the joint venture Ventiveste, S.A., sold to EDP Renewables, SGPS, S.A., on 28 June 2016. (m) On 3 October 2016, Galpek, Lda was established with control shared between Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. and Dak Americas Exterior SL, each with 50%. (n) On 27 October, 2016, 22.5% of the share capital of Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. was sold to Meet Europe Natural Gas, Lda, being the Company as well as its subsidiaries considered as a joint venture. 222 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements This page is intentionally left blank. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 223 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of 31 December 2016 A summary of the financial statements of the joint ventures for 31 December 2016 and 2015 is as follows: 2016 unit: €k Joint ventures financial information as at 31 December 2016 (*) Interest held and Book value Operating costs Current Non Non Net Non Current Current Current Amortization, Financial Financial Financial Financial Results from Energy sector income Comprehensive % assets-Cash Total current current Total Operating Operating Operating Financial Gains / Comprehensive Companies current assetsfinancial liabilities Equity Depreciation income costs income costs financial Income tax extraordinary for the Incomeyear for the Interest Book value and cash Assets financial liabilities liabilities income costs Other result result Losses income assets Other liabilities Other and Impairment Interests Interests Other Other investments contribution (a) held equivalents liabilities Other year losses on assets Tupi, B.V. 10,580,021 202,704 261,535 11,044,260 (776,980) (776,980) 10,267,280 1,567,044 (2,120,191) (553,147) 9,115 (18,794) (9,679) (84,981) (647,807) (308,497) 10.00% 1,026,728 (64,781) (30,850) Belem Bioenergia 107,542 (31,542) 76,000 (15,968) (85,402) 101,377 627 5,538 (28,735) (2,536) (271) 6,407 (2,105) (20,270) 197 (234) 38 (74) (85,329) (101,370) (82,658) 50.00% 38,000 (50,685) (41,329) Brasil, S.A. C.L.C. Companhia Logística de 21,856 2,354 105,405 129,615 (1,692) (20,880) (96,204) (118,776) 10,839 25,541 (7,715) (11,026) 6,800 60 (78) 4 (26) (40) (1,697) (224) 4,839 4,839 65.00% 7,045 3,145 3,145 Combustíveis, S.A. Galp Disa Aviacion, S.A. 13,452 76 6 13,534 (2) (2) 13,532 (6) 1 (5) 2,770 2,770 1 2,766 2,766 50.00% 6,766 1,383 1,383 Parque Eólico da Penha 1,037 (1,776) (739) (30) (26) (56) (56) 939 27 71 (1,722) (54) (30) (26) 50.00% 1,572 (28) (28) da Gardunha, Lda. Moçamgalp Agroenergias de 5 60 65 1,359 1,359 1,424 485 (185) 300 300 512 50.00% 712 150 256 Moçambique, S.A. Asa Abastecimento e 511 (439) 72 37 (2) 28 28 2 90 419 (439) 2,328 (2,291) (2) (7) 50.00% 36 14 14 Serviços de Aviação, Lda. Caiageste Gestão de 124 (192) (68) (68) (1) (70) (70) 61 63 (192) 974 (1,042) (1) (1) 50.00% (34) (35) (35) Áreas de Serviço, Lda. Galpek, Lda. 981 981 1 1 982 (18) (18) (18) (18) 50.00% 491 (9) (9) Ventinveste, S.A. 36,759 4,523 52 41,334 (44,239) (1,589) (26,678) (72,506) (31,172) 286 (880) (594) 230 (959) (52) 2,326 1,545 1 952 952 35.00% (1,498) 321 106 Parque Eólico da Serra (11) 2 (9) (9) 35.00% (4) (7) do Oeste, S.A.** Parque Eólico de (2) (2) (2) (2) 35.00% Torrinheiras, S.A.** Parque Eólico do (1) (5) (5) (5) (1) (5) 1 35.00% Cabeço Norte, S.A.** Parque Eólico de Vale 16,460 (18,050) (1,590) 950 (983) (26) 160 14,845 1,596 19 (16,410) (616) (883) (141) 2,432 (978) (504) 1 (911) (73) 7 35.00% Grande, S.A. Parque Eólico do (10) (24) (27) (27) (1) (9) (24) 7 35.00% Pinhal Oeste, S.A.** Parque Eólico do (4) (3) (3) (4) 1 35.00% Planalto, S.A.** Âncora Wind Energia 47 (10) 37 (55) 1 (54) (54) 2 24 21 (10) 193 (248) 1 17.00% Eólica,S.A Parque Eólico do 197,405 (149,376) 48,029 1,296 (3,345) (1,619) (3,044) 182,134 13,706 1,565 (132,249) (3,748) (8,394) (4,985) 7,697 (4,266) (2,135) (2,829) (516) 430 17.00% Douro Sul, S.A. Parque Eólico de Vale 32,279 (23,379) 8,900 3,114 (946) 1,654 1,479 25,432 6,841 6 (20,278) (587) (1,287) (1,227) 4,923 (1,195) (614) 2 (864) (84) (514) 17.00% do Chão, S.A. Galp Gás Natural 594,708 (615,180) (20,472) 539 2,943 2,550 2,536 548,050 35,865 10,793 (595,490) (4) (19,686) 4,612 (4,073) 4,523 (1,375) (134) (71) (932) 77.50% 241,633 1,908 (1,521) Distribuição, S.A. Beiragás Companhia de Gás das Beiras, 72,999 6,789 2,085 81,873 (9,553) (20,953) (2,770) (5,052) (38,328) 43,545 2,926 (424) (2,237) 265 33 (10) (16) 7 (83) (19) 170 164 46.19% S.A.*** Dianagás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural 12,272 2,320 789 15,381 (10,213) (2,283) (1,606) (14,102) 1,279 869 (178) (773) (82) 8 (84) (1) (77) 33 (3) (129) (130) 77.50% de Évora, S.A.*** Duriensegás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural 37,023 2,525 2,215 41,763 (22,505) (8,718) (3,861) (35,084) 6,679 1,841 (384) (1,239) 218 6 (184) (1) (179) (21) (10) 8 6 77.50% do Douro, S.A.*** Lisboagás GDL Sociedade Distribuidora de Gás 543,952 18,137 37,241 599,330 (267,550) (184,733) (6,186) (33,179) (491,648) 107,682 16,842 (3,187) (12,308) 1,347 367 (2,062) (29) (1,724) 2 (154) (529) (4,977) 77.50% Natural de Lisboa, S.A.*** Lusitaniagás Companhia de Gás do 287,338 17,772 774 305,884 (153,231) (69,399) (2,302) (19,640) (244,572) 61,312 11,107 (1,615) (7,516) 1,976 45 (1,231) (19) (1,205) (236) (82) 453 452 75.05% Centro, S.A.*** Medigás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural do 18,502 1,024 1,013 20,539 (14,331) (3,477) (1,377) (19,185) 1,354 936 (177) (686) 73 2 (117) (1) (116) 9 (5) (39) (40) 77.50% Algarve, S.A.*** Paxgás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural de 5,560 430 671 6,661 (4,658) (201) (639) (5,498) 1,163 276 (48) (237) (9) 1 (38) (37) 10 (2) (38) (39) 77.50% Beja, S.A.*** Setgás Sociedade de Produção e 182,710 (137,613) 45,097 808 (689) 16 52 173,680 6,171 2,859 (87,609) (41,287) (2,043) (6,674) 5,503 (907) (3,788) 71 (746) (14) (57) (46) 77.45% Distribuição de Gás, S.A.*** Tagusgás Empresa de Gás do Vale do 82,870 4,160 4,566 91,596 (20,276) (23,418) (11,616) (55,310) 36,286 4,670 232 4,902 31 (3,378) (3,347) (662) (693) 200 200 32.03% Tejo, S.A.*** 1,321,451 (108,617) (68,868) (*) Preliminary financial statements at closing date, considered by the Group for equity method application purposes. (**) In Ventinveste, S.A. subsidiaries, were considered, in the income statement, the amounts from January to May 2016. (***) In Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. subsidiaries, were considered, in the income statement, the amounts from October to December 2016. (a) Includes the amounts related to the financial statements Translation reserve 224 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 225 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2015 unit: €k Joint ventures financial information as at 31 December 2015 (*) Interest held and Book value Current Non Non Operating costs Net Non assets-Cash Current Total current current Current Current Total Operating -Amortization, Operating Operating Financial Financial Financial Financial Results from Financial Energy sector income Comprehensive % Gains / Comprehensive Companies current and cash assetsAssets financial liabilities financial liabilities liabilities Equity income Depreciation costs Other result income costs income costs financial result Income tax extraordinary for the Income for the Interest Book value Losses income assets equivalents Other liabilities Other liabilities Other and Impairment Interests Interests Other Other investments contribution year year (a) held losses on assets Tupi, B.V. 8,547,851 322,924 434,516 9,305,291 (400,141) (400,141) 8,905,150 748,862 (593,494) 155,368 1,342 (3,852) (2,510) (26,740) 126,118 836,958 10.00% 890,515 16,246 87,330 Belem Bioenergia 146,186 (30,988) 115,198 (13,802) (2,754) (16,556) (39,024) 50.00% 57,599 (8,669) (19,903) 137,482 1,844 6,860 (21,899) (183) (2,322) (6,584) 3,092 (1,401) (15,493) 6,770 (4,083) 2,140 (7,581) Brasil, S.A. C.L.C. Companhia Logística de 28,194 6,171 102,011 136,376 (2,042) (103,323) (105,365) 31,011 25,346 (7,773) (10,732) 6,841 213 (24) 3 (18) 79 253 (1,799) (284) 5,011 5,011 65.00% 20,157 3,258 3,258 Combustíveis, S.A. Galp Disa Aviacion, S.A. 13,547 820 3 14,370 (2) (2) 14,368 (6) 1 (5) 2,466 2,466 5 2,466 2,466 50.00% 7,184 1,367 1,367 Parque Eólico da Penha 1,039 (1,750) (711) 52 (52) 939 29 71 (1,722) (28) 52 (52) 50.00% 1,600 (28) (28) da Gardunha, Lda. Moçamgalp Agroenergias de 15 115 95 225 (548) 1,235 687 912 240 50.00% 456 21 141 Moçambique, S.A. Asa Abastecimento e Serviços de 235 196 431 (375) (375) 56 2,112 (2,097) 15 (1) 1 (3) 12 12 50.00% 28 5 5 Aviação, Lda. Ventinveste, S.A. 38,858 3,120 (379) 41,599 (42,943) (3,738) (15,983) (62,664) (21,065) 463 250 713 (32) (625) 32 (60) 13 (672) (9) 32 55 35.00% (1,604) (160) (152) Ventinveste Eólica, 0.00% SGPS, S.A. Parque Eólico da Serra 2,432 (2,580) (148) (26) (21) (21) 2,405 3 24 (2,044) (536) (9) (17) 5 35.00% do Oeste, S.A. Parque Eólico de 863 32 21 916 (272) (3) (618) (893) 23 (4) (1) (5) 1 (4) (4) 35.00% Torrinheiras, S.A. Parque Eólico do 638 (927) (289) (1) (13) (11) (11) 567 40 31 (416) (511) (1) (13) 3 35.00% Cabeço Norte, S.A. Parque Eólico de Vale 17,298 (19,048) (1,750) 714 (952) (129) (129) 15,865 1,024 409 (15,490) (852) (1,594) (1,112) 2,339 (978) (647) (878) (74) 109 35.00% Grande, S.A. Parque Eólico do 1,619 (3,055) (1,436) (32) (59) (72) (72) 1,161 458 (2,906) (149) (2) (30) (59) 19 35.00% Pinhal Oeste, S.A. Parque Eólico 1,318 (1,432) (114) (10) (17) (17) do Planalto, S.A. 1,307 11 (1,179) (253) (10) (7) 35.00% Âncora Wind-Energia 157 (16) 141 (61) (2) (63) (63) 53 103 1 (16) (61) (2) 17.00% Eólica,S.A Parque Eólico do 92,338 (58,316) 34,022 (399) (1) (317) (317) 81,979 9,359 1,000 (50,695) (1,944) (4) (5,673) (21) (378) 1,478 (1,479) 83 17.00% Douro Sul, S.A. Parque Eólico de Vale 25,201 2,298 40 27,539 (19,569) (365) (184) (20,118) 7,421 3 (5) (130) (132) 274 (274) 28 (104) (104) 17.00% do Chão, S.A. Caiageste Gestão de 95 (149) (54) (54) (1) (56) (56) 16 79 (149) 1,217 (1,271) (1) (1) 50.00% (27) (28) (28) Áreas de Serviço, Lda. 975,908 12,012 71,990 * Preliminary financial statements at closing date, considered by the Group for equity method application purposes. (a) Includes the amounts related to the financial statements Translation reserve. 226 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 227 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The changes in the caption “Investments in joint ventures” for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 which are reflected by the equity method were as follows: 2016 unit: €k Changes in Gains / Hedging Actuarial Initial Increase in Translation Dividends consolidation Ending Companies Losses reserves Gains and balance investment adjustment (Note 4.5) perimeter balance (Note 4.4) adjustment Losses (Note 3.2) Investments Tupi, B.V. (a) 890,515 167,063 (64,781) 33,931 1,026,728 Belem Bioenergia Brasil, S.A. (b) 57,599 21,730 (50,685) 9,356 38,000 C.L.C. Companhia Logística (c) 20,157 (13,000) 3,145 (3,257) 7,045 de Combustíveis, S.A. Galp Disa Aviacion, S.A. 7,184 1,383 (1,801) 6,766 Parque Eólico da Penha da 1,600 (28) 1,572 Gardunha, Lda. Moçamgalp Agroenergias de 456 150 106 712 Moçambique, S.A. Asa Abastecimento e 28 14 (6) 36 Serviços de Aviação, Lda. Galp Gás Natural 1,908 (3,429) 243,154 241,633 Distribuição, S.A. Galpek, Lda (e) 500 (9) 491 977,539 176,293 (108,903) 43,393 (3,429) (5,064) 243,154 1,322,983 Provisions for investments in joint ventures (Note 25) Ventinveste, S.A. (1,604) 321 (215) (1,498) Caiageste Gestão (d) (27) 28 (35) (34) de Áreas de Serviço, Lda. (1,631) 28 286 (215) (1,532) 975,908 176,321 (108,617) 43,393 (215) (3,429) (5,064) 243,154 1,321,451 2015 unit: €k Changes in Gains / Hedging Actuarial Initial Increase in Translation Dividends consolidation Ending Companies Losses reserves Gains and balance investment adjustment (Note 4.5) perimeter balance (Note 4.4) adjustment Losses (Note 3.2) Investments Tupi, B.V. (f) 591,859 211,326 16,246 71,084 890,515 Belem Bioenergia Brasil, S.A. (g) 45,838 31,664 (8,669) (11,234) 57,599 C.L.C. Companhia Logística 23,412 3,258 (6,513) 20,157 de Combustíveis, S.A. Galp Disa Aviacion, S.A. 8,891 1,367 (3,074) 7,184 Parque Eólico da Penha da 1,628 (28) 1,600 Gardunha, Lda. Moçamgalp Agroenergias 315 21 120 456 de Moçambique, S.A. Asa Abastecimento e 23 5 28 Serviços de Aviação, Lda. 671,966 242,990 12,200 59,970 (9,587) 977,539 Provisions for investments in joint ventures (Note 25) Ventinveste, S.A. (1,452) (160) 8 (1,604) Caiageste Gestão (h) (15) 16 (28) (27) de Áreas de Serviço, Lda. (1,467) 16 (188) 8 (1,631) 670,499 243,006 12,012 59,970 8 (9,587) 975,908 228 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 31 December 2016: (h) €16 k corresponds to the supplementary capital contributions made by Galpgeste Gestão de (a) €167,063 k corresponds to the capital increase made Áreas de Serviço, S.A. The control of the entity by Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V.. The control Caiageste Gestão de Áreas de Serviço, Lda. is shared of the entity Tupi, B.V. is shared between Galp Sinopec between Galpgeste Gestão de Áreas de Serviço, Brazil Services, B.V., Petrobras Netherlands, B.V. and S.A. and Gespost Gestão e Administração de Postos BG Overseas Holding Ltd, holding respectively, 10%, de Abastecimento, Unipessoal, Lda., each holding 65% and 25% of its share capital. 50% of its share capital. (b) €21,730 k corresponds to the capital increase in Belém Bioenergia Brasil, S.A. The control of the entity Belém Bioenergia do Brasil, S.A. is shared between Galp Bioenergy B.V. and Petrobras Biocombustíveis S.A., each holding 50% of its share capital. (c) €13,000 k corresponds to the decrease in the share capital of C.L.C. Companhia Logística de Combustíveis, S.A. (d) €28 k corresponds to the supplementary capital contributions made by Galpgeste Gestão de Áreas de Serviço, S.A. The control of the entity Caiageste Gestão de Áreas de Serviço, Lda. is shared between Galpgeste Gestão de Áreas de Serviço, S.A. and Gespost Gestão e Administração de Postos de Abastecimento, Unipessoal, Lda., each holding 50% of its share capital. (e) €500 k corresponds to the capital incorporation in Galpek, Lda. The control of the entity Galpek, Lda. is shared between Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. and Dak Americas Exterior SL, each holding 50% of its share capital. 31 December 2015: (f) €211,326 k corresponds to the capital increase made by Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V.. The control of the entity Tupi, B.V. is shared between Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V., Petrobras Netherlands, B.V. and BG Overseas Holding Ltd, holding respectively, 10%, 65% and 25% of its share capital. (g) €31,664 k corresponds to the capital increase in Belém Bioenergia Brasil, S.A. The control of the entity Belém Bioenergia do Brasil, S.A. is shared between Galp Bioenergy B.V. and Petrobras Biocombustíveis S.A., each holding 50% of its share capital. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 229 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 4.2 Investments in associates Investments in associates, their head offices and the percentage or interest held as of 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: unit: €k Head office Percentage interest held Book value Companies Main activity City Country 2016 2015 2016 2015 EMPL Europe-Maghreb Pipeline, Ltd (a) Madrid Spain 22.80% 22.80% 62,922 61,579 Construction and operation of the natural gas pipeline between Morocco and Spain. Gasoduto Al Andaluz, S.A. (a) Madrid Spain 33.04% 33.04% 15,120 20,706 Construction and operation of Tarifa–Córdoba gas pipeline. Gasoduto Extremadura, S.A. (a) Madrid Spain 49.00% 49.00% 11,483 17,456 Construction and operation of Córdoba-Campo Maior gas pipeline. Tagusgás Empresa de Gás do Vale do Tejo, S.A. (b) Santarem Portugal 41.33% 14,169 Production and distribution of Natural Gas and other piped combustible gases. Sonangalp Sociedade Distribuição e Comercialização Distribution and Commercialisation of liquid fuel, lubricants and other oil derivatives, operation (e) Luanda Angola 49.00% 49.00% 12,991 10,807 de Combustíveis, Lda. of service stations and automobile assistance and related services. Metragaz, S.A. (a) Tanger Morocco 22.64% 22.64% 1,425 1,347 Construction, maintenance and operation of the Europe-Maghreb gas pipeline. Angra do Terparque Armazenagem de Combustíveis, Lda. (d) Portugal 23.50% 23.50% 493 546 Construction and/or operation of storage facilities for combustibles. Heroísmo C.L.C. Guiné Bissau – Companhia Logística de Combustíveis (c) Bissau Guinea-Bissau 45.00% 45.00% 1,243 943 Management and operation of the liquid fuel storage facilities and of the Bandim Petroleum Terminal. da Guiné Bissau, Lda. Develop and operate a storage terminal for oil products, including with no limitations, hydrocarbons, IPG Galp Beira Terminal Lda. (f) Maputo Mozambique 45.00% 45.00% 459 4,094 chemicals, carbonated liquid oil and bitumen. Sodigás-Sociedade Industrial de Gases, S.A.R.L. (g) Mindelo Cape Verde 44.00% 30.00% 524 516 Production and sale of oxygen, acetylene, nitrogen and other industrial gases. Develop and operate a storage terminal for oil products, including with no limitations, hydrocarbons, Galp IPG Matola Terminal, Lda. (f) Maputo Mozambique 45.00% 45.00% 1,955 3,874 chemicals, carbonated liquid oil and bitumen. Aero Serviços, S.A.R.L. Sociedade Abastecimento Services rendered related to storage and supply of oil products to aircrafts and other related (c) Bissau Guinea-Bissau 50.00% 50.00% (57) (67) de Serviços Aeroportuários and complementary activities. Energin Sociedade de Produção de Electricidade e Calor, S.A. (h) Lisbon Portugal 35.00% 35.00% (2,416) (2,416) Co-generation and sale of electric and thermic power. Book value of financial investments 106,142 133,554 Provisions for investments in associates (Note 25) (i) (2,473) (2,483) Book value of financial investments in associates 108,615 136,037 (a) Participation held by Galp Gás Natural, S.A. (h) Participation held by GDP – Gás de Portugal, SGPS, S.A. (b) The associate has been considered as a joint venture (i) As at 31 December 2016, provision for investments in after the disposal of 22.5% of the share capital associates reflects the Group’s commitment with its of Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, SGPS, S.A. associates that had a negative equity. (c) Participation held by Petrogal Guiné-Bissau, Lda. (d) Participation held by Saaga Sociedade Açoreana de Armazenagem de Gás, S.A. (e) Participation held by Petrogal Angola, Lda. (f) Participation held by Petrogal Moçambique, Lda. (g) Participation held by Empresa Nacional de Combustíveis Enacol, S.A.R.L. 230 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 231 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Following the summary of the financial statements of the associates as at 31 December 2016 and 2015: 2016 unit: €k Associates financial information as at 31 December 2016 (*) Interest held and Book value Operating costs Current Companies Current Non current Non current Current Current Amortization, Operating Financial Financial Financial Financial Comprehensive Non current assets Cash Total Operating Operating Financial Net income % Interest * Gains / Comprehensive assets Total Assets financial liabilities financial liabilities Equity Depreciation costs income costs income costs Income tax Income for the Book value assets and cash liabilities income result result for the year held Losses income Other liabilities Other liabilities Other and Impairment Other Interests Interests Other Other year (a) equivalents losses on assets EMPL EuropeMaghreb Pipeline, 8,126 283,755 291,881 (15,906) (15,906) 213,957 310,284 (36,830) (23,670) 249,784 716 (1,832) (1,116) (72,265) 176,403 189,754 22.80% 62,922 40,220 43,264 Ltd. Gasoduto Al29,035 25,764 3,739 58,538 (12,775) (12,775) 45,762 43,012 (7,380) (9,408) 26,224 4 4 (6,557) 19,671 19,671 33.04% 15,120 6,499 6,499 Andaluz, S.A. Gasoduto 12,344 15,684 2,178 30,206 (6,772) (6,772) 23,433 27,824 (3,303) (6,111) 18,410 3 3 (4,603) 13,810 13,810 49.00% 11,483 6,767 6,767 Extremadura, S.A. Tagusgás Empresa de Gás do 82,870 4,160 4,566 91,596 (20,276) (23,418) (11,616) (55,310) 36,287 4,670 232 4,902 31 (1,680) (1,649) (662) 1,898 2,000 0.00% 785 827 Vale do Tejo, S.A. Sonangalp Sociedade Distribuição e 21,778 28,050 5,280 55,108 (678) (6,821) (21,099) (28,598) 26,510 193,864 (1,701) (178,505) 15,894 874 (868) 6 (5,444) 10,456 4,458 49.00% 12,991 5,123 2,184 Comercialização de Combustíveis, Lda. Metragaz, S.A. 1,612 1,879 9,025 12,516 (159) (6,062) (6,221) 6,296 18,209 (451) (16,177) 1,581 17 146 (131) 32 1,613 1,794 22.64% 1,425 365 406 Terparque Armazenagem de 6,968 2,642 2,445 12,055 (8,067) (1,892) (9,959) 2,097 2,709 (1,436) (1,191) 235 2 (34) (32) 74 277 277 23.50% 493 65 65 Combustíveis, Lda. C.L.C. Guiné-Bissau – Companhia Logística de 2,206 1,264 275 3,745 (982) (982) 2,763 1,622 (376) (283) 963 (73) (73) (223) 667 667 45.00% 1,243 300 300 Combustíveis da Guiné-Bissau, Lda. IPG Galp Beira 11,887 2,347 1,946 16,180 (6,518) (8,642) (15,160) 1,021 (1) (207) (208) 1,186 (7,058) (5,872) (6,080) (8,077) 45.00% 459 (2,736) (3,635) Terminal, Lda. Sodigás Sociedade Industrial de Gases, 325 409 532 1,266 (76) (76) 1,190 325 (55) (277) (7) 17 17 (12) (2) (2) 44.00% 524 (1) (1) S.A.R.L. Galp IPG Matola 7,099 37 7,252 14,388 (7,817) (2,226) (10,043) 4,344 (1) (53) (54) 712 (2,506) (1,794) 110 (1,738) (4,265) 45.00% 1,955 (782) (1,919) Terminal, Lda. Aero Serviços, S.A.R.L. Sociedade Abastecimento 8 12 873 893 (1,007) (1,007) (118) 136 (3) (104) 29 (6) (6) (3) 20 20 50.00% (57) 10 10 de Serviços Aeroportuários Energin Sociedade de Produção de 298 523 464 1,285 (2,115) (661) (5,411) (8,187) (6,902) 62 66 128 2 (129) (127) 1 1 35.00% (2,416) Electricidade e Calor, S.A. 106,142 56,615 54,767 * Preliminary financial statements at closing date, considered by the Group for equity method application purposes. (a) Includes the amounts related to the financial statements Translation reserve. 232 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 233 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The changes in the caption “Investments in associates” for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 2015 unit: €k Associates financial information as at 31 December 2015 (*) Interest held and Book value Operating costs Current Companies Current Non current Non current Current Current Amortization, Operating Financial Financial Financial Financial Comprehensive Non current assets Cash Total Total Operating Operating Financial Income Net income % Interest Gains / Comprehensive assets financial liabilities financial liabilities Equity Depreciation costs income costs income costs Income for the Book value assets and cash Assets Liabilities income result result tax for the year held Losses income Other liabilities Other liabilities Other and Impairment Other Interests Interests Other Other year (a) equivalents losses on assets EMPL EuropeMaghreb Pipeline, 6,786 277,775 284,561 (14,477) (14,477) 270,084 297,463 (35,801) (20,991) 240,671 261 (238) 23 (9) 240,685 244,724 22.80% 61,579 54,876 55,797 Ltd. Gasoduto Al 36,743 28,176 3,765 68,684 (6,015) (6,015) 62,669 42,599 (7,380) (9,041) 26,178 12 12 (7,333) 18,857 18,857 33.04% 20,706 6,208 6,208 Andaluz, S.A. Gasoduto 15,804 20,489 2,323 38,616 (2,991) (2,991) 35,625 26,833 (3,303) (6,014) 17,516 10 10 (4,907) 12,619 12,619 49.00% 17,456 6,143 6,143 Extremadura, S.A. Tagusgás Empresa de Gás do 83,506 5,611 4,814 93,931 (20,226) (24,378) (4,650) (10,395) (59,649) 34,282 2,802 2,802 2,802 2,929 41.33% 14,169 1,175 1,228 Vale do Tejo, S.A. Sonangalp Sociedade Distribuição e 33,103 14,319 5,566 52,988 (1,583) (10,268) (19,082) (30,933) 22,055 185,368 (3,067) (178,892) 4,840 131 (449) 1,086 (573) 195 (1,876) 3,159 (1,694) 49.00% 10,807 2,310 (68) Comercialização de Combustíveis, Lda. Metragaz. S.A. 1,934 1,855 7,988 11,777 (61) (5,767) (5,828) 5,949 15,238 (381) (13,498) 1,359 18 134 (151) 1 1,360 1,532 22.64% 1,347 307 346 Terparque Armazenagem de 8,535 2,919 1,928 13,382 (8,067) (985) (2,005) (11,057) 2,325 2,725 (1,779) (1,124) (32) 16 (48) (32) 4 (241) (241) 23.50% 546 (61) (61) Combustíveis, Lda. C.L.C. GuinéBissau – Companhia 2,524 419 361 3,304 (809) (399) (1,208) 2,096 1,109 (369) (280) 493 (86) (15) (101) (98) 294 294 45.00% 943 132 132 Logística de Combustíveis da Guiné-Bissau, Lda. IPG Galp Beira 11,530 2,246 1,681 15,457 (6,359) (6,359) 7,449 (2) 4 2 812 (813) (1) 1 (450) 45.00% 4,094 (203) Terminal, Lda. SodigásSociedade 376 481 578 1,435 (441) (441) 994 558 (44) (507) 7 14 5 (1) 18 (41) (16) (16) 30.00% 516 242 242 Industrial de Gases, S.A.R.L Galp IPG Matola 6,735 1,064 1,065 8,864 (255) (255) 8,609 (2) 4 2 459 (460) (1) (304) 45.00% 3,874 (137) Terminal, Lda. Aero Serviços. S.A.R.L. Sociedade 6 13 904 923 (2) (1,055) (1,057) (134) 150 (10) (84) 62 (1) (1) (15) 46 46 50.00% (67) 23 23 Abastecimento de Serviços Aeroportuários Energin Sociedade de Produção de 298 523 464 1,285 (2,115) (661) (5,411) (8,187) (6,902) 62 9 71 2 (129) (127) (56) (56) 35.00% (2,416) (19) (19) Electricidade e Calor, S.A. 133,554 71,336 69,631 * Preliminary financial statements at closing date, considered by the Group for equity method application purposes. 234 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 235 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2016 unit: €k Changes in Increase in Gains/Losses Translation Hedging reserves Actuarial gains Dividends Transfers/ Companies Initial balance the consolidation Ending balance investment (Note 4.4) adjustment adjustment and losses (Note 4.5) Adjustments perimeter (Note 3.2) Investments EMPL Europe-Maghreb Pipeline, Ltd. 61,579 40,220 3,044 (41,921) 62,922 Gasoduto Al Andaluz, S.A. (a) 20,706 (2,242) 6,499 (9,843) 15,120 Gasoduto Extremadura, S.A. (a) 17,456 (2,691) 6,767 (10,049) 11,483 Tagusgás Empresa de Gás do Vale do Tejo, S.A. (b) 14,169 785 42 (14,996) Sonangalp Sociedade Distribuição e Comercialização de 10,807 5,123 (2,939) 12,991 Combustíveis, Lda. Metragaz, S.A. 1,347 365 41 (328) 1,425 Terparque Armazenagem de Combustíveis, Lda. 546 65 (118) 493 C.L.C. Guiné-Bissau Companhia Logística de Combustíveis da 943 300 1,243 Guiné-Bissau, Lda. IPG Galp Beira Terminal, Lda. 4,094 (2,736) (899) 459 Sodigás Sociedade Industrial de Gases, S.A.R.L 516 4 (1) (65) 70 524 Galp IPG Matola Terminal, Lda. 3,874 (782) (1,137) 1,955 136,037 (4,929) 56,605 (1,890) 42 (62,324) 70 (14,996) 108,615 Provision for investment in associates (Note 25) Energin Sociedade de Produção de Electricidade e Calor, S.A. (2,416) (2,416) Aero Serviços, S.A.R.L. Sociedade Abastecimento de Serviços (67) 10 (57) Aeroportuários (2,483) 10 (2,473) 133,554 (4,929) 56,615 (1,890) 42 (62,324) 70 (14,996) 106,142 2015 unit: €k Changes in Gains/Losses Translation Hedging reserves Actuarial gains Dividends Transfers/ Companies Initial balance Initial balance the consolidation Ending balance (Note 4.4) adjustment adjustment and losses (Note 4.5) Adjustments perimeter Investments EMPL Europe-Maghreb Pipeline, Ltd. 52,668 54,876 921 (46,886) 61,579 Gasoduto Al Andaluz, S.A. 18,354 6,208 (3,856) 20,706 Gasoduto Extremadura, S.A. 15,278 6,143 (3,965) 17,456 Tagusgás Empresa de Gás do Vale do Tejo, S.A. 12,941 1,175 50 3 14,169 Sonangalp Sociedade Distribuição e Comercialização 10,875 2,310 (2,378) 10,807 de Combustíveis, Lda. Metragaz, S.A. 1,124 307 39 (123) 1,347 Terparque Armazenagem de Combustíveis, Lda. 795 (61) (188) 546 C.L.C. Guiné Bissau Companhia Logística de Combustíveis 811 132 943 da Guiné Bissau, Lda. IPG Galp Beira Terminal, Lda. c) 1,011 3,286 (203) 4,094 Sodigás-Sociedade Industrial de Gases, S.A.R.L. 197 112 242 (35) 516 Galp IPG Matola Terminal, Lda. c) 682 3,329 (137) 3,874 114,736 6,727 71,332 (1,758) 50 3 (55,053) 136,037 Provision for investment in associates (Note 25) Energin Sociedade de Produção de Electricidade e Calor, S.A. (2,397) (19) (2,416) Aero Serviços, S.A.R.L. Sociedade Abastecimento de Serviços (90) 23 (67) Aeroportuários (2,487) 4 (2,483) 112,249 6,727 71,336 (1,758) 50 3 (55,053) 133,554 236 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 237 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 31 December 2016: (a) The amounts of €2,242 k and €2,691 k presented under Increase in investment correspond to decreases in share capital executed by the subsidiaries Gasoduto Al-Andaluz, S.A. and Gasoduto Extremadura, S.A. (b) Following the disposal of 22.5%, the subsidiary GGND ceased to fully consolidated in the Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. Group, and the entities that comprise this SubGroup are presented as jointly controlled entities. The amount of €14,996 k presented in changes in consolidation perimeter correspond to the amount of the financial investment at the disposal date (Note 3.1 d) and 3.2). 31 December 2015: (c) The amounts €3,286 k and €3,329 k presented under Increase on investment correspond to supplementary capital contributions made by the subsidiary Petrogal Moçambique, Lda. The positive Goodwill related with associates and joint ventures, included in the caption “Investments in associates and joint ventures”, was subject to an impairment test, by cash generating unit, detailed as follows as at 31 December 2016 and 31 December de 2015: unit: €k December 2016 December 2015 Goodwill Parque Eólico da Penha da Gardunha, Lda. 1,939 1,939 Fair value (Note 3.1 d) Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. 53,227 55,166 1,939 238 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 4.3 Financial assets held for sale The financial investments in affiliates, presented in the Statement of financial position as Financial assets held for sale, its head offices and the percentage or interest held as of 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: unit: €k Head office Percentage interest held Book value Company City Country 2016 2015 2016 2015 Corporación de Reservas Estratégicas Madrid Spain n.d. n.d. 1,808 1,808 de Productos Petrolíferos Portugal Ventures Oporto Portugal 1.25% 1.25% 499 505 Adene Agência para a Energia, S.A. Amadora Portugal 10.98% 10.98% 114 114 Omegás Soc. D'Étude du Gazoduc Tanger Morocco 5.00% 5.00% 35 35 Europe-Maghreb Clube Financeiro de Vigo Vigo Spain 19 19 P.I.M. Parque Industrial da Matola, Maputo Mozambique 1.50% 1.50% 16 13 S.A.R.L. ADEPORTO Agência de Energia Oporto Portugal 13 13 do Porto Imopetro Importadora Moçambicana Maputo Mozambique 15.38% 15.38% 5 8 de Petróleos, Lda. OIL Insurance, Limited Hamilton Bermuda 1.00% 1.00% 9 9 MIBG Mercado Ibérico de Gás Madrid Spain 1.76% 53 ISPG Instituto do Petróleo e Gás Lisbon Portugal 76.67% 230 Other affiliated companies n.d. n.d. 2 28 2,803 2,552 Impairment in financial investments available for sale Portugal Ventures Oporto Portugal 1.82% 1.82% (52) (52) Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. Maputo Mozambique 1.50% 1.50% (16) (13) (68) (65) 2,735 2,487 ISPG is a non-profit association, established by Galp, Universidade de Aveiro, Universidade de Coimbra, Universidade do Minho, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Universidade do Porto, Instituto Superior Técnico and Faculdade de Ciências da Universidade de Lisboa. ISPG’s mission is to gather and centralise knowledge and promote the development, transmission and diffusion of science and technology applied to the activities in the energy sector, especially oil and gas. The activities carried out aim at enhancing the competitiveness of the energy industries, in particular through the advanced training of relevant technical staff, a network of cooperation between enterprises, higher education institutions and other public and private R&D and industrial innovation entities. On 29 November, 2016, Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. subscribed and realised €230 k in participating units (PU’s) in ISPG. (230 PU’s). Additionally, in the year ended 31 December, 2016 Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. sold to Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. 30 PU’s. Galp Energia SGPS maintains its Founding Member status and holds 200 PU’s and Petrogal holds 30 PU’s (of the total 300 which represent ISPG share capital, while the remaining are owned by the universities). Annual Report and Accounts 2016 239 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 4.4 Results from financial investments The caption “Income from financial investments and impairment losses on Goodwill”, presented in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 is comprised as follows: unit: €k December 2016 December 2015 Effect of applying the equity method: Associates (Note 4.2) 56,615 71,336 Joint ventures (Note 4.1) (108,617) 12,012 Effect of the disposal of investments in group companies and associates: Gain in disposal of 22.5% of the interest held in Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. 131,561 (Note 3 and 4.1) Loss in disposal of 100% of the interest held in Madrileña Suministro de Gas S.L. (12,914) Gain in disposal of 100% of the interest held in Madrileña Suministro de Gas SUR S.L. 319 Effect of the price adjustment of the disposal of investments in group companies and associates: Acquisition cost adjustment related to the financial interest held in Madrileña Suministro 884 de Gas S.L. for the year ended 31 December 2015 Acquisition cost adjustment related to the financial interest held in Madrileña Suministro (675) de Gas SUR S.L. for the year ended 31 December 2015 Gain on disposal of the financial investment held in Compañia Logística de Hidrocarburos 2 CLH, S.A. Effect of the disposal of Assets held for sale/affiliate entities: Gain on disposal of the investment held in Ressa Red Española de Servicios, S.A. 584 (Note 4.3) Differences related to acquisition of interests in Group companies/Associates : Acquisition of 0.01473% of financial interest in Beiragás Companhia de Gás das Beiras, S.A. (1) Effect of the liquidation of group companies: Liquidation of the subsidiary Next Priority, SGPS, S.A. (1) Write off of exchange differences that resulted from the financial statements translation of the subsidiary Galp Energia Tarfaya, B.V., which were booked in Equity in the caption (13,712) Other Reserves Effect of Goodwill impairments of group companies: Goodwill Impairment of the subsidiary Galp Distribuicíon Oil España, SAU, which is (11,092) (8,541) recorded in the caption Goodwill (Note 11) Goodwill Impairment of the subsidiary Galp Comercializacíon España, SL, which is recorded (37,725) (35,731) in the caption Goodwill (Note 11) Goodwill Impairment of the subsidiary Petróleos de Valencia, S.A., Sociedad Unipersonal (7,759) which is recorded in the caption Goodwill (Note 11) Other 1 17,238 19,308 240 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 4.5 Dividends from financial investments 4.6 Joint operations 31 December 2016: 4.6.1. Joint operations – Oil Consortium The caption “Investments in associates and joint ventures” Joint operations are subject to joint agreements designated (Note 4.1 and 4.2) includes the total amount of €67,388 k as JOA (Joint Operating Agreement). These JOA establish related to dividends corresponding to amounts approved the joint decisions between the partners of the oil consortia. in the General meetings of the respective companies. The In addition to the JOA’s, Production Sharing Agreements dividends received in the year ended 31 December 2016 may exist, which are primarily used to determine the amounted to €70,115 k. share of oil production in a given area that is for the consortium. In PSAs, the national oil company pays the The difference between the amount received and the execution, by the international oil company (contractor), amount recognised in the caption “Investments in of the exploration and production activity. The contractor associates and joint ventures” of €2,727 k is related to: takes the mineral and financial risk of the initiative and, i) €106 k of negative exchange differences occurring in if successful, recovers the cost of capital spent and the payment date which were reflected in the caption costs incurred in the year (cost oil) through the share of “Exchange gains (losses)”, in the income statement; and (ii) production. In Angola, the fluctuation in international oil €2,621 k of dividends received from Assets available for sale. prices also affects the production share (net entitlement) by which the contractor has the right to remunerate their 31 December 2015: invested capital (profit oil) after incurred costs are paid by cost oil. Thus, the investment and the stock are recognised An amount of €64,640 k was reflected in the caption in the share of the assets, while sales and costs are Investments in associates and joint ventures (Note 4.1 recognised in the Income Statement. and 4.2) relating to dividends corresponding to the amounts approved by the General Shareholders Meeting The profit oil is a form of remuneration of the State specific of the respective companies. The dividends received in the for the production sharing contracts in Angola. The profit year ended 31 December 2015 amounted to €72,901 k. oil represents the difference between (i) the amount of oil produced and collected from each development area The difference between the amount received and the and not used in oil operations, and (ii) the oil for the cost amount recognised in the caption Investments in associates recovery (cost oil) in the same development area. Annual and joint ventures of €8,261 k corresponds to: i) €5,269k audits are performed by independent auditors on the relating to unfavourable foreign exchange differences that accounts submitted by the consortium, in which it is occured at the time of payment and that were reflected assessed the acceptance of these costs, which gives rise in the caption Exchange gains/(losses), in the income to adjustments for excess or insufficiency in profit oil. statement; (ii) €482 k relating to dividends received relating to amounts approved by the General Shareholders Meeting in previous years; and (iii) €2,510 k relating to dividends received by Assets held for sale. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 241 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Joint Operations, by geographic area and percentage held as at 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 2016 Country Consortium Acquisition date Participating companies and participation interest BM-S-8 Statoil (66%); Petrogal Brasil (14%); Barra Energia (10%); Queiroz Galvão (10%) September/2000 BM-S-11 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (65%); BG E&P Brasil S.A. (25%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (10%) BM-S-24 August/2001 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) BT-POT-29 Petrogal Brasil, S.A. (50%); Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%) BT-POT-32 November/2004 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (50%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (50%) BT-POT-51 January/2006 Petrogal Brasil, S.A. (50%); Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%) BT-SEAL-13 January/2006 Petrogal Brasil, S.A. (50%); Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%) BM-POT-17 January/2006 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) BM-POT-16 January/2006 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (60%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%); Encana Brasil S.A. (20%) PEPB-M-783 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) Brazil March/2008 PEPB-M-839 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) BAR-300 Shell BG (50%); Petrobras (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) BAR-342 Shell BG (50%); Petrobras (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) BAR-344 Shell BG (50%); Petrobras (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) BAR-388 Shell BG (50%); Petrobras (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) PN-T-136 August/2013 Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%); Petrobras (50%) PN-T-150 Petrobras (50%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%) PN-T-166 Petrobras (50%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%) PN-T-182 Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%); Petrobras (50%) POT-M-764 Petrobras (40%); BP (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (20%) Galp (9%); CABGOG (31%); Sonangol (20%); Eni (20%); Block 14 December/1999 Angola Bloco 14, B.V. (20%) Galp (4.5%); Chevron Overseas Congo Ltd (15.75%); CABGOG (15.5%); Sonangol (10%); Block 14K December/2002 Angola SNPC (7.5%); TFE (10%); TEPC (26.75%); Eni (10%) Block 32 May/2007 Galp (5%); Total (30%); Sonangol (30%); SSI Limited (20%); Esso (15%) Block 33 May/2007 Galp (5.33%); Total (58.67%); Sonangol (20%); Falcon (16%) Sonagas May/2007 Galp (10%); Sonagas (40%); Eni (20%); Gas Natural (20%); EXEM (10%) Mozambique Area 4 December/2007 Galp (10%); KOGAS (10%); Eni (70%); ENH (10%) East Timor Block (E) S06-04 December/2007 Galp (10%); KOGAS (10%); Eni (80%) PEL23 PEL24 2013 Galp (14%); HRT (86%) Namibia PEL28 PEL82 August/2016 Galp (80%); TPY (10%); NAMCOR (10%) PEL83 Peniche basin May/2014 Galp (30%); Repsol (34%); Kosmos (31%); Partex (5%) Portugal Alentejo basin December/2014 Galp (50%); Eni (50%) Aljubarrota 2012 Galp (50%); Porto Energy (50%) Area 3 Uruguay 2009 Galp (20%); Shell (40%); YPF (40%) Area 4 Block 6 2015 Galp (45%); Kosmos Energy (45%); ANP-STP (10%) Sao Tome Block 5 2016 Galp (20%); Kosmos Energy (45%); ANP-STP (15%); Equator (20%) and Principe Block 11 2016 Galp (20%); Kosmos Energy (65%); ANP-STP (15%) Block 12 2016 Galp (20%); Kosmos Energy (45%); ANP-STP (12.5%); Equator (22.5%) 242 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2015 Country Consortium Acquisition date Participating companies and participation interest Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (66%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (14%); Barra Energia (10%); BM-S-8 September/2000 Queiroz Galvão (10%) BM-S-11 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (65%); BG E&P Brasil S.A. (25%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (10%) BM-S-24 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) BT-POT-28 November/2004 Petrogal Brasil, S.A. (50%); Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%) BT-POT-29 Petrogal Brasil, S.A. (50%); Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%) BT-POT-32 November/2004 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (50%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (50%) BT-POT-36 November/2004 Petrogal Brasil, S.A. (50%); Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%) BT-POT-51 January/2006 Petrogal Brasil, S.A. (50%); Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%) BT-SEAL-13 January/2006 Petrogal Brasil, S.A. (50%); Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%) BM-POT-17 January/2006 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) BM-POT-16 January/2006 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (60%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%); Encana Brasil S.A. (20%) Brazil PEPB-M-783 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) March/2008 PEPB-M-839 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) AM-T-84 April/2009 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (60%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (40%) BAR-300 BG (50%); Petrobras (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) BAR-342 BG (50%); Petrobras (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) BAR-344 BG (50%); Petrobras (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) BAR-388 BG (50%); Petrobras (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) PN-T-136 August/2013 Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%); Petrobras (50%) PN-T-150 Petrobras (50%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%) PN-T-166 Petrobras (50%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%) PN-T-182 Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%); Petrobras (50%) POT-M-764 Petrobras (40%); BP (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (20%) Galp (9%); CABGOG (31%); Sonangol (20%); Eni (20%); Block 14 December/1999 Angola Bloco 14, B.V. (20%) Galp (4.5%); Chevron Overseas Congo Ltd (15.75%); CABGOG (15.5%); Sonangol (10%); Block 14K December/2002 Angola SNPC (7.5%); TFE (10%); TEPC (26.75%); Eni (10%) Block 32 May/2007 Galp (5%); Total (30%); Sonangol (30%); SSI Limited (20%); Esso (15%) Block 33 May/2007 Galp (5.33%); Total (58.67%); Sonangol (20%); Falcon (16%) Sonagas December/2007 Galp (10%); Sonagas (40%); Eni (20%); Gas Natural (20%); EXEM (10%) Mozambique Area 4 December/2007 Galp (10%); KOGAS (10%); Eni (70%); ENH (10%) East Timor Block (E) S06-04 December/2007 Galp (10%); KOGAS (10%); Eni (80%) Morocco Tarfaya Offshore 1 December/2012 Galp (50%); ONHYM (25%); Tangiers (25%) PEL23 Namibia PEL24 2013 Galp (14%); HRT (86%) PEL28 Peniche basin May/2014 Galp (30%); Repsol (34%); Kosmos (31%); Partex (5%) Portugal Alentejo basin December/2014 Galp (50%); Eni (50%) Aljubarrota 2012 Galp (50%); Porto Energy (50%) Uruguay Area 3 2009 Galp (20%); Petrobras (40%); YPF (40%) Area 4 Sao Tome Block 6 2015 Galp (45%); KOSMOS (45%); ANP-STP (10%) and Principe Annual Report and Accounts 2016 243 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Main impacts during the year ended 31 December, 2016: a) Brazil The non operated block AM-T-84 proved to be uneconomic, for which reason the Group proceeded to its write-off and returned the area to ANP: AM-T-84 April/2009 Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (60%); Petrogal Brasil, S.A. (40%) The Group sold the Andorinha Field (BT-POT-28 and BT-POT-36), being its assets totally depreciated: BT-POT-28 November/2004 Petrogal Brasil, S.A. (50%); Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. (50%) BT-POT-36 b) Namibia On 11 August, 2016, two new licenses were acquired to operate in Namibia and the consortium works with two local entities: PEL82 Blocks 2112B e 2112 August/2016 GALP (80%); TPY (10%); NAMCOR (10%) PEL83 Blocks 2813B e 2814 c) Morocco The company Galp Energia Tarfaya operating in the Tarfaya Offshore area was liquidated on December 21, 2016 (note 3.1 c1): Tarfaya December/2012 Galp (50%); ONHYM (25%); Tangiers (25%) Offshore 1 d) Sao Tome and Principe The Galp group reached an agreement with Kosmos Energy (Kosmos) to acquire a 20% stake in blocks 5, 11 and 12, in the Sao Tome and Principe offshore. Through this acquisition, Galp reinforces its presence in the country, where it has held, since 2015, the operation in block 6, in which Kosmos also participates. Block 5 Galp (20%); Kosmos Energy (45%); ANP-STP (15%); Equator (20%) Block 11 2016 Galp (20%); Kosmos Energy (65%); ANP-STP (15%) Block 12 Galp (20%); Kosmos Energy (45%); ANP-STP (12,5%); Equator (22,5%) 244 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 4.6.2. Joint Operations – Jointly controlled entities Joint ventures in jointly controlled entities, its head office, main activities and interest held as of 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Interest held Head office Participating companies Companies by the Group Main activity and participation interest City Country 2016 2015 Design and construction Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, of underground LPG storage Sigás S.A. (60%); and of the additional surface Armazenagem Sines Portugal 60% 60% facilities needed to move products. Rubis Energia Portugal, S.A. (35%); de Gás, A.C.E. Management and exploration of the Repsol Polímeros, S.A. (5%) cave including surface facilities, tanks and LPG spheres. Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, Executing the operation and Pergás S.A. (51%); maintenance of the Perafita Park, Armazenamento ensuring the development of the Matosinhos Portugal 51% Rubis Energia Portugal, S.A. de Gás, A.C.E. import, reception, storage, filling (30,75%); (Note 3.1 a) and expedition activities of GPL Repsol Gás Portugal, S.A. (18,25%) by the respective members. Galp Energia España, S.A. (50%); Multiservicios Galp Managing the supply of aviation Barcelona Spain 50% 50% Multiservicios Aeroportuarios, S.A. Barcelona business in the Barcelona Airport. (50%) Annual Report and Accounts 2016 245 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 5. Operating income The detail of the caption “Sales of goods and products”, by type of product is as follows: The Group’s operating income for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 is as follows: unit: €k Detail of sale per type December December unit: €k of product 2016 2015 Captions 2016 2015 Crude 658,743 749,966 Sales: Gasoline 2,123,655 2,196,672 Goods 5,134,354 6,721,787 (a) Diesel 5,553,054 6,127,811 Products 7,362,517 8,147,520 (a) Jet fuel 715,284 832,274 Exchange differences (8,929) (35) (a) Fuel 516,093 657,172 12,487,942 14,869,272 (a) LPG 352,018 350,764 Services rendered 631,278 632,920 Base oil and lubricants 128,966 136,141 Exchange differences 36 1,561 (a) Chemicals, solvents 181,274 255,970 and aromatics 631,314 634,481 (a) Naphthas 277,951 472,066 Other operating income: Natural gas 1,550,175 2,268,858 Supplementary income 83,058 49,080 Electricity 236,878 277,568 Revenues arising from the construction of assets under 15,904 19,827 Store products 104,892 100,758 IFRIC12 Oil products 81,511 413,058 Operational government grants 217 305 Others 7,448 30,194 (a) Investment government grants 8,414 12,618 Total sales 12,487,942 14,869,272 (Note 13) Gains on fixed and intangible 5,303 8,527 (a) These amounts were restated considering the changes in the accounting classification assets referred in Note 2.26. Exchange differences (34) 1,012 (a) The variation presented in the caption “Sales” relates Others 8,474 9,824 primarily to a reduction in sales prices, while the quantities sold increased when compared to the previous year. 121,336 101,193 (a) 13,240,592 15,604,946 (a) The caption “Sales and Services” rendered includes the negative amount of €13,732 k related to the marketing, (a) These amounts were restated considering the changes in the accounting classification referred in Note 2.26. distribution and storage of natural gas activities as a result of (Note 14): Fuel sales include the ISP. • negative €1,710 k concerning the adjustment of the estimated regulated revenues and the value of the invoiced income in relation to distribution, marketing and storage activities (Note 14); • negative €2,351 k concerning the adjustment made by ERSE in the fixation of the tariff deviations – regulated revenue of the Companies (Note 14); • negative €7,748 k concerning the corresponding regulated revenue amortisation for 2013 (Note 14); • negative €1,923 k concerning the corresponding regulated revenue amortisation for 2014 (Note 14). 246 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Regarding the construction contracts under IFRIC12, the construction of the concession assets is subcontracted to specialised entities which assume their own construction risk. Income and expenses associated with the construction of these assets are of equal amounts and are immaterial when compared to total revenues and operating costs and can be detailed as follows: unit: €k Captions 2016 2015 Costs arising from the construction (15,904) (19,827) of assets under IFRIC12 (Note 6) Revenues arising from the 15,904 19,827 construction of assets under IFRIC12 Margin Annual Report and Accounts 2016 247 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 6. Operating costs The results for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 were affected by the following items of operating costs: unit: €k Captions 2016 2015 Cost of sales: Raw and subsidiary materials 4,529,693 6,059,056 (a) Goods 3,045,970 4,067,561 Tax on Oil Products 2,779,945 2,598,385 Variation in production (269,379) 67,908 Impairment in inventories (Note 16) (16,020) (85,080) Financial derivatives (Note 27) 47,778 59,272 Exchange differences 17,533 26,095 (a) 10,135,520 12,793,197 (a) External supplies and services: Subcontracts network use 385,125 382,849 Subcontracts 5,807 8,176 Transport of goods 119,894 123,484 (a) Storage and filling 51,458 56,776 Rental costs 97,667 84,986 Blocks production costs 177,732 139,495 Maintenance and repairs 51,881 52,523 Insurance 55,451 47,197 Royalties 70,881 49,950 IT services 29,841 25,339 Commissions 10,522 13,027 Advertising 13,323 11,571 Electricity, water, steam and communications 55,952 62,675 Technical assistance and inspection 3,725 7,844 Port services and fees 8,633 9,100 Other specialised services 75,244 67,571 Other external supplies and services 23,805 25,066 Exchange differences (6,185) 1,363 (a) Other costs 53,744 58,925 (a) 1,284,500 1,227,917 (a) Employee costs: Statutory board salaries (Note 29) 5,627 9,480 Employee salaries 232,939 240,996 Social charges 54,022 53,855 Retirement benefits pensions and insurance 29,257 35,369 Other insurances 9,041 8,895 Capitalisation of employee costs (5,967) (12,228) Exchange differences (422) 192 (a) Other costs 9,351 6,939 (a) 333,848 343,498 (a) Amortisation, depreciation and impairment: Amortisation and impairment of tangible assets (Note 12) 769,670 634,826 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (Note 12) 30,873 43,598 Amortisation and impairment of concession arrangements (Note 12) 34,315 41,211 834,858 719,635 248 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements unit: €k Captions 2016 2015 Provision and impairment losses on receivables: Provisions and reversals (Note 25) (11,897) 16,232 Impairment losses on trade receivables (Note 15) 20,938 13,467 Provisions and reversals for environmental charges (Note 25) 1,475 450 Impairment losses (gains) on other receivables (Note 14) 269 976 10,785 31,125 Other operating costs: Other taxes 19,525 15,146 Costs arising from the construction of assets under IFRIC12 (Note 5) 15,904 19,827 Loss on tangible and intangible assets 2,441 6,236 Donations 1,544 1,692 CO2 Licenses (Note 35) 7,561 7,597 Exchange differences (16) 2,863 (a) Other operating costs 50,581 12,989 (a) 97,540 66,350 (a) 12,697,051 15,181,722 (a) (a) These amounts were restated considering the changes in the accounting classification referred in Note 2.26. The variation in the caption “Cost of sales” is mainly related to the Galp share valued at the reference price of the oil with a reduction in the prices of purchased products. or gas (the highest of the ANP’s minimum selling price and the contracted sales price). The caption “Subcontracts – network use” refers to charges for the use of: 7. Segment reporting • distribution network use (URD); • dransportation network use (URT); Business segments • global system use (UGS). The Group is organized into three business segments which have been defined based on the type of products sold and The subcontracts heading includes the effect of services rendered, by the following business units: regulated tariffs for the UGS and the URT, charged by the transportation system operator (REN) to the Distribution • Exploration & Production; Operators who, in turn, through the compensation • Refining & Marketing of oil products; mechanism of the network access, by the uniform tariff, bill (pass-through) to trading companies (Note 14). • Gas & Power; • Others. The amount of €385,125 k recorded under this caption mainly includes the amount of €6,443 k charged by For the business segment “Others”, the Group considered the Madrileña Red de Gas, €170,939 k charged by EDP holding company Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A., and companies Distribuição Energia and €78,707 k charged by Ren with different activities including Tagus Re, S.A. and Galp Gasodutos. Energia, S.A., a reinsurance company and a provider of shared services at the corporate level, respectively. The amount of €70,881 k of royalties presented in “External supplies and services” mainly relates to the Exploration Note 1 presents a description of the activities of each and Production of oil and gas in Brazil. business segment. Royalties are calculated taking into account an applicable rate of 10% for the production volumes in proportion Annual Report and Accounts 2016 249 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The financial information for the previously identified segments, as of 30 December 2016 and 2015 is presented as follows: unit: €k Exploration & Production Refining & Marketing Gas & Power Other Eliminations Consolidated 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Income Sales and services rendered 852,114 617,444 10,517,874 12,097,377 2,437,331 3,230,405 124,406 123,597 (812,469) (565,070) 13,119,256 15,503,753 Inter-segmental 555,512 251,214 1,638 1,880 157,459 213,867 97,860 98,109 (812,469) (565,070) External 296,602 366,230 10,516,236 12,095,497 2,279,872 3,016,538 26,546 25,488 13,119,256 15,503,753 Cost of sales (28,845) 6,484 (9,147,286) (10,856,668) (1,610,281) (2,335,587) 2 (68) 650,890 392,642 (10,135,520) (12,793,197) Cost of goods sold and materials consumed 2,014 (1,630) (9,425,388) (10,761,403) (1,632,417) (2,354,830) 2 (68) 650,890 392,642 (10,404,899) (12,725,289) Variation in production (30,859) 8,114 278,102 (95,265) 22,136 19,243 269,379 (67,908) Ebitda (1) 480,658 347,607 572,161 445,093 309,711 356,702 26,656 24,582 (2) 1,389,184 1,173,984 Non payable expenses Amortisation, depreciation and impairments (466,435) (374,916) (312,476) (279,715) (51,264) (60,610) (4,683) (4,394) (834,858) (719,635) Depreciation and amortisation (274,134) (210,915) (305,146) (270,568) (52,380) (58,220) (4,683) (4,394) (636,343) (544,097) Impairments (192,301) (164,001) (7,330) (9,147) 1,116 (2,390) (198,515) (175,538) Provisions and impairments 13,486 (1,129) (16,861) (9,065) (7,410) (20,931) (10,785) (31,125) Provisions (5,274) (4,362) (7,555) (219) (10,625) (9,855) (18,180) Impairments (1,129) (36,538) (18,520) (10,751) (12,900) (47,289) (32,549) Provisions Reversals 18,743 804 1,241 726 255 20,273 1,496 Impairments Reversals 17 23,235 15,770 2,834 2,338 26,086 18,108 Ebit 27,709 (28,438) 242,824 156,313 251,037 275,161 21,973 20,188 (2) 543,541 423,224 Results from financial investments (78,345) 12,994 (93,708) (49,273) 189,283 55,588 6 (1) 2 17,238 19,308 Other financial results 81,385 102,763 (60,133) (106,485) (30,972) (18,236) (14,932) (47,923) (24,652) (69,881) Interest expense 58,022 63,417 (79,403) (78,001) (27,424) (37,039) (108,282) (125,456) 97,510 107,621 (59,577) (69,458) Interest income 28,850 52,115 8,862 4,590 1,828 2,793 91,749 75,664 (97,553) (106,723) 33,736 28,439 Other financial charges (5,487) (12,769) 10,408 (33,074) (5,376) 16,010 1,601 1,869 43 (898) 1,189 (28,862) Income tax (176,309) (95,964) (46,615) (6,579) (35,638) (58,088) (1,823) 9,200 (260,385) (151,431) Energy sector extraordinary contribution (28,667) (29,005) (39,380) (37,997) (68,047) (67,002) Non-controlling interests (22,927) (27,969) (4,444) (1,800) (1,227) (1,883) (28,598) (31,652) Consolidated net result for the year (168,487) (36,614) 9,257 (36,829) 333,103 214,545 5,224 (18,536) 179,097 122,566 As at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 Other Informations Segment assets (2) Financial investments (3) 1,027,440 890,971 72,307 108,055 334,215 116,866 371 171 1,434,333 1,116,063 Non-current assets held for sale 4,128 4,128 Other Assets 5,754,950 4,977,938 4,768,888 4,935,698 1,330,823 2,647,550 2,607,160 2,113,399 (3,461,137) (2,997,617) 11,000,684 11,676,968 Total consolidated assets 6,782,390 5,868,909 4,845,323 5,043,753 1,665,038 2,764,416 2,607,531 2,113,570 (3,461,137) (2,997,617) 12,439,145 12,793,031 Liabilities associated with non-current assets held 5,410 5,410 for sale Other Liabilities 938,974 930,460 4,347,969 2,962,612 862,748 2,108,828 3,201,773 3,600,624 (3,461,137) (2,997,617) 5,890,328 6,604,907 Total consolidated liabilities 938,974 930,460 4,353,379 2,962,612 862,748 2,108,828 3,201,773 3,600,624 (3,461,137) (2,997,617) 5,895,738 6,604,907 Investment in tangible and intangible assets 961,609 966,901 123,828 67,886 22,585 28,406 3,784 4,192 1,111,806 1,067,384 (1) EBITDA = Segment Results/EBIT + Amortisations+Provisions (2) Net Amount (3) at the Equity Method 250 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 251 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Inter-segmental Sales and Services Rendered unit: €k Exploration & Refining & Segments Gas & Power Others Total Production Marketing Gas & Power 1,259 27,437 28,696 Refining & Marketing 555,512 157,457 59,941 772,910 Exploration & Production 82 10,482 10,564 Others 297 2 299 555,512 1,638 157,459 97,860 812,469 The main inter-segmental transactions of sales and services rendered are primarily related to: • Gas & Power: natural gas sales for the production process of Matosinhos and Sines refineries (refining and marketing of oil products); • Refining & Marketing: supply of fuel to all Group company vehicles; • Exploration & Production: sales of crude oil to the Refining & Marketing of oil products segment; and • Other: back-office and management services. The commercial and financial transactions between related parties are performed according to the usual market conditions similar to transactions performed between independent companies (Note 28). The assumptions underlying the determination of prices in transactions between Group companies rely on the consideration of the economic realities and characteristics of the situations in question, in other words, from comparing the characteristics of operations or companies that might have an impact on the intrinsic conditions of the commercial transactions in analysis. In this context, an analysis is made, amongst others, of the goods and services traded, the functions performed by the parties (including the assets used and risks assumed), the contractual terms, the economic situation of the parties as well as their negotiation strategies. In a related party’s context, the remuneration thus corresponds to what is considered appropriate, as a rule, to the functions performed by each participant company, taking into account the assets used and risks assumed. Thus, in order to determine the level of remuneration, the activities and risks taken by companies within the value chain of goods/services transacted are identified according to their functional profile, particularly with regard to the functions that they perform import, manufacturing, distribution and retail. In conclusion, market prices are determined not only by analysing the functions performed, the assets used and the risks incurred by one entity, but by also considering the contribution of these elements to the Company’s profitability. This analysis assesses whether the profitability indicators of the companies involved fall within the calculated ranges based on an evaluation of a panel of functionally comparable but independent companies, thus allowing the prices to be fixed in order to comply with the arm’s length principle. 252 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The detailed information on intersegmental sales and services rendered, tangible and intangible assets and financial investments by each geographic region where Galp operates is as follows: unit: €k Sales and services rendered Tangible and intangible assets Financial investments 2016 2015 (a) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Africa 266,649 410,067 1,221,909 1,183,091 17,174 20,240 Latin America 284,176 366,376 2,400,080 1,534,150 Europe 12,568,431 14,727,310 2,642,431 4,038,494 1,417,159 1,095,823 Portugal 8,466,824 10,149,233 2,269,177 3,590,260 343,839 138,700 Other European Countries 4,101,607 4578077 373,254 448,234 1,073,320 957,123 13,119,256 15,503,753 6,264,420 6,755,735 1,434,333 1,116,063 Of the total €1,073,320 k under financial investments in other European countries, €1,026,728 k were invested in companies related with projects in Brazil. The reconciliation between the items in the Segment Reporting and the Income Statement for the years ended 31 December, 2016 and 2015 is as follows: unit: €k Captions from segment reporting Captions from income statement 2016 2015 2016 2015 Income Sales and services rendered 13,119,256 15,503,753 Sales 12,487,942 14,869,272 Services rendered 631,314 634,481 Cost of sales (10,135,520) (12,793,197) Cost of sales (10,135,520) (12,793,197) Other operating income 121,336 101,193 External supplies and services (1,284,500) (1,227,917) Employee costs (333,848) (343,498) Other operating costs (97,540) (66,350) Operating result before amortization/ Ebitda IAS/IFRS (1) 1,389,184 1,173,984 1,389,184 1,173,984 depreciation and provisions Non payable expenses Amortisation, depreciation and impairment Amortization and adjustments (834,858) (719,635) (834,858) (719,635) losses on fixed assets Provisions and impairment losses on Provisions (net) (10,785) (31,125) (10,785) (31,125) receivables Ebit IAS/IFRS 543,541 423,224 Operating result 543,541 423,224 Income from financial investments and Results from financial investments 17,238 19,308 17,238 19,308 impairment losses on Goodwill Other financial results (24,652) (69,881) Financial income 38,643 32,387 Financial costs (72,026) (79,700) Exchange (losses) gains (8,661) (9,792) Income from financial instruments 17,392 (12,776) Income tax (260,385) (151,431) Income tax (260,385) (151,431) Energy sector extraordinary (68,047) (67,002) Energy sector extraordinary contribution (68,047) (67,002) contribution Non-controlling interests (28,598) (31,652) Non-controlling interests (28,598) (31,652) Net income for the year 179,097 122,566 Net income for the year 179,097 122,566 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 253 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 8. Financial income and costs Financial income and financial costs for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: unit: €k Captions december 2016 december 2015 Financial income: Interest on bank deposits 27,272 23,294 Interest and other income with related companies 6,465 5,169 Other financial income 4,906 3,924 38,643 32,387 Financial costs: Interest on bank loans, bonds, overdrafts and others (112,730) (122,361) Interest with related parties (8,669) (7,898) Interests capitalised in fixed assets (Note 12) 81,254 88,522 Net interest on retirement benefits and other benefits (9,798) (10,140) Charges relating to loans and bonds (12,935) (17,019) Other financial costs (9,148) (10,804) (72,026) (79,700) (33,383) (47,313) During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group rights, are taxed in accordance with the special regime for capitalised under the caption Fixed assets in progress, the taxation of groups of companies, with taxable income the amount of €81,254 k, regarding interests on loans being determined in Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. The weighted obtained to finance capital expenditure on tangible and income tax rate applied to the Companies headquartered in intangible assets during their construction phase (Note 12). Portugal is of 25%. During 2016, the amount capitalised correspond to 72% Spanish tax resident companies, in which the percentage of the total interests incurred by the group, in the amount of held by the Group exceeds 75% have, from 2005 onwards, €112,730 k. The amount of capitalised interests is prorated been taxed on a consolidated basis in Spain. Currently, by the investments in progress. the fiscal consolidation is performed by Galp Energia España S.A., on behalf of Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. The weighted income tax rate applied to the Companies 9. Income tax headquartered in Spain is of 25%. The Group’s operations take place in several regions and are However, estimated income tax of the Company and its carried out by various legal entities, being applied the locally subsidiaries is accounted based on their tax results. In the established income tax rates. year ended 31 December 2016, €260,385 k was recorded in the caption Income tax. The Group companies headquartered in Portugal in which the Group has an interest equal or greater than 75%, if such participation ensures more than 50% of voting 254 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The following situations may affect income tax payable in vii) As mentioned in paragraphs ii) and iii) above, in the future: 2009 Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. and its subsidiaries Petrogal, S.A. and Galp Gas & Power SGPS, S.A. i) In accordance with current Portuguese legislation, (previously named GDP – Gás de Portugal, SGPS, S.A.) corporate income tax returns are subject to review 2005 income tax returns were inspected by the tax and correction by the tax authorities for a period of authorities, which resulted in additional assessment four years except when there are carried forward tax of €23,587 k and for which during January 2010 the losses, tax benefits have been granted or there are Company has conceded a guarantee in the amount of claims or appeals in progress where, depending on €27,010 k. As the Group does not agree with the tax the circumstances, the period can be extended or authority’s position, the Company, supported by its tax and legal advisors, presented an administrative claim suspended; and a judicial review where it questions the additional ii) From 2001 to 2016, the subsidiary Petrogal, S.A. was assessment. In previous years Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. subject to several inspections by the tax authorities recorded a provision of €3,230 k and its subsidiary Galp relating to the fiscal years 1997 to 2011, which in Gas & Power, SGPS, S.A. (previously GDP, SGPS, S.A.) accordance with the Company assessment are following recorded an amount of €2,092 for this purpose. In 2014, their normal course. Paragraphs v) to xiii) below detail as a result of favourable developments in this matter, the open inspections; the company decided to reverse the previously recorded provision; iii) During 2009, the tax authorities concluded the 2005 and 2006 inspections of Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. viii) Additionally, during 2010, and as consequence and its subsidiaries Petrogal, S.A. and Galp Gas & of inspections that occurred in 2006 and 2007, Power, S.A. Tax returns which resulted in additional Petrogal S.A. tax returns were corrected by the assessments are summarised in paragraph vii) below; tax administration, which resulted in additional assessments of €479 k and €190 k, respectively. As iv) The Group’s tax returns for the years 2013 to 2016 the company partially disagrees with these corrections, are still subject to review. Galp’s Board of Directors amounts of €304 k regarding 2006 and €87 k believes that any corrections arising from inspections regarding 2007 were not paid. Regarding these amounts by the tax authorities of these tax returns will not the company has either contested or will contest the have a significant impact on the consolidated financial assessments. For the unpaid amounts, the company has statements as of 31 December 2016 and 2015; presented the respective claim and has appealed the v) As mentioned in paragraph ii) above, in 2004 the rejection of the same; corporate income tax returns for the years 2000, ix) In 2011, the subsidiary Petrogal, S.A was subject to a 2001 and 2002 were inspected by the tax authorities, tax inspection regarding the year 2008, which resulted which resulted in proposed additional assessments in a correction to taxable income corresponding to communicated to Petrogal of €740 k, €10,806 k additional tax payable of €492 k. Since the company and €2,479 k, respectively, of which €11,865 k have disagrees with some of been paid. Additionally, regarding 2001, Petrogal has the corrections referred to above, the company appealed against the settlement issued. As such, has filed an administrative appeal, which is still and given the expectation of additional amount to under consideration; be incurred on these claims, Petrogal accounted for a provision to cover such settlements totalling €7,394 k x) The tax inspection at the subsidiary Petrogal, S.A. (Note 25); regarding the year 2009 resulted in corrections to taxable income that correspond to additional tax vi) As mentioned in paragraph ii) above, in 2006 the payable, of which the company has chosen to appeal corporate income tax return for the year 2003 was €375 k an administrative claim has been filed which is inspected by the tax authorities, which resulted running its natural course of action; in an increase in taxable income of €12,098 k, which corresponds to an additional assessment xi) During 2014, the tax inspection regarding the 2010 communicated to Petrogal of €5,265 k, for which financial year of subsidiary Petrogal S.A., as well as the an appealing was presented and a partial payment other companies, members of the special tax regime of of €2,568 k was made in 2008 and recognised in the taxation for groups of companies, was completed and income statement of that year; resulted favourable corrections to the Group and a tax refund of €1 k; Annual Report and Accounts 2016 255 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance xii) In 2015 the tax inspection for the year 2011 was concluded for the subsidiary Petrogal S.A. and the consolidated tax group led by Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. Of the referred inspections, no corrections were noted that correspond to additional tax to be paid for the period under review; xiii) Additionally, the subsidiary Petrogal, S.A., as a result of the 2009 tax inspection, was subject to an adjustment on Value Added Tax (VAT) in the amount of €4,577 k. As the correction is based on the compliance of a mere formality, the Company believes that the above amount is not due, provided that the required formalities are fulfilled, which has already occurred. In this regard, the Company presented a claim and subsequent hierarchical appeal, disputing this correction, both of which were rejected. Given its conviction of the correctness of its position, the Company has proceeded to judicial action, having nevertheless proceeded, in 2016, to pay the corresponding tax recognising it as an expense for the year; xiv) As a result of the exploration and oil production operations in Angola, the Group is subject to IRP based on the Angolan tax system applied to production sharing contracts where the Group participates. As at 31 December 2016, there are under discussion with the Ministry of Finance in Angola the preliminary results from the tax audits performed for the years 2003 to 2010, for which the Group has decided to book a provision for the eventual additional corrections. As of 31 December 2016, the provision amounts to €22,581 k (Note 25 and 33); xv) Under current legislation, tax losses in Portugal can be reported and carried forward during a period of 5 years, for 2012 and 2013 taxable income, and 12 years for taxable income arising from 2014 onward; xvi) There is no limit for the use of tax losses of Group companies based in the Brazilian and Spanish territories. On the other hand, tax losses of Group companies based in the Netherlands are carried forward for a maximum period of 9 years. xvii) The Group has accounted for deferred tax assets for tax losses carried forward only for subsidiaries in which there is high probability of recovery. 256 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Income tax and Energy sector extraordinary contribution for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: unit: €k Captions December 2016 December 2015 Current income tax 118,701 72,454 IRP Tax on Oil income 11,645 23,764 Special Participation Tax 103,719 82,920 (Excess)/Insuficiency of income tax for the preceding year 4,196 (10,296) Deferred tax 21,941 (16,672) Exchange differences 183 (739) (a) Income tax 260,385 151,431 (a) Energy sector extraordinary contribution 68,047 67,002 328,432 218,433 (a) (a) These amounts were restated considering the changes in the accounting classification referred in Note 2.26 As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Group has recorded in current income tax payable the amount of €75,440k and €9,214k respectively as follows: unit: €k Captions 2016 2015 Galp Gás Natural Distribuição Group (Note 28) Lisboagás GDL Sociedade Distribuidora de Gás Natural de Lisboa, S.A. 9,925 (Note 28) Lusitaniagás Companhia de Gás do Centro, S.A. (Note 28) 3,094 Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. (Note 28) 1,349 Duriensegás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural do Douro, S.A. (Note 28) 545 Dianagás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural de Évora, S.A. (Note 28) 212 Medigás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural do Algarve, S.A. (Note 28) 210 Paxgás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural de Beja, S.A. (Note 28) 62 15,397 State and other public entities (90,837) (9,214) (75,440) (9,214) Annual Report and Accounts 2016 257 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Below is a reconciliation of the income tax for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, and detail of deferred taxes: December December Rate Income tax Rate Income tax 2016 2015 Income before taxes: 536,127 27.00% 144,754 372,651 (a) 27.00% 100,815 (a) Adjustments to taxable income: Application of the equity -0.87% (4,654) -1.60% (5,975) method Fiscal benefits -0.17% (925) -0.71% (2,653) Achievements of social utility 0.00% 0.09% 330 Income tax rates differences 0.49% 2,615 4.20% 15,660 (Excess)/Insufficiency of income 0.78% 4,196 -2.76% (10,296) tax of the preceding year Autonomous taxation 0.51% 2,747 0.84% 3,123 Special participation Tax (SPT) 14.31% 76,714 17.40% 64,823 and IRP Tax on oil income Other additions and deductions 6.52% 34,938 -3.86% (14,396) (a) Effective tax rate and tax 48.57% 260,385 40.58% 151,431 (a) income (a) These amounts were restated considering the changes in the accounting classification referred in Note 2.26. In the year ended 31 December 2016 the Group paid IRP through its subsidiary Galp Energia Overseas Block 14, B.V. and its respective branch in Angola, amounting to €10,981 k relating to Oil Income Tax, determined based on the Angolan tax regime applied to Production Sharing Agreements in which the Group participates. 258 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Deferred taxes As at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, the balance of deferred tax assets and liabilities is as follows: unit: €k Deferred taxes December 2016 Assets Changes Effect Effect Effect in the Other Ending Captions Initial balance of currency in results in equity consolidation adjustments balance translation perimeter Adjustments to accruals and 6,512 (318) (828) 5,366 deferrals Adjustments to tangible and 41,214 (14,111) 1,964 (7) (1,428) 27,632 intangible assets Adjustments to inventories 631 26 657 Overlifting adjustments 927 607 61 1,595 Retirement benefits and other 102,402 (2,065) (1,366) (12,083) 14 86,902 benefits Double economical taxation 2,752 2,752 Financial instruments 254 1,445 (1,654) 45 Tax losses carried forward 102,430 (13,130) 5,625 1,428 96,353 Regulated revenue 8,541 1,109 (2,492) 240 7,398 Non deductible provisions 33,036 11,604 3,809 (1,286) (6) 47,157 Potential foreign exchange 133,192 (50,103) (89,103) 27,082 298 21,366 differences Brazil Others 30,243 4,747 3,647 (865) (11) 37,761 462,134 (60,189) (92,123) 42,188 (17,561) 535 334,984 unit: €k Deferred taxes December 2015 Assets Effect Effect Effect Other Ending Captions Initial balance of currency in results in equity adjustments balance translation Adjustments to accruals and deferrals 8,284 (1,814) 42 6,512 Adjustments to tangible and intangible assets 25,033 134 4,037 12,010 41,214 Adjustments to inventories 742 (111) 631 Overlifting adjustments 147 749 31 927 Retirement benefits and other benefits 100,847 (353) 1,867 41 102,402 Double economical taxation 3,522 (771) 1 2,752 Financial instruments 254 254 Tax losses carried forward 65,950 40,061 (4,302) 721 102,430 Regulated revenue 14,083 (5,542) 8,541 Non deductible provisions 27,374 8,489 (2,790) (37) 33,036 Potential foreign exchange differences Brazil 79,523 (31,661) 112,945 (16,876) (10,739) 133,192 Others 38,468 (17,138) (171) 9,084 30,243 363,973 (7,957) 115,066 (20,071) 11,123 462,134 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 259 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance unit: €k Deferred taxes December 2015 Liabilities Effect Changes in the Effect Ending Captions Initial balance of currency consolidation in results balance translation perimeter Adjustments to accruals and deferrals (13) (540) 46 (507) Adjustments to tangible and intangible assets (34,531) 27,114 (5,128) (12,545) Adjustments to tangible and intangible assets Fair Value (20,682) (5,235) (657) 3,452 (23,122) Adjustments in Inventories (181) 99 (82) Underlifting Adjustments (389) 298 2 (89) Dividends (27,612) 13,441 (14,171) Financial instruments (1,446) (1,446) Regulated revenue (22,622) 4,327 6,450 (11,845) Accounting revaluations (2,386) 202 1,163 (1,021) Others (968) (12) (5) (985) (109,384) 38,248 (5,742) 11,065 (65,813) unit: €k Deferred taxes December 2015 Liabilities Effect Effect Other Ending Captions Initial balance of currency in results adjustments balance translation Adjustments to accruals and deferrals (53) 2 38 (13) Adjustments to tangible and intangible assets (20,019) (8,526) 1,149 (12,736) (40,132) Adjustments to tangible and intangible assets Fair Value (16,496) 2,626 (1,211) (15,081) Adjustments in Inventories (181) (181) Underlifting adjustments (1,113) 836 (112) (389) Dividends (39,973) 12,361 (27,612) Regulated revenue (39,828) 17,206 (22,622) Accounting revaluations (2,605) 219 (2,386) Others (920) (95) 8 39 (968) (121,188) 24,629 1,083 (13,908) (109,384) Changes in deferred taxes reflected in Equity, correspond to: • €1,366 k for changes in deferred taxes related with the actuarial gains/(losses) including: i) €293 k related to Group companies and ii) €1,073 k related to the deferred taxes recognized up to the date of the disposal of the companies disposed (Note 3.1 d); • €1,654 k for changes in deferred taxes related to hedge reserves components; • €89,103 k including €62,372 k related to the deferred taxes on the Exchange rate differences resulting from the financial contributions which are similar to quasi capital (Note 20) and €26,731 k related to non-controlling interests. 260 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Potential foreign exchange differences in Brazil result from the tax option to tax potential foreign exchange differences only when they are realised. Tax losses for which deferred tax assets were recognised are as follows: Year Tax losses carried forward Limit year use Deferred tax asset The Netherlands: 2012 and previous: 16,842 2022 2013 1,863 2023 2014 217 2024 2015 834 2025 2016 56,966 2026 76,722 13,674 Spain: 2012 and previous: 33,183 No limit 2013 No limit 2014 89,462 No limit 2015 141,864 No limit 264,509 65,695 Brazil: 2013 2,233 No limit 2014 520 No limit 2015 7,321 No limit 2016 38,629 No limit 48,703 16,559 Portugal: 2014 265 2026 2015 1,760 2027 2,025 425 Regarding the assumptions underlying the existence of future taxable income sufficient to realise the deferred tax assets, Galp follows the medium and long-term plan designed for the Companies. It should also be noted that in the case of jurisdictions where there are fiscal consolidation regimes, Galp simulates the implementation of these consolidations. It should also be referred that the prescribed legal limits for recovery of the losses are considered as the period for the recovery of deferred tax assets arising from tax losses. In situations where the legal period for recovery exceeds the periods for which the Group makes the preparation of budgets and plans, forecasts are made for those periods based on the values established for the Budgets and Plans years. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 261 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Tax losses carried forward in Brazil will be recovered by the future expectable taxable income on the basis of the increasing oil exploration activity. Regarding the companies headquarter in the Netherlands, deferred tax assets were only recognized in relation to the losses recognized in respect of the liquidation of the Company Tarfaya B.V., which was set up for the exploration of hydrocarbons in an exploration area in Morocco, for which the commercial exploration was found uneconomic. These losses will naturally be used through the results generated in the normal course of the activity of Galp Energia E&P B.V., according to the existing budgets and plans. In the specific case of Spain, the recovery of tax losses takes place beyond the timigs for which budgets and plans have been prepared, but are nevertheless based on extrapolations from these budgets and plans based on an economic reasonability criteria. To this purpose, it should be highlighted that the expected improvement in tax results in Spain is based on the increase in the current activity and the constant search for new businesses and solutions. 10. Earnings per share Earnings per share for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: unit: €k December 2016 December 2015 Results: Net result for purposes of calculating earnings per share (Consolidated net income for 179,097 122,566 the year attributable to Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. Shareholders) Number of shares Weighted average number of shares for purposes of calculation earnings per share 829,250,635 829,250,635 (Note 19) Basic and diluted earnings per share (amounts in Euros): 0.22 0.15 As there are no situations that give rise to dilution, the diluted earnings per share is equal to basic earnings per share. 262 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 11. Goodwill The difference between the amounts paid to acquire an equity share in Group companies and the fair value of the acquired companies’ equity as at 31 December 2016 was as follows: 2016 unit: €k Equity proportion at Goodwill movement the acquisition date Currency Changes Acquisition Acquisition December exchange in the Impairments December Subsidiaries % Amount year cost 2015 differences consolidation (g) 2016 (d) perimeter (e) Galp Energia España, S.A. Galp Comercializacion Oil (a) 2008 176,920 100.00% 129,471 37,725 (37,725) España, S.L. Galp Distribuición Oil España, (b) 2008 172,822 100.00% 123,611 11,092 (11,092) S.A.U. Petróleos de Valência, S.A. (a) 2005 13,937 100.00% 6,099 Sociedad Unipersonal 48,817 (48,817) Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. Galp Comercialização (c) 2008 146,000 100.00% 69,027 50,556 50,556 Portugal, S.A. 50,556 50,556 Galp Swaziland (PTY), Limited 2008 18,117 100.00% 651 20,914 687 21,601 Galpgest Petrogal Estaciones 2003 6,938 100.00% 1,370 5,568 5,568 de Servicio, S.L.U. Galp Gambia, Limited (f) 2008 6,447 100.00% 1,693 Empresa Nacional de 2007 and 8,360 15.77% 4,031 4,329 4,329 Combustíveis Enacol, S.A.R.L. 2008 Galp Moçambique, Lda. 2008 5,943 100.00% 2,978 3,893 128 4,021 Duriensegás Soc. Distrib. 2006 3,094 25.00% 1,454 1,640 (1,640) de Gás Natural do Douro, S.A. Lusitaniagás Companhia 2002/3 and 1,440 1.543% 856 584 (584) de Gás do Centro, S.A. 2007/8/9 Gasinsular Combustíveis 2005 50 100.00% (353) 403 403 do Atlântico, S.A. Saaga Sociedade Açoreana 2005 858 67.65% 580 278 278 de Armazenagem de Gás, S.A. Beiragás Companhia de Gás 2003/6 and 152 0.94% 107 51 (51) das Beiras, S.A. 2007 Galp Sinopec Brazil Services 2012 3 100.00% 1 2 2 (Cyprus) 137,035 815 (2,275) (48,817) 86,758 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 263 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 2015 unit: €k Equity proportion at Goodwill movement the acquisition date Currency Changes Acquisition Acquisition December exchange in the Impairments Subsidiaries % Amount 2015 year cost 2014 differences consolidation (g) (d) perimeter (e) Galp Energia España, S.A. Galp Comercializacion Oil (a) 2008 176,920 100.00% 129,471 46,266 (8,541) 37,725 España, S.L. Petróleos de Valência, S.A. (a) 2005 13,937 100.00% 6,099 7,759 (7,759) Sociedad Unipersonal Galp Distribuición Oil España, (b) 2008 172,822 100.00 % 123,611 46,823 (35,731) 11,092 S.A.U. 100,848 (52,031) 48,817 Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. Galp Comercialização Portugal, (c) 2008 146,000 100.00% 69,027 50,556 50,556 S.A. 50,556 50,556 Galp Swaziland (PTY) Limited 2008 18,117 100.00% 651 18,754 2,160 20,914 Madrileña Suministro de Gas, 2010 43,356 100.00% 12,641 29,766 (29,766) S.L. Madrileña Suministro de Gas 2010 12,523 100.00% 3,573 8,686 (8,686) SUR, S.L. Galpgest Petrogal Estaciones 2003 6,938 100.00% 1,370 5,568 5,568 de Servicio, S.L.U. Galp Gambia, Limited 2008 6,447 100.00% 1,693 405 (405) Empresa Nacional de 2007 and 8,360 15.77% 4,031 4,329 4,329 Combustíveis Enacol, S.A.R.L. 2008 Galp Moçambique, Lda. 2008 5,943 100.00% 2,978 3,491 402 3,893 Duriensegás Soc. Distrib. 2006 3,094 25.00% 1,454 1,640 1,640 de Gás Natural do Douro, S.A. Lusitaniagás Companhia 2002/3 and 1,440 1.543% 856 584 584 de Gás do Centro, S.A. 2007/8/9 Probigalp Ligantes 2007 720 10.00% 190 Betuminosos, S.A. Gasinsular Combustíveis 2005 50 100.00% (353) 403 403 do Atlântico, S.A. Saaga Sociedade Açoreana 2005 858 67.65% 580 278 278 de Armazenagem de Gás, S.A. Beiragás Companhia de Gás 2003/6 and 152 0.94% 107 51 51 das Beiras, S.A. 2007 Galp Sinopec Brazil Services 2012 3 100.00% 1 2 2 (Cyprus) 225,361 2,157 (38,452) (52,031) 137,035 (a) The subsidiaries Petróleos de Valência, S.A. Sociedad Unipersonal and Galp Comercializacion Oil España, S.L. were incorporated in Galp Energia España, S.A., through a merger process, during the year ended 31 December 2010. (b) The subsidiary Galp Distribuición Oil España, S.A.U., was incorporated in Galp Energia España, S.A. through a merger process, during the year ended 31 December 2011. (c) The subsidiary Galp Comercialização Portugal, S.A., was incorporated in Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. through a merger process, during the year ended 31 December 2010. (d) The exchange differences result from the conversion of Goodwill recorded in local companies’ currency to Group’s reporting currency (Euros) at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the financial statements (Notes 2.2 d) and 20). (e) Galp Gás Natural Distribuição Group ceased to fully consolidate in the Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Group, and the companies comprising the Group are therefore presented as joint ventures (Note 3.1 d) and 4.1). (f) Non-current assets held for sale (Note 3.1 f) (g) Amounts determined following the Goodwill impairment tests. (Note 4.4). 264 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Goodwill Impairment analysis When performing impairment tests, goodwill is allocated to the respective cash generating unit. Value in use is determined by the present value of the estimated future cash flows of the cash generating unit. The recoverable amount is estimated for the cash-generating unit to which it may belong, according to the method of discounted cash flows. The discount rate used reflects Galp group’s WACC for the reporting segment and country of each cash generating unit. 31 December 2016: Assumptions Cash generating unit Evaluation method Cash flows Growth factor Discount rates WACC between: Financial investment Gordon model with a DCF According to corporate R&M [7.3%-11.1%] (comprised in business growth factor to perpetuity (Discounted Cash Flow) business plan E&P [10%-12%] segments) of 2% G&P [6.3%-6.9%] E&P Exploration & Production, R&M Refining & Marketing of Oil products, G&P Gas & Power 31 December 2015: Assumptions Cash generating unit Evaluation method Cash flows Growth factor Discount rates WACC between: Financial investment Gordon model with a DCF According to corporate R&M [7.2%-10%] (comprised in business growth factor to perpetuity (Discounted Cash Flow) business plan E&P [9.8%-12.2%] segments) of 2% G&P [6.2%-6.8%] E&P Exploration & Production, R&M Refining & Marketing of Oil products, G&P Gas & Power The former Esso investments (Galp Comercialização Portugal and España) and former Agip investments (Galp Distribuicion España) were merged in Galp Energia España for those assets relating to Spain, and in Petrogal, for those assets related to Portugal. Thus, the Goodwill is tested for impairment with those assets (e.g. network station) with the respective sensitivity analysis (note 12). Considering the volatility in the cash flows, resulting from the non-renewal of distribution contracts, which resulted in a loss of market share, leading additionally to an optimization of the network through the closure of service stations during the year 2016, Galp has reviewed the assumptions considered at the end of 2015. Therefore, a full impairment loss on the remaining Goodwill for the distribution network in Spain in the amount of €48,817k (Note 4.4.) was recognised. The discount rate considered, for the cash generating unit was 7.3%. Please refer to the stress analysis on the distribution network in Spain in note 12. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 265 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 12. Tangible and intangible assets 12.1 Movements in tangible assets Movements in tangible assets at 31 December 2016 are as follows: 2016 unit: €k Advances Land and natural Buildings and other Machinery and Transport Administrative Reusable Other tangible Tangible assets Total tangible Tangible assets Tools and utensils to suppliers of resources constructions equipment equipment equipment containers assets in progress assets tangible assets Acquisition cost: Balance at 1 January 2016 285,435 942,509 7,498,249 30,474 4,673 177,520 159,213 91,720 2,277,774 11,467,567 Additions 175 1,075 40,384 361 72 2,302 90 502 980,219 1,025,180 Additions by financial costs capitalisation (Note 8) 81,254 81,254 Write-offs/Disposals (1,062) (11,342) (86,786) (641) (135) (5,399) (3,172) (2,690) (122,979) (234,206) Adjustments (130,888) 65 (3,907) 7 (134,723) Adjustments for currency differences in initial balance 29 (2,924) 202,922 (163) (3) 113 (1,506) 299 317,581 516,348 Transfers 56 9,371 576,749 523 41 3,682 5,805 2,016 (594,564) 3,679 Transfer to investments held for sale (1,848) (3,378) (687) (432) (186) (323) (6,854) Changes in perimeter (Note 3) (938) (938) Gross acquisition cost at 31 December 2016 284,633 935,903 8,097,252 29,867 4,648 177,786 160,244 91,589 2,935,378 7 12,717,307 Accumulated impairments at 1 January 2016 (9,720) (21,166) (24,324) (61) (1,182) (1) (2,384) (230,186) (289,024) Increase in impairments (2,079) (1,043) (7,851) (11) (191,170) (202,154) Reversal of impairments 2,445 2,445 Adjustments for currency differences in initial balance 108 (15,354) (15,246) Utilisation/Transfers of impairments (2,545) 7,406 6,815 (3) 112,419 124,092 Impairments balance at 31 December 2016 (14,344) (14,803) (22,807) (61) (1,185) (1) (2,395) (324,291) (379,887) Accumulated depreciations and impairment losses: Balance at 1 January 2016 (1,947) (675,855) (4,860,488) (27,705) (4,070) (167,146) (145,271) (80,337) (5,962,819) Depreciations for the year (276) (24,107) (532,549) (1,151) (192) (5,353) (3,947) (2,386) (569,961) Write-offs/Disposals 6 8,781 76,183 456 128 5,241 3,063 2,513 96,371 Adjustments 255 (67) 86,804 182 (25) 25 (13) 87,161 Adjustments for currency differences in initial balance (55) 1,003 (84,854) 117 3 (112) 967 (234) (83,165) Transfers 9 (21) 12 Transfer to investments held for sale 1,099 2,192 573 390 191 268 4,713 Changes in perimeter (Note 3) 391 391 Accumulated balance at 31 December 2016 (2,017) (688,746) (5,312,733) (27,528) (4,131) (167,005) (144,972) (80,177) (6,427,309) Net amount: as at 31 December 2016 268,272 232,354 2,761,712 2,339 456 9,596 15,271 9,017 2,611,087 7 5,910,111 266 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 267 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Tangible assets are recorded in accordance with the accounting policy defined by the Group in Note 2.3. The depreciation rates that are being applied are disclosed in the same note. The adjustments for exchange differences relate to the revaluation of opening balances from foreign currencies into Euro of the tangible assets of the subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies. 2016 unit: €k Advances Land and natural Buildings and other Machinery and Transport Administrative Reusable Other tangible Tangible assets Total tangible Tangible assets Tools and utensils to suppliers of resources constructions equipment equipment equipment containers assets in progress assets tangible assets Acquisition cost: Balance at 1 January 2015 286,994 940,163 7,142,059 31,060 4,469 174,666 158,791 91,740 1,907,460 28 10,737,430 Additions 61 765 41,600 210 22 1,399 508 685 907,565 952,815 Additions by financial costs capitalisation (Note 8) 88,522 88,522 Write-offs/Disposals (1,676) (1,698) (25,749) (787) (63) (849) (4,177) (775) (86,885) (122,659) Adjustments (64) 1,167 (28) 1,075 Adjustments for currency differences in initial balance (35) (2,474) (4,745) (94) (3) (228) (917) (432) (173,347) (182,275) Transfers 91 5,753 345,084 85 248 2,532 5,008 566 (366,708) (7,341) Gross acquisition cost at 31 December 2015 285,435 942,509 7,498,249 30,474 4,673 177,520 159,213 91,720 2,277,774 11,467,567 Accumulated impairments at 1 January 2015 (8,667) (20,849) (39,263) (61) (1,182) (1) (2,384) (158,063) (230,470) Increase in impairments (1,297) (313) (4,756) (155,732) (162,098) Reversal of impairments (149) 590 441 Adjustments for currency differences in initial balance (4,877) (4,877) Utilisation/Transfers of impairments 244 (4) 19,844 87,896 107,980 Impairments balance at 31 December 2015 (9,720) (21,166) (24,324) (61) (1,182) (1) (2,384) (230,186) (289,024) Accumulated depreciations and impairment losses: Balance at 1 January 2015 (2,005) (654,368) (4,382,246) (27,308) (3,915) (159,688) (146,060) (79,014) (5,454,604) Depreciations for the year (288) (23,383) (433,370) (1,171) (206) (8,385) (4,072) (2,294) (473,169) Write-offs/Disposals 1,284 21,427 674 48 778 4,176 667 29,054 Adjustments 45 72 (1,740) 42 18 56 13 (1,494) Adjustments for currency differences in initial balance 64 631 (64,415) 68 3 137 629 281 (62,602) Transfers 237 (91) (144) (10) (6) 10 (4) Accumulated balance at 31 December 2015 (1,947) (675,855) (4,860,488) (27,705) (4,070) (167,146) (145,271) (80,337) (5,962,819) Net amount: as at 31 December 2015 273,768 245,488 2,613,437 2,769 542 9,192 13,941 8,999 2,047,588 5,215,724 268 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 269 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 12.2 Movements in intangible assets Movements in intangible assets at 31 December 2016 are as follows: 2016 unit: €k Reconversion Intangible assets Research and Industrial property Service concession Intangible assets Intangible assets Goodwill of consumption Other intangible assets in progress Service Total intangible assets development costs and other rights arrangements in progress to natural gas concession arrangements Acquisition cost: Balance at 1 January 2016 285 599,521 19,668 551 498 1,743,641 32,663 1,701 2,398,528 Additions 4,310 19,794 15,904 40,008 Write-offs/Disposals (10,384) (671) (195) (11,250) Adjustments for currency differences in initial balance 3,932 3,744 7,676 Transfers 10,558 15,252 (14,237) (15,252) (3,679) Transfers to assets held for sale (684) (684) Changes in the consolidation perimeter (1,758,222) (2,353) (1,760,575) Gross acquisition cost at 31 December 2016 285 607,253 19,668 551 498 41,769 670,024 Accumulated impairments at 1 January 2016 (5) (50,761) (7,810) (3,431) (62,007) Increase in impairments (1,131) (1,131) Adjustments for currency differences in initial balance (1,499) (1,499) Utilisation/Transfers of impairments 7,320 115 7,435 Impairments balance at 31 December 2016 (5) (46,071) (7,810) (3,316) (57,202) Accumulated depreciations and impairment losses: Balance at 1 January 2016 (279) (305,555) (10,206) (439) (498) (616,567) (933,544) Amortisation for the year (29,734) (8) (34,315) (64,057) Write-offs/Disposals 1,386 610 1,996 Adjustments (1) (67) (68) Adjustments for currency differences in initial balance (365) (365) Transfers to assets held for sale 495 495 Changes in the consolidation perimeter 650,272 650,272 Accumulated balance at 31 December 2016 (280) (333,840) (10,206) (447) (498) (345,271) Net amount: as at 31 December 2016 227,342 1,652 104 38,453 267,551 Intangible assets are recorded in accordance with the accounting policy defined by the Group in Note 2.4. The amortisation rates that are being applied are disclosed in the same note. The adjustments for exchange differences relate to the revaluation of opening balances from foreign currencies into Euro of the intangible assets of the subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies. The caption Industrial property and other rights mainly includes Land surface rights and Signature Bonus (Mineral Rights). 270 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 271 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Movements in intangible assets at 31 December 2015 are as follows: 2015 unit: €k Reconversion Intangible assets Research and Industrial property Service concession Intangible assets Intangible assets Goodwill of consumption Other intangible Assets in progress Service Total intangible assets development costs and other rights arrangements in progress to natural gas concession arrangements Acquisition cost: Balance at 1 January 2015 285 601,734 19,668 551 498 1,718,566 35,533 3,199 2,380,034 Additions 4,125 15,135 19,816 39,076 Write-offs/Disposals (2,734) (1,523) (4,257) Adjustments 2 5,284 26 5,312 Adjustments for currency differences in initial balance 4,479 (3,729) 750 Transfers 14,394 21,314 (14,302) (21,314) 92 Changes in the consolidation perimeter (22,479) (22,479) Gross acquisition cost at 31 December 2015 285 599,521 19,668 551 498 1,743,641 32,663 1,701 2,398,528 Accumulated impairments at 1 January 2015 (5) (39,962) (2,483) (3,316) (45,766) Increase in impairments (8,818) (5,327) (114) (14,259) Adjustments for currency differences in initial balance (3,933) (3,933) Utilisation/Transfers of impairments 1,952 (1) 1,951 Impairments balance at 31 December 2015 (5) (50,761) (7,810) (3,431) (62,007) Accumulated depreciations and impairment losses: Balance at 1 January 2015 (271) (299,391) (10,205) (431) (498) (576,566) (887,362) Amortisation for the year (9) (29,322) (8) (41,211) (70,550) Write-offs/Disposals 1,039 1,323 2,362 Adjustments 1 86 (1) (113) (27) Adjustments for currency differences in initial balance 385 385 Transfers to assets held for sale 4 4 Changes in the consolidation perimeter 21,644 21,644 Accumulated balance at 31 December 2015 (279) (305,555) (10,206) (439) (498) (616,567) (933,544) Net amount: as at 31 December 2015 1 243,205 1,652 112 1,127,074 29,232 1,701 1,402,977 272 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 273 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 12.3 Main events occurring during the year ended In the period ended 31 December 2016, tangible and 31 December 2016 intangible assets amounting to a net €147,089 k were disposed and written-off, including: The increases noted in tangible and intangible assets captions, amounting to €1,146,422 k, mainly include: • €91,868 k related to write-off of equipment, expenses and mineral rights in blocks in Morocco, without economic i) Exploration & Production segment viability, which were fully impaired; • €671,917 k regarding exploration and development • €38,824 k related to write-off of equipment, expenses investments in blocks in Brazil; and mineral rights in blocks in Brazil, without economic viability, which were fully impaired; and • €223,382 k regarding exploration investments in Block 32 in Angola; • €16,116 k related to write-offs in the Retail business unit, due to improvements in stations, convenience stores, • €30,278 k regarding exploration investments in Area 4 in expansion activities and development of information Mozambique; systems, the majority of which were fully amortised. • €25,133 k regarding exploration and development investments in block 14 in Angola; The net amount of €1,110,850 k under the caption • €4,215 k regarding oil exploration investments in Namibia. “Changes in the consolidation perimeter” corresponds to the disposal of the subsidiary Galp Gás Natural ii) Gas and Power segment Distribuição, SGPS, S.A. (Note 3.2). • €22,450 k regarding natural gas infrastructure construction (network, plot and other infrastructures) The net amount of €2,330 k under the caption of which the amount of €15,904 k is covered by IFRIC 12 “Transfer to investments held for sale” relates to the (Note 5 and 6). subsidiary Galp Gambia, Limited. iii) Oil Products Refining & Marketing Segment 12.4 Impairment on tangible and intangible assets • €35,528 k related with the Retail business unit and is due mainly to the improvement of stations, convenience Accumulated at year end 31 December 2016, impairments stores, expansion of activities and development of on tangible and intangible assets have been recognised information systems; amounting to €407,603 k which mainly include: • €35,445 related to industrial investments in the Sines and Matosinhos refineries; • €260,913 k for impairment losses on non-operated and operated blocks and other assets in Brazil and Angola; • €11,468 k related to investments for the sectorial stoppage in the Fuel and Aromatics factory in • €78,987 k for impairment losses in blocks in Namibia; Matosinhos; • €36,672 k for impairment losses in the retail network in • €10,279 k related to the “Monoboia” intervention offshore Portugal and Spain; of Leixoes terminal; • €8,753 k for impairment losses in exploration in • €7,980 k related to the stoppage of the Sines refinery; Aljubarrota; • €4,980 related to the revamping project in the Perafita • €7,670 k for impairment losses in exploration in Uruguay; park; and • €7,365 k for impairment losses in exploration in • €4,786 k related to the requalification project Mozambique; and for gas cylinders. • €4,638 k for impairment losses in blocks in East Timor. 274 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 12.5 Amortisation, depreciation and impairment losses in the year Amortisation, depreciation and impairment losses for the years 2016 and 2015 are as follows: unit: €k December 2016 December 2015 Tangible Intangible Total Tangible Intangible Total Amortisation for the year 34,315 34,315 41,211 41,211 Service Concession Arrangements Impairments 199,709 1,131 200,840 161,657 14,258 175,915 Amortisation, depreciation 769,670 65,188 834,858 634,826 84,809 719,635 and impairments (Note 6) 12.6 Split of tangible and intangible assets in progress The split of tangible and intangible assets in progress (including advances to suppliers on tangible and intangible assets net of impairment losses) in the year ended 31 December 2016 is as follows: unit: €k Assets in progress Impairments Net amount Exploration of oil in Brazil 1,567,863 (29,897) 1,537,966 Exploration of oil in Angola and Congo 834,593 (230,338) 604,255 Exploration in Mozambique 315,122 (7,365) 307,757 Exploration in Portugal 69,343 (8,753) 60,590 Industrial investment relating to refineries 57,119 57,119 Renewal and expansion of the network 46,642 (278) 46,364 Exploration in Namibia 45,270 (40,661) 4,609 Exploration in São Tomé and Príncipe 3,249 3,249 Transportation and logistics 2,101 2,101 Upgrade project of the Sines and Matosinhos refineries 977 977 Underground storage of natural gas 26 26 Exploration of oil in Blocks 3 and 4 in Uruguay 7,670 (7,670) Exploration in Timor 2,645 (2,645) Other projects 24,534 24,534 2,977,154 (327,607) 2,649,547 The Exploration & Production segment is divided in three stages: Exploration, Development and Production. The transition from the exploration stage to the development stage is related to the discovery of commercially viable reserves and the transition to the production stage is related with the beginning of the production process. As mentioned in the accounting policies, Galp capitalises the investment expenses in all three stages, subjecting them to periodic impairment tests. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 275 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 12.7 Exploration segment assets The table below, details the Assets in progress and Fixed assets for the exploration and production segment: 2016 unit: €k Assets in progress Fixed assets Signature bonus Assets in exploration Assets in development Financial interests Others Signature bonus Assets in exploration Assets in development Financial interests Others Total Investment Impairment Investment Impairment Investment Impairment Investment Impairment Investment Investment Impairment Investment Impairment Investment Impairment Investment Impairment Investment Angola 49 265,406 (108,557) 555,788 (101,280) 17,931 23,320 (567) 110,870 1,199,626 (20,501) 1,724 288 1,944,097 Brazil 14,221 (110) 481,280 (21,105) 888,238 (8,133) 149,492 (660) 1,378 75,470 1,196,106 56,796 1 2,832,974 East Timor 2,645 (2,645) 1,993 (1,993) Namibia 45,270 (40,661) 38,327 (38,327) 4,609 Mozambique 2,107 276,094 (7,364) 6,562 30,358 4,445 55 312,257 Portugal 3,368 (3,316) 61,969 (12,095) 10,625 60,551 Uruguai 7,670 (7,670) Sao Tome 949 3,249 4,198 TOTAL 20,694 (3,426) 1,143,583 (200,097) 1,450,588 (109,413) 208,406 (660) 69,463 (40,887) 186,340 2,395,732 (20,501) 58,520 344 5,158,686 2015 unit: €k Assets in progress Fixed assets Signature bonus Assets in exploration Assets in development Financial interests Others Signature bonus Assets in exploration Assets in development Financial interests Others Total Investment Impairment Investment Impairment Investment Impairment Investment Impairment Investment Investment Impairment Investment Impairment Investment Impairment Investment Impairment Investment Angola 2 249,312 (51,682) 361,202 (17,544) 5,348 22,516 (549) 74,921 1,270,886 1,669 279 1,916,360 Brazil 8,778 382,867 (14,189) 643,241 (2,609) 77,976 (33) 2,964 4,722 (142) 69,840 526,482 39,438 4,341 1,743,676 East Timor 2,597 (2,597) 1,993 (1,993) Morocco 115 (115) 81,658 (81,658) 6,889 (6,889) Namibia 39,751 (39,751) 37,108 (37,108) Mozambique 2,040 253,447 (7,184) 20,318 4,304 54 272,979 Portugal 68,183 (8,753) 59,430 Uruguai 7,670 (7,670) TOTAL 10,935 (115) 1,085,485 (213,484) 1,004,443 (20,153) 103,642 (33) 2,964 77,532 (46,682) 144,761 1,797,368 41,107 4,674 3,992,445 276 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 277 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Expenses capitalised as assets in the exploration and evaluation stage, for which proven reserves do not currently exist, are as follows: 2016 unit: €k Gross Assets Costs Cash flow Signature Annual Annual Geography Exploration Interests Total Impairments Net Assets bonus impairment investment Angola 567 50,373 50,940 (50,940) 121 (127) Brazil 34,668 510,599 50,682 595,949 (214,097) 381,852 (25,067) 45,349 East Timor 1,993 2,645 4,638 (4,638) (48) 48 Morocco (282) 296 Namibia 38,327 45,269 83,597 (78,987) 4,610 4,215 Mozambique 6,552 276,095 30,358 313,005 (7,366) 305,639 38 20,905 Portugal 3,368 55,312 10,625 69,304 (8,753) 60,551 (748) Uruguay 7,670 7,670 (7,670) Sao Tome 949 3,249 4,198 4,198 3,181 Total 86,424 951,212 91,665 1,129,301 (372,451) 756,851 (25,238) 73,119 2015 unit: €k Gross Assets Costs Cash flow Signature Annual Annual Geography Exploration Interests Total Impairments Net Assets bonus impairment investment Angola 549 48,895 49,444 (49,444) (39,953) 454 Brazil 22,223 390,512 25,476 438,211 (114,340) 323,870 (58,757) 108,658 East Timor 1,993 2,597 4,590 (4,590) (32) 32 Morocco 7,004 81,658 88,662 (88,662) (16,556) 9,983 Namibia 38,326 38,533 76,859 (76,477) 382 Mozambique 6,344 253,501 20,318 280,163 (7,183) 272,980 (732) 55,174 Portugal 3,368 55,138 9,678 68,184 (8,753) 59,431 72 6,847 Uruguay 7,579 90 7,669 (7,670) (5,975) 70 Total 79,807 878,413 55,562 1,013,782 (357,119) 656,663 (121,933) 181,218 12.8 Stress analysis for impairment tests over tangible and intangible assets Exploration & Production segment Tangible and intangible assets of the E&P segment were subject to impairment tests at year end, being also tested the sensitivity of the carrying value of the main assets to the Brent fluctuation. 278 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Assumptions: value recognised in Block 14/14k also includes the impairment of assets in the exploration phase, resulting The forecast of Brent prices considered in impairment from the review carried out in the year to Galp’s asset studies, was based on the estimates of the main brokers portfolio, from which it was concluded that there is a and peers of the Company (see table below), being the oil low probability that these assets will be developed in the resources and reserves considered for accounting purposes medium term. referred in note 31. The remaining impairments recorded in the year represent Year 2017 Year 2018 Year 2019 Year 2020 Year 2021 costs incurred in the drilling of wells that had no discovery of hydrocarbon reserves (26.1 million Euros Amazonas), 50$ /bbl 55$ /bbl 60$ /bbl 65$ /bbl 70$ /bbl as well as the value of the acquisition of seismic data (3.2 million Euros) under which the investment will not be The analysis considered a future average exchange rate executed. of €/USD of 1.1 and USD/BRL of 3.64 and a discount rate of 10.8%, which reflects the WACC of the E&P Business Refining & Marketing segment Unit, Calculated on a USD basis. Impairment tests were carried out on the stations From the impairment tests carried out, the safety network in Portugal and Spain accompanied by a stress margin to the carrying value per CGU, of the regions in analysis. which Galp operates (Angola, Mozambique and Brazil) is positive. For the two CGU, stations network in Portugal and in Spain, the stress analysis was based on the following It should be noted that the safety margin in Angola is fundamental assumptions: close to zero, a direct consequence of the impairment recognised for the assets in production in Block 14/14k • A negative variation of Cash flows by 10%; resulting from the impairment tests carried out at the end • An increase in the discount rate by 1%. of 2016. We believe that these two assumptions represent a good In the context of the stress analysis carried out to test stress test for impairment tests. the impact of Brent’s volatility on the value of the main E&P assets, it is possible to summarize the following The retail station network in Portugal presents a positive conclusions: safety margin, and if subject to a sensitivity analysis taking into account the aforementioned assumptions • Angola: a 10% reduction in the Brent price has a does not reveal potential future impairments. The cashnegative impact on the impairment test, resulting in generating unit was subject to a discount rate of 7.3%. a potential impairment of approximately 142 million Euros in specific cash-generating units (CGUs). This The retail station network in Spain presents, after the impairment may occur in a future scenario of reduction recognition of the Goodwill impairment (please see Note of the Brent assumption, in which the remaining 11), a positive safety margin. In a sensitivity analysis to variables of the analysis would remain immutable (eg the network in Spain, considering the aforementioned Opex, Capex); assumptions, a potential additional impairment exists to the one recognised in the amount of 117 million Euros. • Mozambique and Brazil: the 10% reduction in the Brent This impairment can occur if the negative assumptions price does not represent a risk of potential impairments are noted in the future, considering a scenario where in the CGU of these geographies; the remaining variables of the analysis would remain immutable. The cash-generating unit was subject to a During the year 2016, impairments were recognised in discount rate of 7.3%. Angola (Euro 151.4 million Block 14/14k) and Brazil (Euro 10.7 million Sergipe). These impairments were the Several obsolete assets were identified in the refining result of a downward revision of the estimated future segment during the scheduled stoppage period, production of these assets as a result of the deterioration which suffered an individual impairment of €7,851k. in the short-medium term of the macroeconomic scenario These assets were later dismantled. From the analysis and of the investment conditions. The impairment Annual Report and Accounts 2016 279 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance made to the refining cash-generating unit, the referred CGU has a positive safety margin. A sensitivity analysis was performed on the impairment test, considering assumptions identical to those used for the impairment tests of the network. The result of this sensitivity analysis was positive. The cash‑generating unit was subject to a discount rate of 8.2%. 13. Government grants As of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 the amounts to be recognised as government grants in future years amount to €7,492 k and €253,679 k, respectively (Note 24). The significant decrease in government grants is related with the changes in consolidation perimeter noted in the year 2016 (Note 3). During the year ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 government grants of €8,414 k and €12,618 k, respectively, were recognised in the income statement (Note 5). 14. Other receivables The non-current and current caption “Other receivables” as of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 is detailed as follows: unit: €k December 2016 December 2015 Captions Current Non-current Current Non-current State and Other Public Entities: Value Added Tax Reimbursement requested 4,376 539 ISP Tax on Oil Products 237 558 Others 73,463 16,769 Loans granted to Sinopec Group (Note 28) 610,003 722,936 Non operated blocks 143,663 Other receivables associates, joint ventures and other related parties (Note 28) 20,802 5,821 90 Underlifting 19,333 27,792 Suppliers debtor balances 16,619 7,536 Advances to suppliers 7,024 2,457 Means of payment 6,618 7,276 Operated blocks 5,459 18,817 Personnel 1,797 1,588 Guarantees 1,285 11,663 12,541 ISP Tax on Oil Products Congeners credit 685 Loans to costumers 531 839 124 1,355 Subsoil levies 182 24,750 28,068 Advances to tangible and intangible suppliers 25 99,795 280 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements unit: €k December 2016 December 2015 Captions Current Non-current Current Non-current Carry from public participations interests 22,937 Spanish Bitumen process 385 Ceding rights contract of telecommunications infrastructures usage 86 Loans to associates, joint ventures and other related parties (Note 28) 38,375 30,271 Other receivables 35,207 23,342 37,723 28,294 947,309 74,219 1,010,430 88,078 Accrued income: Sales and services rendered not yet invoiced Natural Gas 56,582 109,809 Sales and services rendered not yet invoiced Electrivity 45,070 28,698 Sales and services rendered not yet invoiced 21,672 7,903 Adjustment to tariff deviation pass through ERSE regulation 21,006 29,424 Accrued management and structure costs 2,158 7,581 Adjustment to tariff deviation Regulated revenue ERSE regulation 1,682 776 23,231 17,551 Commercial discount on purchases 1,042 884 Compensation for the uniform tariff 882 1,032 Sale of finished goods to be invoiced by the service stations 820 724 Accrued interest 360 1,691 Financial neutrality regulation ERSE 6,102 Adjustment to tariff deviation Energy tariff ERSE regulation 61,639 61,639 Other accrued income 11,824 8,531 63 163,098 62,415 225,610 79,253 Deferred charges: Energy sector extraordinary contribution 21,740 85,923 23,370 107,663 Catalyser charges 13,983 20,070 Deferred charges external supplies and services 6,025 7,020 Prepaid rent 4,942 4,309 Prepaid rent relating to service stations concession contracts 2,928 25,277 2,894 25,633 Interest and other financial costs 1,978 180 Prepaid insurance 1,044 1,033 Retirement benefits (Note 23) 271 176 Other deferred costs 11,125 183 13,076 99 63,765 111,654 71,952 133,571 1,174,172 248,288 1,307,992 300,902 Impairment of other receivables (8,355) (2,753) (8,096) (2,753) 1,165,817 245,535 1,299,896 298,149 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 281 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The movement occurred in the caption “Impairment of other receivables” for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 was as follows: unit: €k Other receivables Initial balance Increases Decreases Utilisation Adjustments Ending balance 2016 Other receivables Current 8,096 306 (37) (104) 97 8,355 Other receivables Non-Current 2,753 2,753 10,849 306 (37) (104) 97 11,108 2015 Other receivables Current 7,406 1,215 (239) (306) 20 8,096 Other receivables Non-Current 2,753 2,753 10,159 1,215 (239) (306) 20 10,849 The increase and decrease in the caption “Impairment of partners during the exploration period. Farm-in contracts other receivables” in the net amount of €269 k is included agreed with partners consider that, during the exploration in the caption “Provisions and impairment losses on period, the Group is responsible for investment through cash receivables” (Note 6). calls and requested by the operator to the partner up to their participation limit. The caption “Loans granted” includes the amount of €610,003 k (US$643,005 k) relating to a loan granted The caption “Means of payment” amounting to €6,618 k by the Group to Tip Top Energy, S.A.R.L. (Company from refers to amounts receivable for sales made with Visa/debit Sinopec Group) on 28 March 2012, renewable every three cards, which as of 31 December 2016 were pending receipt. months until September 2017, remunerated at a threemonth LIBOR interest rate plus a spread and registered as a The amount of €20,802 k recorded in the current and current asset. See additionally note 28. non-current caption Other receivables– associates, joint ventures, affiliates and related entities refers to amounts During the year ended 31 December 2016 an amount of receivable from non-consolidated companies. €5,446 k has been recognised under the caption Interest relating to loans granted to related companies (Note 28). The caption “Guarantees” amounting to €12,948 k includes the non-current balance of €11,663 k from payments on The amount of €19,333 k recorded in the caption “Other account and negotiated guarantees to support transactions receivables – underlifting” represents the amounts to be and operations in the Spanish and French electricity received by the Group for the lifting of barrels of crude oil markets. below the production quota (underlifting) and is valued at the lower of the market price at the sale date and the The amount of €16,619 k recognised in the caption market price on 31 December 2016. “Suppliers debtor balances” are mainly related to credit notes issued by suppliers and to be received in 2017. The amount of €143,663 k presented in the caption “Other receivable – Non-operated Blocks”, includes the amount of €29,605 k related to carry from public participation interests, referring to amounts receivable from public 282 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The caption “Accrued income sales and services rendered not yet invoiced, amounting to €101,652 k, is mainly related with the billing of natural gas and electricity consumption in December, to be issued to customers in January of the following year and is detailed as follows: unit: €k Company Total Natural gas Electricity Galp Gás Natural, S.A. 49,855 49,855 Galp Power, S.A. 34,986 28 34,958 Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. 4,651 4,651 Portcogeração, S.A. 4,695 4,695 Lisboagás Comercialização, S.A. 2,064 2,064 Galp Energia España, S.A. 2,846 2,484 362 Lusitaniagás Comercialização, S.A. 687 687 Setgás Comercialização, S.A. 527 527 Transgás, S.A. 937 937 Agrocer-Sociedade de Cogeração do Oeste S.A. 400 400 Carriço Cogeração Sociedade de Geração de Electricidade e Calor, S.A. 4 4 101,652 56,582 45,070 The caption “Accrued income sale of finished goods to In general terms, in the case of the pass through activities: be invoiced by the service stations” amounting to €820 k • for RLRs, they charge to the end customers the tariffs for relates to consumptions up until 31 December 2016 through access to the transport and distribution infrastructures the Galp Frota loyalty card scheme and which will be (UGS, URT and URD tariffs), which pass on the ONGDNs invoiced in the following months. (the fraction of transportation access fee is then passed by these to REN) and the cost of natural gas is simply Expenses recorded in deferred costs amounting to €28,205 k, passed on to the Retailer of Last Resort Wholesaler relate to prepayments of rents regarding service station (RLRW) in the Energy Tariff. leases and are registered as a cost over the respective concession period, which varies between 17 and 32 years. There are core activities and pass through activities within the Retailers of Last Resort (RLR). This classification relates to the nature of which. In the first there is “value creation” intrinsic to the company. In the second activity the company is limited to billing its customers, and to pass on to the companies the amounts due for their core activities. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 283 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The caption Accrued income – Adjustments to tariff deviation – Energy tariff – ERSE regulation, contains the following detail: unit: €k Wholesale gas commercialisation activity Energy Tariff (CURG) 2015 Variation 2016 Gas Year 2008-2009 First half of Gas Year 2008-2009 (31.12.2008) 32,325 32,325 Second half of Gas Year 2008-2009 (30.06.2009) 28,531 28,531 Adjustment to regulated tariff Real Gas Year 2008-2009 6,535 6,535 Regulated Revenue in respect of Gas Year 2008-2009 Amortisation difference (65,375) (65,375) 2,016 2,016 Second half of 2009 Second half of 2009 8,314 8,314 8,314 8,314 Fiscal Year of 2010 First half of 2010 14,651 14,651 Second half of 2010 987 987 15,638 15,638 Fiscal Year of 2011 First half of 2011 21,154 21,154 Second half of 2011 12,427 12,427 33,581 33,581 Fiscal Year of 2012 First half of 2012 (4,224) (4,224) Second half of 2012 563 563 (3,661) (3,661) Fiscal Year of 2013 First half of 2013 (657) (657) Second half of 2013 (1,074) (1,074) (1,731) (1,731) Fiscal Year of 2014 First half of 2014 (6,275) (6,275) Second half of 2014 (4,164) (4,164) (10,439) (10,439) Fiscal Year of 2015 First half of 2015 821 821 Second half of 2015 1,269 1,269 2,090 2,090 Fiscal Year of 2016 First half of 2016 (1,221) (1,221) Second half of 2016 (1,120) (1,120) (2,341) (2,341) 45,808 (2,341) 43,467 Accrued charges (Note 24) (15,831) (2,341) (18,172) Accrued Income (Note 14) 61,639 61,639 45,808 (2,341) 43,467 284 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The amount of €43,467 k relates to the cumulative Galp recorded €61,639 k in non-current assets as of difference between the natural gas acquisition cost from 31 December, 2016, relating to the energy tariff deviation, the Group’s suppliers and regulated tariffs defined by which will be recovered in accordance with the time ERSE for each Gas Year, applied in the billing to customers. schedule defined by ERSE. Presently, since the This difference will be recovered by the tariff reviews of Gas Year 2014-2015, this process is interrupted. the following years, in accordance with the mechanism established by ERSE. These amounts are to be paid at The caption Accrued income – Adjustments to tariff twelve months Euribor plus a spread defined annually deviation – Regulated revenue – ERSE regulation, includes by ERSE. the following detail: unit: €k Adjustment Regulated between the Adjustment Revenue in estimated to regulated respect of Distribution and commercialisation regulated Other Changes in 2015 revenue Gas Year 2016 of natural gas revenue and reclassification perimeter Real Gas Year Amortisation/ the revenues (Note 5) Reversal invoiced (Note 5) (Note 5) Fiscal Year of 2013 First half of 2013 (2,221) (2,221) Second half of 2013 22,638 22,638 Adjusment to Fiscal year 2013 (809) (809) (1,618) Regulated Revenue Fiscal Year (7,747) (7,748) (15,495) 2013 Reversal Transfer (3,304) (3,304) 8,557 (809) (7,748) Fiscal Year of 2014 First half of 2014 (746) (221) (194) (1,161) Second half of 2014 10,208 931 (12,524) (1,385) Adjusment to Fiscal year 2014 (419) (1,542) 1,959 (2) Regulated Revenue Fiscal Year 3 (1,923) 3,549 1,629 2014 Reversal Transfer 6,921 (3,946) (2,975) 15,967 (1,542) (1,923) (3,236) (10,185) (919) Fiscal Year of 2015 First half of 2015 (10,236) 937 9,644 345 Second half of 2015 6,381 (1,174) (11,137) (5,930) Transfer (3,620) 3,946 (326) (7,475) 3,709 (1,819) (5,585) Fiscal Year of 2016 First half of 2016 (16,529) 13,690 (2,839) Second half of 2016 14,819 (17,447) (2,628) Transfer (1,710) (3,757) (5,467) 17,049 (2,351) (9,671) (1,710) 473 (15,761) (11,971) Accrued charges (Note 24) (23,733) 6,133 (18,659) 9,880 11,950 (14,429) Accrued Income (Note 14) 40,782 (2,351) (15,804) 16,949 (9,407) (27,711) 2,458 17,049 (2,351) (9,671) (1,710) 473 (15,761) (11,971) Annual Report and Accounts 2016 285 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The caption Adjustment to tariff deviation – regulated As mentioned in Note 2.14 the total amount to be recovered revenue amounting to €11,971 k is related to the difference was included by ERSE in the regulated revenues to be between the estimated regulated revenue published for recovered in the 2016-2017 Gas Year, thus the Group the regulated activity and the revenue for the real invoices recognised the reversal of the amount of the approved tariff issued (Note 2.14). These amounts are remunerated at the deviation in the income statement. twelve month Euribor rate, plus a spread defined annually by ERSE. Items contained in Section IX of the Tariff Regulations: “Compensation for the application of tariff uniformity of the The amounts to be paid or received for each Gas Year are Tariff Regulations” defines the Compensations and Transfers presented for each activity at the net amount, depending between Regulated Entities. These amounts, enshrined in on their nature in each Gas Year, as this is the manner in the annual publication of ERSE for Regulated Revenues are which the regulated revenue deviations allowed by ERSE are designed to ensure the recovery of the regulated revenues approved. and ensure economic and financial equilibrium for the Regulated Entities. From 2010, financial statements for “ERSE Entidade Reguladora do Sector Energético”, started to be reported Finally, it should be noted that the ERSE has established in accordance with the calendar year. Consequently the this compensation and transfer mechanism to allow the opening balances have been reclassified to reflect the establishment of a uniform national tariff, since from the calendar year. consumption structure in each distribution area (absolute size of the consumption and weight on the domestic and During the year ended 31 December, 2016, industrial sectors) there are distributors which are not able the differences for the Group’s Regulated Revenue for to achieve a recovery of the revenue (“insufficient” tariff), the calendar year 2014 were settled, amounting to while in others there is an overrecovery (“high” tariff). Thus, a payable amount of €919 k. As the accrual made is in the latter case (“payers”) the excess income recovered is lower than the amount agreed, the Group recognised in transferred to the former (“receivers”), ensuring a balanced the caption Rendered services the respective decrease recovery of the regulated revenues. amounting to €1,542 k. Accruals for compensations related to the uniform tariff amount to €882 k. The following is an ageing schedule of Group Other receivables as of 31 December 2016 and 2015: unit: €k Ageing other Overdue up Overdue up Overdue up Overdue up Overdue up Overdue over Not overdue Total receivables to 90 days to 180 days to 365 days to 545 days to 730 days 730 days 2016 Gross 1,411,598 358 10 25 998 2,656 6,815 1,422,460 amount Impairments (5,278) (3) (27) (12) (5,788) (11,108) 1,406,320 358 10 22 971 2,644 1,027 1,411,352 2015 Gross 1,584,106 8,385 1,840 4,332 450 1,115 8,666 1,608,894 amount Impairments (2,754) (576) (286) (581) (6,652) (10,849) 1,581,352 8,385 1,840 3,756 164 534 2,014 1,598,045 The Group has included as amounts not overdue, balances related to other receivables that are not in default and the captions of accrued income and deferred charges amounting to €400,932 k and €510,386 k in 2016 and 2015, respectively. The amounts of other receivables that are overdue but for which no impairment has been recognised correspond to credits which have payment agreements, are covered by credit insurance or for which there is an expectation of partial or total settlement. Galp holds collateral guarantees on receivables, namely bank guarantees and security deposits, which as of 31 December 2016, amount to approximately €105,320 k. 286 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 15. Trade receivables The caption “Trade receivables” as of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 includes the following detail: unit: €k December 2016 December 2015 Captions Current Non-current Current Non-current Trade receivables current accounts 1,034,498 1,081 797,927 24,162 Trade receivables doubtful accounts 187,818 202,120 Trade receivables notes receivable 1,731 4,261 1,224,047 1,081 1,004,308 24,162 Impairment on trade receivables (182,977) (199,428) 1,041,070 1,081 804,880 24,162 The non-current debt included in the caption “Trade receivables current accounts”, amounting to €1,081 k and €24,162 k for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, respectively, relates to debts payment agreements from customers with maturities over one year. The movements in the caption “Impairment of trade receivables” for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: unit: €k Impairment Changes in Assets held Ending on trade Initial balance Increases Decreases Utilisation Adjustments consolidation for sale balance receivables perimeter 2016 199,428 46,988 (26,050) (35,538) (541) (142) (1,168) 182,977 2015 228,828 30,238 (16,771) (14,259) (565) (28,043) 199,428 The increase and decrease in the caption “Impairment of trade receivables” in the net amount of €20,938 k was recorded in the caption “Provision and impairment losses on receivables” (Note 6). The “Changes in consolidation perimeter” is related with the fact that Galp has abdicated of the full control of Galp Gás Natural Distribuição Group, being the companies which comprise it considered as joint ventures (Note 3). The caption Assets held for sale corresponds to the associate Galp Gambia, Limited, which is in disposal process (Note 3). The following is an ageing schedule of Group trade receivables as of 31 December 2016 and 2015: unit: €k Ageing trade Overdue up Overdue up Overdue up Overdue up Overdue up Overdue over Not overdue Total receivables to 90 days to 180 days to 365 days to 545 days to 730 days 730 days 2016 Gross 865,757 90,745 58,294 11,866 7,046 13,042 178,378 1,225,128 amount Impairments (7,712) (33,344) (7,693) (6,028) (9,682) (118,518) (182,977) 865,757 83,033 24,950 4,173 1,018 3,360 59,860 1,042,151 2015 Gross 536,435 188,505 19,831 80,291 15,516 14,342 173,550 1,028,470 amount Impairments (1,187) (3,968) (16,794) (7,830) (9,461) (160,188) (199,428) 536,435 187,318 15,863 63,497 7,686 4,881 13,362 829,042 Overdue balances which have not been subject to adjustments are in respect of receivables for which there are payment agreements or for which there is a total or partial expectation of settlement. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 287 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The average days receivable of Galp not overdue trade receivables balance is lower than 30 days. 16. Inventories Inventories as of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 are detailed as follows: unit: €k Captions December 2016 December 2015 Raw, subsidiary and consumable materials: Crude oil 142,111 126,476 Other raw materials 60,260 48,435 Raw material in transit 59,407 30,850 261,778 205,761 Impairment on raw, subsidiary and consumable materials (11,701) (11,639) 250,077 194,122 Finished and semi-finished products: Finished products 209,141 141,965 Semi-finished products 195,879 188,573 Finished products in transit 2,667 3,986 407,687 334,524 Impairment on finished and semi-finished products (32) (3,677) 407,655 330,847 Work in progress 43 156 43 156 Goods 212,342 359,849 Goods in transit 254 1,477 212,596 361,326 Impairment on goods (1,447) (13,933) 211,149 347,393 868,924 872,518 288 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The detail of the inventory caption by type of product can be broken down as follows: Detail of inventories per type of product December 2016 December 2015 Crude 197,536 155,324 Other raw materials 14,728 11,781 Gasoline 94,331 80,344 Diesel 245,611 293,347 Jet fuel 56,355 65,753 Fuel 38,654 41,390 LPG 11,722 12,958 Base oil and lubricants 29,659 21,115 Chemicals, solvents and aromatics 16,865 16,349 Naphthas 18,711 16,623 Natural gas 51,058 76,460 Special Taxes ( ISP in Portugal and IIEE in Spain) 23,774 26,466 Store products 6,176 6,347 Various materials 27,763 21,036 Petroleum products basket 28,969 23,159 Others 7,010 4,066 Total inventories 868,924 872,518 As of 31 December 2016, the caption “Goods” amounting to €212,342 k, mainly relates to €51,058 k of natural gas in pipelines and crude oil derivative products of the subsidiaries Galp Energia España, S.A., Petrogal Moçambique, Lda. and Empresa Nacional de Combustíveis – Enacol, S.A.R.L. amounting to €133,342 k, €7,272 k and €5,823 k, respectively. As of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, the Group’s liability to competitors in relation to strategic reserves, which are satisfied by sales in advance, amounted to €34,644 k and €30,002 k respectively (Note 24). The subsidiary Petróleos de Portugal – Petrogal, S.A. has a contract with the national entity for the fuel market (“ENMC”) for the storage and exchange of crude oil and for the storage of refined products, for the national strategic reserve. The ENMC’s crude oil and refined products are stored in Petrogal’s installations, in such a way that allows ENMC to audit them whenever it so wishes, in terms of quantity and quality. In accordance with the contract, Petrogal must, when so required by ENMC, exchange the stored crude oil for refined products, receiving in exchange an amount representing the refining margin as of the date of exchange. Crude oil and refined products stored in the installations of Petróleos de Portugal – Petrogal, S.A. under this contract are not reflected in the Group financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 289 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The movement in Inventories impairment captions for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 is as follows: unit: €k Changes in Ending Captions Initial balance Increases Decreases Utilisation Adjustments consolidation balance perimeter 2016 Impairment on raw, subsidiary and 11,639 412 (195) (155) 11,701 consumable materials Impairment on finished and semi-finished 3,677 641 (4,254) (32) 32 products Impairment on goods 13,933 192 (12,816) (63) 201 1,447 29,249 1,245 (17,265) (63) 169 (155) 13,180 2015 Impairment on raw, subsidiary and 44,466 (32,803) (24) 11,639 consumable materials Impairment on finished and semi-finished 40,781 395 (37,592) 93 3,677 products Impairment on goods 29,074 389 (15,469) (61) 13,933 114,321 784 (85,864) (24) 32 29,249 The net balance of increases and decreases, amounting to €16,020 k was recorded against the caption “Cost of sales Impairment in inventories” (Note 6) in the income statement. This decrease is mainly related to the evolution of market prices. 17. Other financial investments Other financial investments as at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 are detailed as follows: unit: €k December 2016 December 2015 Captions Current Non-current Current Non-current Financial derivatives at fair value through profit and loss (Note 27) Swaps and Options over Commodities 18,922 2,246 4,458 1,041 Currency swaps 31 0 0 0 18,953 2,246 4,458 1,041 Other Financial Assets Other 24,156 23,389 24,156 23,389 18,953 26,402 4,458 24,430 As at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, the derivative financial instruments are valued at their fair value on those dates (Note 27). 290 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 18. Cash and cash equivalents For the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 the caption “Cash and cash equivalents” is detailed as follows: Captions December 2016 December 2015 Cash 5,066 3,589 Cash deposits 218,564 263,519 Term deposits 33,427 5,866 Other negotiable securities 68,604 69,147 Other treasury investments 707,837 788,485 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of financial position 1,033,498 1,130,606 Bank overdrafts (Note 22) (110,255) (85,755) Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flow 923,243 1,044,851 The caption “Other negotiable securities” mainly includes: • €63,436 k regarding bank deposit certificates; • €4,001 k of electricity futures, CO2 futures and futures over commodities (Brent) (Note 27); and • €1,163 k of futures over natural gas with physical delivery. These futures are recorded in this caption due to their high liquidity and reduced risk of loss of value (Note 27). The caption “Other treasury investments” includes investments with maturities of up to three months, in respect of the following Group companies: unit: €k Companies December 2016 December 2015 Galp Energia E&P, B.V. 572,589 666,662 Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V. 92,970 91,853 Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. 20,586 Petrogal Brasil, S.A. 11,304 589 Sempre a Postos Produtos Alimentares e Utilidades, Lda. 4,000 3,700 CLCM Companhia Logística de Combustíveis da Madeira, S.A. 4,000 6,800 Galp Energia España, S.A. 1,423 Galp Energia Brasil, S.A. 601 Galp Exploração Serviços do Brasil, Lda. 364 1,881 Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. Sucursal en España 13,000 Beiragás Companhia de Gás das Beiras, S.A. 4,000 707,837 788,485 During 2016, no restrictions or constraints, besides those that result from the law itself, regarding the use or distribution of funds presented as Cash and cash equivalents, in its various geographies. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 291 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 19. Share capital Capital structure The share capital of Galp is comprised of 829,250,635 shares, with nominal value of 1 Euro each and fully subscribed Of these, 771,171,121, (93% of the share capital), are listed on the Euronext Lisbon stock exchange. The remaining 58,079,514 shares, representing 7% of the share capital, are indirectly held by the Portuguese State through Parpública – Participações Públicas, SGPS, S.A. (Parpública) and are not listed. With the sale of 5% in the share capital of Galp by Amorim Energia, B.V., completed in September 2016, the free float of the Company increased from 54.66% to 59.66%. The qualifying holdings in Galp share capital are calculated in accordance with article 16 and 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code. In accordance with these articles, shareholders have to notify the Company whenever their shareholding reaches, exceeds or is reduced in relation to certain limits. These limits are 2%, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 1/3, 50%, 2/3 and 90% of the voting rights. The Company’s shareholding structure as of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 was held as follows: 2016 Number of shares % of capital % of voting rights Amorim Energia, B.V. 276,472,161 33.34% 33.34% Parpública Participações Públicas, SGPS, S.A. 58,079,514 7.00% 7.00% Free float 494,698,960 59.66% 59.66% Total 829,250,635 100.00% 2015 Number of shares % of capital % of voting rights Amorim Energia, B.V. 317,934,693 38.34% 38.34% Parpública – Participações Públicas, SGPS, S.A. 58,079,514 7.00% 7.00% Free float 453,236,428 54.66% 54.66% Total 829,250,635 100.00% 292 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 20. Reserves As of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 the captions “Translation reserves”, “Hedging reserves” and “Other reserves” are detailed as follows: unit: €k Captions December 2016 December 2015 Translation reserves: Reserves financial allocations (quasi capital) (243,076) (426,523) Reserves Tax on financial allocations (quasi capital) (Note 9) 94,365 156,737 (148,711) (269,786) Reserves Translation of financial statements 547,366 265,178 Reserves Goodwill currency update (Note 11) 5,190 4,375 403,845 (233) Hedging reserves: Reserves financial derivatives (Note 27) 5,254 (1,920) Reserves Deferred tax on financial derivatives (Note 9) (1,350) 254 3,904 (1,666) Other reserves: Legal reserves 165,850 165,850 Free distribution reserves 27,977 27,977 Special reserves (Note 3) 20 (443) Reserves Capital increase in subsidiaries Petrogal Brasil, S.A. and Galp Sinopec Brazil 2,493,088 2,493,088 Services, B.V. Reserves Increase of 10.7532% in 2012 and 0.3438% in 2013 in the participation (2,027) in the share capital of the subsidiary Lusitaniagás Companhia de Gas do Centro, S.A. Reserves Increase of 33.05427% in 2015 in the participation in the share capital (571) of the subsidiary Setgás Sociedade de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. (Note 3) Reserves Increase of 33.0541% in 2015 in the participation in the share capital 450 450 of the subsidiary Setgás Comercialização, S.A. Reserves Increase of 99% in the participation in the share capital of the subsidiary (31) (31) Enerfuel, S.A. 2,687,354 2,684,293 3,095,103 2,682,394 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 293 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Translation reserves: The caption “Translation reserve” reflects the exchange rate fluctuations: i) €547,366 k relating to positive exchange differences resulting from the translation of financial statements in foreign currency to Euros; unit: €k Exchange rate as at Exchange rate as at Translation reserve by currency: Initial balance Variation Ending balance 31 December 2015 31 December 2016 Gambian Dalasi 42.19 (799) 250 (549) 44.10 United States Dollars 1.09 564,811 144,757 709,568 1.05 Cape Verde Escudos 110.27 (69) (69) 110.27 CFA Francs 655.96 (202) 2 (200) 655.96 Angolan Kwanzas 147.11 (4,796) (3,551) (8,347) 184.48 Swazi Lilangeni 16.78 (1,212) 1,039 (173) 14.42 Mozambican Meticais 50.50 (11,389) (10,069) (21,458) 74.94 Brazilian Reais 4.31 (281,216) 149,739 (131,477) 3.43 Moroccan Dirhams 10.75 50 21 71 10.61 265,178 282,188 547,366 ii) €148,711 k relating to negative foreign exchange rate differences on the financial contributions from Galp Exploração and Produção Petrolífera, S.A., Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A., Petrogal Brazil, B.V., Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V. and Winland International Petroleum, S.A.R.L. (W.I.P.) to Petrogal Brasil, S.A. stated in Euros and US Dollars, remunerated and not remunerated, and for which there is no intention of reimbursement, and as such are similar to share capital (quasi capital), thus being considered an integral part of the net investment in that foreign operational unit in accordance with IAS 21; iii) €5,190 k regarding positive exchange rate differences resulting from the translation of Goodwill. Hedging reserves: Hedging reserves reflects changes that have occurred in financial derivatives on commodities (e.g. electricity) from Galp Power and interest rates of joint ventures and associates that are contracted to hedge the price variation and the changes in interest rate on loans (cash flow hedge) and their respective deferred taxes. In the year ended 31 December 2016, the amount of €5,254 k (Note 27) is related with the fair value of financial derivatives cash flow hedges and €1,350 k relates to the respective tax impact (Note 9), and presents the following detail: unit: €k Changes in the Changes in the Hedging reserves December 2016 December 2015 consolidation perimeter period (Note 3.1 d) Reserves financial derivatives (Note 27) Group companies 6,224 (1,129) 7,353 Financial investments in associates and joint ventures (970) (791) 44 (223) 5,254 (1,920) 44 7,130 Reserves deferred tax on financial derivatives Group companies (Note 9) (1,400) 254 (1,654) Financial investments in associates and joint ventures 50 50 (1,350) 254 (1,604) 3,904 (1,666) 44 5,526 294 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Other reserves: Reserves increase of 33.0541% in the capital of the subsidiary Setgás Comercialização, S.A. Legal reserves On 21 December 2015, the Group acquired from In accordance with the Company deeds and Commercial Enagás – SGPS, S.A. 33.0541% of the capital of the Law (“Código das Sociedades Comerciais CSC”), the subsidiary Setgás – Comercialização, S.A., which was Company must transfer a minimum of 5% of its annual net previously controlled by the Group and consolidated using income to a legal reserve until the reserve reaches 20% the full consolidation method. Accordingly, the difference of share capital. The legal reserve cannot be distributed of €450 k between the amount paid and the book value to the shareholders but may, in certain circumstances, of the equity at the acquisition date, was recognised in be used to increase capital or to absorb losses after all the equity under reserves. other reserves have been utilised. In 2015 the caption did not present any changes as the legal reserves have already In the year ended 31 December 2016, due to the changes reached 20% of share capital. in the consolidation perimeter referred on Notes 3.1 d) and 3.2), were recycled to the caption retained earnings Special reserves the following reserves: Of the amount presented in the caption “Special Special reserves reserves”, €20 k relates to a donation to the subsidiary Gasinsular – Combustíveis do Atlântico, S.A. The negative amount of €443 k in the caption “Special reserves” relating to a deferred tax correction – revaluation Reserves – capital increases in Petrogal Brasil, S.A. of equity in the subsidiary Lisboagás GDL – Sociedade and Galp Brasil Services, B.V. Distribuidora de Gás Natural de Lisboa, S.A. On 28 March 2012 Winland International Reserves increase of 11.097% in the capital Petroleum, S.A.R.L. (WIP), a subsidiary of Tip Top Energy, of the subsidiary Lusitaniagás Companhia S.A.R.L. (Sinopec Group), subscribed and paid a capital de Gás do Centro, S.A increase amounting to $4,797,528,044.74 in respect of the subsidiaries Petrogal Brasil, S.A. and Galp Sinopec In July 2012, the Group acquired 10.7532% of the Brazil Services, B.V. (previously denominated Galp Brazil capital of the subsidiary Lusitaniagás – Companhia Services, B.V.), acquiring 30% of the shares and voting de Gás do Centro, S.A., which was previously controlled rights of both Galp subsidiaries. by the Group and consolidated using the full consolidation method. Accordingly, the difference of €1,935 k between As a result of the capital increase operation, the Galp the amount paid and the book value of the equity at the group has retained the operational and financial control acquisition date, was recognised in equity under reserves. of the Companies, for which it now owns 70% of the capital and voting rights, continuing, under IAS 10, to consolidate In May 2013, the Group acquired 0.3438% of the capital their assets by the full consolidation method. Accordingly, of the subsidiary Lusitaniagás – Companhia de Gás the difference of €2,493,088 k between the amount paid do Centro, S.A. and recognised in equity under reserves of the capital increase and the book value of the equity the amount of €92 k due to the difference between the at the date of the increase was recognised in equity under amount paid and the book value. the caption “Reserves”. Reserves increase of 33.05427% in the capital Reserves – increase of 99% in the capital of the subsidiary Setgás Sociedade de Produção of subsidiary Enerfuel, S.A e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. In July 2013, under the terms of a contract signed in On 21 December 2015, the Group acquired 33.05427% August 2012 in which it committed to purchase the remaining of the capital of the subsidiary Setgás Sociedade shares at completion of the plant, the Group acquired 99% de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. from of the capital of Enerfuel, S.A. As the Group already had Enagás – SGPS, S.A., which was already controlled by the control, the Company was already consolidated using the full Group and consolidated using the full consolidation method. consolidation method. Accordingly, the difference of €31 k Accordingly, the negative difference of €571 k between between the amount paid and the book value of equity at the the amount paid and the book value of the equity at the acquisition date, was recognised in equity under reserves. acquisition date, was recognised in equity under reserves. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 295 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 21. Non-controlling interests As of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, the caption “Non-controlling interests” included in equity refers to the following subsidiaries: 2016: unit: €k Retained Changes in the % Non-controlling Assigned Translation % Non-controlling Balance as at Share capital Prior year earnings consolidation Net result Balance as at interest dividends reserves interest December 2015 and reserves results actuarial gains perimeter for the year December 2016 2015 (d) (d) 2016 and losses (Note 3) Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V. 30.00% 1,268,700 41,613 (613) 1,309,700 30.00% Petrogal Brasil, S.A. 30.00% 105,140 (7,382) 108,748 23,540 230,046 30.00% Empresa Nacional de Combustíveis Enacol, S.A.R.L. 51.71% 19,703 (2,538) 10 2,178 19,353 51.71% Petromar Sociedade de Abastecimentos de Combustíveis, Lda. 20.00% 2,874 (490) 956 3,340 20.00% Sempre a Postos Produtos Alimentares e Utilidades, Lda. 25.00% 1,236 (353) 455 1,338 25.00% Saaga Sociedade Açoreana de Armazenagem de Gás, S.A. 32.35% 1,039 (238) (12) 194 983 32.35% CLCM Companhia Logística de Combustíveis da Madeira, S.A. 25.00% 631 (481) 647 797 25.00% Lusitaniagás Companhia de Gás do Centro, S.A. (c) 3.16% 1,999 (225) (1,922) 148 Beiragás Companhia de Gás das Beiras, S.A. (c) 40.50% 17,096 (810) (17,568) 1,282 Setgás Sociedade de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. (c) 0.07% 59 (30) (30) 1 Petrogás Guiné Bissau Importação, Armazenagem e Distribuição de Gás, Lda. (a) 35.00% (191) 14 (177) 35.00% Carriço Cogeração Sociedade de Geração de Electricidade e Calor, S.A. (a) 35.00% (2,240) (204) (2,444) 35.00% 1,416,046 (12,547) 10 150,361 (12) (19,520) 28,598 1,562,936 2015 unit: €k Retained % Non-controlling Assigned Changes in the % Non-controlling Balance as at Share capital Prior year Translation earnings Net result Balance as at interest dividends consolidation interest December 2014 and reserves results reserves actuarial gains for the year December 2015 2014 (f) perimeter 2015 and losses Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V. 30.00% 1,127,303 130,063 11,334 1,268,700 30.00% Petrogal Brasil, S.A. 30.00% 225,790 (5,649) (131,640) 16,639 105,140 30.00% Setgás Sociedade de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. (g) 33.12% 23,804 (7,903) (17,473) 1 1,630 59 0.07% Empresa Nacional de Combustíveis Enacol, S.A.R.L. 51.71% 20,247 (608) 64 19,703 51.71% Beiragás Companhia de Gás das Beiras, S.A. 40.50% 15,653 1,443 17,096 40.50% Petromar Sociedade de Abastecimentos de Combustíveis, Lda. 20.00% 2,622 (457) 1 708 2,874 20.00% Lusitaniagás Companhia de Gás do Centro, S.A. 3.16% 1,771 228 1,999 3.16% Sempre a Postos Produtos Alimentares e Utilidades, Lda. 25.00% 1,180 (297) 353 1,236 25.00% Saaga Sociedade Açoreana de Armazenagem de Gás, S.A. 32.35% 1,100 (218) (5) 162 1,039 32.35% Setgás Comercialização, S.A. (h) 33.05% 999 (664) (448) 113 CLCM Companhia Logística de Combustíveis da Madeira, S.A. 25.00% 643 (493) 481 631 25.00% Carriço Cogeração Sociedade de Geração de Electricidade e Calor, S.A. (e) 35.00% (709) (1,531) (2,240) 35.00% Petrogás Guiné Bissau Importação, Armazenagem e Distribuição de Gás, Lda. (e) 35.00% (219) 28 (191) 35.00% 1,420,184 (8,567) (7,722) (17,925) (1,577) 1 31,652 1,416,046 296 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 297 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 31 December 2016: (a) As of 31 December 2016, the subsidiaries Petrogás Guiné Bissau, Lda. and Carriço Cogeração, S.A. present negative equity. Accordingly, the Group only recognised accumulated losses in the proportion of the capital held in that subsidiaries, reason why the non-controlling interest’s presents a debtor balance. (b) Of the amount of €12,547 k of allocated dividends, €5,152 k were paid in the year ended 31 December 2016. Additionally, the subsidiary Petrogal Brasil, S.A. paid €3,960 k, related to dividends for the year ended 31 December 2015, to the minority shareholder W.I.P. Therefore, in the year ended 31 December 2016 dividends were paid in the amount of €9,112 k to minority shareholders (Note 30). (c) GGND helds financial interests in the subsidiaries i) Lusitaniagás Companhia de Gás do Centro, S.A. (96,842%); ii) Beiragás Companhia de Gás das Beiras, S.A. (59,519%); and iii) Setgás Sociedade de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. Due to the sale of 22.5% of the share capital of the subsidiary GGND and considering the Shareholders’ agreements which establish joint control over the Company (Note 3 and 4.1), Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. and its respective subsidiaries are accounted for under the equity method. The amount of €19.520 corresponds to the non-controlling interests of the subsidiaries, on the disposal date, from which moment Galp ceased to consolidate by the full method and started using the equity method (Note 3.2 and 4.1): unit: €k Setgás Sociedade Beiragás Companhia Lusitaniagás de Produção Equity as of 31 October 2016 de Gás das Beiras, Companhia de Gás e Distribuição S.A. do Centro, S.A. de Gás, S.A. Equity: Share capital 11,580 20,500 9,000 Share premium 7,482 Reserves 2,273 5,266 7,426 Retained earnings 26,491 31,697 19,667 Consolidated net income for the period 3,155 4,587 1,762 Total equity attributable to Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. 43,499 62,050 45,337 Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Intragroup eliminations (117) (1,191) (231) 43,382 60,859 45,106 % Non controlling interests at disposal date 40.50% 3.158% 0.07% Non controlling interests 17,568 1,922 30 (d) Changes in non-controlling interests in the caption translation reserves has the following detail: d1) €41,613 k related to the positive Exchange differences arising from the translation of financial statements of the subsidiary Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V. in United States Dollars (USD) to Euros (EUR); d2) €108,748 k related to the positive Exchange differences from the subsidiary Petrogal Brasil, S.A. of which: • €56,859 k are related to positive Exchange differences resulting from the translation of the financial statements of the subsidiary Petrogal Brasil, S.A. in Brazilian Reais (BRL) to Euros (EUR); 298 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements • €51,889 k related to positive Exchange diferences resulting from the financial allocation of Galp Exploração e Produção Petrolífera, S.A., Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A., Petrogal Brazil B.V., Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V. and Winland International Petroleum, S.A.R.L. (W.I.P.), to Petrogal Brasil, S.A., in Euros and in United States Dollars, remunerated and not remunerated, and for which there is no intention of reimbursement, and as such are similar to share capital (quasi capital), thus being considered an integral part of the net investment in that foreign operational unit in accordance with IAS 21. 31 December 2015: (a) As of 31 December 2015, the subsidiaries Petrogás Guiné Bissau, Lda. and Carriço Cogeração, S.A. present negative equity. Accordingly, the Group only recognised accumulated losses in the proportion of the capital held in those subsidiaries, reason why the non-controlling interest’s presents a debtor balance. (b) Of the assigned dividends amounting to €7,722 k, the amount of €2,693 k was paid in the period ended 31 December 2015. (c) The subsidiary Setgás – Sociedade de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, S.A., which was previously owned at 66.87906%, is now held 99.93333% by the Group. Due to the increase of 33.05427%, a negative amount of €25,376 k, relating to the variation in the percentage held by the Group, was recorded in Non-controlling interests. The negative amount of €7,903 k corresponds to the variation of non-controlling interests in the captions “Share capital”, “Other reserves” and “Share premium” and the negative amount of €17,473 k corresponds to the variation of non-controlling interests in the caption “Retained earnings” until the date of the participation increase. (d) The subsidiary Setgás Comercialização, S.A., which was previously 66.496% owned, is now 100% held by the Group. Due to the increase of 33.0541%, a negative amount of €1,112 k, relating to the variation in the percentage held by the Group, was recorded in Non‑controlling interests. The negative amount of €664 k corresponds to the variation of non-controlling interests in the captions “Share capital”, “Other reserves” and “Share premium” and the negative amount of €448 k corresponds to the variation of non-controlling interests in the caption “Retained earnings” until the date of the participation increase. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 299 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The following table includes the detail of the separate financial statements (i.e. statement of financial position, income statement and cash flow statement) of the entities with non-controlling interests as of 31 December 2016: Statement of financial position: 2016 unit: €k Empresa Nacional Petromar Sociedade Sempre a Postos Saaga Sociedade CLCM Companhia Petrogás Guiné Bissau Carriço Cogeração Galp Sinopec Brazil Assets Petrogal Brasil, S.A. de Combustíveis de Abastecimentos Produtos Alimentares Açoreana de Armazenagem Logística de Combustíveis Importação, Armazenagem Sociedade de Geração de Services, B.V. Enacol, S.A.R.L. de Combustíveis, Lda. e Utilidades, Lda. de Gás, S.A. da Madeira, S.A. e Distribuição de Gás, Lda. Eletricidade e Calor, S.A. Non-current assets: Tangible assets 2,351,702 17,001 4,777 1,127 1,658 29,877 475 4 Goodwill 2 Intangible assets 8,289 59 3 Investments in associates and joint 1,027,313 1,909 493 ventures Other receivables 1,185,846 18,986 1 Deferred tax assets 88,233 348 69 79 70 80 Total non-current assets: 2,213,161 2,467,210 19,317 4,849 1,206 2,222 29,877 475 84 Inventories 19,367 4,886 3,747 2,910 Trade receivables 34 156,064 14,603 1,843 405 663 6,010 4 Other receivables 2,069,197 199,943 6,752 3,107 2,528 273 52 24 37 Income tax receivables 15 290 Cash and cash equivalents 95,601 74,951 16,551 7,075 4,225 1,255 6,538 504 19 Subtotal current assets: 2,164,832 450,325 42,792 15,772 10,068 2,191 12,600 543 350 Total assets: 4,377,993 2,917,535 62,109 20,621 11,274 4,413 42,477 1,018 434 Liabilities: Bank loans 384 18,268 Other payables 1,780,922 105 6,279 228 3,453 Post-employment and other employee 328 benefits liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 12,545 Provisions 93,774 182 75 29 1,669 71 Total non-current liabilities: 1,887,241 182 75 846 26,216 228 3,524 Bank loans and overdrafts 3,217 Trade payables 1,179 16,665 15,554 2,402 5,050 186 3,159 47 1,248 Other payables 135 196,843 8,167 921 306 320 6,628 1,248 2,644 Other financial instruments 1,001 Current income tax payable 11,012 48,963 784 524 564 23 67 Subtotal current liabilities: 12,326 263,472 24,505 3,847 5,920 529 13,071 1,295 3,892 Total liabilities: 12,326 2,150,713 24,687 3,922 5,920 1,375 39,287 1,523 7,416 % Non controlling interests 30.00% 30.00% 51.71% 20.00% 25.00% 32.35% 25.00% 35.00% 35.00% Non controlling interests 1,309,700 230,046 19,353 3,340 1,338 983 797 (177) (2,444) 300 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 301 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2015: unit: €k Petrogás Setgás Petromar CLCM Carriço Cogeração Sempre a Postos Saaga Sociedade Guiné Bissau Sociedade Empresa Nacional Beiragás Sociedade de Lusitaniagás Companhia Sociedade Galp Sinopec Brazil Petrogal Brasil, Produtos Açoreana Importação, Assets de Produção de Combustíveis Companhia de Gás Abastecimentos Companhia de Gás Logística de Geração de Services, B.V. S.A. Alimentares e de Armazenagem Armazenagem e Distribuição Enacol, S.A.R.L. das Beiras, S.A. de Combustíveis, do Centro, S.A. de Combustíveis Eletricidade Utilidades, Lda. de Gás, S.A. e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. Lda. da Madeira, S.A. e Calor, S.A. de Gás, Lda. Non-current assets: Tangible assets 1,501,954 563 18,253 4,789 1,700 1,596 32,871 518 6 Goodwill 2 Intangible assets 8,040 173,655 140 71,239 6 281,207 Investments in associates and joint 896,099 1,572 546 ventures Financial assets available for sale 3 Other receivables 2,426,264 23,710 5,924 2,886 10,684 1 Deferred tax assets 190,541 501 88 105 482 79 61 193 Total non-current assets: 3,322,365 1,724,245 180,646 19,965 74,213 4,900 292,373 1,779 2,204 32,871 518 199 Inventories 12,957 61 6,876 246 3,284 189 2,930 Trade receivables 18 25,804 1,520 16,917 1,826 1,624 1,937 362 665 7,991 8 Other receivables 758,705 106,331 55,751 2,479 5,007 3,432 21,681 2,490 413 61 108 (665) Income tax receivables 2,210 394 333 Cash and cash equivalents 151,444 65,680 14 7,718 5,249 10,281 6,069 3,983 1,301 8,563 342 62 Subtotal current assets: 910,167 212,982 57,346 34,384 12,328 18,621 29,876 9,765 2,379 16,615 450 (262) Total assets: 4,232,532 1,937,227 237,992 54,349 86,541 23,521 322,249 11,544 4,583 49,486 968 (63) Liabilities: Bank loans 2,041 12,225 6,906 384 21,486 Other payables 1,315,617 125,262 20,370 209,517 128 7,055 3,462 Post-employment and other 631 291 179 320 employee benefits liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 32,034 4,527 463 3,288 Provisions 63,037 2,760 1,421 75 4,970 9 15 1,251 68 Total non-current liabilities: 1,410,688 135,221 34,770 75 224,860 9 847 29,792 3,530 Bank loans and overdrafts 8 6,205 439 2,630 2,302 7,687 Trade payables 458 6,362 1,141 13,238 1,256 6,075 4,195 5,505 159 2,663 47 1,134 Other payables 52 169,431 5,931 2,572 4,520 2,626 21,315 318 332 6,755 1,439 1,672 Other financial instruments 277 Current income tax payable 3,012 1,166 1,150 377 6,275 765 31 66 26 Subtotal current liabilities: 3,530 176,070 14,443 16,249 9,556 9,078 34,087 6,588 522 17,171 1,512 2,806 Total liabilities: 3,530 1,586,758 149,664 16,249 44,326 9,153 258,947 6,597 1,369 46,963 1,512 6,336 % Non controlling interests 30.00% 30.00% 0.07% 51.71% 40.50% 20.00% 3.16% 25.00% 32.35% 25.00% 35.00% 35.00% Non controlling interests 1,268,700 105,140 59 19,703 17,096 2,874 1,999 1,236 1,039 631 (191) (2,240) 302 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 303 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Income statement: 2016 unit: €k Petrogás Setgás Petromar CLCM Carriço Cogeração Sempre a Postos Saaga Sociedade Guiné Bissau Galp Sinopec Sociedade Empresa Nacional Beiragás Sociedade de Lusitaniagás Companhia Sociedade Petrogal Brasil, Produtos Açoreana Importação, Brazil Services, de Produção de Combustíveis Companhia de Gás Abastecimentos Companhia de Gás Logística de Geração de S.A. Alimentares e de Armazenagem Armazenagem B.V. e Distribuição Enacol, S.A.R.L. das Beiras, S.A. de Combustíveis, do Centro, S.A. de Combustíveis Eletricidade Utilidades, Lda. de Gás, S.A. e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. Lda. da Madeira, S.A. e Calor, S.A. de Gás, Lda. Total operating income: 15,927 758,581 26,179 89,832 14,004 51,926 52,395 57,312 3,582 9,841 343 54 Total operating costs: 16,163 516,223 17,967 86,119 9,933 45,071 36,395 54,936 2,890 6,670 288 297 Operating result: (236) 242,358 8,212 3,713 4,071 6,855 16,000 2,376 692 3,171 55 (243) Income before taxes: 14,801 216,727 4,297 5,527 3,951 6,413 9,739 2,386 745 2,952 53 (411) Consolidated net income for the year (2,046) 78,468 1,779 4,211 3,168 4,782 4,681 1,819 599 2,590 40 (583) % Non controlling interests 30.00% 30.00% 0.00% 51.71% 0.00% 20.00% 0.00% 25.00% 32.35% 25.00% 35.00% 35.00% Non controlling interests (613) 23,540 1 2,178 1,282 956 148 455 194 647 14 (204) 2015: unit: €k Petrogás Setgás Petromar Carriço Cogeração Empresa Beiragás Lusitaniagás Sempre a Postos Saaga Sociedade CLCM Companhia Guiné Bissau Galp Sinopec Sociedade de Sociedade de Setgás Sociedade Petrogal Brasil, Nacional de Companhia de Companhia Produtos Açoreana de Logística de Importação, Brazil Services, Produção e Abastecimentos Comercialização, de Geração de S.A. Combustíveis Gás das Beiras, de Gás Alimentares e Armazenagem de Combustíveis da Armazenagem e B.V. Distribuição de de Combustíveis, S.A. Eletricidade e Enacol, S.A.R.L. S.A. do Centro, S.A. Utilidades, Lda. Gás, S.A. Madeira, S.A. Distribuição de Gás, S.A. Lda. Calor, S.A. Gás, Lda. Total operating income: 3,663 494,730 32,735 108,844 18,536 48,507 66,138 55,395 3,552 12,695 9,532 393 5,981 Total operating costs: 27,912 366,817 21,810 108,250 12,805 43,543 44,992 53,556 2,841 12,124 6,979 243 10,216 Operating result: (24,249) 127,913 10,925 594 5,731 4,964 21,146 1,839 711 571 2,553 150 (4,235) Income before taxes: 43,306 139,924 8,833 1,340 5,455 4,700 13,283 1,852 648 667 2,250 127 (4,342) Consolidated net income 37,782 55,462 5,497 1,133 3,678 3,535 7,177 1,412 487 285 1,923 95 (4,374) for the year % Non controlling 30.00% 30.00% 0.07% 51.71% 40.50% 20.00% 3.16% 25.00% 32.35% 0.00% 25.00% 35.00% 35.00% interests Non controlling interests 11,334 16,639 1,630 64 1,443 708 228 353 162 113 481 28 (1,531) 304 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 305 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Statement of cash flows: 2016: unit: €k Empresa Nacional de Petromar Sociedade Sempre a Postos Saaga Sociedade CLCM Companhia Petrogás Guiné Bissau Carriço Cogeração Galp Sinopec Brazil Petrogal Brasil, S.A. Combustíveis de Abastecimentos Produtos Alimentares Açoreana de Armazenagem Logística de Combustíveis Importação, Armazenagem Sociedade de Geração de Services, B.V. Enacol, S.A.R.L. de Combustíveis, Lda. e Utilidades, Lda. de Gás, S.A. da Madeira, S.A. e Distribuição de Gás, Lda. Eletricidade e Calor, S.A. Cash flows from operating activities (1) (4,099) 301,779 14,030 (2,627) 1,655 910 8,011 162 (43) Cash flows from investing activities (2) (56,691) (645,254) 44 (89) (219) (194) Cash flows from financing activities (3) (17) 347,810 (5,345) (490) (1,413) (737) (5,367) Net change in cash and cash equivalents (60,807) 4,335 8,729 (3,206) 242 (46) 2,450 162 (43) (4) = (1) + (2) + (3) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 4,972 4,936 104 in cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning 151,436 65,680 7,718 10,281 3,983 1,301 4,088 342 62 of the year Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 95,601 74,951 16,551 7,075 4,225 1,255 6,538 504 19 2015: unit: €k Petrogás Setgás Empresa Petromar CLCM Carriço Cogeração Beiragás Sempre a Postos Saaga Sociedade Guiné Bissau Galp Sinopec Sociedade Nacional Sociedade de Lusitaniagás Companhia Sociedade Petrogal Brasil, Companhia Produtos Açoreana de Importação, Brazil Services, de Produção de Combustíveis Abastecimentos Companhia de Gás Logística de de Geração S.A. de Gás das Alimentares e Armazenagem de Armazenagem B.V. e Distribuição Enacol, de Combustíveis, do Centro, S.A. Combustíveis da de Eletricidade Beiras, S.A. Utilidades, Lda. Gás, S.A. e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. S.A.R.L. Lda. Madeira, S.A. e Calor, S.A. de Gás, Lda. Cash flows from operating activities (1) (5,022) 247,600 10,824 7,600 8,604 1,661 29,615 1,903 877 3,771 (18) 23 Cash flows from investing activities (2) 148,050 (611,412) (48,286) (2,311) (1,379) (135) (5,351) (1) 66 (189) 2 Cash flows from financing activities (3) (34) 407,062 52,364 (6,968) (9,465) (457) (10,127) (1,188) (704) (5,441) Net change in cash and cash equivalents 142,994 43,250 14,902 (1,679) (2,240) 1,069 14,137 714 239 (1,859) (18) 25 (4) = (1) + (2) + (3) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 899 (6,264) (30) in cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning 7,551 28,694 (17,012) 9,427 7,489 9,212 (8,068) 3,269 1,062 5,947 360 37 of the year Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 151,444 65,680 (2,110) 7,718 5,249 10,281 6,069 3,983 1,301 4,088 342 62 306 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 307 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 22. Loans Detail of loans Loans obtained as of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 were as follows: unit: €k December 2016 December 2015 Current Non-current Current Non-current Bank loans: Loans 198,556 912,749 162,439 1,152,214 Bank overdrafts (Note 18) 110,255 85,755 Discounted notes 631 2,174 309,442 912,749 250,368 1,152,214 Origination fees (1,134) (1,260) (3,578) (1,182) 308,308 911,489 246,790 1,151,032 Other loans obtained: IAPMEI/SIDER 384 1 384 384 1 384 308,308 911,873 246,791 1,151,416 Bonds and Notes: Bonds 22,500 670,000 250,000 920,000 Notes 1,000,000 1,000,000 22,500 1,670,000 250,000 1,920,000 Origination fees (5,645) (4,344) (11,891) 16,855 1,665,656 245,756 1,908,109 325,163 2,577,529 492,547 3,059,525 Current and non-current loans, excluding origination fees, bank overdrafts and discounted notes, have the following repayment plan as of 31 December 2016: unit: €k Loans Maturity Total Current Non-current 2017 221,056 221,056 2018 628,739 628,739 2019 698,988 698,988 2020 649,372 649,372 2021 535,091 535,091 2022 25,943 25,943 2023 20,000 20,000 2024 and subsequent years 25,000 25,000 2,804,189 221,056 2,583,133 308 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, Loans obtained are expressed in the following currencies: December 2016 December 2015 Currency Total initial amount Due amount unit: €k Total initial amount Due amount unit: €k United States Dollars USD 126,000 59,767 126,000 115,734 Cape Verde Escudos CVE 48,377 439 Euro EUR 3,580,353 2,744,422 3,662,172 3,368,865 2,804,189 3,485,038 The average interest rate of the loans, including costs associated with overdrafts, incurred by the Group, in the years 2016 and 2015, amounted to 3.52% and 3.75%, respectively. Description of the main loans Commercial paper issuance As of 31 December 2016, the Group has contracted commercial paper programs which are fully underwritten, amounting to €940,000 k, medium and long-term. Of this amount, the Group has used €490,000 k of the medium and long-term program. These instruments bear interest at the Euribor rate applicable for the respective period of issuance, plus variable spreads. The referred interest rates are applicable to the amount of each issuance and remain unchanged during the respective period of the issue. Bank loans Detail of the main bank loans as of 31 December 2016: unit: €k Entity Due amount Interest rate Maturity Reimbursement Banco Itaú 59,767 Libor 6M + spread April 2017 April 2017 UniCredit Bank Austria 150,000 Euribor 6M + spread April 2020 April 2020 209,767 Additionally, the Group has project finance loans amounting to €22,048 k, obtained by the companies Agroger Sociedade de Cogeração do Oeste S.A. and CLCM – Companhia Logística de Combustíveis da Madeira, S.A. Detail of the loans obtained from the European Investment Bank (EIB) as of 31 December 2016: unit: €k Entity Due amount Interest rate Maturity Reimbursement EIB (Matosinhos cogeneration) 50,000 Fixed rate October '17 October '17 EIB (Instalment A Sines cogeneration) 19,286 Fixed rate September '21 Semi-annual instalments beginning in March '10 EIB (Instalment B Sines cogeneration) 10,205 Fixed rate March '22 Semi-annual instalments beginning in September '10 EIB (Instalment A refinery upgrade) 186,000 Revisable fixed rate February '25 Semi-annual instalments beginning in August '12 EIB (Instalment B refinery upgrade) 124,000 Fixed rate February '25 Semi-annual instalments beginning in August '12 389,491 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 309 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Loans contracted with the EIB, for the purpose of financing the cogeneration projects in the Sines and Matosinhos refineries and Instalment A for the upgrade project of the Sines and Matosinhos refineries, are guaranteed by Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. The remaining loan with the EIB, amounting to €124,000 k, is guaranteed by a bank syndicate. The Galp Energia Group has bank loans contracted, which in some cases have covenants which, if triggered by banks, lead to early repayment (Note 33). Bonds Detailed information for bonds as of 31 December 2016: unit: €k Emission Due amount Interest rate Maturity Reimbursement GALP ENERGIA/2013-2017 €600 M. FRN 22,500 Euribor 6M + spread May '17 May'17 GALP ENERGIA/2012-2018 FRN 260,000 Euribor 3M + spread February '18 February '18 GALP ENERGIA/2013 2018 110,000 Euribor 3M + spread March '18 March '18 GALP ENERGIA/2013-2018 €200 M. 200,000 Euribor 6M + spread April '18 April '18 GALP ENERGIA/2012-2020 100,000 Euribor 6M + spread June '20 June '20 692,500 Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. pursuant to the applicable terms and conditions, has exercised the call option with respect to the total outstanding amount of the notes representing the bond issue EUR 455,000,000.00 Floating Rate Notes Due 2017 (CVM Code: GALKOM). The redemption of the referred notes was made at principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, and occurred on 21 November 2016, payment day of current Interest Period, followed by the cancellation of such notes. Notes issuance Galp has established, as part of its financing plan, an EMTN Programme (“€5,000,000,000 Euro Medium Term Note Programme”). Detail by issuance, as of 31 December 2016: unit: €k Emission Overdue amount Interest rate Maturity Reimbursement Galp 4.125% 01.2019 500,000 Fixed rate 4.125% January 2019 January 2019 Galp 3.000% 01.2021 500,000 Fixed rate 3.000% January 2021 January 2021 1,000,000 The fair value of the bonds was measured based on inputs observed in the market, therefore its classification in the fair value hierarchy is Level 2 (Note 34). 310 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 23. Post employment and other employee analysis. Thus, the total cost for each participant is divided into units, each of which is associated with a past or future benefits year of service. The Group provides to its employees two defined benefit plans, which are non-contributory for the participants, For the purpose of the assessment, the cumulative liability and one defined contribution plan, which is contributory. of an individual is the present value of the accumulated In addition, it provides benefits for health insurance, life benefits, at the reference date. insurance and a complimentary defined contribution plan in the event of death or disability. Past Service Liability (PSL) result from the sum of the accumulated liabilities for all participants in the plan. The two defined benefit plans are as follows: The Petrogal Pension Plan is complementary to the public The Petrogal Pension Plan provides the following benefits: social security scheme, according to the rules officially in force as of 31 December 1993. • pension supplements for retirement and disability; The retirement benefits (retirement and disability) and • pension supplements for surviving dependents; survival benefits are paid directly by the Pension Fund. • early retirement pension; The benefits for early retirement, pre-retirement, voluntary social insurance and retirement bonus are not chargeable • pre-retirement pension; to the Pension Fund as they are paid directly by Petrogal, • retirement bonus; and for which accounting provisions have been made. • voluntary social insurance. The Sacor Marítima Pension Plan is also complementary to The Petrogal Pension Fund aims for the payment of pension the public schemes. supplements for retirement and disability and survival pensions. The benefits provided under the plan are paid by the Pension Fund. Payments to pre-retirees are made directly by The Sacor Marítima Pension Plan provides the following Sacor, with the liability being provisioned for this purpose. benefits: Galp also offers its employees a defined contribution plan, • pension supplements for retirement and disability; to which the following companies are currently associated: Galp Energia SGPS, Petróleos de Portugal-Petrogal, S.A., • pension supplements for surviving dependents; and Galp Energia S.A., Galp Exploração e Produção Petrolífera S.A., • pre-retirement pension. Saaga-Sociedade Açoreana de Armazenagem de Gás, S.A., Galp Gás Natural, S.A., Galp Gas & Power,SGPS, S.A. The closed Sacor Marítima Pension Fund aims for the and Galp Power, S.A. payment of pension supplements for retirement and disability and survival pensions. In the Defined Contribution Plan, the benefits to be attributed to employees are the result of the contributions Two scenarios have been used for the calculation of the made up to the time of retirement by both the company and liabilities of these defined benefit plans: employees. • finance scenario used by Galp to determine liabilities; and The Companies make contributions of 3% of the pensionable salary and a “matching” contribution of an • minimum Solvency Level scenario scenario using amount equal to the employee’s contribution, up to a limit recommended assumptions to calculate the minimum amount of funding of the Pension Funds (Rule No. 21/96-R). of 1% of the pensionable salary. The liabilities presented in this report have been calculated The annual cost is fixed as a percentage and has no risk based on the Projected Unit Credit method. The principle to changes in life expectancy, fund performance, Social behind this method is to cover the benefits of each of the Security contributions, and does not require actuarial participants of the plan as they accrue, taking into account valuations. the future growth of costs associated with the benefit under Annual Report and Accounts 2016 311 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance This defined contribution plan also includes a The Life Insurance benefit aims to ensure financial minimum benefit in case of death or disability of active protection of employees and/or spouses and children in participants, by attributing a minimum total pension the event of death or disability and in accordance with the to be added to that from the Social Security, which existing policies. guarantees a minimum total pension equal to 50% of the pensionable salary of the employee on the On 31 December, 2016 and 2015, the net assets of the date of occurrence. Pension Funds, valued at fair value, were as follows according to the reports submitted by the respective fund The pension plans are governed by Portuguese management companies: law applied to pension funds and supervised unit: €k by the Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Pensions (“Autoridade de Supervisão de Seguros December 2016 December 2015 e Pensões – ASF”). Bonds 171,354 182,803 Shares 51,108 61,862 The Fund Management Company is responsible for Other Investments 10,279 10,066 executing all necessary or convenient acts and operations Real Estate 2,628 3,274 to ensure the good administration and management Liquidity 17,141 30,039 of the Fund in accordance with what has established in the Constitution Agreement and in the Fund Property 30,245 29,566 Management Contract. Total 282,755 317,610 CGD Pensões is the fund management company The heading Property refers to the value of the properties of the Petrogal Fund, and Pensões Gere manages the being used by the Group. Sacor Marítima pension fund. During the year ended 31 December, 2016, no contribution The Health Insurance benefit aims to cover medical/hospital was made for the Pension Fund. The assets are declining in expenses in accordance with existing policies. line with the gradual ageing of the beneficiary population. As of 31 December 2015 and 2016, the Group had the following amounts related to liabilities for retirement benefits and other benefits: unit: €k December 2016 December 2015 Captions Asset (Note 14) Liability Equity Asset (Note 14) Liability Equity Post employment benefits: Relating to the Pension Fund 271 (7,031) 44,345 176 (4,835) 42,009 Retired employees (750) 1,452 (3,839) 1,910 Pre-retirement (56,518) 9,107 (67,175) 9,006 Early retirement (63,026) 7,744 (83,152) 5,806 Retirement bonus (7,029) 341 (6,919) 43 Voluntary social insurance (2,257) 3,892 (2,319) 3,543 Other Other benefits: Healthcare (208,283) 75,342 (241,635) 85,769 Life insurance (2,816) 238 (3,129) 66 Defined contribution plan (11,412) 19 (8,537) (1,621) minimum benefit 271 (359,122) 142,480 176 (421,540) 146,531 312 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The caption Relating to the Pension Fund amounting to 1990 (before the creation of the social security system €7,031 k includes €133 k for the Retirement and Disability in Mozambique). Plan Amortisation of the deficit of the defined benefit plan of the subsidiary Saaga Sociedade Açoreana de The Pre-retirement caption amounting to €56,518 Armazenagem de Gás, S.A. Until 31 December 2009, k includes €2,983 k for the subsidiary Petróleos de the retirement benefit consisted of a defined benefit plan. Portugal Petrogal, S.A., to cope with already agreed On 3 May 2010, the retirement benefits scheme was pre‑retirements that will only be effective in 2017. changed, and from that moment became a defined contribution plan (existing at the level of Galp group). The caption Employee costs retirement benefits Accordingly, for retirement and disability pension amounting to €29,257 k (Note 6) includes mainly: (i) €950 k liabilities existing on 3 May, 2010 amounting to €394 k, relating to benefits related to the Fund; (ii) €13,723 k from corresponding to the amount of those liabilities which the remaining retirement benefits; (iii) a loss of €6,403 k were not covered by the assets of the pension fund, of other benefits; (iv) €4,002 k for the defined contribution a repayment plan was agreed so as to amortise the plan and (v) a loss of €4,179 k regarding pre-retirements difference, plus interest over a period of ten years. and early retirements not included in the other benefits. On 31 December 2016, the value of these liabilities amounted to €133 k. The difference of €24,603 k between the amount recorded in the Equity detail above and the amount in the caption The caption Retired employees amounting to €338 k Retained earnings – actuarial gains and losses pension includes a €20 k provision to cover future liabilities fund, of the consolidated statement of changes in equity assumed by the subsidiary Petrogal Moçambique, Lda. is due to the amount relating to deferred tax. in relation to its employees who had retired up until Annual Report and Accounts 2016 313 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The table below shows the number of participants and beneficiaries sorted by category: December 2016 December 2015 Active 1,659 1,880 Pre-retired 312 370 Early retirements 320 341 Disability retirements 72 83 Age retirements 2,671 2,968 Pensioners Widows/Orphans 1,612 1,773 6,646 7,415 During 2016 there were 28 new cases of pre-retirement, 26 new cases of early retirement and 8 withdrawals for termination by mutual agreement. The reduction in the number of participants and beneficiaries results especially from the changes in consolidation perimeter noted in 2016, which resulted in the deconsolidation of 635 participants. The average maturity of liabilities for the defined benefit plans, is 10.5 years. Payment distribution associated with the Petrogal Pension Fund: Financing Scenario Solvency Minimum 24,0 24,0 21,0 21,0 18,0 18,0 15,0 15,0 € Millions € Millions 12,0 12,0 9,0 9,0 6,0 6,0 3,0 3,0 1 5 9 13 17 21 25 29 33 37 41 45 49 53 57 61 65 69 73 77 1 5 9 13 17 21 25 29 33 37 41 45 49 53 57 61 65 69 73 77 Years Years Active CF Pensioners CF Active CF Pensioners CF 314 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The assumptions used for the calculation of post-employment benefits are considered by the Group as those that best meet the commitments set out in the pension plan and are set out as follows: unit: €k 2016 2015 Assumptions: Rate of return on assets 2.25% 2.50% Technical interest rate 2.25% 2.50% Rate of increase in salaries 1.00% 1.00% Rate of increase in pensions [0.00% 1.40%] [0.00% 2.00%] Current personnel and pre-retirees mortality table INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 Retired personnel mortality table INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 Disability table 50% EVK 80 50% EVK 80 66 years or 65 years 66 years or 65 years if at least with 43 years if at least with 43 years Common age for retirement of discounts to Social Security of discounts to Social Security at age 65 at age 65 Method Projected credit unit Projected credit unit Changes in past service liability (PSL) PSL at the end of the previous year 322,275 325,515 Current service cost 564 773 Interest cost 7,635 8,604 Actuarial (gain)/loss 9,394 13,539 Benefit payments made ​​by the Fund (24,757) (25,208) Changes in the benefits plan (756) Cut back Early retirements 362 694 Cut back Pre-retirement 13 20 Cut Back Migration to DC (28) (896) Liquidations (9) Changes in consolidation perimeter (25,806) Other adjustments PSL at the end of the current year 289,652 322,275 Changes in coverage of financial assets (pension fund) Assets at the end of the previous year 317,610 334,950 Net interest 7,524 8,863 Associates contribution 1,650 Benefit payments (24,757) (25,208) Changes in consolidation perimeter (23,864) Cut Back Migration to DC (37) (896) Financial gains/(losses) 6,279 (1,749) Assets at the end of the current year 282,755 317,610 Reconciliation of gains and losses through Comprehensive Income (Gain)/loss from actuarial experience (3,067) (6,176) (Gain)/loss by actuarial assumptions change (6,327) (7,363) Financial (Gain)/loss 6,279 (1,749) Other impacts 3,115 15,288 (Gains)/losses to be recognized in the year-end Annual Report and Accounts 2016 315 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance unit: €k 2016 2015 Reconciliation to the Statement of Financial Position (Gains)/losses recognized at the beginning of the year Asset/(Liability) (4,665) 9,435 Net cost of the year (1,060) (462) Associates contribution 1,650 Gains/(losses) recognized through Comprehensive Income (3,115) (15,288) Changes in consolidation perimeter 1,942 Total recognized at year end Assets/(Liabilities) (6,898) (4,665) Net cost of the year Current service cost 564 773 Interest cost 111 (259) Net cost of the year before special events 675 514 Cut back impact Early Retirement 362 694 Cut back impact Pre-retirement 13 20 Liquidations impacts (9) Cut Back Migration to DC 10 (756) Net cost of the year 1,060 463 Reconciliation of gains and loss recognizedthrough Comprehensive Income Cummulative (Gains)/losses recognized at the beginning of the year 39,692 24,404 Actuarial (Gains) and Losses from experience 3,067 6,176 (Gains)/losses from change in assumptions 6,327 7,363 Financial (Gains)/losses (6,279) 1,749 Associates 812 Changes in consolidation perimeter (1,500) Other impacts 1 Cummulative (Gains)/losses recognized at the end of the year 42,120 39,692 The actuarial losses related to past service liabilities which occurred in 2016 amounting to €9,394 k can be segregated as follows: • by changes in assumptions: losses amounting to €6,327 k related to the change in the discount rate. As the change in the regular retirement age was driven by the change in legislation, the impact was considered as a gain/loss by experience; and • by experience: losses amounting to €3,067 k The financial losses resulting from the Funds, amounting to €6,279 k, are a consequence of the difference between the estimated value for the development of the Funds and the actual value shown in the previous paragraph, as detailed below: unit: €k Estimated Real Deviation Date Initial balance 317,610 317,610 12/31/2015 Benefits payment (25,362) (24,757) 605 Acquired rights Associates contributions 5,402 (5,402) Participant contributions Transfer to the Galp Energia Pension Fund (relating to the 2016 (37) (37) employee migration to the DC Plan) Changes in consolidation perimeter (23,864) (23,864) Total Movements (19,960) (48,658) (28,698) Fund return 7,524 13,803 6,279 Ending balance 305,174 282,755 (22,419) 12/31/2016 316 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The assumptions used to calculate the post-employment benefits are those considered by the Group as those that best meet the commitments set out in the pension plan and the respective pension liabilities for Spain are as follows: unit: €k Group in Spain 2016 2015 Assumptions Rate of return on assets 1.85% 2.45% Technical interest rate 1.85% 2.45% Rate of increase in salaries 2.50% 2.50% Rate of increase in pensions 2.00% 2.00% Current personnel and pre-retirees mortality table PERMF 2000P PERMF 2000P Retired personnel mortality table PERMF 2000P PERMF 2000P Common age for retirement 65 65 Method Projected credit unit Projected credit unit Changes in past service liability (PSL) PSL at the end of the previous year 434 431 Current service cost 2 5 Interest cost 11 10 Actuarial (gain)/loss 51 1 Other adjustments (13) PSL at the end of the current year 498 434 Changes in coverage of financial assets (pension fund) Assets at the end of the previous year 610 554 Net interest 15 12 Associates contribution 22 Other adjustments 1 Financial gains/(losses) 143 22 Assets at the end of the current year 769 610 Reconciliation to the Statement of Financial Position (Gains)/losses recognized at the beginning of the year Asset/(Liability) 176 123 Net cost of the year 2 10 Associates contribution 22 Gains/(losses) recognized through Comprehensive Income 92 21 Other adjustments 1 Total recognized at year end Assets/(Liabilities) 271 176 Net cost of the year Current service cost 2 5 Interest cost (4) (2) Net cost of the year before special events (2) 3 Liquidations impacts (13) Net cost of the year (2) (10) Reconciliation of gains and loss recognizedthrough Comprehensive Income Cummulative (Gains)/losses recognized at the beginning of the year 2,317 2,338 Actuarial (Gains) and Losses from experience 2 13 (Gains)/losses from change in assumptions 49 (12) Financial (Gains)/losses (143) (22) Cummulative (Gains)/losses recognized at the end of the year 2,225 2,317 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 317 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Other pension benefits not allocated to the funds: unit: €k Group in 2016 Retired Pre-retirement Early Retirement Retirement bonuses Voluntary social insurance Total Assumptions Technical interest rate 2.25% 2.25% 2.25% 2.25% 2.25% Rate of increase in salaries 1.00% 1.00% 1.00% 1.00% 1.00% Rate of increase in pensions [0.00% 1.40%] [0.00% 2.00%] [0.00% 2.00%] [0.05% 1.40%] [0.05% 1.40%] Current personnel and pre-retirees mortality table INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 Retired personnel mortality table INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 Disability table EVK 80 50% EVK 80 50% EVK 80 50% EVK 80 50% EVK 80 50% 66 years or 65 years 66 years or 65 years 66 years or 65 years 66 years or 65 years 66 years or 65 years if at least with 43 years if at least with 43 years if at least with 43 years if at least with 43 years if at least with 43 years Common age for retirement of discounts to Social Security of discounts to Social Security of discounts to Social Security of discounts to Social Security of discounts to Social Security at age 65 at age 65 at age 65 at age 65 at age 65 Method Projected credit unit Projected credit unit Projected credit unit Projected credit unit Projected credit unit Changes in past service liability (PSL) PSL at the end of the previous year 3,807 65,199 82,973 6,919 2,319 161,217 Current service cost 5 9 484 217 715 Interest cost 76 1,426 1,852 170 52 3,576 Actuarial (gain)/loss 25 193 550 298 349 1,415 Benefits payment made by the Company (305) (15,072) (11,942) (469) (477) (28,265) Cut back Early retirements 7,185 (71) 14 7,128 Cut back Pre-retirement 5,728 184 5 5,917 Cut back Liquidations Mutual Agreement (40) (40) Changes in consolidation perimeter (2,876) (3,948) (18,262) (25,086) Other Adjusyments (2) 2 PSL at the end of the current year 730 53,535 63,026 7,029 2,257 126,577 Reconciliation to the Statement of Financial Position (Gains)/losses recognized at the beginning of the year Asset/(Liability) (3,807) (65,199) (82,973) (6,919) (2,319) (161,217) Net cost of the year (81) (7,163) (9,705) (281) (66) (17,296) Benefits paid directly by the Company 305 15,072 11,942 469 477 28,265 Gains/(losses) recognized through Comprehensive Income (25) (193) (550) (298) (349) (1,415) Changes in consolidation perimeter 2,876 3,948 18,262 25,086 Other Adjusyments 2 2 Total recognized at year end Assets/(Liabilities) (730) (53,535) (63,024) (7,029) (2,257) (126,575) Net cost of the year Current service cost 5 9 484 217 715 Interest cost 76 1,426 1,852 170 52 3,576 Net cost of the year before special events 81 1,435 2,336 387 52 4,291 Cut back impact Early Retirement 7,185 (71) 14 7,128 Cut back impact Pre-retirement 5,728 184 5 5,917 Liquidations impacts (40) (40) Net cost of the year 81 7,163 9,705 281 66 17,296 Reconciliation of gains and loss recognizedthrough Comprehensive Income Cummulative (Gains)/losses recognized at the beginning of the year 1,910 9,006 5,806 43 3,543 20,308 Actuarial (Gains) and Losses from experience 10 (178) (90) 140 332 214 (Gains)/losses from change in assumptions 15 371 640 158 17 1,201 Associates (69) 159 2,990 3,080 Changes in consolidation perimeter (413) (251) (1,602) (2,266) Other Adjusyments Cummulative (Gains)/losses recognized at the end of the year 1,452 9,107 7,744 341 3,892 22,536 318 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 319 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements unit: €k Group in 2015 Retired Pre-retirement Early Retirement Retirement bonuses Voluntary social insurance Total Assumptions Technical interest rate 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% Rate of increase in salaries 1.00% 1.00% 1.00% 1.00% 1.00% Rate of increase in pensions [0.00% 2.00%] [0.00% 2.00%] [0.00% 2.00%] [0.05% 1.40%] [0.05% 1.40%] Current personnel and pre-retirees mortality table INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 Retired personnel mortality table INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 Disability table 50% EVK 80 50% EVK 80 50% EVK 80 50% EVK 80 50% EVK 80 66 years or 65 years 66 years or 65 years 66 years or 65 years if at least with 66 years or 65 years if at least with 66 years or 65 years if at least with Common age for retirement if at least with 43 years of if at least with 43 years of 43 years of discounts to Social 43 years of discounts to Social 43 years of discounts to Social discounts to Social Security at age 65 discounts to Social Security at age 65 Security at age 65 Security at age 65 Security at age 65 Method Projected credit unit Projected credit unit Projected credit unit Projected credit unit Projected credit unit Changes in past service liability (PSL) PSL at the end of the previous year 3,897 60,515 75,473 6,974 2,600 149,459 Current service cost 5 9 498 228 740 Interest cost 98 1,471 1,925 189 65 3,748 Actuarial (gain)/loss 415 (248) 2,763 211 70 3,211 Benefits payment made by the Company (608) (15,199) (11,115) (557) (452) (27,931) Cut back Early retirements 13,636 (127) 36 13,545 Cut back Pre-retirement 18,651 (207) 30 18,474 Cut back Liquidations (29) (29) PSL at the end of the current year 3,807 65,199 82,973 6,919 2,319 161,217 Reconciliation to the Statement of Financial Position (Gains)/losses recognized at the beginning of the year Asset/ (3,897) (60,515) (75,473) (6,974) (2,600) (149,459) (Liability) Net cost of the year (103) (20,131) (15,852) (291) (101) (36,478) Benefits paid directly by the Company 608 15,199 11,115 557 452 27,931 Gains/(losses) recognized through Comprehensive Income (415) 248 (2,763) (211) (70) (3,211) Total recognized at year end Assets/(Liabilities) (3,807) (65,199) (82,973) (6,919) (2,319) (161,217) Net cost of the year Current service cost 5 9 498 228 740 Interest cost 98 1,471 1,925 189 65 3,748 Net cost of the year before special events 103 1,480 2,423 417 65 4,488 Cut back impact Early Retirement 13,636 (127) 36 13,545 Cut back impact Pre-retirement 18,651 (207) 30 18,474 Liquidations impacts (29) (29) Net cost of the year 103 20,131 15,852 291 101 36,478 Reconciliation of gains and loss recognizedthrough Comprehensive Income Cummulative (Gains)/losses recognized at the beginning of the year 1,495 9,239 3,042 (168) 3,473 17,081 Actuarial (Gains) and Losses from experience 367 (1,210) 1,705 46 54 962 (Gains)/losses from change in assumptions 48 962 1,059 165 16 2,250 Other adjustments 15 15 Non controlling interests Cummulative (Gains)/losses recognized at the end of the year 1,910 9,006 5,806 43 3,543 20,308 320 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 321 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance As mentioned in Note 2.11, the ISP authorised the establishment of the Galp Energia Defined Contribution Pension Fund in 31 December 2002, giving the possibility for the employees to choose between this new defined contribution pension plan and the existing defined benefit plan. During 2016, a cost of €4,002 k was recognised in the Employee cost caption in respect of the contributions of the year, paid to the Fund management company of the associated companies of the Galp Energia Defined Contribution Pension Fund, in favour of their employees. Other retirement benefits healthcare, life insurance and minimum benefit defined contribution plan (disability and survival) As mentioned in Note 2.12, the Group has registered on 31 December, 2016, a provision to cover its liability for healthcare, life insurance for past services of active population and total liabilities for the remaining population and the liability for the minimum benefit defined contribution plan. The current value of liabilities for past services and actuarial assumptions used in their calculation, is as follows: 322 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements unit: €k Group in 2016 Defined Healthcare Life insurance contribution plan Total minimum benefit Assumptions Technical interest rate 2.25% 2.25% 2.25% Rate of increase in Costs 4.00% 1.00% 1.00% Current personnel and pre-retirees mortality table INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 Retired personnel mortality table INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 GKF95 Disability table 50% EVK 80 50% EVK 80 50% EVK 80 66 years or 65 years if at least Common age for retirement 66 66 with 43 years of discounts to S.S. at 65 Projected Projected Projected Method credit unit credit unit credit unit Changes in past service liability (PSL) PSL at the end of the previous year 241,635 3,129 8,537 253,301 Current service cost 4,493 92 1,818 6,403 Interest cost 5,826 73 210 6,109 Actuarial (gain)/loss (8,933) 151 1,571 (7,211) Benefits payment made by the Company (10,251) (240) (10,491) Changes in the consolidation perimeter (24,487) (389) (724) (25,600) PSL at the end of the current year 208,283 2,816 11,412 222,511 Reconciliation to the Statement of Financial Position (Gains)/losses recognized at the beginning of the year (241,635) (3,129) (8,537) (253,301) Asset/(Liability) Net cost of the year (10,319) (165) (2,028) (12,512) Benefits paid directly by the Company 10,251 240 10,491 Gains/(losses) recognized through Comprehensive Income 8,933 (151) (1,571) 7,211 Changes in the consolidation perimeter 24,487 389 724 25,600 Total recognized at year end Assets/(Liabilities) (208,283) (2,816) (11,412) (222,511) Net cost of the year Current service cost 4,493 92 1,818 6,403 Interest cost 5,826 73 210 6,109 Net cost of the year 10,319 165 2,028 12,512 Reconciliation of gains and loss recognizedthrough Comprehensive Income Cummulative (Gains)/losses recognized at the beginning of 85,769 66 (1,621) 84,214 the year Actuarial (Gains) and Losses from experience (16,601) 90 (1,449) (17,960) (Gains)/losses from change in assumptions 7,668 61 3,020 10,749 Associates 1,656 23 58 1,737 Changes in the consolidation perimeter (3,146) 16 26 (3,104) Other impacts (2) (4) Cummulative (Gains)/losses recognized at the end of the year 75,344 255 33 75,632 Non-controlling interests (Note 21) (2) (17) (14) (33) Cummulative (Gains)/losses recognized at the end of the year 75,342 238 19 75,599 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 323 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 8.1. Contas consolidadas The current service cost, amounting to €6,403 k was recorded by the group in the consolidated income statement in the Employee costs (Note 6). Net interest, amounting to €6,109 k was recorded by the Group in the consolidated income statement under Other interest expense (Note 8). unit: €k Group in 2015 Defined Healthcare Life insurance contribution plan Total minimum benefit Assumptions Technical interest rate 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% Rate of increase in Costs 4.00% 1.00% 1.00% Rate of increase in pensions [0.00% 1.40%] [0.00% 1.40%] 0.00% Current personnel and pre-retirees mortality table INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 Retired personnel mortality table INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 GKF95 Disability table EVK 80 50% EVK 80 50% EVK 80 50% 66 years or 65 years if at least with Common age for retirement 66 * 66 * 43 years of discounts to S.S. at 65 Projected Projected Method Projected credit unit credit unit credit unit Changes in past service liability (PSL) PSL at the end of the previous year 236,627 7,843 247,389 Current service cost 4,533 1,440 6,065 Interest cost 6,361 215 6,653 Actuarial (gain)/loss 5,420 (1,473) 4,222 Benefits payment made by the Company (11,306) (11,540) Other adjustments 512 512 PSL at the end of the current year 241,635 8,537 253,301 Reconciliation to the Statement of Financial Position (Gains)/losses recognized at the beginning of the year Asset/(Liability) (236,627) (2,919) (7,843) (247,389) Net cost of the year (10,894) (169) (2,164) (13,227) Benefits paid directly by the Company 11,306 234 11,540 Gains/(losses) recognized through Comprehensive Income (5,420) (275) 1,473 (4,222) Effect of other adjustments (3) (3) Total recognized at year end Assets/(Liabilities) (241,635) (3,129) (8,537) (253,301) Net cost of the year Current service cost 4,533 92 1,440 6,065 Interest cost 6,361 77 215 6,653 Net cost of the year before special events 10,894 169 1,655 12,718 Other adjustments 509 509 Net cost of the year 10,894 169 2,164 13,227 Reconciliation of gains and loss recognizedthrough Comprehensive Income Cummulative (Gains)/losses recognized at the beginning of the year 80,348 (148) 79,996 Actuarial (Gains) and Losses from experience (3,336) (1,595) (4,722) (Gains)/losses from change in assumptions 8,757 122 8,945 Other impacts (5) Cummulative (Gains)/losses recognized at the end of the year 85,769 (1,621) 84,214 Non-controlling interests (Note 21) 1 (3) 14 12 Cummulative (Gains)/losses recognized at the end of the year 85,768 69 (1,635) 84,202 (*) For Lisboagás, S.A., the requirements for retirement are met when the first among the following four situations occur: the employee has reached 40 years of service; the employee has reached 35 years of service and is 60 years old or older; the employee is 66 years old; or the employee is 65 years old with at least 43 years of Social Security deductions at that age. 324 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements According to actuarial studies prepared by a specialised entity, the estimated contribution to the various defined health benefit plans, life insurance, retirements, early retirement pension, pre-retirement pension, voluntary social insurance, minimum benefit of the defined contribution plan and retirement bonus for 2017 is of €35,504 k. Discount rate changes Changing the discount rate from 2.50% to 2.25% from 2015 to 2016 reflects the decrease which has occurred in the market reference interest rates. Sensitivity analysis of the discount rate A sensitivity analysis was performed (except for the group in Spain) in order to measure the impact on liabilities caused by a change in the discount rate. For this purpose a negative variation of 25 b.p. in the discount rate was considered. unit: €k Liabilities Discount rate 2.25% Discount rate 2.00% Variation Retirement benefits: Related to the pension fund 289,652 296,237 2.27% Non-related to the pension fund 126,577 127,810 0.97% 416,229 424,047 Other benefits: Healthcare 208,283 216,430 3.91% Life insurance 2,816 2,877 2.16% Defined contribution plan minimum benefit 11,412 11,593 1.59% 222,511 230,900 638,740 654,947 Trend rate of medical costs Galp group has considered a growth rate of 4% for medium and long term medical costs, based on historical growth rates of premiums and claims. The sensitivity analysis performed, demonstrates that a 1% increase in the growth rate of premiums implies a 17% increase in liabilities (€35,025 k), whereas a decrease of 1% in the growth rate of premiums results in a decrease of 13% of liabilities (€27,707 k). Health insurance sensitivity analysis unit: €k Captions 3.00% 4.00% 5.00% Current services costs 180,576 208,283 243,308 Impact on past services liabilities (27,707) 35,025 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 325 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Historical analysis of the actuarial gains and losses The historical analysis of actuarial gains and losses was carried out with reference to the Petrogal Pension Fund. unit: €k Discount rate 2.25% 2.50% 2.75% 3.75% 4.50% 5.25% 5.25% 5.25% 6.10% 5.45% 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Liabilities amount (a) 281,741 288,409 293,615 302,461 342,720 336,401 329,908 339,565 311,357 328,220 Value of the Fund (b) 275,443 285,777 304,127 306,892 320,518 288,047 304,235 308,472 302,572 333,403 Actuarial Gains (+) and Losses (-) (9,645) (11,319) (19,062) 35,491 (6,483) (8,694) 8,833 (32,210) 12,871 24,205 Gains (+) and Losses (-) for changes in assumptions (6,101) (6,307) (24,452) 44,243 4,055 (27,009) 20,337 30,430 Actuarial Gains (+) and Losses (-) from experience ( c ) (3,544) (5,012) 5,390 (8,752) (10,538) (8,694) 8,833 (5,201) (7,466) (6,225) Financial Gains (+) and Losses (-) (d) 6,688 (1,806) 26,365 (2,744) 20,213 (15,219) 1,706 11,013 (26,840) (7,363) (c)/(a) -1% -2% 2% -3% -3% -3% 3% -2% -2% -2% (d)/(b) 2% -1% 9% -1% 6% -5% 1% 4% -9% -2% Real Return on Plan Assets (%) 4.9% 2.1% 12.7% 3.6% 12.5% 0.3% 4.8% 8.9% -2.9% 3.1% Real Return on Plan Assets 13,537 6,231 37,426 11,128 36,200 125 15,857 25,535 (9,796) 9,694 Group Post-employment Defined Benefit Pension Plan and of risks which can not be mitigated (e.g. variations of Health and Life Insurance are exposed to various risks, the population), increases the probability of necessary among which are the following: additional contributions (other than the current service cost) to maintain the solvency of the fund. a) Longevity risk d) Risk of adverse developments in the real cost Real longevity higher than projected may lead to an increase with health insurance and life insurance in liabilities. Asset/liability management strategy used for risk b) Bond interest rate risk mitigation A decrease of the reference interest rate used as discount The fund’s current investment strategy resulted from an rate leads to increased liabilities, which is mitigated by the alignment study between the financial asset and liabilities exposure of the Fund to the Bond segment. promoted by the Associate. The Associate collaborates with the Actuary in monitoring the adequacy of the c) Investment risk financial assets that comprise the portfolio of the fund and the liabilities assumed by the pension plan. The main investment risks are the risk of the interest rate, credit risk, equity market risk and currency risk. The Fund management entity has software in which the The implications that the level of risk related to the investment restrictions established by the legislation in investment policy may have on compliance with the force at each moment are modeled. It has also modeled minimum solvency of the fund, result from interest rate the restrictions arising from the Investment Policy agreed fluctuations, exposure to shares and alternative markets, with the Associate. Since all assets in the portfolio are resulting in a lower performance to the discount rate. classified and framed in one or more groupings created The risk of interest rate fluctuation is the most relevant. for this purpose, daily deviations control reports are In this particular case, since the portfolios are primarily available automatically and the need for management invested in this asset class. This, together with the impact adjustments is analyzed. 326 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 327 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 24. Other payables As at 31 December 2016 and of 31 December 2015 the non-current and current captions “Other payables” were detailed as follows: unit: €k December 2016 December 2015 Captions Current Non-current Current Non-current State and other public entities: Value Added Tax payables 194,719 175,698 ISP Tax on oil products 115,853 90,904 Personnel and Corporate Income Tax Withheld 9,937 8,500 Social Security contributions 5,572 6,301 Other taxes 23,780 2 19,519 Tangible and intangible assets suppliers 97,076 83,998 146,116 88,182 Overlifting 59,752 21,447 Advances on sales (Note 16) 34,644 30,002 Other payables Associates, affiliates and related companies (Note 28) 7,092 121 3,652 121 Personnel 6,815 4,946 Dividends payable 5,449 Advances related to disposal of financial investments (Note 3.1 f)) 5,327 ISP Other operators debit 4,553 1,821 Trade receivables credit balances 3,165 3,782 Guarantee deposits and guarantees received 2,457 3,292 2,723 Non operated blocks 1,902 Loans Associates, affiliates and related companies (Note 28) 365 178,515 365 172,842 Trade receivables advance payments 264 2,999 Operated blocks 122 Other payables Other shareholders 2 3,495 Loans Other shareholders 1,205 1,653 Other creditors 12,139 597 25,966 3,536 590,985 267,730 548,236 266,334 Accrued costs: External supplies and services 116,510 111,293 Accrued interest 49,208 53,582 Productivity bonuses 26,579 3,704 28,457 8,369 Holiday , holiday subsidy and corresponding contributions 25,698 28,967 Adjustment to tariff deviation regulated revenue ERSE regulation (Note 14) 5,337 9,092 7,559 16,174 Adjustment to tariff deviation other activities ERSE regulation 4,944 16,707 Discounts, bonuses and rappel related to sales 3,985 2,139 Accrued insurance premiums 1,656 992 Accrued personnel costs other 1,489 64 Financial costs 1,013 876 Fastgalp prizes 118 2,576 Adjustment to tariff deviation energy tariff ERSE regulation (Note 14) 18,172 15,831 Financial neutrality ERSE regulation 161 Other accrued costs 34,233 16,351 270,770 30,968 269,724 40,374 Deferred income: Services rendered 7,177 4,322 Investment government grants (Note 13) 1,156 6,336 10,142 243,537 Fibre optics 404 991 Others 13,920 42 11,505 51 22,253 6,378 26,373 244,579 884,008 305,076 844,333 551,287 328 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The caption “Advances on sales” amounting to €34,644 k is Land use rights presented in the Galp financial statements related with Group liabilities with competitors for strategic represent exclusive use rights over such land. These rights reserves (Note 16). grant the same legal rights and obligations attributed to the owners of the land (in particular, the rights to build and use) The amount of €59,752 k presented in the caption “Other over a given period of time, as contractually established. payables Overlifting” represents the Group’s liability in respect of excess crude oil lifted considering its production The most relevant land use rights relate to the Sines quota and is measured as described in Note 2.8 e). refinery, in Portugal, with an initial period of 30 years, and being continuously extended by option of Galp, which The amount of €4,553 k recorded in the caption is accounted for as intangible assets by the net book value “ISP – Other operators Debit” is related to the fact that of €50,983 k. Regarding Spain, several land surface rights the bonded warehouse is confined to Galp. Therefore, it is recognized as intangible assets present the net book value Galp’s responsibility to collect the ISP (tax on oil products) of €24,023 k. from counterparties (partners/competitors) and to deliver it over to the State. The information regarding the maturity of the liabilities for the land surface rights is detailed as follows: The amount of €2,457 k recorded in the caption “Guarantee deposits and guarantees received” includes < 1 year 5,832 €2,145 k relating to Petrogal’s liability as of 31 December > 1 year and < 5 years 22,086 2016 for customer deposits received for gas containers > 5 years 45,229 in use, that were recorded at acquisition cost, which corresponds to their approximate fair value. Total 73,147 Interests (Amortized cost) 6,048 The amount of €178,515 k recorded in the caption Net amount 67,099 “Loans – associates, affiliates and related companies” refers to the following: Considering the maturity of the land surface rights and the In March 2012, Winland International Petroleum, S.A.R.L., conditions for renewal of such rights, they are similar to a granted loans amounting to US$188,173,000 under the form financial lease. of shareholders loans to the subsidiary Petrogal Brasil, S.A. This loan bears interest at market rates and has a maturity of 10 years. In the period ended 31 December 2016 the amount of €8,669 k is recognised under the caption “Interest”, regarding loans obtained concerning related companies (Notes 8 and 28). The amount of €1,205 k in the caption “Loans – other shareholders”, recorded as non-current payable, is related to a loan payable to EDP Cogeração, S.A. related to shareholder loans obtained by the subsidiary Carriço Cogeração Sociedade de Geração de Electricidade e Calor, S.A., which bears interest at market rates and does not have a defined maturity; Government investment grants are recognised as income over the useful life of the assets. The amount to be recognised in future periods amounts to €7,492 k (Note 13). The change noted is mainly related to the change in the consolidation perimeter as mentioned in Note 3.2. The caption “Non-current tangible and intangible assets suppliers” essentially refers to surface rights. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 329 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 25. Provisions The changes in provisions in the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: unit: €k Changes in the Initial Ending Captions Increases Decreases Utilisation Transfers Adjustments consolidation balance balance perimeter 2016 Lawsuits 29,179 297 (12,874) (492) 98 4,564 (429) 20,343 Financial investments 4,115 35 (331) 186 4,005 (Note 4) Taxes 33,405 1,516 (4,735) 968 31,154 Environment 2,208 1,475 (229) 3,454 Abandonment 128,795 47,264 (40,597) 3,598 139,060 of blocks Other risks 231,060 41,926 1,388 (10,393) (98) (1,107) (31,305) 231,471 and charges 428,762 92,513 (52,414) (15,849) 8,209 (31,734) 429,487 2015 Lawsuits 11,252 27,472 (1,496) (5,113) (2,936) 29,179 Financial investments 3,954 184 (23) 4,115 (Note 4) Taxes 21,238 10,892 1,275 33,405 Environment 2,021 450 (263) 2,208 Abandonment 111,360 21,538 (12,665) (4,058) 12,620 128,795 of blocks Other risks 34,715 196,788 (113) (270) (60) 231,060 and charges 184,540 257,324 (14,161) (9,547) 10,666 (60) 428,762 The increase in provisions, net of the decreases, in the year ended 31 December 2016 were as follows: unit: €k 2016 2015 Capitalisation of abandonment blocks provision costs 19,866 8,873 Energy sector extraordinary contribution CESE I 28,402 28,531 Provisions (Note 6) (10,422) 16,682 Future liability disposal of Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, SGPS, S.A. (Note 3,1 d)) 7,476 Energy sector extraordinary contribution CESE II 4,274 157,820 Estimate for additional payments of IRP Oil income tax (Angola) 754 10,365 Results from investments in associates and joint ventures (Note 4) (296) 184 Estimate for additional payments of special participation tax in Brazil (9,955) 20,708 40,099 243,163 330 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Lawsuits Environmental issues The provision for current lawsuits amounts to €20,343 k The amount of €3,454 k presented in the caption and includes mainly: an amount of €4,180 k relating to Environmental provisions is related to the costs associated a liability for fines imposed by the Competition Authority with the soil decontamination of certain facilities occupied relating to contracts with distributors in the LPG business; by the Group, where due to legal obligation a decision has the amount of €2,204 k related to liabilities for the already been taken to carry out the decontamination. offsetting of subsoil levies and an amount of €11,147 k related to the provision of the estimate for payment of The amount of €1,475 k recognised in increases an additional amount of the special participation tax in corresponds to €1,100 k for soil decontamination Brazil. The amount of €4,565 k included in the heading in the Matosinhos “ETAR” and €375 k for the soil Adjustments corresponds to translation differences arising decontamination and gutters in “FUT” in Oporto. from the translation from the functional currency to the Group reporting currency (EUR) mainly from this provision. The amount of €229 k recognised in Utilisation corresponds The amount of €429 k in the heading Changes in the to €18 k for soil decontamination in the Sines refinary and consolidation perimeter corresponds to the disposal of part €211 k for decontamination in Matosinhos. of the share capital of Galp Gás Natural Distribuição. Galp has no longer the full control over the Galp Gás Natural Distribuição Group, and the entities which comprise it are considered as joint ventures. Financial investments The provision for financial investments reflects the joint commitment of the Group in respect of its associates and joint ventures that have reported negative equity (Note 4). Taxes The caption Tax provisions, amounting to €31,154 k includes mainly: i) €22,581 k of additional liquidations of Petroleum Income Tax (“IRP”) (Note 9); and ii) €7,394 k concerning a tax contingency, related with a correction to the 2001 and 2002 corporate income tax of the subsidiary Petrogal (Note 9). The increase of the tax provision amounting to €1,516 k corresponds mainly to the additional liquidation of Petroleum Income Tax “IRP” in Angola amounting to €754 k and provision for the subsidiary Galp Swaziland (PTY) Limited, in the amount of €762 k referring to the agreement with tax entities in the dispatch process for previous years. Utilization of the provision in the amount of €4,735 k corresponds mainly to the amount of €3,377 k for payment, under the PERES programme, of a dispute with the tax authority related to a disposal. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 331 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Abandonment of blocks The amount of €139,060 k recorded in provisions for the abandonment of blocks is destined to cover all costs to be incurred with the dismantling of assets and soil decontamination at the end of the useful life of those areas. The changes in provisions for the abandonment of blocks in the year ended were as follows: unit: €k Exchange Exchange NPV interests Ending Initial balance Increases Decreases differences differences increase balance (Cta’s) (a) (P/L) (b) Blocks in Brazil Lula and Gaspeline 24,328 25,553 816 6,249 (6,233) 50,713 Andorinha 618 19 (796) 159 Rabo Branco 704 10 181 (552) 343 Iracema 18,371 8,327 626 4,719 (3,668) 28,375 44,021 33,880 1,471 (796) 11,308 (10,453) 79,431 Blocks in Angola Block 1 1,209 6,028 7,237 Block 14 Kuito 15,949 468 (4,378) 523 12,562 Block 14 BBLT 14,406 421 (17,948) 473 (2,648) Block 14 TL 51,321 3,249 1,688 (17,475) 1,685 40,468 Block 14 K 1,889 59 62 2,010 84,774 9,277 2,636 (39,801) 2,743 59,629 Total 128,795 43,157 4,107 (40,597) 14,051 (10,453) 139,060 (a) Exchange differences resulting from conversion of the functional currency to the Group ‘s currency (EUR) are recorded in equity under caption Translation reserves (Cta’s) (b) The provision is recorded in USD , the currency valuation for the functional currency of the company(ies) is recorded in the income statement(P/L) under the heading Exchange (loss)/ gains. Other risks and charges As this law is being challenged, the Group decided As at 31 December 2016 the caption “Provisions – other to record the total value of the liability amounting risks and charges”, amounting to €231,471 k, mainly to €81,429 k under the “Provisions” caption, having comprises: reflected the amount of €29,087 k in the caption Changes in the consolidation perimeter. The total i) €7,476 k for the provision related to potential value of the liability on 31 December 2015 amounted compensation to the buyer of 22.5% in GGND in case to €53,027 k. In the year ended 31 December 2016, the CESE I tax becomes due; the provision was reinforced by €28,402 k, and recognised in the income statement under the ii) €4,561 k concerning processes related to sanctions caption “Energy sector extraordinary contribution”; applied by customs authorities due to the late submission of the customs destination declaration iv) €162,094 k relating to the provision to cover the of some cargo shipments received in Sines; Energy sector extraordinary contribution CESE II: iii) €52,342 k relating to the provision to cover the Energy In the period ended 31 December 2015, the Group was sector extraordinary contribution CESE I: subject to a special tax (Energy Sector Extraordinary Contribution CESE II), pursuant to Law 33/2015 of For the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group was 27 April and Order No. 157 -B/2015 of 28 May, which subject to a special tax (Energy Sector Extraordinary focuses on the value of future sales, based on the four Contribution CESE I), pursuant to Article 228 of Law existing long term LNG sourcing contracts which are 83C/2013 of 31 December, which states that the on a take-or-pay basis. Resulting from the respective energy companies that detain net assets in certain Law and Order, Galp recorded a total payable amount activities as at 1 January 2014 are subject to a tax of €156,156 k, to be paid in instalments of €52,052k calculated on the amount of net assets at that date. in May of each of the years 2015, 2016 and 2017, 332 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements respectively, and accrued the amount of €5,938 k The balance of the caption “Trade payables – pending related to interests. invoices” mainly corresponds to the purchase of crude oil, natural gas and goods in transit at those dates. As it is challenging the law, Galp group has accounted for the total value of the liability amounting to €162,094 k under the “Provisions” caption and the respective cost is being deferred under the caption 27. Other financial instruments “Other receivables Deferred costs” over the useful – financial derivatives life of the contracts. In the year ended 31 December The Group may use financial derivatives to hedge interest 2016, the Group recognised in the income statement rate risk, market fluctuation risks, particularly the risks of under the caption Energy sector extraordinary variation in crude oil prices, finished products and refining contribution the amount of €27,645 k and the current and non-current captions “Other receivables margins, as well as price variation risk of natural gas and Deferred costs” amount to €21,740 k and €85,923 k, electricity which affect the financial value of the assets respectively (Note 14). and the future cash flows expected from its activities. In the year ended 31 December 2016, the amount of Financial derivatives are defined, in accordance with €12,000 k (Note 9) was also paid and recognised in IAS/IFRS, as “financial assets at fair value through profit the income statement under the caption Energy sector and loss” or “financial liabilities at fair value through profit extraordinary contribution, relating to the “Fondo and loss”. Financial derivatives on commodities that are Nacional de Eficiência Energética (FNEE)”, in relation contracted to hedge the fair value variability or to address to the Group companies headquartered in Spain. any risks that may affect the results of customer contracts of exercise are termed as “fair value hedge”. On the other v) €1,844 k to cover the impairment of the assets of the affiliate Moçamgalp Agroenergias hand, financial derivatives on commodities that are de Moçambique, S.A.; and contracted to hedge cash flow of customer contracts are termed as “cash flow hedges”. The amount of €31,305 k in Changes in the consolidation perimeter includes the amount of The fair value of financial derivatives is level 2, and €29,087 k referring to CESE I as stated in the was determined by external and independent financial paragraph iii) and the amount of €2,218 k for entities, applying evaluation models (such as Discounted facing the 2012 debits issued by the Lisbon Port cash flows, Black-Scholes model, Binomial and Trinomial Administration, for the occupancy of the Cabo Ruivo models and Monte-Carlo simulations, among other land property claimed by the Company. The change in models depending on the type and characteristics of the the consolidation perimeter results from the loss in full financial derivative under analysis) based on generally control of the Galp Gás Natural Distribuição Group, accepted principles. being the companies which integrate it accounted for as joint ventures (Note 3). Futures are traded in the stock exchange and subject to a Clearing House, and as such their valuation is determined by quoted prices. 26. Trade payables The fair value of the remaining financial derivatives As of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 the amounts (Swaps, Forwards and Options) booked were determined recorded in the caption “Trade payables” were as follows: by financial entities using observable market inputs and using generally accepted techniques and models. unit: €k Captions December 2016 December 2015 Trade payables current 363,288 367,891 accounts Trade payables pending 487,124 288,455 invoices 850,412 656,346 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 333 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Derivative financial instruments portfolio as of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 are detailed as follows: unit: €k Fair value as at December 2016 Fair value as at December 2016 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Equity NonNonNonNonEquity (Note 20) Current current Current current Current current Current current Commodities financial derivatives Swaps (Nota 17) 18,922 2,246 (16,055) (1,222) 1,169 4,458 1,041 (29,091) (2,498) Options Futures (Note 18) 4,001 5,055 4,241 (1,134) 14,220 7,263 (4,191) (331) (1,766) 8,699 1,041 (29,091) (2,498) (1,134) Commodities financial derivatives Swaps (Nota 17) (1,001) (277) Options 31 (103) Futures (Note 18) 31 (1,001) (380) 22,954 2,246 (17,056) (1,222) 6,224 8,699 1,041 (29,471) (2,498) (1,134) The MTM (Mark-to-Market) of the derivative financial liabilities amounts to €18,278 k. Of this amount, €17,056 k are classified as current liabilities and will be realised over one year. The amount presented in non-current liabilities, amounting to €1,222 k will be realised over the period of two years (meaning, in 2018). The accounting impact as of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 in the income statement is presented in the following table: unit: €k 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Equity Income statement (Note 20) Income statement Equity Potential Potential Potential Potential (MTM) Real MTM+Real (MTM) (MTM) Real MTM+Real (MTM) Commodities financial derivatives Swaps 29,639 (13,554) 16,084 1,509 (18,021) (87,294) (105,315) Swaps Fair value hedge (22,834) (22,834) 2,712 2,712 Options Futures 671 (34,224) (33,553) 5,844 2,481 28,022 30,504 (1,134) 7,476 (47,778) (40,303) 7,353 (12,828) (59,272) (72,099) (1,134) Currency financial derivatives Non-deliverable Forwards (724) (9,895) (10,619) (512) 2,359 1,848 Forwards 134 437 571 418 (4,773) (4,355) Currency Interest Rate Swaps (3,209) 21,916 18,707 (590) (9,458) (10,048) (3,303) 19,502 16,200 6,886 (57,236) (50,351) 7,353 (16,131) (39,770) (55,899) (1,134) Note: MTM variation of the Mark-to-Market from January until the reporting date; Real value of closed positions. 334 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The potential value of MTM (Mark-to-Market) recognised Financial derivatives open positions have the following under the caption “Income from financial instruments” nominal values per maturity: includes the potential value of the interest component of Currency Interest Rate Swaps financial derivatives (2015) unit: €k and Commodities derivatives, in the positive amount of 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 €7,476 k, as shown in the following table: Maturity Maturity < 1 year > 1 year < 1 year > 1 year unit: €k Commodities December 2016 December 2015 financial Income on financial instruments derivatives Commodities financial derivatives Buy 129,438 13,650 88,161 13,895 Swaps Swaps 6,805 (15,309) Sell 141,708 21,274 77,204 10,256 Options Buy 661 477 Options Futures 671 2,481 Sell 587 432 Currency financial derivatives Buy 75,696 1,844 98,618 7,980 Futures Currency Interest Rate Swaps Sell 5,681 47,742 50 (Interest) Currency Other trading operations 9,916 2 financial derivatives 17,392 (12,776) NonBuy 27,363 29,887 deliverable Forwards Sell The realised value of financial derivatives recognised in the “Cost of sales” caption amounts to negative €47,778 k Swaps Buy 41,054 comprising financial derivatives over commodities (Note 6). Sell 44,352 29,204 81,810 (5,780) 62,590 11,664 In relation to the CIRS derivatives, the MTM related to the exchange difference is recognized in the caption Exchange Note: Equivalent nominal value in thousand Euro. Gains (Losses), and the remaining, related to interest, is recognized in the caption Results from financial Galp has financial derivatives over commodities recognised instruments in the income statement. as fair value hedge (fair value hedge and cash flow hedge). These financial derivatives have been contracted for the The amount related to Trading operations is mainly related reduction of risks associated with contracts signed with to a contango operation, in the amount of €9,330 k. customers and suppliers. Accordingly, the income statement shows, under the MTM caption, the negative amount of The changes in fair value reflected in Equity, resulting from €22,834 k, through the caption Other financial instruments, cash flow hedges, are as follows: related to the fair value hedge and in Equity, under the caption Hedging reserves, the positive amount of €7,353 k unit: €k relating to cash flow hedge. The cash flow hedges reflected Fair value changes in equity December 2016 December 2015 in Equity, whose positions are closed, are reclassified Group companies (Note 20) 7,353 (1,134) to income for the year. The amount of closed hedging instruments amounts to negative €16,615 k, and was 7,353 (1,134) recognized under the heading Cost of Sale, together with Associates and joint ventures (Note 20) (223) (42) the items covered. 7,130 (1,176) Annual Report and Accounts 2016 335 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Galp trades financial instruments denominated as futures. Given their high liquidity, as they are exchange-traded, they are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit and loss and included in “Cash and cash equivalents” caption. The gains and losses on commodity futures (Brent, natural gas and electricity) are classified in the caption “Cost of sales”. Changes in the fair value of open positions are recorded in financial income. As these futures are exchange-traded, subject to a Clearing House, gains and losses are continuously recorded in the income statement. 28. Related parties Balances and transactions with related parties in 2016 and 2015, respectively, were as follows: Receivables 2016 unit: €k Non-current Current Total related Loans Other Loans Other parties Trade Accruals granted receivables granted receivables receivables and deferrals (Note 14) (Note 14) (Note 14) (Note 14) Associates Galp IPG Matola Terminal Lda. 8,127 6,280 814 1,033 IPG Galp Beira Terminal Lda. 7,975 6,156 794 1,025 Sonangalp Sociedade Distribuição e Comercialização 3,630 3,447 183 de Combustíveis, Lda. Energin Sociedade de Produção 2,888 2,753 135 de Eletricidade e Calor, S.A. Tagusgás Empresa de Gás 2,090 379 1,621 90 do Vale do Tejo, S.A. Gasoduto Extremadura, S.A. 1,407 1,407 Gasoducto Al-Andalus, S.A. 1,056 1,056 EMPL Europe-Maghreb Pipeline, Ltd. 553 (3) 556 Terparque Armazenagem 215 215 de Combustíveis, Lda. Tagusgás Propano, S.A. 40 40 C.L.C. Guiné-Bissau Companhia Logística de Combustíveis da 38 11 27 Guiné-Bissau, Lda. Aero Serviços, S.A.R.L. Sociedade Abastecimento de Serviços 2 1 1 Aeroportuários 28,021 15,189 5,698 4,025 3,109 Joint ventures Ventinveste, S.A. 22,257 22,196 28 33 Lisboagás GDL Sociedade Distribuidora de Gás Natural 10,248 278 9,931 39 de Lisboa, S.A. Lusitaniagás Companhia de Gás 3,310 181 3,094 35 do Centro, S.A. Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. 2,241 578 1,427 236 336 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2016 unit: €k Non-current Current Total related Loans Other Loans Other parties Trade Accruals granted receivables granted receivables receivables and deferrals (Note14) (Note14) (Note14) (Note14) Belém Bioenergia Brasil, S.A. 976 528 448 Parque Eólico da Penha 901 900 1 da Gardunha, Lda. C.L.C. Companhia Logística 888 (279) 688 479 de Combustíveis, S.A. Duriensegás Soc. Distrib. de Gás 664 22 545 97 Natural do Douro, S.A. Dianagás Soc. Distrib. de Gás 295 25 212 58 Natural de Évora, S.A. Setgás Sociedade de Produção e 287 129 53 105 Distribuição de Gás, S.A. Medigás Soc. Distrib. de Gás 263 17 210 36 Natural do Algarve, S.A. Beiragás Companhia de Gás das 209 56 153 Beiras, S.A. Paxgás Soc. Distrib. de Gás 204 111 62 31 Natural de Beja, S.A. Sigás Armazenagem de Gás, A.C.E. 148 48 92 8 PERGÁS Armazenamento de Gás, 22 22 A.C.E. Moçamgalp Agroenergias de 7 7 Moçambique, S.A. Parque Eólico do Douro Sul, S.A. 5 2 3 Asa Abastecimento e Serviços de 1 1 Aviação, Lda. Tupi, B.V. 1 1 Caiageste Gestão de Áreas de (15) (18) 3 Serviço, Lda. 42,912 23,096 1,736 16,766 1,314 Assets held for sale and other related parties Tip Top Energy, S.A.R.L. 610,318 610,003 315 Adene Agência para a Energia, S.A. 102 90 1 11 SABA Sociedade Abastecedora 37 37 de Aeronaves, Lda. PME Ventures 2 2 Portugal Ventures 1 1 610,460 90 41 610,003 11 315 681,393 38,375 7,475 610,003 20,802 4,738 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 337 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 2015 unit: €k Non-current Current Total related Loans Other Loans Other parties Trade Accruals and granted receivables granted receivables receivables deferrals (Note 14) (Note 14) (Note 14) (Note 14) Associates Tagusgás Empresa de Gás do Vale 8,019 5,008 722 2,187 102 do Tejo, S.A. Sonangalp Sociedade Distribuição e Comercialização de Combustíveis, 7,460 7,460 Lda. Energin Sociedade de Produção de 2,850 2,753 50 47 Eletricidade e Calor, S.A. IPG Galp Beira Terminal, Lda. 1,831 839 992 Galp IPG Matola Terminal, Lda. 1,798 799 999 Gasoduto Extremadura, S.A. 1,339 1,339 Gasoducto Al-Andalus, S.A. 1,054 1,054 EMPL Europe-Maghreb Pipeline, 738 (3) 741 Ltd. Terparque Armazenagem 222 222 de Combustíveis, Lda. C.L.C. Guiné Bissau Companhia Logística de Combustíveis da Guiné 41 19 22 Bissau, Lda. Tagusgás Propano, S.A. 36 36 Aero Serviços, S.A.R.L. Sociedade Abastecimento de Serviços 15 3 12 Aeroportuários 25,403 7,761 10,097 4,262 3,283 Joint ventures Ventinveste, S.A. 21,592 21,546 17 29 C.L.C. Companhia Logística de 1,240 121 311 808 Combustíveis, S.A. Parque Eólico da Penha 875 874 1 da Gardunha, Lda. Belem Bioenergia Brasil, S.A. 773 325 448 Moçamgalp Agroenergias 624 9 615 de Moçambique, S.A. Sigás Armazenagem de Gás, A.C.E. 175 55 112 8 Caiageste Gestão de Áreas de 89 71 18 Serviço, Lda. Parque Eólico do Douro Sul, S.A. 13 13 Parque Eólico do Pinhal Oeste, S.A. 3 3 Parque Eólico da Serra do Oeste, S.A. 3 3 Parque Eólico de Vale do Chão, S.A. 3 3 Parque Eólico do Planalto, S.A. 2 2 Parque Eólico do Cabeço Norte, S.A. 1 1 Parque Eólico de Vale Grande, S.A. 1 1 Parque Eólico de Torrinheiras, S.A. 1 1 Âncora Wind Energia Eólica, S.A. 1 1 Asa Abastecimento e Serviços de 1 1 Aviação, Lda. Tupi, B.V. 1 1 25,398 22,420 627 1,505 846 338 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Assets held for sale and other related parties Tip Top Energy, S.A.R.L. 723,165 722,936 229 Adene Agência para a Energia, S.A. 92 90 1 1 ADEPORTO Agência de Energia 90 90 do Porto Cooperativa de Habitação 53 53 da Petrogal, CRL SABA Sociedade Abastecedora de 24 24 Aeronaves, Lda. Portugal Ventures 1 1 PME Ventures 1 1 723,426 90 90 27 722,936 54 229 774,227 30,271 90 10,751 722,936 5,821 4,358 Current and non-current loans granted to associates, joint ventures and related companies as of 31 December 2016 refers essentially to loans granted to the following entities: unit: €k Current assets Non-current assets Interests related Loans granted Loans granted to loans granted (Note 14) (Note 14) (Note 8) Energin Sociedade de Produção de Eletricidade e Calor, S.A. 2,753 39 Parque Eólico da Penha da Gardunha, Lda. 900 25 Ventinveste, S.A. 22,196 649 by Galp Gas & Power,SGPS, S.A. 25,849 713 Galp IPG Matola Terminal, Lda. 6,280 IPG Galp Beira Terminal, Lda. 6,156 by Petrogal Moçambique, Lda. 12,436 Tip Top Energy, S.A.R.L. 610,003 5,446 by Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V. 610,003 5,446 610,003 38,285 6,159 In February 2012, Sinopec (through Winland Energy Petroleum, S.A.R.L.) subscribed and paid a capital increase corresponding to 30% of the share capital of Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V. The funds from this capital increase will be used to finance the E&P projects in Brazil. It was then decided that part of the funds arising from the capital increase would be lent to shareholders (70% Galp, 30% Sinopec) as the expenditures to be made in Brazil were not immediately necessary. In March 2012, the parties signed a “Loan Facility Agreement”, by which they established that part of the funds resulting for the capital increase would be lent to the shareholders, being the reimbursement plan related to the Brazil E&P Capex needs until March 2016 (4 years). However, as the loan balances have reduced less than expected, resulting from a more efficient investment level, exploration cost reduction, Galp and the partner agreed in June 2015 to extend that deadline to September 2017. Consequently, Galp and Sinopec agreed to amend the terms of the final reimbursement clause established in the Loan Facility Agreement from March 2016 to September 2017. In view of the foregoing and with the aim of giving greater flexibility to the management of the agreement, the parties further agree that the Loan Facility Agreement would be renewed from March 2016 for successive periods of 3 months until September 2017, and either party may notify the remainder that it does not intend to renew, and that notification should be made with at least 180 days before the next renewal. Regarding the credit risk of the balance, Sinopec has a rating of A + (S&P) and Aa3 (Moody’s). Neither Sinopec require Galp nor Galp Sinopec is entitled to any guarantee from Sinopec. The loan agreement follows an unsecured loan format. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 339 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The loan that Galp Sinopec Brazil Services B.V. granted to Sinopec on March 28, 2012, is remunerated at a 3-month LIBOR interest rate, plus a spread, reaching maturity in September 2017. The movement in the Loans granted to Sinopec since the execution of the agreement up to the year ended 31 December, 2016 is as follows: USD Exchange rate 31/12/2015 unit: €k Loan 28/03/2012 1,228,626,253.42 1,0541 1,165,569 Interest capitalisation 69,398,831.28 1,0541 65,837 Received interests (61,012,962.89) 1,0541 (57,882) Reimbursements (594,007,500.00) 1,0541 (563,521) Other receivables (Note 14) 643,004,621.81 1,0541 610,003 At year ended 31 December, 2016, interest on loans granted to related companies amounted to €5,446 k (Notes 8 and 14). The remaining loans granted bear interest at market rates and do not have a defined repayment term. Payables 2016 unit: €k Non-current Current Total related Loans Other Loans Other parties Trade Accruals and obtained payables obtained payables payables deferrals (Note 24) (Note 24) (Note 24) (Note 24) Associates EMPL Europe-Maghreb Pipeline, Ltd. 6,885 6,885 Tagusgás Empresa de Gás do Vale 431 276 2 153 do Tejo, S.A. Terparque Armazenagem 91 91 de Combustíveis, Lda. Aero Serviços, S.A.R.L. Sociedade Abastecimento de Serviços 54 54 Aeroportuários C.L.C. Guiné Bissau Companhia Logística de Combustíveis da Guiné 35 35 Bissau, Lda. 7,496 7,252 91 153 Joint ventures C.L.C. Companhia Logística 53,114 52,419 695 de Combustíveis, S.A. Lisboagás GDL Sociedade Distribuidora 11,119 2,354 542 8,223 de Gás Natural de Lisboa, S.A. Lusitaniagás Companhia de Gás 9,628 778 154 8,696 do Centro, S.A. Setgás Sociedade de Produção 2,603 394 91 2,118 e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. Beiragás Companhia de Gás das 806 194 96 516 Beiras, S.A. Duriensegás Soc. Distrib. de Gás 455 33 75 347 Natural do Douro, S.A. 340 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2016 unit: €k Non-current Current Total related Loans Other Loans Other parties Trade Accruals and obtained payables obtained payables payables deferrals (Note 24) (Note 24) (Note 24) (Note 24) Medigás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural 271 25 128 118 do Algarve, S.A. Asa Abastecimento e Serviços 196 196 de Aviação, Lda. Dianagás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural 188 54 46 88 de Évora, S.A. Sigás Armazenagem de Gás, A.C.E. 113 113 Paxgás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural 77 7 37 33 de Beja, S.A. Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. 34 34 Moçamgalp Agroenergias 5 5 de Moçambique, S.A. Caiageste Gestão de Áreas 1 1 de Serviço, Lda. 78,610 56,573 1,203 20,834 Assets held for sale and other related parties Winland International Petroleum, 190,419 178,515 5,449 6,455 S.A.R.L. (W.I.P.) Fundação Galp Energia 3 3 Amorim Energia, B.V. 121 121 Other entities 711 365 346 191,254 178,515 121 365 5,798 6,455 277,360 178,515 121 365 63,825 7,092 27,442 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 341 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The amount of €178,515 k recorded in the medium and long term to be paid to Winland International Petroleum, S.A.R.L. (WIP) relates to shareholder loans obtained by the subsidiary Petrogal Brasil, S.A. (Note 24), which bear interest at market rate and have defined 10-year reimbursement plan. 2015 unit: €k Non-current Current Total related Loans Other Loans Other parties Trade Accruals and obtained payables obtained payables payables deferrals (Note 24) (Note 24) (Note 24) (Note 24) Associates Tagusgás Empresa de Gás do Vale do 1,266 1,019 247 Tejo, S.A. EMPL Europe-Maghreb Pipeline, Ltd. 899 899 C.L.C. Guiné-Bissau Companhia Logística de Combustíveis da Guiné133 133 Bissau, Lda. Aero Serviços, S.A.R.L. Sociedade Abastecimento de Serviços 23 23 Aeroportuários Terparque Armazenagem de 12 12 Combustíveis, Lda. 2,333 1,930 156 247 Joint ventures C.L.C. Companhia Logística de 45,538 45,538 Combustíveis, S.A. Sigás Armazenagem de Gás, A.C.E. 387 151 236 Moçamgalp Agroenergias de 5 5 Moçambique, S.A. 45,930 45,694 236 Assets held for sale and other related parties Winland International Petroleum, 181,620 172,842 3,151 5,627 S.A.R.L. (W.I.P.) Amorim Energia, B.V. 271 121 150 SABA Sociedade Abastecedora de 40 40 Aeronaves, Lda. Other entities 710 365 345 182,641 172,842 121 365 40 3,496 5,777 230,904 172,842 121 365 47,664 3,652 6,260 342 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Income tax Current income tax payable includes the amounts calculated through the tax consolidation regime for groups of companies receivable by Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. and is as follows: unit: €k Income tax (Note 9) Lisboagás GDL Sociedade Distribuidora de Gás Natural de Lisboa, S.A. 9,925 Lusitaniagás Companhia de Gás do Centro, S.A. 3,094 Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. 1,349 Duriensegás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural do Douro, S.A. 545 Dianagás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural de Évora, S.A. 212 Medigás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural do Algarve, S.A. 210 Paxgás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural de Beja, S.A. 62 to Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. 15,397 Transactions 2016 unit: €k Financial Financial Operating Operating Purchases costs income costs income (Note 8) (Note 8) Associates Terparque Armazenagem de Combustíveis, Lda. 1,903 (750) EMPL Europe-Maghreb Pipeline, Ltd. 76,909 (580) Tagusgás Propano, S.A. (262) Gasoduto Extremadura, S.A. (68) Galp IPG Matola Terminal, Lda. (14) Sonangalp Sociedade Distribuição e Comercialização de (14) Combustíveis, Lda. C.L.C. Guiné-Bissau Companhia Logística de Combustíveis da (7) Guiné-Bissau, Lda. Gasoducto Al-Andalus, S.A. (2) Energin Sociedade de Produção de Eletricidade e Calor, S.A. (39) Tagusgás Empresa de Gás do Vale do Tejo, S.A. 4,761 5 (306) 76,909 6,664 (1,692) (345) Joint ventures C.L.C. Companhia Logística de Combustíveis, S.A. 15,540 (3,818) Sigás Armazenagem de Gás, A.C.E. 921 (1,476) Lisboagás GDL Sociedade Distribuidora de Gás Natural 8,198 (677) de Lisboa, S.A. Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. (554) Lusitaniagás Companhia de Gás do Centro, S.A. 6,060 (454) Beiragás Companhia de Gás das Beiras, S.A. 1,032 (313) Setgás Sociedade de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. 2,392 (287) Duriensegás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural do Douro, S.A. 297 (252) Annual Report and Accounts 2016 343 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 2016 unit: €k Financial Financial Operating Operating Purchases costs income costs income (Note 8) (Note 8) Belem Bioenergia Brasil, S.A. (150) PERGÁS Armazenamento de Gás, A.C.E. 532 (144) Ventinveste, S.A. (142) (649) Medigás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural do Algarve, S.A. 190 (124) Dianagás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural de Évora, S.A. 161 (89) Parque Eólico do Douro Sul, S.A. (80) Paxgás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural de Beja, S.A. 43 (50) Caiageste Gestão de Áreas de Serviço, Lda. 9 (49) Parque Eólico de Vale do Chão, S.A. (10) Parque Eólico do Pinhal Oeste, S.A. (9) Parque Eólico da Serra do Oeste, S.A. (7) Parque Eólico do Planalto, S.A. (4) Parque Eólico de Vale Grande, S.A. (3) Âncora Wind Energia Eólica, S.A. 10 (2) Asa Abastecimento e Serviços de Aviação, Lda. 1,758 Parque Eólico da Penha da Gardunha, Lda. (25) 37,143 (8,694) (674) Assets held for sale and other related parties SABA Sociedade Abastecedora de Aeronaves, Lda. 656 (369) Fundação Galp Energia (33) Portugal Ventures (23) PME Ventures (10) Adene Agência para a Energia, S.A. (2) (9) Tip Top Energy, S.A.R.L. (5,446) ADEPORTO Agência de Energia do Porto 6 Winland International Petroleum, S.A.R.L. (W.I.P.) 8,669 Amorim Energia, B.V. 18 678 (444) 8,669 (5,446) 76,909 44,485 (10,830) 8,669 (6,465) 344 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2015 unit: €k Operating Financial costs Financial Purchases Operating costs income (Note 8) income (Note 8) Associates Galp IPG Matola Terminal, Lda. (799) IPG Galp Beira Terminal, Lda. (794) Terparque Armazenagem de Combustíveis, Lda. 1,788 (745) EMPL Europe-Maghreb Pipeline, Ltd. 70,385 (522) Gasoduto Extremadura, S.A. (448) Gasoducto Al-Andalus, S.A. (378) Tagusgás Empresa de Gás do Vale do Tejo, S.A. 5,047 (93) (341) Tagusgás Propano, S.A. (91) Sonangalp Sociedade Distribuição e (52) Comercialização de Combustíveis, Lda. Energin Sociedade de Produção de Eletricidade (45) e Calor, S.A. 70,385 6,835 (3,922) (386) Joint ventures C.L.C. Companhia Logística de Combustíveis, S.A. 14,813 (1,606) Sigás Armazenagem de Gás, A.C.E. 1,131 (1,295) Belem Bioenergia Brasil, S.A. (288) Caiageste Gestão de Áreas de Serviço, Lda. 30 (277) Ventinveste, S.A. (135) (672) Parque Eólico do Douro Sul, S.A. (61) Parque Eólico do Pinhal Oeste, S.A. (21) Parque Eólico da Serra do Oeste, S.A. (17) Parque Eólico de Vale do Chão, S.A. (10) Parque Eólico do Planalto, S.A. (9) Parque Eólico de Vale Grande, S.A. (3) Parque Eólico do Cabeço Norte, S.A. (1) Parque Eólico de Torrinheiras, S.A. (1) Âncora Wind Energia Eólica, S.A. (1) Asa Abastecimento e Serviços de Aviação, Lda. 1,531 Parque Eólico da Penha da Gardunha, Lda. (27) 17,505 (3,725) (699) Assets held for sale and other related parties SABA Sociedade Abastecedora de Aeronaves, Lda. 499 (148) Fundação Galp Energia (45) Portugal Ventures (24) Adene Agência para a Energia, S.A. (11) PME Ventures (9) Amorim Energia, B.V. 520 Tip Top Energy, S.A.R.L. (4,084) Winland International Petroleum, S.A.R.L. (W.I.P.) 7,898 1,019 (237) 7,898 (4,084) 70,385 25,359 (7,884) 7,898 (5,169) Annual Report and Accounts 2016 345 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 29. Remuneration of the board The remuneration of the board members of Galp for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 is detailed as follows: unit: €k December 2016 December 2015 Allowances Allowances for rent, for rent, travel Other charges Other charges and Salary Pension plans Bonuses Total Salary Pension plans travel expenses and Bonuses Total expenses and and adjustments adjustments others others Board members of Galp Energia SGPS Executive management 3,518 762 277 (836) (69) 3,652 3,832 807 297 2,848 58 7,842 Non-executive 546 546 530 530 management Audit Board 92 92 79 79 Board of the General 4 4 4 4 Meeting 4,160 762 277 (836) (69) 4,294 4,445 807 297 2,848 58 8,455 Board members of subsidiaries Executive management 1,223 (35) 1,188 1,506 28 1,534 Board of the General 51 51 10 10 Meeting 1,274 (35) 1,239 1,516 28 1,544 5,434 762 277 (871) (69) 5,533 5,961 807 297 2,848 86 9,999 Of the amounts of €5,533 k and €9,999 k, recorded in the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 respectively, €5,627 k and €9,480 k were recorded as employee costs (Note 6) and €(94) k and €519 k were recorded as external supplies and services. The negative amount of €836 k in the caption Bonuses corresponds to the adjustment of the excessive estimate of long-term incentives (LTI) and management bonus for the years 2013 to 2015 amounting to €(3,368) k, the 2016 accrual amounting to €1,512 k and the accrual of the management bonus amounting to €1,020 k. In accordance with the current policy, remuneration of the Galp Corporate Board members includes all the remuneration due for the positions occupied in Group companies and all accrued amounts related to the current period. 346 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 347 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements In accordance with IAS 24, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly, including any directors (whether executive or nonexecutive) of the entity. According to Galp’s interpretation of this standard only the members of the Board of Directors meet these characteristics. The variable remuneration of the Board of directors who exercise executive functions has a maximum limit of 60% of total annual fixed remuneration and includes an annual and a three-year variable components. The variable remuneration depends on the performance evaluation carried out by the Remuneration Committee based on specific, measurable and predefined criteria (economic, financial and operational) that contribute 65% to the definition of the amount of the applicable annual and three-year variable remuneration, corresponding the remaining 35% to the result of a qualitative evaluation by the Remuneration Committee of the activity developed by the executive directors in the relevant period, as the case may be. The payment of 50% of the triennial component of the remuneration is deferred for three years, considering successive and overlapping triennia. Each year the evaluation of the previous year is carried out by the Remuneration Committee, which establishes a provisional value for the purposes of accrual. At the end of each three-year period, the Remuneration Committee shall carry out a quantitative and qualitative evaluation of the three-year period for the payment of variable remuneration, if the objectives are met. The deferred effective value of the three-year variable remuneration depends, on the one hand, on the fulfillment of the overall objectives for the three-year period in question, and on the other hand, on the qualitative assessment by the Remuneration Committee, so that at the end of the triennium in question, it may be reduced or increased in accordance with their assessment. In the Galp Annual Report the amount presented differs from the amount recognised as expense in the year, as it is presented on cash flow basis, as shown in the following reconciliation: unit: €k Other costs not included Galp Annual Report 2016 Variation in accruals/deferrals for the year Note 29 of the Notes to the Financial Statements December 2016 in Galp Annual Report Allowances Allowances for rent, Other Other Pension Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable for rent, travel Other charges Salary travel charges and Total charges and Total Total Salary Pension plans Bonuses Total plans remuneration remuneration remuneration remuneration remuneration expenses and and adjustments expenses adjustments adjustments others and others Board members of Galp Energia SGPS Executive 3,466 762 277 952 42 5,499 52 (1,788) (111) (1,847) 3,518 762 277 (836) (69) 3,652 management Non-executive 546 546 546 546 management Audit Board 92 92 92 92 Board of the 4 4 4 4 General Meeting 4,108 762 952 42 6,141 52 (1,788) (111) (1,847) 4,160 762 277 (836) (69) 4,294 Board members of subsidiaries Executive 1,223 (35) 1,188 1,223 (35) 1,188 management Board of the 51 51 51 General Meeting 4,108 762 952 42 6,141 52 (1,788) (111) (1,847) 1,274 (35) 1,188 5,434 762 277 (871) (69) 5,533 In the accrual variation, the amount of €52 k in the Fixed Remuneration corresponds to the adjustment over the payment of Holidays and Christmas allowance, the amount of €(1,788) k related to the adjustment to the management bonuses and long‑term incentive for previous years and the accrual in the amount of €(111) k in the caption “Other charges and adjustments” corresponding to the annulment of charges from previous years. 348 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 349 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance The remunerations disclosed in the Galp Annual Report include the pluri-annual bonuses paid in 2016 for the three-year period 2013-2016. These bonuses are included in the “Variable Remuneration” column, only for the Executive President and Executive Director who finished their mandate in April 2016. 30. Dividends In accordance with the deliberation of the General Meeting of Shareholders held on 5 May 2016, dividends amounting to €343,907 k relating to 2015 net income and retained earnings, have been distributed and paid, of which anticipated dividends of €171,954 k on 24 September 2015 and the remaining €171,953 k on 27 May 2016. Additionally the Board of Directors approved the payment of an interim dividend related to the 2017 fiscal year amounting to €206,344 k, which were paid on 26 September 2016. In the year ended 31 December 2016 dividends amounting to €9,112 k were paid by subsidiaries of the Galp group to minority shareholders (Note 21 b). As such, during the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group paid dividends amounting to €387,409 k. 31. Oil and gas reserves (unaudited) Information regarding Galp’s oil and gas reserves is subject to independent assessment by a suitably qualified company with the methodology established in accordance with the Petroleum Resources Management System (PMRS), approved in March 2007 by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), the World Petroleum Council, the American Association of Petroleum Geologists and the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers. Reserves considered by Galp for accounting purposes are as follows: unit: €k Prospective Contingent Contingent Contingent Volume (in kboe) 1P Reserves 2P Reserves 3P Reserves Resources Resources 1C Resources 2C Resources 3C (mean risked) Africa 7,247 30,255 20,007 127,978 469,711 1,144,953 1,116,916 Latin America 266,844 368,824 233,727 172,511 850,391 1,847,788 829,744 Rest of the World 711,260 Total 274,091 399,079 253,734 300,489 1,320,102 2,992,741 2,657,920 Proven Reserves (1P) Those quantities of oil, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be commercially recoverable, from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and under defined economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations. If deterministic methods are used, the term reasonable certainty is intended to express a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered. If probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 90% probability that the quantities actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. Probable reserves (2P) Those additional Reserves which analysis of geoscience and engineering data indicate are less likely to be recovered than Proven Reserves but more certain to be recovered than Possible Reserves. It is equally likely that actual remaining quantities recovered will be greater than or less than the sum of the estimated Proven plus Probable Reserves (2P or PP). In this context, when probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 50% probability that the actual quantities recovered will equal or exceed the 2P estimate. 350 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Possible reserves (3P) Market risks Those additional reserves which analysis of geoscience and a) Commodities price risk engineering data suggest are less likely to be recoverable than Probable Reserves. The total quantities ultimately Due to the nature of its business, Galp is exposed to the recovered from the project have a low probability to exceed risk of volatility of the international price of crude oil, of its the sum of Proven plus Probable plus Possible (3P or PPP) derivatives and of natural gas and electricity. The frequent Reserves, which is equivalent to the high estimate scenario. fluctuations in the price of crude oil and refined products In this context, when probabilistic methods are used, generate uncertainty and have a significant impact on there should be at least a 10% probability that the actual operating results. quantities recovered will equal or exceed the 3P estimate. The Company partially controls this risk through the Contingent resources derivatives market for oil and natural gas, to protect the refining margin from adverse market changes. Contingent resources are those quantities of oil that are potentially recoverable from known accumulations but In respect of the natural gas and electricity activities, the which are not currently considered to be recoverable, for Group partially controls this risk through the establishment several reasons, for example, those related to the maturity of natural gas and electricity purchase and sale contracts of the project (the discovery needs more evaluations with similar indexes, so as to protect the business margin to support the development plan), technological issues from adverse market changes. (it is necessary to develop and test new technology to commercially explore the quantities) and market issues b) Exchange rate risk (the sales contracts are not yet in force or it is necessary to install infrastructures to deliver the product to the The US dollar is the currency used as reference price in the customers). The 2C contingent resources are those oil and natural gas markets. Since Galp prepares its financial calculated based on the best estimate, whereas the 3C statements in Euros, this factor, among others, exposes its contingent resources correspond to the high estimate, operations to exchange rate risk. Given that the operating reflecting therefore, a higher uncertainty level. Quantities margin is mainly related to US dollars, the Company is classified as contingent resources cannot be considered exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates, which can reserves. The definition of these reserves are in the Glossary contribute positively or negatively to income and margins. at the end of the current Annual Report. Since this is a currency risk associated to other variables, such as the price of oil and natural gas, the Company 32. Financial risk management takes a cautious approach to hedging risk, as there are natural hedges between the statement of financial position Risk Management and cash flows. The level of exposure of cash flows and especially the statement of financial position is a function of Galp is exposed to several types of market risks (price the price levels of oil and natural gas. risk, exchange rate risk and interest rate risk) inherent to the oil and natural gas industries, which affect the As a result of the above, Galp controls its exchange rate Group’s financial results. The main market risks result from exposure on an integrated basis rather than on each fluctuation of the crude oil price, its derivatives and the operation exposed to exchange risk. The purpose of exchange rate. exchange rate risk management is to limit the uncertainty resulting from variations in exchange rates. Hedging debits Galp discloses in the Management Report a chapter on and credits based on market speculation is not permitted. Risk Management and the main risks to which the Group As of 31 December 2016, Galp held derivatives to hedge is exposed including operating risks, not mentioned in this exchange rate risk (Note 27). document. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 351 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance c) Interest rate risk Fluctuations of monetary balances in foreign currencies may directly affect the caption “Translation reserves” included in The total interest rate position is managed centrally. Equity in Galp group’s consolidated financial statements, if Interest rate exposure relates mainly to bank loans bearing those monetary balances are stated in the same functional interests. The purpose of managing interest rate risk is currency of the individual company under analysis. to reduce the volatility of financial costs in the income statement. The interest rate risk management policy aims Therefore, the sensitivity analysis is illustrative and does to reduce exposure to variable rates fixing interest rate risk not represent actual current loss or gain, or other current on loans, using simple derivatives such as swaps. variations in equity. As at 31 December 2016 Galp did not hold interest rate The following assumptions were considered in the sensitivity derivatives traded by its subsidiaries. analysis of exchange rates: Sensitivity analysis performed to market risks • exchange rate variation of +/10%. resulting from financial instruments, as required by IFRS 13 The sensitivity analysis includes significant balances in foreign currency relating to Trade receivables, Other The analysis prepared by the Group in accordance with receivables, Trade payables, Other payables, Loans, IFRS 7 and IFRS 13 is intended to illustrate the sensitivity Financial derivatives and Cash. of profit before taxes and of equity to potential variations in the Brent or natural gas and electricity prices, exchange rates and interest rates of financial instruments, as defined in IAS 32, such as financial assets and liabilities and financial derivatives reflected on the statement of financial position as of 31 December 2016 and 2015. The financial instruments affected by the above mentioned market risks include Trade receivables, Other receivables, Trade payables, Other payables, Loans, Cash and Financial derivatives. When cash flow hedges are applied, fair value is recorded in the equity caption “Hedging reserves” only if it is shown that the hedge is efficient. There may be financial instruments with more than one market risk, in which case the sensitivity analysis is performed for each variable at a time, the others remaining constant, therefore ignoring any correlation between them, which is unlikely to occur. Sensitivity analyses do not include the impact of current or deferred taxes, which could reduce the presented variations, depending on the tax laws in the various geographic areas where the Group operates, as well as fiscal conditions for each company. Foreign currency investments were not included in the analysis as the Group does not record them at fair value as defined in IAS 39. 352 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The sensitivity analysis performed on exchange rates, presented in the statement of financial position, is as follows: unit: €k 2016 2015 Income statement Equity Income statement Equity Attributable NonAttributable NonAttributable NonAttributable NonExposure Exposure to controlling to controlling to controlling to controlling amount amount shareholders interests shareholders interests shareholders interests shareholders interests Investments +10% 657,753 7,500 55,391 2,885 1,493,714 530 144,131 4,711 Depreciation/ (appreciation) of x% -10% (7,500) (55,391) (2,885) (530) (144,131) (4,711) of the EUR versus USD Investments +10% 62,522 3,893 1,669 (4,377) (1,876) 30,562 2,493 1,068 (2,139) (917) Depreciation/ (appreciation)of x% of the BRL versus USD -10% (3,893) (1,669) 4,377 1,876 (2,493) (1,068) 2,139 917 and versus EUR (a) Loans Depreciation/ +10% 209,767 15,000 (20,977) 265,730 (26,573) (appreciation) of x% of the EUR versus USD -10% (15,000) 20,977 26,573 Derivatives +10% 9,778 (978) 15,375 (1,538) Depreciation/ (appreciation) of x% of the EUR versis -10% 978 1,538 USD (a) Trade payables +10% 63,701 (6,364) (4) (2) 132,880 (13,288) Depreciation/ (appreciation)of x% of -10% 6,364 4 2 13,288 the EUR versus USD Trade receivables +10% 680,716 7,071 42,700 18,300 791,000 6,343 889 6,840 2,932 Depreciation/ (appreciation) of x% -10% (7,071) (42,700) (18,300) (6,343) (889) (6,840) (2,932) of the EUR versus USD Trade payables +10% 188,713 (12,532) (5,371) 172,683 (12,088) (5,180) Depreciation/ (appreciation)of x% of the BRL versus USD -10% 12,532 5,371 12,088 5,180 and versus EUR (b) (a) Includes derivatives drawn in USD. Exposure over exchange rate variability of Mark-to-Market. (b) Includes 10% variation in the exchange rate of BRL to USD, and 10% variation in the exchange rate of USD to EUR. The following assumptions were considered in the commodities price sensitivity analysis: • price variation of +/10% of the price of the commodity; • correlation between market risks was ignored; • a sensitivity analysis was made for balances relating to financial derivatives over commodities. The effect of changes in the proven oil reserves as a result of changes in the Brent price was not calculated. Commodity “Brent Futures” were not considered in the sensitivity analysis performed on the commodity price derivatives, as these have monthly maturity. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 353 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance A summary of the sensitivity analysis for the commodities price reflected on the statement of financial position is presented below: unit: €k 2016 2015 Income statement Equity Income statement Equity Attributable NonAttributable NonNonNonExposure Exposure Attributable to Attributable to to controlling to controlling controlling controlling amount amount shareholders shareholders shareholders interests shareholders interests interests interests Variation in the price of +10% 172 the underlying 12,361 (10,486) derivatives on natural gas -10% (172) commodities (a) Variation in the price of +10% (9,354) 6,101 the underlying (9,212) (16,475) derivatives on oil -10% 9,354 (6,101) commodities Variation in the price of +10% 427 584 the underlying 5,161 5,111 derivatives on other -10% (427) (584) commodities (a) Excludes impacts of derivatives classified as fair value hedge and cash flow hedge The following assumptions were considered in the interest rate sensitivity analysis: • parallel shift of 0.5% in the time structure of interest rates; • analysis of interest rate risk includes Sinopec accounts receivable, variable interest rate loans and interest rate financial derivative; • the income before taxes is affected by the interest rate risk sensitivity analysis, except for interest rate financial derivatives classified as cash flow hedges, in which the sensitivity analysis, if within the required efficiency parameters, affects Equity. A summary of the sensitivity analysis for financial instruments reflected on the statement of financial position is presented below: unit: €k 2016 2015 Income statement Equity Income statement Equity Attributable NonAttributable NonAttributable NonAttributable NonExposure Exposure to controlling to controlling to controlling to controlling amount amount shareholders interests shareholders interests shareholders interests shareholders interests Loans-parallel shift +0.5% (6,795) (27) (10,325) (63) 2,811,746 3,490,216 in interest rate -0.5% 6,795 27 10,325 63 Applications+0.5% 5,716 1,075 6,939 224 parallel shift in 1,472,881 1,616,690 interest rate (a) -0.5% (5,716) (1,075) (6,939) (224) (a) Includes outstanding balances with entity Tip Top (Sinopec). The analysis was not affected by interest rate derivatives as the referred derivatives were not noted in its subsidiaries, but only in the associates and joint ventures. 354 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements • people insurance covering risks of work accidents, Liquidity risk personal accidents, life and health; Liquidity risk is defined as the amount by which profit • financial Insurance covering credit risk, collateral and and/or cash flow of the business are affected as a theft; result of the Group’s constraint to obtain the financial • transportation Insurance covering all risks related to resources necessary to meet its operating and investment cargo and hull; commitments. • other insurances covering vehicles, travel, etc. Galp finances itself through cash flows generated by its operations and maintains a diversified portfolio of loans and bonds. The Group has access to credit amounts that 33. Contingent assets and liabilities are not fully used but that are at its disposal. These credits can cover all loans that are repayable in 12 months. Contingent assets The available short term lines of credit that are not being used, amount to 1.2 billion Euros as of 31 December 2016, Regarding the contract termination process related to and 1.2 billion Euros as of 31 December 2015, and are the construction of the “Sacor II” ship and following sufficient to meet any immediate demand. In addition to the decision of the arbitration court, the manufacturer these credits, the Group has approximately 1 billion Euros was ordered to pay the sum of €3,904 k (€2,886 k plus of cash and cash equivalents, as stated in the statement interest). On 3 April 2013, the Insolvency Administrator of financial position, as of 31 December 2016, and 1.1 billion filed for closure and liquidation of the manufacturing Euros as of 31 December 2015 which combined with the company. As of 31 December 2016, the effective liquidation credit facilities amounts to 2.2 billion Euros of liquidity from the sale of the assets is pending. Due to uncertainty as of 31 December 2016, and 2.3 billion Euros as of 31 regarding the amount receivable resulting from liquidation, December 2015, respectively. the amount receivable has not recorded in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016. Credit risk Contingent liabilities Credit risk results from potential non-compliance, by one of the parties, of contractual obligations to pay and so As of 31 December 2016, the Company and its subsidiaries the risk level depends on the financial credibility of the had the following contingent liabilities: counterparty. In addition, counterparty credit risk exists on monetary investments and hedging instruments. Credit risk i) As of 31 December 2016 legal proceeding concerning the limits are established by Galp and are implemented in the licensing process for the Sines combined cycle natural various business segments. The credit risk limits are defined gas power plant has been filed by Endesa Generación and documented and credit limits for certain counterparties Portugal, S.A. against the Ministry of Economy and are based on their credit ratings, period of exposure and Innovation, against the best interests of Galp Power, monetary amount of the exposure to credit risk. SGPS, S.A. Galp Power, SGPS, S.A. has requested the impeachment of this lawsuit. The Board of Directors, Impairment of accounts receivable is detailed in Notes 14 supported by its legal advisors, believes that no liabilities and 15. will result from this process. ii) A legal proceeding which was brought against the Insurance Claim Risk Group by a subcontractor in relation to the construction of “Sacor II” ship amounting to a total of €2,274 k, is Galp has insurance contracts in place to reduce its exposure currently suspended at the Lisbon Maritime Court, due to various risks resulting from insurance claims that may to declaration of insolvency by the manufacturer on 6 occur during the pursuit of its activities, as follows: February 2013. The Board of Directors, supported by its legal advisors believes that it is not possible to determine • property insurance covering risks of Material Damages, the responsibilities that may arise to the subsidiary Sacor Machinery Breakdown, Loss on Exploration and Marítima S.A. as a result of that process, but considers Construction; the chances of a condemnation to be reduced. • general liability insurance covering risks of general activity (onshore), risks related to maritime activities (offshore), aviation risks, environmental risks and management risks (Directors & Officers); Annual Report and Accounts 2016 355 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance iii) additional Corporate Income Tax and Personal Income contracts. The ratio stipulated in the contracts, is in Tax assessments amounting to €35,962 k for which general of 3.5 – 3.75 x EBITDA; and provisions of €22,581 k and €7,394 k, respectively, were booked (Note 9 and 25). iv) Galp group has non-current contracts with Gas suppliers and Gas clients, which guarantee a minimum of iv) related with the agreement celebrated with Matosinhos acquisitions and sales, guaranteeing a good operational Municipality Council as of 14 June 2013, there may arise performance. some liabilities associated with the decontamination process of the soils, before the final disposal of the plots to the Matosinhos Municipality Council. To this date, The valued contractual commitments are presented below: the Company has no information to enable it to estimate the amount of such liabilities since the necessary studies unit: €k 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Post-2021 and assessments have not yet been prepared. Natural gas 1,109,384 1,123,198 1,195,267 1,197,515 676,979 2,548,782 purchases Other financial commitments The Group’s financial commitments not included in the These amounts refer to contractual commitments to statement of financial position as of 31 December 2016 are: purchase natural gas under long-term contracts with take or pay clauses negotiated and held for own use. i) €26,226 k related to purchase orders of tangible assets These contracts are normally made for 20-25 years, that have not yet been received; require a minimum purchase quantity and are subject to price revision mechanisms indexed to international oil/ ii) Galp Gas & Power, SGPS, S.A., previously named gas quotes. The amounts were calculated based on the GDP – Gás de Portugal, SGPS, S.A., as shareholder of natural gas prices on December 31, 2016. The contractual Ventiveste, S.A. has the commitment and responsibility purchase commitments updated at a WACC rate of 8.2% under the contract and other agreements made with represent about €5.6 bn. DGEG to fully comply and on a timely basis with 1/3 of the obligations of the wind farm project, consisting unit: €k 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Post-2021 of the promotion, construction and operation of the Natural Wind Farms. gas 747,395 569,231 315,603 315,603 157,204 353,710 purchases The contractual obligations are safeguarded by an autonomous, unconditional first demand bank These amounts refer to contractual commitments for the guarantee amounting to €11,628 k and by a pledge sale of natural gas under medium and long-term contracts given by the shareholders, Galp Gas & Power, SGPS, with negotiated take or pay clauses. The amounts were S.A., Martifer SGPS S.A. and Martifer Renewables, calculated based on the natural gas prices on 31 December SGPS, S.A. divided in equal parts, corresponding to 2016. The contractual sales commitments updated at a approximately 10% of the total Direct Investment, WACC rate of 8.2% represent approximately €2 bn. amounting to €23,255 k. The amount of the guarantee will be reduced each semester based on the contracted Guarantees granted investment in the preceding semester; iii) Galp group has bank loans that in some cases have As of 31 December 2016, responsibilities with guarantees covenants that can, if triggered by banks, lead to early granted amounted to €286,540 k and included essentially repayment of the borrowed amounts. As of 31 December the following: 2016, the Medium/Long term debt amounted to 2.6 billion Euros. From this amount, the contracts with i) guarantees, mainly undated, amounting to €57,866 k covenants correspond to 0.3 billion Euros. The existing in benefit of the Tax Administration; covenants are designed essentially to ensure compliance ii) guarantees issued, undated, amounting to €30,000 k with financial ratios that monitor the financial position in benefit of EDP – Distribuição, to guarantee contractual of the Company, including its ability to service debt. access to networks operated by EDP Distribuição, in order The Total Net Debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio is the for the Group to supply electricity in the Portuguese most frequently used and as at 31 December 2016 was market; 1.4x in accordance with the methodology stated in the 356 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements iii) guarantees amounting to €7,062 k in benefit of xiv) guarantee, undated, amounting to €2,176 k to RENENMC-Entidade Nacional para o Mercado de Armazenagem, S.A. to ensure the fulfilment of the Combustíveis, E.P.E.. In January 2015 Galp was notified underground storage use contract; by the Competition Authority to make a payment xv) guarantee issued, valid until 31 March 2024, amounting of €9.2 m due to fines resulting from gas containers to €1,650 k to REN-Rede Elétrica Nacional, SA, to competition issues. Galp considered the fine to be ensure financial commitments of the market agent groundless and appealed legally. On 4 January 2016 resulting from the implementation of the Global the Competition Court reduced the fine applied by 55%. Management System procedures manual; Galp does not agree with the condemnation which was grounded on a pure formality and, therefore appealed xvi) as of 31 December 2016, bank guarantees were this decision. However a provision has been recognised issued, for an average period of two years, amounting amounting to €4,180 k relating to the responsibilities for to €6,721 k (BRL 23,055 k) to Agência Nacional do fines applied by the Competition Authority (Note 25); Petróleo, Gás Natural e Biocombustíveis (“ANP”) resulting from a contractual imposition of the iv) guarantees issued for one year, amounting to €12,459 k Concession Contract signed between the Brazilian in benefit of Oil Insurance, Ltd; Government and the block partners in Brazil in which v) guarantees, mostly undated, amounting to €2,575 k in the Company participates, where they commit to benefit of the General Directorate for Customs (“Direção invest in seismic acquisitions and drilling wells during Geral das Alfândegas”) the exploration period. The amount of guarantees corresponds to the responsibility of the Company vi) guarantee, undated, of €5,000 k given to the according to its percentage of participations in the Portuguese State for the obligations and duties resulting consortium; from the Concession of underground storage of natural gas public service allocated by the Portuguese State to xvii) Galp celebrated a contract with Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. Transgás Armazenagem, S.A.; – Petrobras, for the sale of natural gas for the concession area BM-S-11, in the Lula field, in the vii) guarantees, undated, amounting to €4,834 k in benefit Santos basin, for a period of 23 years, by which of the Sines Port Authority; Petrogal Brasil will sell the gas produced in the viii) guarantees of €1,267 k in benefit of “Instituto de development modules of the Lula Pilot and Lula NE. Estradas de Portugal” based on paragraph a) of article To guarantee the gas supply contract, a guarantee was 15º of the Law-decree 13/71 of 23/01, to licence the provided by Galp to Petrobras, which as at 31 December installation of natural gas conducts, parallels and road 2016 amounts to €98,662 k ($104,000 k); and crossings; xviii) as of 31 December 2016, there were also other ix) guarantee, undated, amounting to €288 k in benefit guarantees amounting to €8,772 k in benefit of third of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. to guarantee diesel parties as guarantee of fulfilment of obligations supply to thermoelectric stations of the Islands of Santa occurring from signed contracts between the parties. Maria, S. Miguel, Terceira, Faial, Pico and Flores; x) guarantee, undated, amounting to €27,409 k in benefit of several entities to support access contracts to the natural gas distribution networks; xi) guarantee of €1,256 k (reaching maturity at March 2017), and of €15 k (reaching maturity at July 2017) in benefit of T.I.G. (Transport et Infrastructures Gaz France) and to G.R.D.F. (Gaz Réseau Distribution France), respectively, to guarantee contractual usage of the natural gas transportation infrastructure in France; xii) guarantee issued, undated, amounting to €4,700 k to RENAtlântico, S.A to guarantee contractual usage of LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) infrastructure; xiii) guarantee issued, undated, amounting to €7,979 k to RENGasodutos, S.A to guarantee the National transport network use contract; Annual Report and Accounts 2016 357 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 34. Financial assets and liabilities at book value and fair value The book value and fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are detailed in the table below: unit: €k 2016 2015 Financial position captions Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Assets Financial assets available for sale 2,735 a) 2,487 a) Trade receivables 1,042,151 1,042,151 829,042 829,042 Loans to Sinopec 610,003 610,003 722,936 722,936 Other receivables 801,349 801,349 875,109 875,109 Other financial investments 45,355 45,355 28,888 28,888 Cash and cash equivalents 1,033,498 1,033,498 1,130,606 1,130,606 Liabilities Bank loans 1,220,181 1,220,181 1,398,207 1,398,207 Bonds 1,682,511 1,742,966 2,153,865 2,183,970 Other financial instruments 18,278 18,278 31,969 31,969 Trade payables 850,412 850,412 656,346 656,346 Other payables 1,189,084 1,189,084 1,395,620 1,395,620 a) Due to difficulties in calculating the fair value of the Financial assets held for sale (comprising unlisted equity instruments), these are recognised at the acquisition cost, as referred in note 2.2 c) and 2.17 a). The fair value of the bonds was measured based on observable market inputs, thus the classification of the fair value hierarchy was Level 2. Please refer to the fair value hierarchy for financial derivatives disclosed in note 2.18. The book value of the captions Trade receivables, Other receivables/payables and Trade payables are equivalent to its fair value. 35. Information on environmental matters The main challenges facing refining operations are the compliance with the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions as defined in the Kyoto Protocol, the reduction of the proportion of Sulphur in fuel consumed in the facilities and increasing energy efficiency. During 2013, Galp group was informed by the Portuguese Environmental Agency, by means of publication of the National Allocation Table for the period 2013-2020, of the definitive emission licences to be granted to the following facilities: Company Petrogal Additional Petrogal Carriço Facility Sines refinery Matosinhos refinery Matosinhos refinery Cogeneration 2013 1,187,801 494,967 504,322 65,341 2014 1,167,170 486,370 495,547 64,204 2015 1,146,296 477,672 486,772 63,067 2016 1,125,205 468,883 477,996 61,930 2017 1,103,886 460,000 469,221 60,793 2018 1,082,361 451,030 460,446 59,656 2019 1,060,567 441,948 451,671 58,519 2020 1,038,697 432,834 442,896 57,382 Total by facility 8,911,983 3,713,704 3,788,871 490,892 358 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.1. Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The following tables present the facilities currently operated by the Group, its annual emission licences – EUAs, as well as the quantities of greenhouse gases (t/CO2) per installation/company: EUAs EUA Licenses Free licenses Licenses Licenses EUA Licenses Licenses Licenses Company Facilities held t/CO2 on attributed t/CO2 t/CO2 held t/CO2 on t/CO2 used t/CO2 sold 31/12/2015 t/CO2 transferred purchased 31/12/2016 Petrogal Sines refinery 2,322,624 1,603,201 (2,547,397) 224,773 942,000 2,545,201 Matosinhos 1,156,391 468,883 (920,632) (224,773) 413,066 892,935 refinery 3,479,015 2,072,084 (3,468,029) 1,355,066 3,438,136 Carriço Cogeneration 28,114 (28,049) 65 Cogeração 28,114 (28,049) 65 3,507,129 2,072,084 (3,496,078) 1,355,066 3,438,201 (a) L  icences granted includes (according to the National Allocation Table for the period 2013-2020) for the upgrade project of the Sines refinery the calculation of the amount of 477.996 t/CO2. for 2016. As the entity Carriço Cogeração is dormant, no CO2 licences will be allocated to it. Held certificates EUA Licenses held t/CO2 CO2 emissions up to Excess/(Insufficiency) of Company Facility on 31/12/2016 December 2016 (a) licenses and certificates Petrogal Sines refinery 2,545,201 2,544,407 794 Matosinhos refinery 892,935 893,729 (794) 3,438,136 3,438,136 Carriço Cogeração Cogeneration 65 65 65 65 3,438,201 3,438,136 65 (a) Subject to environmental audits Galp holds in its portfolio CO2 Futures on CO2, maturing in December 2017, which represents 650 t/CO2. Due to the acquisition, in prior years, of licences which serve to meet the obligations with CO2 emissions, the subsidiary Petrogal recognised as cost in the year the amount of €7,561 k (Note 6). As of 31 December 2016, the pro-forma values of greenhouse gas emissions were below assigned and acquired licences. Thus, no accruals were made to the additional costs mentioned above. 36. Subsequent events There are no subsequent events of note. 37. Approval of the financial statements The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 7 April 2017. However, they are still subject to approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders, in accordance with the commercial law in place in Portugal. The Board of Directors believes that these financial statements reflect in a true and fair manner the Group’s operations, financial performance and cash flows. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 359 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance THE ACCOUNTANT: THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS: Carlos Alberto Nunes Barata Chairman: Raquel Rute da Costa David Vunge Paula Fernanda Ramos Amorim Carlos Manuel Costa Pina Francisco Vahia de Castro Teixeira Rêgo Vice-Chairmen: Jorge Manuel Seabra de Freitas Carlos Gomes da Silva Miguel Athayde Marques José Carlos da Silva Costa Pedro Carmona de Oliveira Ricardo Members: João Tiago Cunha Belém da Câmara Pestana Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Rui Paulo da Costa Cunha e Silva Gonçalves Thore E. Kristiansen Luis Manuel Pego Todo Bom Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo Diogo Mendonça Rodrigues Tavares Abdul Magid Osman Joaquim José Borges Gouveia Marta Cláudia Ramos Amorim Barroca de Oliveira 38. Explanation added for translation These financial statements are a translation of the financial statements originally issued in Portuguese in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (Note 2.1) some of which may not conform to generally accepted accounting principles in other countries. In the event of discrepancies, the Portuguese language version prevails. 360 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.2. Supplementary oil and gas information (unaudited) 8.2. Supplementary oil and gas information (unaudited) The following information is presented in accordance with Extractive Activities – Oil & Gas (Topic 932) of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Operating income from exploration and production (E&P) activities Operating income from exploration and production activities by geography, for the years 2016, 2015 and 2014 are as follows: unit: €k Africa Latin America Rest of the world Total 31 December 2016 Consolidated total contribution Sales 105,512 705,409 810,921 Production costs (27,870) (95,754) (123,625) Royalties (70,749) (70,749) Other operating costs (25,076) (66,528) 60 (91,543) Exploration costs (29,318) (48) (29,366) Depreciation, amortisation and provisions (245,341) (275,043) (520,384) Operating income before tax for the E&P activities (192,775) 168,017 12 (24,747) Income tax (7,543) (147,958) (4) (155,505) Operating income for the E&P activities (200,318) 20,058 8 (180,251) 31 December 2015 Consolidated total contribution Sales 110,991 507,094 618,085 Production costs (35,586) (71,969) (107,555) Royalties (49,777) (49,777) Other operating costs (4,885) (62,015) (1) (66,901) Exploration costs (17,232) (55,310) 41 (72,500) Depreciation, amortisation and provisions (151,053) (164,522) (315,575) Operating income before tax for the E&P activities (97,765) 103,501 40 5,777 Income tax (2,349) (92,475) 10 (94,814) Operating income for the E&P activities (100,114) 11,027 50 (89,037) 31 December 2014 Consolidated total contribution Sales 193,201 465,837 659,039 Production costs (42,137) (41,530) (83,667) Royalties (52,188) (52,188) Other operating costs (2,293) (72,579) (18) (74,890) Exploration costs (75,289) (28,070) (623) (103,982) Depreciation, amortisation and provisions (88,697) (63,107) (151,803) Operating income before tax for the E&P activities (15,215) 208,363 (641) 192,507 Income tax (49,077) (120,501) (27) (169,605) Operating income for the E&P activities (64,292) 87,862 (668) 22,902 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 361 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Production costs include direct production costs associated 2.3 Tangible Assets from the Notes to the consolidated with blocks which are currently in production. This caption financial statements. is presented net of income related to leasing of production equipment, registered in companies that are not fully Amortisation, depreciation and provisions include costs consolidated in the Group. Such income was: €42,328 k recorded in companies that are not fully consolidated in 2016, €32,283 k in 2015 and €16,223 k in 2014. and which amounted to €96,565 k in 2016, €8,597 k in 2015 and €3,526 k in 2014. The 2016 increase is driven by Other operating costs include overhead costs pertaining impairments related to the termination of contracts for the to areas directly related to exploration and production construction of the replicants FPSO hulls in Brazil. activities. It excludes general corporate overhead costs related to Group companies, in accordance with FASB Topic Operating income does not include corporate 932, and includes costs recorded in companies and financial costs, in accordance with FASB Topic 932. which are not fully consolidated for the amount of €8,717 k in 2016, €7,159 k in 2015 and €21,161 k in 2014. The caption “Income taxes” includes: oil tax payable in Africa, the Special Participation Tax (SPT) applicable Exploration costs correspond to exploration impairments, in Brazil, and income tax in accordance with namely costs of dry wells or asset impairments following the the applicable tax laws applicable in each country. decision to relinquish exploration licenses, The amount of income tax has been adjusted to exclude in accordance with the accounting policy described in Note corporate and financial costs that were excluded from operating income. Capital expenditure in E&P activities Capitalised costs during the year that represent expenditures made in E&P activities by geography, for the years 2016, 2015 and 2014 are as follows: unit: €k Africa Latin America Rest of the world Total 31 December 2016 Consolidated total contributions Acquisitions without proven reserves Exploration 10,319 27,425 (700) 37,044 Development 255,257 746,717 1,001,974 Total incurred in the period 265,576 774,142 (700) 1,039,017 31 December 2015 Consolidated total contributions Acquisitions without proven reserves Exploration 14,145 72,846 6,879 93,870 Development 303,558 705,469 1,009,027 Total incurred in the period 317,703 778,314 6,879 1,102,896 31 December 2014 Consolidated total contributions Acquisitions without proven reserves Exploration 134,949 113,163 3,155 251,266 Development 161,794 585,109 746,903 Total incurred in the period 296,743 698,272 3,155 998,169 362 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.2. Supplementary oil and gas information (unaudited) Amounts in the caption “Development” include assets which are related to transport and production equipment for block BMS-11 in Brazil, recorded in companies consolidated by the equity method, for the amount of €167,062 k in 2016, €213,928 k in 2015 and €255,948 k in 2014. Investments are stated in the Galp group’s functional currency. For companies where the functional currency is not the Euro, assets were recorded at the corresponding exchange rate at the end of the year, in accordance with the accounting policy defined in paragraph 2.12 of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements, namely in Brazil, at the exchange rate of 3.4305 EUR:BRL and companies in Africa, at the exchange rate of 1.0541 EUR:USD. Capitalised interests were not included in capital expenditure. Cumulative investments in E&P activities Cumulative investments include total expenditure in the acquisition of proven or unproven reserves and in exploration and development activities of blocks in which Galp holds a stake. Cumulative costs are fully capitalised in accordance with Note 2.3 Tangible Assets from the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. Dry wells are recognised as costs and included in the table below, as are impairments. Relinquished blocks are written-off from assets, and consequently, are not included in this information. Cumulative investments in E&P activities which are reflected in Galp group’s financial position are as follows: unit: €k Africa Latin America Rest of the world Total 31 December 2016 Consolidated total contributions Assets with proven reserves Fixed assets 1,260,992 1,654,878 2,915,870 Work-in-progress 61,638 1,512,181 1,573,819 Assets without proven reserves 1,175,317 468,240 62,396 1,705,954 Support equipment 9,711 5,350 39 15,100 Gross cumulative investment 2,507,658 3,640,649 62,436 6,210,742 Cumulative amortisations, depreciations and impairments (1,364,328) (513,867) (12,470) (1,890,665) Net cumulative investments 1,143,330 3,126,782 49,966 4,320,077 31 December 2015 Consolidated total contributions Assets with proven reserves Fixed assets 1,181,999 812,503 1,994,502 Work-in-progress 83,314 1,178,631 1,261,945 Assets without proven reserves 993,675 392,039 63,096 1,448,810 Support equipment 7,829 4,595 12,424 Gross cumulative investment 2,266,817 2,387,768 63,096 4,717,681 Cumulative amortisations, depreciations and impairments (1,164,176) (224,935) (12,421) (1,401,532) Net cumulative investments 1,102,641 2,162,834 50,675 3,316,150 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 363 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance unit: €k (cont.) Africa Latin America Rest of the world Total 31 December 2014 Consolidated total contributions Assets with proven reserves Fixed assets 1,114,835 621,059 1,735,894 Work-in-progress 121,555 910,845 1,032,399 Assets without proven reserves 648,296 461,309 56,217 1,165,821 Support equipment 6,397 9,184 15,580 Gross cumulative investment 1,891,082 2,002,396 56,217 3,949,695 Cumulative amortisations, depreciations and impairments (1,007,582) (172,732) (13,384) (1,193,698) Net cumulative investments 883,500 1,829,664 42,833 2,755,997 Investments were classified in accordance to the following Oil and gas reserves assumptions: 1) Assets with Proven Reserves (PR or 1P): assets related to Total proven reserves (1P) on 31 December 2016, 2015 and fields which hold proven reserves at the end of each year. 2014 which are presented in the tables below, include developed and undeveloped proven reserves, and were I) Assets with PR – Fixed: assets related with fields which used for depreciation of tangible assets and recognition hold proven reserves at the end of each year, already of provisions for abandonment costs, based in the Unit of producing and subject to depreciation; Production (UOP) method. These reserves were determined II) Assets with PR – Work-in-progress: assets related with by an independent entity, whose methodology is in fields with proven reserves at the end of each year, accordance with the PMRS, approved in March 2007 by which are not yet in production. the SPE, the WPC, the American Association of Petroleum 2) Assets without PR: assets related with fields without Geologists and the Society of Petroleum Evaluation proven reserves, at the end of each year. Engineers. 3) Support equipment: basic and administrative equipment The reference price used to determine the Company’s net allocated to E&P activities. entitlement reserves, which are those to be developed as per the agreements signed within the E&P business, was Amounts in the following captions include assets related to $43.69/bbl, $52.46/bbl and $98.95/bbl and corresponds to transport and production equipment for block the average market price of Brent for 2016, 2015 and 2014, BM-S-11 in Brazil, accounted for in companies which respectively. were consolidated through the equity method. Under “Fixed assets with Proven Reserves” it is accounted €419,056 k Reserves associated with blocks in Brazil correspond to in 2016, €255,736 k in 2015 and €119,127 k in 2014. Under 100% of the stake held by Petrogal Brasil in those blocks, “Work in progress”, it is accounted €647,651 k since this company is consolidated in the Galp group in 2016, €542,601 k in 2015 and €376,814 k in 2014. Under through the full consolidation method. “Cumulative amortisations, depreciations and impairments” it is recorded €60,554 k in 2016, €17,063 k in 2015 and The impacts of PSA (price effect and/or change in €7,443 k in 2014. recoverable costs) in reserves associated with this type of agreements are reflected in the caption “Revisions of In the table above, cumulative investments are stated in previous estimates”. the Galp group’s functional currency. Regarding companies for which functional currency is not the Euro, assets were updated taking into account the corresponding exchange rate at the end of the year, in accordance with the accounting policy defined in paragraph 2.12 of Notes to the consolidated financial statements, namely in Brazil, at the exchange rate of 3.4305 EUR:BRL and companies in Africa, at the exchange rate of 1.0541 EUR:USD. 364 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.2. Supplementary oil and gas information (unaudited) Oil reserves (1P proven reserves) unit: kbbl Africa Latin America Total 2016 Reserves on 31 December 2015 8,409 228,164 236,573 Developed 7,075 47,455 54,530 Undeveloped 1,334 180,709 182,043 Extensions and discoveries Acquisitions and sales Revisions of previous estimates 1,509 18,647 20,156 Production (2,671) (19,213) (21,884) Reserves on 31 December 2016 7,247 227,598 234,845 Developed 5,915 72,531 78,446 Undeveloped 1,332 155,068 156,400 2015 Reserves on 31 December 2014 7,817 195,549 203,366 Developed 6,426 37,210 43,636 Undeveloped 1,391 158,339 159,730 Extensions and discoveries Acquisitions and sales Revisions of previous estimates 3,164 44,569 47,733 Production (2,572) (11,954) (14,526) Reserves on 31 December 2015 8,409 228,164 236,573 Developed 7,075 47,455 54,530 Undeveloped 1,334 180,709 182,043 2014 Reserves on 31 December 2013 8,814 146,930 155,744 Developed 7,124 19,294 26,418 Undeveloped 1,690 127,636 129,326 Extensions and discoveries 59 59 Acquisitions and sales Revisions of previous estimates 1,580 54,476 56,056 Production (2,636) (5,857) (8,493) Reserves on 31 December 2014 7,817 195,549 203,366 Developed 6,426 37,210 43,636 Undeveloped 1,391 158,339 159,730 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 365 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Gas reserves (proven reserves 1P) Gas reserves are presented in millions of cubic feet (mmscf), with one barrel of oil equivalent corresponding to 6,000 cubic feet of gas. unit: mmscf Africa Latin America Total 2016 Reserves on 31 December 2015 236,250 236,250 Developed 52,501 52,501 Undeveloped 183,749 183,749 Extensions and discoveries Acquisitions and sales Revisions of previous estimates 10,855 10,855 Production (11,631) (11,631) Reserves on 31 December 2016 235,474 235,474 Developed 68,579 68,579 Undeveloped 166,896 166,896 2015 Reserves on 31 December 2014 174,008 174,008 Developed 27,941 27,941 Undeveloped 146,067 146,067 Extensions and discoveries Acquisitions and sales Revisions of previous estimates 68,966 68,966 Production (6,724) (6,724) Reserves on 31 December 2015 236,250 236,250 Developed 52,501 52,501 Undeveloped 183,749 183,749 2014 Reserves on 31 December 2013 130,935 130,935 Developed 21,081 21,081 Undeveloped 109,854 109,854 Extensions and discoveries Acquisitions and sales Revisions of previous estimates 46,517 46,517 Production (3,444) (3,444) Reserves on 31 December 2014 174,008 174,008 Developed 27,941 27,941 Undeveloped 146,067 146,067 366 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.2. Supplementary oil and gas information (unaudited) Standard measure of discounted future Future royalties are estimated considering production net cash flows revenue. Applicable only in Latin America and correspond to 10% of sales. The standard measure of discounted future cash flows have been prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton in Future development and future abandonment costs accordance with the requirements of Topic 932 of FASB correspond to the estimated costs for the development and correspond to an economic translation of the 1P PR of proven reserves (drilling and installation of production presented in the previous section. platforms), as well as the estimated costs of field abandonment. The estimated future cash inflows represent future revenues associated with production of proven reserves calculated Future income taxes include estimates of oil tax payable by applying the average market price of Brent during 2016: in Africa calculated according to the existing PSA; SPT $43.69/bbl. (applicable to blocks in Brazil) and income taxes, according to tax laws in each country. Future production costs correspond to the estimates of future production costs associated with proven reserves. The cash flows were calculated in U.S. dollars and translated into Euros at the average exchange rate of 2016 (1.1069 EUR:USD). unit: €k Africa Latin America Total 31 December 2016 Future cash inflows 286,055 9,234,291 9,520,346 Future production costs (118,910) (2,301,421) (2,420,332) Future royalties (1,015,674) (1,015,674) Future development and abandonment costs (63,466) (977,956) (1,041,422) Future net cash flow before tax 103,679 4,939,239 5,042,918 Future income tax (25,547) (2,788,110) (2,813,657) Future net cash flows 78,132 2,151,129 2,229,261 Discount factor (10%) (14,643) (1,126,047) (1,140,689) Standard measure of discounted future cash flows on 31 December 2016 63,489 1,025,083 1,088,572 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 367 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 8.3. 3. Legislation Galp report payments This Report is prepared in compliance with the provisions of to governments in 2016 article 245-B of the Portuguese Securities Code and its contents follow the provisions of chapter 10 1. Introduction of the Directive 2013/34/EU transposed to Portuguese law under the Decree-Law n. 98/2015 (herein together referred Galp believes that values such as accountability and good to as the applicable “Legislation”). governance are reinforced by supporting the concept of transparency in revenue flows from oil and gas activities. It allows citizens to access the information they need to 4. Reporting entities hold Public Administrations (concept defined in 5. Public This Report includes payments to Public Administrations Administrations) accountable for the way they use funds made by Galp. Excluded from this Report are the payments received through taxes and other agreements. made by entities over which Galp has joint control and payments made by entities/joint ventures over which As a member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Galp has no operatorship. Initiative (EITI), since 2010, Galp works with Public Administrations, non-governmental organizations and international agencies to increase transparency, disclosure 5. Public Administrations and accountability of Payments (defined in 7. Payments) For the purpose of this Report, Public Administrations made to Public Administrations. include any national, regional or local authority of a European Union member State or of a third country, In addition to the Payments stated in this Report, and includes a department, agency or entity that is a Galp contributes to the economies of the countries subsidiary thereof, which includes a national oil company. in which it operates as an outcome of other activities on the side of the Extractive Activity (concept defined below) by making payments to Public Administrations 6. Project for example in relation to the transporting, trading, Payments are reported at project level except that manufacturing and marketing of products derived from oil payments that are not attributable to a specific project are and gas. Additionally, Galp contributes to the economies reported at entity level. of the countries in which it operates, creating employment opportunities, purchasing products and services from local Project is defined as a set of operational activities which suppliers and undertaking social investment activities. are governed by a single contract, license, lease, concession or similar legal agreement, and forms the basis for payment liabilities to a Public Administration. 2. Subject If such agreements are substantially interconnected, those This Report provides an overview of the Payments to agreements are to be treated Public Administrations made by Galp, and its subsidiary as a single project. undertakings (herein together referred to as “Galp”), covering the full year of 2016 whenever such companies do For a fully integrated Project which does not have an so as a result of their activities of exploration, prospection, interim contractual cut off point where a value can be discovery, development and extraction of oil, natural gas ascribed separately to the extractive activities and to other deposits or other materials (herein referred to as “extractive processing activities, payments to Public Administrations activities”). are disclosed in full. 368 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.3. Galp report payments to governments 2016 7. Payments License fees, rental fees, entry fees and other considerations for licenses and/or concessions For the purpose of this Report, a Payment is an amount paid in cash or in kind under the following forms: Taxes and other Fees paid as consideration for acquiring a license for gaining access to an area where extractive Production Entitlements activities are performed. Excluded from this report are any Administrative government fees that Include the host government’s share of production are not specifically related to extractive activities, in the reporting period, derived from projects operated or to access to extractive resources. by Galp. This includes the government’s share as a sovereign entity or through its participation Infrastructure improvements as an equity or interest holder in projects within its sovereign jurisdiction (home country). Payments which relate to the construction Production Entitlements arising from activities of infrastructure not substantially dedicated to the use or interests outside of its home country are excluded. of extractive activities. For the year ended December 31, 2016, there were no production entitlement in projects Operated by Galp. 8. Other provisions Operatorship Taxes When Galp makes a Payment directly to a Public Taxes paid by Galp on its income, profits or production Administration arising from a Project, the full amount (which include oil income tax in Angola or Corporate paid is disclosed, even where Galp, as operator, Income Tax and Special Participation Tax in Brazil), is proportionally reimbursed by its non-operating venture including those settled by a Public Administration on partners through a billing process (cash-call). behalf of Galp under a tax-paid concession. Payments are reported net of refunds. Excluded from this report are the Cash and in-kind payments Taxes on transactions and on consumption (including but not limited to Value Added Taxes), personal income taxes, Payments are reported on a cash basis meaning sales taxes, and property taxes. that they are reported in the period in which they are paid, as opposed to being reported on an accruals basis (which Royalties would mean that they would be reported in the period for which the liabilities arise). These are payments for the rights to extract oil and gas resources, typically set at a percentage of revenue less any Materiality level deductions that may be taken. This report includes all payment types to Public Bonuses Administrations, either on a single payment basis or as part of a series of related payments, provided These are usually paid upon signing an agreement that such are above €100,000. or a contract, when a commercial discovery of oil and gas is declared, or production has commenced or reached Exchange rate a milestone. For the purposes of this Report, Payments made in currencies other than Euro are translated based on the foreign exchange rate at the annual average rate. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 369 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Summary Report (in thousand Euros) Production Infrastructure Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Total entitlement improvements Angola 11,434 11,434 Brazil 83,965 79,526 172 163,663 East Timor Mozambique Namibia 244 244 Portugal São Tomé and Príncipe TOTAL 95,399 79,526 416 175,341 Report by Country: Angola Public Administrations Report (in thousand Euros) Production Infrastructure Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Total entitlement improvements Public Administrations Financial Ministry 11,434 11,434 TOTAL 11,434 11,434 Project Report (in thousand Euros) Production Infrastructure Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Total entitlement improvements Projects Block 14 10,507 10,507 Block 14k 927 927 TOTAL 11,434 11,434 Report by Country: Brazil Public Administrations Report (in thousand Euros) Production Infrastructure Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Total entitlement improvements Public Administrations Revenue 10,484 79,526 90,010 Agência Nacional do Petróleo, Gás Natural e 73,480 172 73,652 Biocombustíveis (Brazilian energy sector regulator) TOTAL 83,964 79,526 172 163,662 370 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.3. Galp report payments to governments 2016 Project Report (in thousand Euros) Production Infrastructure Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Total entitlement improvements Entity level payment Petrogal Brasil. S.A. 10,484 10,484 Galp Energia. S.A. Projects Block BM-S-11 73,480 79,074 152,554 Block POT-T-394 1 1 Block POT-T-440 3 3 Block POT-T478 22 22 Block POT-T479 310 310 Block SEAL-T-412 28 28 Block SEAL-T-429 143 13 156 Block PN-T-136 53 53 Block PN-T-182 52 52 TOTAL 83,964 79,527 172 163,663 Report by Country: Namibia Public Administrations Report (in thousand Euros) Production Infrastructure Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Total entitlement improvements Public Administrations Ministry of Mines 244 244 and Energy TOTAL 244 244 Project Report (in thousand Euros) Production Infrastructure Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Total entitlement improvements Entity level payment Windhoek PEL 23 B.V. Branch Windhoek PEL 28 B.V. Branch Projects PEL 83 125 125 (Blocks 2212A & 2112B) PEL 84 119 119 (Blocks 2813A & 2814B) TOTAL 244 244 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 371 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 8.4. Reports and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor                                                   PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. pertence à rede de entidades que são membros da PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, cada uma das quais é uma entidade legal autónoma e independente. 372 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.4. Reports and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor                                                                                                            Annual Report and Accounts 2016 373 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance                                                                                             374 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.4. Reports and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor                                                                                                      Annual Report and Accounts 2016 375 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance                                                                     376 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.4. Reports and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor                                                              Annual Report and Accounts 2016 377 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance                                                           378 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.4. Reports and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor                                           Annual Report and Accounts 2016 379 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Annual activity report of the Audit business, and monitoring and performing adequate and timely control and disclosure of such risks; Board for the financial year 2016 e) receiving reports of irregularities made by shareholders, In accordance with article paragraph 1 g) of article 420 of Company employees or others; the Portuguese Companies Code (Companies Code) and of f) proposing to the general shareholders meeting paragraph 1 g) of article 8 of the Audit Board regulations the appointment of the Statutory Auditor of Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. (hereinafter referred to as Galp and monitoring its independence, notably as regards the or Company), the Board hereby presents its report on the provision of additional services; supervisory activities performed during 2016. g) appointing or dismissing the Company’s External Auditor and assessing its activity each year through a critical I. Introduction appraisal of the reports and documentation that it draws According to the corporate governance model implemented up in the performance of its duties. by Galp, which consists in the Latin model set out in paragraph 1 a) of article 278 and paragraph 1 b) of article 413, both from the Companies Code, II. Activity performed by the Audit the Audit Board is responsible for supervising Board concerning the financial the Company’s activities. year 2016 The Audit Board in office was elected at the general During 2016 the Audit Board held 13 (thirteen) meetings shareholders meeting held on 16 April 2015, for the 2015and implemented several measures within the scope of its 2018 term of office, and comprises three members, two duties, of which the following are highlighted: of which are independent in accordance with the criteria set out in paragraph 5 of article 414 of the Companies Code. 1. Permanently monitoring the Company’s activity, monitoring compliance with the law All members of the Audit Board meet the compatibility and articles of association, and overseeing criteria for the performance of their duties as laid down in the Company’s management paragraph 1 of article 414-A of the Companies Code. Ongoing monitoring of the Company during 2016 The main duties of the Audit Board stemming from was undertaken, in particular, through meetings with applicable legislation and the respective regulation, refer to the heads of Galp’s corporate centre, most regularly the following key areas: the Internal Auditing, the Risk Management and the Legal & Governance. a) permanently monitoring the Company’s activities, monitoring compliance with the law and articles of The Audit Board met regularly with the Statutory Auditor/ association, and overseeing the Company’s management; External Auditor and the head of Accounts, and had an annual meeting with Executive Director responsible for the b) monitoring compliance with accounting policies and area of finance. practices, as well as the preparation and disclosure of financial information, and supervising the audit On the other hand, members of the Audit Board attended of the accounts included in the Company’s accounting meetings of the Board of Directors on the quarterly, halfdocuments; yearly and annual accounts were approved, and the annual plan and budget. c) monitoring the effectiveness of the risk-management and internal-control systems, annually assessing with the Executive Committee the internal-control and audit procedures and any issues raised about the accounting practices adopted by the Company, addressing to that Committee such recommendations as it may deem fit; d) overseeing the adoption by the Company of the principles and policies for the identification and management of the key risks of a financial and operational nature related to the Company’s 380 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.4. Reports and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor During 2016, the Audit Board also monitored Galp Energia’s During 2016 the Audit Board performed several measures corporate governance system and its compliance with directed at monitoring, supervising and evaluating the legal and statutory requirements, as well as legislative working and adequacy of Galp Energia’s internal-control, and regulatory developments in the field of corporate risk-management and internal-audit systems. governance, in particular those issued by the CMVM, including recommendations relevant to the performance of its duties, having accompanied Within the scope of its supervisory duties, the Audit Board the process of corporate governance improvement. was also charged with supervising the implementation by the Company of principles and policies for the identification Also within the context of monitoring corporate governance and management of key financial and operational risks matters, the Audit Board has reviewed the corporate associated with Galp Energia’s business, having supervised governance report for 2016, and confirmed that the report the measures to monitor, control and disclose the risks. includes the information required by article 245-A of the Portuguese Securities Code The Audit Board’s understanding is that and by the CMVM regulation no. 4/2013. the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors have attributed increasing importance to the development 2. Monitoring compliance with the accounting and improvement of the risk-management, internal-control policies and practices and with the process and internal-audit systems, in line of preparation and disclosure of financial with CMVM recommendations in relation information and of the legal audit of the accounts to the Corporate Governance Code. The Audit Board has monitored the accounting policies, 4. Supervision of the activity of the Internal criteria and practices and the reliability of the financial Auditing division information through a review of the reports of the Statutory Auditor/External Auditor, and through an The Audit Board has supervised the activity appraisal of the findings of the audits and of the procedure of the Internal Auditing division during 2016 through regular evaluations performed during the year by monitoring of the implementation of the respective annual the Statutory Auditor/External Auditor. plan of activities for the assessment of the risks of the processes and systems of the business units and of the The Audit Board has reviewed the 2016 audit conclusions as to how risks are managed and resources and legal certification of the accounts, having issued allocated, having received from the division periodic reports a favourable opinion thereon. of the audits. Access to the financial information by the Audit Board was Evaluation of the proper working of the risk-management conducted on a regular and adequate basis, and there were and internal-control systems, and assessment no constraints to its duties. of the effectiveness and efficiency of the implementation of controls and mitigation systems were performed 3. Monitoring and overseeing the effectiveness by the Internal Auditing division, independently of the internal-control and risk-management and systematically, having regularly informed and drawn systems, and annual review of the working the attention of the Audit Board to the more relevant of the systems and internal procedures comments and recommendations, detailing opportunities for improvement and corrective measures. The Audit Board monitors the effectiveness of the riskmanagement, internal-control and internal-audit systems, The Audit Board further considers that, the creation and implementation of which in implementing the Internal Auditor established work plan, are the responsibility of the Executive Committee, the assessment of the internal control systems as well as assesses on annual basis the working and of compliance with established procedures, of the systems and respective internal procedures. as well as the use of the resources allocated, were performed efficiently. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 381 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 5. Annual assessment of the activity on its official website, governs the mechanism for reporting of the Company’s External Auditor to the body responsible, the Audit Board, irregularities occurring at Galp Energia Group companies. The Audit Board performed its duties as the Company’s interlocutor with the External Auditor With the entry into force of the new Galp Energia Code and as the first recipient of the information it draws up, of Ethics and Conduct on 18 December 2015, having provided the External Auditor with the information the Procedure on Reporting Irregularities was revised and and other appropriate conditions required renamed to Communication Procedure Irregularities for the effective performance of its activity. Ethics Line, and the Committee of Ethics and Conduct was created. Their role, among others, is to carry out the During 2016 the Audit Board assessed the activity reception and processing of information reported under of the External Auditor, having monitored its activity Communication Procedure Irregularities in force in Galp and on a regular basis, in particular through critical appraisal of affiliated companies, respecting the alleged irregularities the reports and documentation that it produced or breaches of the Code of Ethics or the rules that develop in the performance of its duties. or that deal with the matters listed in it, in the fields of accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing, fight In its annual assessment, the Audit Board considers that against corruption and banking and financial crime. the External Auditor provided its services in a satisfactory manner in accordance with the defined work plan, having In the course of 2016 the Galp’s Committee of Ethics and complied with the applicable rules and regulations, revealed Conduct held periodic meetings with the Audit Board to technical rigour in its activities, quality in its conclusions – report of received communications and assessment on the particularly with regard to the legal audit of the accounts – respective forwarding. timeliness and efficiency in the recommendations presented and competence in its procedures. In fulfilment of the reporting obligation provided for in point 8 of Galp’s Committee of Ethics and Conduct Within the scope of its verification of compliance Regulations, this Committee presented to the Audit Board by the External Auditor with the rules of independence, the annual report on the communications received in the Audit Board accompanied, during 2016, the provision 2016, the procedures adopted and the actions/measures of services other than audit services, which depends of a proposed. prior appraisal by the Audit Board, having confirmed the independence of the External Auditor. The Audit Board Lastly, the Audit Board would like to express its thanks to notes that the amount of services other than auditing the Board of Directors and to the Executive Committee of corresponds to 29,1% of the total of services provided by Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. for the co-operation provided in the External Auditor, complying with the recommendation the performance of their duties. IV.2 of the CMVM Corporate Governance Code approved in 2013. 6. Company business with related parties Lisbon, 6 April, 2017 During 2016 there were no related-party transactions Daniel Bessa subject to the prior opinion of the Audit Board under “Regulation applicable to related-party Galp group’s Gracinda Raposo transactions”. Pedro Antunes de Almeida 7. Reporting irregularities In accordance with best corporate governance practices and applicable market rules, as well as in line with the principles of fairness, correctness, honesty, transparency and integrity on the basis of which Galp Energia conducts its business, the Galp Energia policy governing the reporting of irregularities, available 382 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.4. Reports and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor Report and opinion of the Audit Board Dear shareholders, According to the legislation in force and the Company’s By-laws, and under our mandate, we hereby present our opinion on the management Integrated Annual Report (including the Corporate Governance reporting), the individual and consolidated financial statements and the proposed allocation of net profit presented by the Board of Directors of Galp Energia SGPS, S.A., with regards to the year ended 31 December 2016. We have met several times with the statutory auditor/external auditor, monitoring the performance of their role. We have monitored the process of preparation and disclosure of financial statements, as well as the legal certification of the accounts. We have verified and supervised the independence of the statutory auditor/external auditor, in compliance with the applicable law, mainly verifying the adequacy and approving the providing of other services than auditing. We have reviewed the legal certification of the accounts and the audit report of the individual and consolidated accounts regarding the year of 2016, which deserve our agreement. Under the scope of our mandate, we have verified and we hereby declare to the extent of our knowledge that: a) the management report includes a fair view of the business development and of the position of the Company and other companies included in the consolidation perimeter, highlighting in a clear manner the most significant aspects of their business, as well as a description of the main risks Galp and the other companies included in the consolidation perimeter are exposed to in their operations; b) the individual and consolidated financial statements and their corresponding notes allow for an adequate understanding of the Company’s financial position and results, as well as that of the subsidiaries which are included in the consolidation perimeter; c) the accounting principles and the metrical criteria used follow the IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and are adequate as to guarantee an appropriate representation of both the Company’s and the other companies’ included in the consolidation perimeter assets and results; d) the corporate governance chapter of the management report regarding the year of 2016 includes all the information required by article 245-A of the Portuguese Securities Code. Accordingly, taking into consideration the information received from the Board of Directors and other Company departments, as well as the conclusions set out in the legal certification of the accounts and the audit report about the individual and consolidated financial statements, we express our agreement to the management report, to the individual and consolidated financial statements and to the proposal of application of net profit for the financial year 2016, so we are of the opinion that those documents should be approved by the General Shareholders Meeting. Lastly, the Audit Board wishes to express its gratitude to the Board of Directors and to the Executive Committee of Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A., whose cooperation greatly simplified, at all times, the exercise of the Audit Board duties. Lisbon, 6 April, 2017 Daniel Bessa Gracinda Raposo Pedro Antunes de Almeida Annual Report and Accounts 2016 383 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 8.5. Independent Limited  Assurance Report                                                         PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. pertence à rede de entidades que são membros da PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, cada uma das quais é uma entidade legal autónoma e independente. 384 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.5. Independent Limited Assurance Report                                                                     Annual Report and Accounts 2016 385 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 8.6. Statements of compliance by the Board of Directors and Audit Board Statement of compliance by the members of Board of Directors According to article 245, first paragraph c) of the Portuguese Securities Code, each of the below indicated members of the Board of Directors declares that, to the extent of his/her knowledge, the management report, the financial statements, the legal certification of the accounts and further accounting documents were prepared in compliance with the applicable accounting rules and gives a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Galp and the companies included in the consolidation perimeter, and the management report includes a fair view of the development of the business and the performance and position of Galp and the companies included in the consolidation perimeter, and includes on description of the main risks and uncertainties faced by Galp and the companies included in the consolidation perimeter in their operations. Lisbon, 7 April 2017 The Board of Directors Chairman: Paula Amorim Vice-Chairmen: Miguel Athayde Marques Carlos Gomes da Silva Members: Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Thore E. Kristiansen Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo Abdul Magid Osman Marta Amorim Raquel Vunge Carlos Costa Pina Francisco Rêgo Jorge Seabra de Freitas José Carlos da Silva Costa Pedro Ricardo Tiago Câmara Pestana Rui Paulo da Costa Cunha e Silva Gonçalves Luis Todo Bom Diogo Tavares Joaquim Borges Gouveia 386 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.6. Statements of compliance by the Board of Directors and Audit Committee Statement of compliance by the members of Audit Board Under terms and the purposes of paragraph 1 c) of article 245 of the Portuguese Securities Code, each of the below indicated members of the Audit Board hereby declares that, to the extent of his knowledge, the management report, the financial statements, the legal certification of the accounts and further accounting documents, were prepared in compliance with the applicable accounting rules and gives a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Galp and the companies included in the consolidation perimeter, and the management report includes a fair view of the development of the business and the performance and position of Galp and the companies included in the consolidation perimeter, and includes a description of the main risks and uncertainties faced by Galp and the companies included in the consolidation perimeter in their operations. Lisbon, 6 April 2017 Daniel Bessa Chairman Gracinda Raposo Member Pedro Antunes de Almeida Member Annual Report and Accounts 2016 387 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 8.7. Tiago Câmara Pestana Compulsory statements Pedro Ricardo Carlos Costa Pina 1. Corporate bodies Company Secretary The composition of the governing bodies of Galp for the mandate under way for 2015-2018, is as follows: Standing: Rui de Oliveira Neves Board of the General Shareholders Alternate: Chairman: Maria Helena Claro Goldschmidt Daniel Proença de Carvalho Audit Board Vice-Chairman: Victor Manuel Pereira Dias Chairman: Daniel Bessa Fernandes Coelho Secretary: Maria Helena Claro Goldschmidt Member: Gracinda Augusta Figueiras Raposo Board of Directors Member: Chairman: Pedro Antunes de Almeida Paula Fernanda Ramos Amorim Alternate: Vice-Chairmen: Amável Alberto Freixo Calhau Miguel Athayde Marques Carlos Nuno Gomes da Silva Statutory Auditor Members: Standing: Filipe Crisóstomo Silva PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados – Sociedade Thore E. Kristiansen de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. represented Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo by António Joaquim Brochado Correia, or by Ana Maria Abdul Magid Osman Ávila de Oliveira Lopes Bertão Marta Cláudia Ramos Amorim Barroca de Oliveira Raquel Rute da Costa David Vunge Alternate: Carlos Manuel Costa Pina José Manuel Henriques Bernardo Francisco Vahia de Castro Teixeira Rêgo Jorge Manuel Seabra de Freitas Remuneration Committee José Carlos da Silva Costa Pedro Carmona de Oliveira Ricardo Chairman: João Tiago Cunha Belém da Câmara Pestana Amorim Energia, B.V. Rui Paulo da Costa Cunha e Silva Gonçalves Luis Manuel Pego Todo Bom Member: Diogo Mendonça Rodrigues Tavares Jorge Armindo Carvalho Teixeira Joaquim José Borges Gouveia Member: Executive Committee Joaquim Alberto Hierro Lopes Chairman: Carlos Gomes da Silva (CEO) 2. Treasury shares Galp holds no treasury shares. Members: Filipe Crisóstomo Silva (CFO) During the fiscal year of 2016, Galp did not acquire or sell Thore E. Kristiansen any treasury shares. Carlos da Silva Costa 388 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.7. Compulsory statements 3. Information on the holdings of the members of the management and supervisory bodies on 31 December 2016 Period from 1 January to 31 December 2016 Purchase Disposal Total shares No. Value No. Value Total shares Date Date on 31.12.2015 of shares (€/share) of shares (€/share) on 31.12.2016 Members of the Board of Directors Paula Amorim* Miguel Athayde Marques 1,800 1,800 Carlos Gomes da Silva 2,410 2,410 Filipe Crisóstemo Silva 10,000 10,000 Thore E. Kristiansen Sérgio Gabrielli Azevedo Abdul Magid Osman Marta Amorim* 19,263 1 19,261 Raquel Vunge Carlos Costa Pina Francisco Rêgo* 17,680 17,680 Jorge Seabra de Freitas* José Carlos da Silva Costa 275 275 Pedro Ricardo 5,230 5,230 Tiago Câmara Pestana Rui Paulo Gonçalves* Luís Manuel Todo Bom Diogo Tavares 2,940 2,940 Joaquim José Borges Gouveia Members of the Audit Board Daniel Bessa Gracinda Raposo Pedro Antunes de Almeida 5 5 Amavél Calhau Statutory Auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados, Lda José Manuel Bernardo *For the effects of art. 447, par. 2, sub-par. d) of the Commercial Companies’ Code, it is hereby provided that Amorim Energia B.V., in which the mentioned director also exercises administrative functions, is the holder of 276,472,161 Galp Energia shares. 1 On the date of co-opting (14.10.2016). Annual Report and Accounts 2016 389 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance On 31 December 2016, none of the members of the Board of Directors held any bonds issued by the Company. On 31 December 2016, the Chairman of the Audit Board held bonds issued by Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. at a rate of 4.125% and maturing on 25.01.2019, and had performed no transiction during 2016. 4. Company Directors’ business During the fiscal year of 2016, no authorisations were requested from the members of the Board of Directors of Galp, for doing business with the Company or with companies that are in an ownership or a group relationship with the Company. 5. Exercising of other activities by the Directors During the fiscal year of 2016, none of the directors of Galp exercised any temporary or permanent functions under a labour, subordinate or autonomous agreement, in the Company or with companies that are in an ownership or group relationship with the Company. The employment agreement of director José Carlos da Silva Costa with Galp Energia, S.A., a company within the group, has remained suspended since he was first nominated as a member of the Board of Directors of Galp on 23 November, 2012. On the date upon which the director Pedro Carmona de Oliveira Ricardo was nominated (16 April, 2015), the employment agreement that he entered into with Galp Gás Natural, S.A., a company that is in an ownership or group relationship with Galp, was suspended. 6. Creditors’ positions in relation to related parties companies See note 28 of the Appendix to the financial statements of the individual accounts of Galp. 390 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.8. Biographies of the members of the Board of Directors and Audit Board 8.8. Biographies of the members of the Board of Directors and Audit Committee Board of Directors Paula Amorim Paula Ramos Amorim was born in Porto, Portugal, and is 46 years old. She has been a member of Galp’s Board of Directors since April 2012 and Chairman since October 2016. She also serves as Vice-Chairman of Amorim Holding II, SGPS, S.A., a company from the Américo Amorim Group. She joined the Américo Amorim Group in 1992, and since then she has occupied a range of Directorial roles. She has also been involved in Amorim Fashion since 2005, a company she is the sole shareholder of. In December 2010, she created Amorim Luxury – SGPS, S.A., to expand and diversify her business interests, particularly to become the representative of the Gucci brand in Portugal through the company Amorim Five, Lda. Paula Ramos Amorim attended the Real Estate Management course at the Escola Superior de Atividades Imobiliárias. Carlos Gomes da Silva Carlos Gomes da Silva was born in Porto, Portugal, and is 50 years old. He has been a member of Galp’s Board of Directors since 2007 and vice-president and president of the Executive Committee since April 2015. He is a professional with 27 years of experience in different industries, in particular oil & gas. He joined Galp Energia/Petrogal early in the 1990’s, where he played several managerial roles leading the areas of refining operations, supply & trading, planning & control and strategy. From 2001, and for six years, he served in the beverages industry (at Unicer, a Carlsberg group company) as Head of M&A and Strategy and subsequently as Executive Director (for the supply chain, retail and human resources). He returned to the oil & gas industry in 2007 to serve as Board Member in Galp Energia, having served in several executive roles since 2008 as Executive Director namely for marketing oil, gas & power, trading oil & gas and corporate divisions (procurement, marketing, human resources, legal, corporate governance and compliance). Carlos Gomes da Silva holds a Degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science by the School of Engineering of the Porto University and an MBA by ESADE/IEP (Barcelona). Annual Report and Accounts 2016 391 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Miguel Athayde Marques Miguel Athayde Marques was born in Lisbon, Portugal, and is 61 years old. He has been an independent member of Galp’s Board of Directors since November 2012 and vice-chairman since October 2016. He is also Vice-rector at Universidade Católica Portuguesa and Professor at Faculty of Economics and Management Católica Lisbon School of Business & Economics, responsible for the areas of Corporate Governance and International Business. He has been an independent non-executive director of Brisa, Concessão Rodoviária, S.A., since December 2010, and Chairman of the Audit Board of Caixa Banco de Investimento, S.A., since January 2012. Before joining Galp he was Chairman of the Board of Directors of Euronext Lisbon S.A. and Interbolsa, S.A. and executive Director of Euronext N.V. (Amsterdam), between January 2005 and June 2010. During this period, he was non-executive director of Euronext Amsterdam, Euronext Brussels and Euronext Paris. Between April 2007 and June 2010, he was a member of the Management Committee of the New York Stock Exchange. He was also executive director of Caixa Geral de Depósitos (between 2000 and 2004) and of Jerónimo Martins (between 1996 and 2000). Before that he was Chairman of the Board of Directors of AICEP. Miguel Athayde Marques holds a degree, with distinction, in Business Administration and Management from Universidade Católica Portuguesa and a Doctorate in Business Management, from the University of Glasgow, School of Financial Studies. Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Filipe Crisóstomo Silva was born in Lisbon, Portugal, and is 52 years old. He has been a member of the Board of Directors and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of Galp since July 2012. Before joining Galp he was responsible, since 1999, for the investment banking areas of Deutsche Bank in Portugal and since 2008 was also president of the Deutsche Bank directorate in Portugal (Chief Country Officer). Filipe Crisóstomo Silva is a graduate in economics and financial management and holds a Masters in financial management, both from the Catholic University of America, Washington D.C. 392 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.8. Biographies of the members of the Board of Directors and Audit Board Thore E. Kristiansen Thore E. Kristiansen was born in Stavanger, Norway, and is 55 years old. He has been a member of Galp’s Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee since October 2014 and is responsible for Galp’s E&P business unit. He was senior Vice-Chairman of Statoil for South America and Chairman of Statoil Brazil from January 2013 until he joined Galp. He was at Statoil for over 25 years, with responsibilities in the areas of distribution of oil products, trading and business negotiation in Norway, UK, Denmark and Germany, in the area of exploration and production, with a special focus on Norway, sub-Saharan Africa and South America, and also corporate functions, particularly in finance and M&A, such as Investor Relations Officer. He was also Chairman of Statoil Germany and Statoil Venezuela. Thore E. Kristiansen holds a degree in Management from the Norwegian School of Management and a Masters in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Stavanger, Norway. Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo was born in Salvador, Brazil, and is 67 years old. He has been an independent member of Galp’s Board of Directors since July 2012. He was secretary of planning of the State Government of Bahia between March 2012 and December 2014 and was a non-executive member of the Board of Directors of Itausa S.A. until March 2015. Before joining Galp he was a member of the Board of Directors and CEO of Petrobras between July 2005 and February 2012. He was also CFO and director of investor relations of Petrobras between 2003 and 2005. He was also a member of the Boards of Directors of Desenbahia – State Development Agency of Bahia and of CAR – Companhia de Desenvolvimento e Ação Regional. Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo holds a degree and Masters in Economics from the Universidade Federal da Bahia and a doctorate in Economics from Boston University. He was a visiting researcher at the London School of Economics and Political Science in 2000. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 393 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Abdul Magid Osman Abdul Magid Osman was born in Maputo, Mozambique, and is 72 years old. He has been an independent member of Galp’s Board of Directors since July 2012. He is also founder and Chairman of the BIOFUND Foundation (biodiversity protection) since 2011, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Épsilon Investimento since 2007 and is Chairman of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee of Tchuma Cooperativa de Crédito e de Poupança. Before joining Galp he was Minister of Finance from 1986 to 1991 and Minister of Mineral Resources of Mozambique between 1979 and 1983. He was a non-executive director of Mercantile Bank, in South Africa, from 2002 to 2007 and Chairman of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee of BCI Banco Comercial de Investimentos. He was Director of the Management, Development and Governance Division in the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), managing the programme with projects in over 60 countries. Abdul Magid Osman has a degree in Economic and Financial Sciences from the Instituto Superior de Economia of Lisbon. Marta Amorim Marta Amorim was born in Porto, Portugal, and is 45 years old. She has been a member of Galp’s Board of Directors since October 2016. She currently serves as Vice-Chairman of the Américo Amorim Group and is a member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Energia B.V. Marta Amorim holds a degree in Business Administration and Management from the Universidade Católica Portuguesa and has several years of experience in the banking sector, namely in Banco Nacional de Crédito (currently named Banco Popular). Raquel Vunge Raquel Vunge was born in Luanda, Angola, and is 49 years old. She has been a member of Galp’s Board of Directors since October 2014. She is also a Member of the Board of Directors of Banco Comercial Português and Caixa Angola. In recent years, she has also been member of the Board of Directors and CFO of Sonangol EP and held other responsibilities in Sonangol EP from 1997, as Director of Finance between 2010 and 2012, Head of the Central Treasury from 2001 to 2010 and Accounts Analyst in the Accounting and Finance Department until 2001. Raquel Vunge holds a degree in Management from the Lisbon Instituto Superior de Gestão (School of Management). 394 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.8. Biographies of the members of the Board of Directors and Audit Board Carlos Costa Pina Carlos Costa Pina was born in Lisbon, Portugal, and is 46 years old. He has been a member of Galp’s Board of Directors and Executive Committee since April 2012, and he is responsible for corporate services and the New Energy business area. Previously he worked in Technology, Media and Telecommunications, real estate and services companies in the Ongoing group (Portugal and Brazil). He was Secretary of State for Treasury and Finance in the XVII and XVIII Portuguese Constitutional Governments (2005-2011) and therefore occupied roles in several international financial institutions. He has also been a director at CMVM (Portuguese Securities Market Regulator) (2000-2005), a member of the Advisory Board of the Insurance Institute of Portugal (2001-2005) and a lawyer with his own legal practice, particularly in oil exploration and production (1994-1998). He was also a lecturer in the Lisbon Law School where he is preparing his doctorate. Carlos Costa Pina is the author of numerous published works and holds a degree in Law and a Masters in Legal and Business Sciences from the School of Law, University of Lisbon. Francisco Rêgo Francisco Rêgo was born in Porto, Portugal, and is 44 years old. He has been a member of the Board of Directors since April 2015. He has been a Director of Amorim Holding II and other companies in the Américo Amorim group since 2004. From 2002 to 2004 he was in the Commercial Department of SODESA, S.A., an electricity trading company. From 1997 to 2002 he was at ECOCICLO, an Energy Engineering, Audit and Consulting company. Francisco Rêgo graduated in Mechanical Engineering at the School of Engineering of Porto University and completed an Advanced Postgraduate course in Quantitative Management Methods at the School of Management from Porto University. Jorge Seabra de Freitas Jorge Seabra de Freitas was born in Porto, Portugal, and is 57 years old. He has been a member of Galp’s Board of Directors since November 2012. He has also been a director of Amorim Holding II since August 2011 and a director of Grupo Arcotêxteis, S.A., since March 2009. Before joining Galp, he was Chairman of the Board of Directors of Coelima Indústrias Têxteis, S.A., between January 1992 and May 2011. Jorge Seabra Freitas holds a degree in Economics from the Porto School of Economics, aa well as in the International Executive Programme and Competitive Strategy, both from INSEAD. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 395 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance José Carlos da Silva Costa José Carlos da Silva Costa was born in Porto, Portugal, and is 53 years old. He has been a member of Galp’s Board of Directors since November 2012 and a member of the Executive Committee since December 2012, and is responsible for various corporate services and for the Sourcing, Refining and Planning business. With over two decades of experience in Procurement, Supply Chain and Project Management, he is Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Refining and Trading Oil, after several leadership roles in the Company, namely as CCO in the 2012-2014 period, whilst member of the Executive Committee. Currently, in the capacity of CCO, he is responsible for the corporate services of Engineering, Project Management and Procurement. His professional experience also includes the automotive and tourism industries. José Carlos da Silva Costa holds a degree in Chemical Engineering from the Porto Instituto Superior de Engenharia (School of Engineering) and specialised training in Quality Management, Information Systems and Innovation. Pedro Ricardo Pedro Carmona de Oliveira Ricardo was born in Lisbon, Portugal, and is 52 years old. He has been a member of Galp’s Board of Directors and Executive Committee since April 2015, and is responsible for the Gas&Power business unit. He joined Transgás, the company that introduced natural gas to Portugal, in 1994, where he was the head of natural gas Procurement and Sales. In 1998 he was appointed Executive Director of Transgás, responsible for supplies, engineering and operation and maintenance. Between 2002 and 2005 he was executive director of GDP Distribuição, Galp group’s sub-holding company in the gas distribution sector, and executive director of some of the natural gas distribution companies. Pedro Ricardo holds a degree in Chemical Engineering from the Instituto Superior Técnico in Lisbon and holds an MBA from Universidade Nova de Lisboa. Tiago Câmara Pestana Tiago Câmara Pestana was born in Porto, Portugal, and is 52 years old. He has been a member of Galp’s Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee since April 2015, and he is responsible for the Iberian and International Oil Marketing. Before joining Galp, he had mainly occupied roles in the food distribution field. Between 1999 and 2014, he was the CEO of Dia Portugal Supermercados. Prior to that, he was executive director of Lojas de Conveniência Extra, executive director of the Jumbo Portugal and Spain hypermarkets network, executive director of the Pão de Açúcar group, Portugal, where he was responsible for the management of the Minipreço chain, between 1998 and 1999. Tiago Câmara Pestana holds a degree in Aeronautical Engineering from the University of Salford (Manchester, UK) and a Masters in Administrative and Industrial Sciences from City University (London, UK). 396 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.8. Biographies of the members of the Board of Directors and Audit Board Rui Paulo Gonçalves Rui Paulo da Costa Cunha e Silva Gonçalves was born in Porto, Portugal, and is 49 years old. He has been a member of Galp’s Board of Directors since May 2008. He has also been a director and General Manager of Amorim – Investimentos Energéticos, SGPS, S.A. since December 2007. He is Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting of Amorim Holding II, SGPS, S.A. Before joining Galp, he practised Law in Porto and was visiting Lecturer at the Portuguese Institute of Administration and Marketing (IPAM) on the degree course and on various post-graduate courses between 2004 and 2007. He was legal adviser to the Unicer Group from 2002 and 2007 and, at the same time, Deputy Director of the Legal Office of the same group. He was also Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting of Banco BIC Português, S.A. between 2008 and 2012. Rui Paulo Gonçalves has a post-graduate degree in Management for law graduates from the School of Economic and Business Sciences of the Universidade Católica and a Degree in Law from the Law School of the same university. Luís Todo Bom Luís Manuel Pego Todo Bom was born in Luanda, Angola, and is 68 years old. He has been an independent member of Galp’s Board of Directors since November 2012. He is also non-executive Chairman of Multitel Angola, non-executive director of Onyria Internacional (Onyria group), Scutvias and AutoEstradas XXI (Globalvia group) and visiting associate lecture at ISCTE. Before joining Galp, he was non-executive director of Taguspark between 2010 and 2012, nonexecutive director of Chamartín Imobiliária, SGPS, S.A. between 2007 and 2009, non-executive director of Companhia de Seguros Sagres, S.A., between 2003 and 2009 and non-executive director of Amorim Imobiliária, SGPS, S.A., between 2002 and 2007. He was Chairman of the Board of AITECOEIRAS between 2008 and 2012 and a member of the MRG Group’s Strategy Board between 2009 and 2012. He was Inspector-general and Chairman of the Advisory Board of the Portugal Telecom group and also a non-executive director of Inotec Angola – Ambiente, Energia e Comunicações, S.A. Luís Todo Bom has a degree in Chemical-Industrial Engineering from the Instituto Superior Técnico and a MBA from the Universidade Nova de Lisboa/Wharton School of Pennsylvania. He attended the Stanford Executive Program and the Executive Program on Strategy Organisation at Stanford University. He also attended the DBA – Doctor of Business Administration Programme at the University of Cranfield and ISCTE. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 397 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Diogo Tavares Diogo Rodrigues Tavares was born in Montijo, Portugal, and is 71 years old. He has been a member of Galp’s Board of Directors since April 2012. Before joining Galp he was advisor to the Chairman of Amorim Holding II, SGPS, S.A. between 2006 and 2011, director of that same company between 2011 and 2013, and also non-executive director at Galp, S.A. between 2006 and 2008. He was President of UNIRISCO, the first venture capital company in Portugal and, among other positions, he was Vice-Chairman of IAPMEI, Vice-Chairman of the Tourism Institute of Portugal, Director of IFADAP, Director of IPE-CAPITAL, Vice-Chairman of ICEP and Chairman of Urbimeta, S.A. Sociedade Imobiliária. Diogo Tavares holds a degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Instituto Superior Técnico and is a graduate of the Advanced Business Management Programme (IAESE/Harvard Business School). Joaquim Borges Gouveia Joaquim Borges Gouveia was born in Porto, Portugal, and is 66 years old. He is an independent member of Galp’s Board of Directors since May 2008. He has been Professor of the Department of Economics, Industrial Management and Engineering at the Universidade de Aveiro since 2001 and is also director and coordinator of several departments at the Universidade de Aveiro. He was coordinator of GOVCOPP Governance, Competitiveness and Public Policy – a research unit of the Research Institute of the Universidade de Aveiro, between 2009 and 2011, and director of the master’s course in Sustainable Energy Systems, between 2007 and 2011. He was Chairman of the Board of RNAE – National Network of Energy and Environment Agencies. Joaquim Borges Gouveia holds a degree in Electrical Engineering from the School of Engineering of Porto, in 1973 and a doctorate in electrical and computer engineering, also from the School of Engineering of Porto, in 1983. He is an associate lecturer in Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Engineering School of the Universidade do Porto. Audit Board Daniel Bessa Daniel Bessa was born in Porto, Portugal, and is 68 years old. He is Chairman of Galp’s Audit Board since 5 October 2006. He was Chairman of the Board of Porto Business School between 2000 and 2009. He has held posts in teaching (Faculty of Economics and Faculty of Engineering of the Universidade do Porto and at Porto Business School), in the management of education units (Faculty of Economics and Vice-Chancellor’s office, Universidade do Porto, and School of Technology and Management of the Instituto Politécnico de Viana do Castelo). He was director of Finibanco and Finibanco Holding, non-executive director of CELBI – Celulose Beira Industrial, of Efacec Capital and INPARSA – Indústrias e Participações, a member of the General and Supervisory Board of BCP – Banco Comercial Português, S.A., Chairman of the Audit Board of SPGM, and external employee of the Sonae group. He was general manager of COTEC Portugal – Business Association for Innovation from 2009 to 2015. He was also a director of AICEP and Chairman of the Advisory Board of IGFCSS – Institute for the Management of Social Security Capitalisation Funds. Daniel Bessa holds a degree in Economics, from Universidade do Porto, and a doctorate in Economics, from Universidade Técnica de Lisboa. 398 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.8. Biographies of the members of the Board of Directors and Audit Board Gracinda Raposo Gracinda Raposo was born in Arraiolos, Portugal, and she is 63 years old. She is member of Galp’s Audit Board since 30 May 2008. She is Director of ECS Capital – Private Equity and Distress Funds Management Firm. Between 2007 and 2009 she was advisor to the Board of Directors of the Santander Group. Between 2004 and 2006, she was also a Director of Caixa Geral de Depósitos and non-executive Director of Caixa BI, among other functions. Gracinda Raposo was also a member of the Audit Board of Banco BIC Portugal until 2013. She has a degree in management from ISCTE and a Master’s degree in operational management from the University of Georgetown, Minneapolis, USA. Pedro Antunes de Almeida Pedro Antunes de Almeida was born in Lisbo, Portugal, and is 67 years old. He is member of Galp’s Audit Board since 23 November 2012. From 2006 to 2015, Pedro Antunes de Almeida was Consultant for Economic and Business Affairs to the President of the Portuguese Republic. As an independent business consultant in the tourism industry, he was Chairman of the Board of Directors of ICEP, Chairman of the Executive Committee of ENATUR – Pousadas de Portugal, Secretary of State for Tourism (XV Government) and Ambassador of Portugal to the World Tourism Organisation. Between 2011 and 2012 he was Secretary of the Board of Galp’s General Shareholders Meeting. Pedro Antunes de Almeida has a degree in Economics and Sociology from the Universidade Nova de Lisboa, with a post-graduate qualification in European Economic Studies, from the Universidade Católica Portuguesa, a course on Public Relations, Marketing and Publicity, from the Graduate School of Media, Lisbon, and the Course for National Defence Auditors from the National Defence Institute. Amável Calhau Amável Alberto Freixo Calhau was born in Setúbal, Portugal, and he is 78 years old. He is deputy member of Galp’s Audit Board since 5 October 2006. He is Statutory Auditor and has been a Managing Partner of Amável Calhau, Ribeiro da Cunha e Associados – Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas since 1981. He was an Accountant and Auditor for an auditing company between 1970 and 1979 and has been an individual Statutory Auditor since 1980. Amável Alberto Freixo Calhau is an accounting expert from the Army Pupils’ Military Institute and an individual Statutory Auditor. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 399 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 8.9.  ositions held in other companies by the Members of the Board P of Directors and Audit Board Inside Galp group* Executive members Carlos Tiago Gomes Filipe Thore Carlos Câmara Pedro Carlos da Silva Silva Kristiansen Silva Pestana Ricardo Costa Pina CLC Companhia Logística de Combustíveis, S.A. CBD Enerfuel, S.A. CBD Europe-Maghreb Pipeline, Ltd D Galp Alentejo E&P, S.A. D CBD Galp Bioenergy B.V. D D D Galp E&P Brazil B.V. D D D Galp East Africa B.V. D D Galp Energia Brasil, S.A. CBD D D D D Galp Energia E&P B.V. D D D D D D D Galp Energia España, SAU CBD D D D Galp Energia Overseas B.V. D D D Galp Energia Overseas Block 14 B.V. D D Galp Energia Overseas Block 32 B.V. D D Galp Energia Overseas Block 33 B.V. D D Galp Energia Overseas LNG, B.V. D D Galp Energia Portugal Holdings B.V. D D D Galp Energia Rovuma B.V. D D D Galp Energia São Tomé e Príncipe, Limitada M M Galp Energia, S.A. CBD D D D D D D Galp Exploração e Produção (Timor-Leste), S.A. CBD D D D D D D Galp Exploração e Produção Petrolífera, S.A. CBD D D D D D D Galp Gambia, Limited D Galp Gas & Power, SGPS, S.A. CBD D D D D D D Galp Gás Natural, S.A. CBD Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. CBD Galp Marketing International, S.A. CBD Galp Power, S.A. CBD Galp Sinopec Brazil Services B.V. D D D D D Galp Swaziland, Limited D GALPEK, LDA. CMB Gasoducto Al-Andalus, S.A. D Gasoducto de Extremadura, S.A. D GDP Gás de Portugal, S.A. CBD MIBGÁs, S.A. D Metragaz Societé pour la Construction de L’Exploitation Technique du Gazoduc D Maghreb Europe Moçamgalp Agroenergias de Moçambique, S.A. CBD Petrogal Angola, Lda. CMB Petrogal Brasil B.V. D D Petrogal Brasil, S.A. CBD D D D D Petrogal Guiné-Bissau, Lda. CMB Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. CBD D D D D D D Tagus-RE, S.A. CBD Windhoek PEL 23 B.V. D D Windhoek PEL 24 B.V. D D Windhoek PEL 28 B.V. D D CBD Chairman of the Board of Directors D Director CMB Chairman of the Management Board M Manager *For this purpose, all companies directly or indirectly afilliated by Galp are deemed included in the Galp group. 400 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.9. P  ositions held in other companies by the members of the Board of Directors and Audit Board Non-executive members of the Board of Directors do not Sole Director of Amorim Fashion, S.A. work in other companies from the Galp group. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Guedes de Sousa, S.A. Outside the Galp group* Sole Director of Amorim Five, Lda. Paula Amorim Others In the Américo Amorim group Chairman of the Board of Directors of Fundação Galp Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Holding II, SGPS, S.A. Carlos Gomes da Silva Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Projetos, SGPS, S.A. Chairman of the Board of ISPG – Instituto do Petróleo e Gás, Association for Research and Advanced Training Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Negócios, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of AEM – Association of Companies Issuing Listed Securities Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Investimentos Energéticos, SGPS, S.A. Member of the General Board of COTEC Portugal – Business Association for Innovation Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of ImoEuro, SGPS, S.A. Chairman of the Audit Board – Forum for Competitiveness Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Gaivina – Member of the Board of Directors of Fundação Galp Empreendimentos Turísticos e Imobiliários, S.A. Vice-Chairman of EPIS – Association of Entrepreneurs Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Portal do Sol – for Social Inclusion Sociedade Imobiliária Amorim, S.A. Director B of Amorim Energia, B.V. Miguel Athayde Marques Director B of of Power, Oil & Gas Investments, B.V. Director B of Investmark Holdings, B.V. Vice-rector of Universidade Católica Portuguesa Director of Amorim Holding Financeira Blocker I, Inc. Professor at the Universidade Católica Portuguesa, School of Economics and Business Director of Amorim/TFI, Inc. Independent non-executive director of Brisa, Concessão Director of Tom Ford International, LLC Rodoviária, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Stockprice, SGPS, S.A. Chairman of the Audit Board of Caixa Banco de Investimento, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Alqueva Verde, S.A. Founder and Coordinator of Portugal Economy Probe Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim e Alegre – Sociedade Imobiliária, S.A. Chairman of the Association of Former Management and Economics Students of Universidade Católica Portuguesa Manager of Sociedade Agro-florestal do Panasquinho, Lda. Member of the Scientific and Pedagogical Council Member of the Board of Directors of Warranties, SGPS, S.A. of the Higher Institute of Bank Management (Portuguese Member of the Board of Directors of Great Prime, S.A. Banking Association) Member of the Advisory Board of Junior Achievement In the Amorim Holding Young Enterprise Portugal Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim– Member of the Advisory Board of GRACE (Group Investimentos e Participações, SGPS, S.A. for Reflection and Support for Corporate Citizenship) In the Amorim Luxury Group Sole Director of Amorim Luxury – SGPS, S.A. * For this purpose, all companies directly or indirectly afilliated by Galp are deemed included in the Galp group. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 401 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Director of AGS – Moçambique, S.A. Director of Agromoz – Agribusiness de Moçambique, S.A. Member of the Board of ISPG – Instituto do Petróleo e Gás, Association for Research and Advanced Training Member Director of Angola Real Estate Investments B.V. of the Board of Directors of Fundação Galp Director of Topbreach Holding B.V. Director of Amorim Financial Sector B.V. Abdul Magid Osman Director of Amorim Aliança B.V. Chairman of the BIOFUND foundation (biodiversity Director of Amorim Energia B.V. protection) Director of Power Oil & Gas Investments B.V. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Épsilon Director of Ligardis Holding B.V. Investimentos, S.A. Director of Itacaré, B.V. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Banco Único Director of Praia do Forte, B.V. Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting of FDC Fundação de Desenvolvimento Comunitário Director of Oil Investments B.V. Director of Investmark Holdings, B.V. Director of Amorim Investments II, S.A. Marta Amorim Director of Amorim Investments V, S.A. In the Américo Amorim group Director of AHFB I, Inc. Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Energia, B.V. Director of Amorim/TFI, Inc. Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Substitute Adviser to the Banco Luso-Brasileiro, S.A. Holding II, SGPS, S.A. Director of A.P.I. – Amorim Participações Internacionais, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim SGPS, S.A. Holding Financeira, SGPS, S.A. Director of Paisagem do Alqueva, S.A. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Solfim, SGPS, S.A. Director of S.S.A. – Sociedade de Serviços Agrícolas, S.A. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Financial, SGPS, S.A. Director of IMOBIS – Empreendimentos Imobiliários Amorim, S.A. Director of Amorim Projectos, SGPS, S.A. Director of Mosteiro de Grijó – Empreendimentos Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of I.I. – Turísticos, S.A. Investimentos Ibéricos, SGPS, S.A. Director of Amorim Investimentos Energéticos, SGPS, S.A. Raquel Vunge Chairman of the Board of Directors of Gevisar, SGPS, S.A. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Financimgest – Board member of Banco Comercial Português Sociedade de Consultoria de Gestão de Créditos, S.A. and Caixa Angola Director of Sotomar – Empreendimentos Industriais e Imobiliários, S.A. Director of Lusares – Sociedade Imobiliária, S.A. Director of Portal do Sol – Sociedade Imobiliária Amorim, S.A. Director of Warranties, SGPS, S.A. Director of Great Prime, S.A. 402 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.9. P  ositions held in other companies by the members of the Board of Directors and Audit Board Carlos Costa Pina Director of Gevisar SGPS, S.A. Director of Financimgest – Sociedade de Consultoria Chairman of the Scientific and Technological Council e Gestão de Créditos, S.A. of ISPG – Instituto do Petróleo e Gás, Association for Research and Advanced Training Director of ImoEuro, SGPS, S.A. Vice-Chairman of the Board of BCSD Portugal – Business Director of Gaivina – Empreendimentos Turísticos Council for Sustainable Development e Imobiliários, S.A. Member of the Board of AIPQR Associação das Indústrias Director of Portal do Sol – Sociedade Imobiliária da Petroquímica, Química e Refinação (Association Amorim, S.A. of Petrochemical, Chemical and Refining Industries) Director of Vintage Prime, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Fundação Director of Angola Real Estate Investments B.V. Portugal – África Director of Topbreach Holding B.V. Member of the General Board of IPCG – Portuguese Institute of Corporate Governance Director of Amorim Financial Sector B.V. Member of the General Board of EGP Porto Business School Director of Amorim Aliança B.V. Director of EPRA – European Petroleum Industry Director of Amorim Energia B.V. Association (FuelsEurope and Concawe) Director of Ligardis Holding B.V. Member of the Board of Founders of Fundação da Casa Director of Itacaré, B.V. da Música Director of Praia do Forte B.V. Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting of APEEN – Portuguese Association for Energy Economics Director of Oil Investments B.V. Member of the Audit Board of IDEFF – Instituto de Direito Director of Amorim Investments II, S.A. Económico, Financeiro e Fiscal Director of Amorim Investments V, S.A. Chairman of the Board of Auditors of Fundação Res Publica Director of AHFB I, Inc. Member of the Advisory Board of APDC – Associação Director of Amorim/TFI, Inc. Portuguesa para o Desenvolvimento das Comunicações Substitute Director of the Banco Luso-Brasileiro, S.A. Francisco Rêgo Others In the Américo Amorim group Chairman of the Board of Directors of Moreira, Gomes & Costas, S.A. Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Director of Época Global, SGPS, S.A. Holding II, SGPS, S.A. Director of Actual, SGPS, S.A. Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Holding Financeira, SGPS, S.A. Director of Cardan Grande Porto, S.A. Director of Amorim Energia B.V. Manager of AVS – Agência de Viagens Sandinense, Lda. Vice-Chairman of Solfim, SGPS, S.A. Director of Amorim Financial, SGPS, S.A. Director of Amorim Negócios, SGPS, S.A. Director of Amorim Projectos, SGPS, S.A. Director of Amorim Investimentos Energéticos, SGPS, S.A. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 403 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Jorge Seabra de Freitas Member of the Board of Directors of Porta do Sol – Sociedade Imobiliária Amorim, S.A. In the Américo Amorim group Member of the Board of Directors of Lusares Director of Amorim Energia, B.V. – Sociedade Imobiliária, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Holding II, Others SGPS, S.A. Adviser to the Banco Luso-Brasileiro, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Solfim, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Banco Único, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Financial, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Holding Financeira, SGPS, S.A. José Carlos da Silva Costa Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Negócios, Member of the Scientific and Technological Council of ISPG SGPS, S.A. – Instituto do Petróleo e Gás, Association for Research and Advanced Training Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Projetos, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of II – Investimentos Pedro Ricardo Ibéricos, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Scientific and Technological Council Member of the Board of Directors of Financimgest – of ISPG – Instituto do Petróleo e Gás, Association Sociedade de Consultoria de Gestão de Créditos, S.A. for Research and Advanced Training Member of the Board of Directors of AGS – Moçambique, S.A. President of the Board of AGN – Portuguese Association of Natural Gas Companies Chairman of the Board of Directors of Agromoz – Agribusiness de Moçambique, S.A. Director of Angola Real Estate Investments B.V. Tiago Câmara Pestana Director of Topbreach Holding B.V. Director of Amorim Financial Sector B.V. Member of the Scientific and Technological Council of ISPG – Instituto do Petróleo e Gás, Association Director of Amorim Aliança B.V. for Research and Advanced Training Director of Power Oil & Gas Investments B.V. President of the Board of APETRO – Portuguese Association of Oil Companies Director of Ligardis Holding B.V. Director of Itacaré, B.V. Director of Praia do Forte B.V. Rui Paulo Gonçalves Director of Oil Investments B.V. In the Américo Amorim group Director of Amorim Investments II, S.A. Director of Amorim Investments V, S.A. Director and general manager of Amorim Investimentos Energéticos, SGPS, S.A. Director of AHFB I, Inc. Director of Amorim Energia, B.V. Director of Amorim/TFI, Inc. Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting Member of the Board of Directors of Sotomar of Amorim Holding II, SGPS, S.A. – Empreendimentos Turísticos e Imobiliários, S.A. 404 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.10. Positions held in other companies by the members of the Board of Directors and Audit Committee Others Audit Board Vice-Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting of Banco Único, S.A. Daniel Bessa Chairman of the Audit Board of Fundação Galp Luís Todo Bom Chairman of the Audit Board of Sonae, SGPS, S.A. Managing partner of Terfran – Investimentos Chairman of the Audit Board of Bial – Portela e Serviços, Lda. e Companhia, S.A. Managing partner of Angopartners Investments Non-executive Chairman of Amorim Turismo, SGPS, S.A. Consulting, Lda. Non-executive Chairman of AEGI Amorim Entertainment Non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Gaming International, SGPS, S.A. of Multitel Angola – Serviços de Telecomunicações, Lda. Non-executive Chairman of Sociedade Figueira Praia, S.A. Non-executive director of Onyria Internacional, S.A. Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting (Onyria group) of Nanium, S.A. Non-executive director of Scutvias – Autoestradas da Beira Member of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Interior, S.A. and Auto-Estradas XXI, S.A. (Globalvia group) Committee of Fundação Bial Visiting Associate Lecturer of ISCTE Member of the Investment Board of PVCI – Portuguese Venture Capital Initiative (undertaking with investment by BEI Group, through the EIF – European Investment Fund) Joaquim Borges Gouveia Retired Professor of the Department of Economics, Gracinda Raposo Industrial Management and Engineering of the Universidade de Aveiro Member of the Audit Board of Fundação Galp Chairman of the Board of APM – Portuguese Association Non-executive Director of Tagusgás – Empresa de Gás of Management do Vale do Tejo, S.A. Chairman of the General Shareholders Meeting of RNAE – Director of ECS-Capital – Private Equity and Distress Funds National Network of Energy and Environment Agencies. Management Firm. Chairman of the Board of Directors of ENERGAIA, Vila Nova de Gaia District Energy Agency Pedro Antunes de Almeida Member of the Board of Directors of ABAP/BIOCANT Member of the Audit Board of Fundação Galp Chairman of the Audit Board of Fidelidade Seguros Non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of Grupo NAU Hotels & Resorts Amável Calhau Substitute member of the Audit Board of Fundação Galp Annual Report and Accounts 2016 405 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 8.10. Member of the Board of Directors of Fundição do Alto da Lixa, S.A. Biographies and positions held Member of the Board of Directors of Goldtur – Hotéis by the members e Turismo, S.A. of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Board of Directors of Grano Salis – Inv. Turísticos, Jogo e Lazer, S.A. Jorge Armindo de Carvalho Teixeira Member of the Board of Directors of Grano Salis II – Investimentos Turísticos e de Lazer, S.A. Biography Member of the Board of Directors of Hotel Turismo, S.A.R.L. Jorge Armindo de Carvalho Teixeira is chairman of the Board Member of the Board of Directors of Iberpartners of Directors of Amorim Turismo, SGSP, SA and associates – Gestão e Reestruturação de Empresas, S.A. and chairman of APC – the Portuguese Casinos Association. Member of the Board of Directors of Iberpartners Cafés, He began his professional career in 1976 as Assistant Lecturer SGPS, S.A. in the Porto Faculty of Economics, teaching Business Member of the Board of Directors of Imofoz, S.A. Management and International Financial Management until 1992. Member of the Board of Directors of Mobis – Hotéis de Moçambique, S.A.R.L. In 1982 he joined what is now the Amorim group as Chief Member of the Board of Directors of Notel Financial Officer and in 1987 was appointed Vice-Chairman – Empreendimentos Turísticos, S.A.R.L. of the Group, a position he held until 2000. In 1997, at the invitation of the Government, he was appointed Chairman Member of the Board of Directors of Prifalésia of Portucel – Empresa de Celulose e Papel de Portugal, SGPS, – Construção e Gestão de Hotéis, S.A. S.A. and he also took the chair of all companies in which Member of the Board of Directors of SGGHM Portucel, SGPS, S.A. had investments until its privatisation. – Sociedade Geral de Hotéis de Moçambique, S.A. Jorge Armindo de Carvalho Teixeira has a degree Member of the Board of Directors of Sociedade in Economics from the Faculty of Economics of Universidade Figueira Praia, S.A. do Porto. Member of the Board of Directors of SPIGH – Sociedade Portuguesa de Investimentos e Gestão Hoteleira, S.A. Positions held at 31.12.2016 Member of the Board of Directors of Troia Península Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim – Investimentos, SGPS, S.A. Entertainment e Gaming Internacional, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Turyleader, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Turismo, Member of the Executive Board of AHP SGPS, S.A. – Hospitality Association of Portugal Member of the Board of Directors of BLUE & GREEN – Member of the Executive Board of ELO – Portuguese Serviços e Gestão, S.A. Association for Economic Development and Cooperation Member of the Board of Directors of BLUE & GREEN II, S.A. Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of the CTP Member of the Board of Directors of CHT – Casino Hotel – Portuguese Confederation of Tourism de Tróia, S.A. Chairman of the Audit Board of the APR Member of the Board of Directors of ELEVEN – Restauração – Portuguese Resorts Association e Catering, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Estoril Sol, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Fozpatrimónio, S.A. 406 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.10. Positions held in other companies by the members of the Board of Directors and Audit Board Joaquim Alberto Hierro Lopes Biography Joaquim Alberto Hierro Lopes is a member and managing partner of GED Partners and, at the same time, a member of the Board of Directors of the Fund Management Companies GED Eastern Fund II, GED Iberian B, GED Sur (CEO) and of the Board of Directors of several GED Fund subsidiaries, including Estudio Pereda4 Ingenieria, Nuceri International, Iconsa Engineering, in Spain and FASE – Estudos e Projectos Engenharia, SA and Serlima Services SA, in Portugal. Before joining Galp, he was a Lecturer in Financial Mathematics and Management Accounting at the ISAG – Graduate School of Administration and Management; he was executive director of Norpedip/PME Capital – Sociedade Portuguesa de Capital de Risco, Chairman and Board Member of several companies, including FiberSensing, Altitude Software, Payshop, Cabelte, Bluepharma, TV Tel Grande Porto, Fibroplac., and participated in the launch and management of various investment funds. Between 2007 and 2014 he was a member of the Audit Board of Corticeira Amorim SGPS, S.A. Joaquim Alberto Hierro Lopes completed a degree in Accounting and Administration at Porto Accounting and Business School, graduated in Mathematics at the Faculty of Sciences of the Universidade do Porto, and he completed a MBA at Porto Business School. He is Master in Business Management, also at the Universidade do Porto. Positions held on 31.12.2016 Member of the Board of Directors of the GED Iberian B Fund Member of the Board of Directors of the GED Eastern Fund II Chairman of the Board of Directors of the GED Sur Fund Member of the Investment Committees of all GED Funds Chairman of the Board of Directors of ISAG – Graduate School of Administration and Management Annual Report and Accounts 2016 407 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance 8.11. Rotterdam base oils margin Glossary and abbreviations Base oils refining margin: -100% Arabian Light, +3.5% LGP FOB Seagoing (50% Butane + 50% Propane), Glossary +13.0% Naphtha NWE FOB Bg., +4.4% Jet NWE CIF, API density +34.0% ULSD 10 ppm NWE CIF, +4.5% VGO 1.6% NWE FOB Cg.,+ 14%; Base Oils FOB, +26% HSFO 3.5% Density expressed in API degrees, defined by the American NWE Bg.; Consumptions: -6.8% LSFO 1% CIF NWE Cg.; Petroleum Institute by means of the following formula: API° Losses: 7.4%; Terminal rate: $1/ton; Ocean loss: 0.15% = (141.5/g) – 131.5, where g is the density of the oil to 60 over Arabian Light; Freight 2015: WS Aframax (80 kts) °F (15.6 °C). This is the formula that is internationally used Route Sullom Voe / Rotterdam – Flat $6.95/ton. Yields in to establish the density of crude oil. The greater the API % of weight. density, the lighter the crude oil. Rotterdam aromatics margin Atmospheric distillation Rotterdam aromatics margin: -60% PM UL NWE FOB Distillation of crude oil effected under atmospheric pressure, Bg., -40% Naphtha NWE FOB Bg., +37% Naphtha from which oil product fractions are produced (light oil, NWE FOB Bg., +16.6% PM UL NWE FOB Bg., +6.5% heavy oil, diesel fuels, and heavy products, Benzene Rotterdam FOB Bg., +18.5% Toluene Rotterdam for example). After suitable treatment, these fractions FOB Bg., +16.6% Paraxylene Rotterdam FOB Bg., are the components of the finished products. +4.9% Ortoxylene Rotterdam FOB Bg. Consumption: -18% LSFO 1% CIF NEW. Yields in % of weight. Benchmark refining margin CO₂ The benchmark refining margin is calculated with the following weighting: 45% hydrocracking margin + 42.5% Carbon dioxide, colourless gas that is heavier than Rotterdam cracking margin + 7% Rotterdam base oils air, this being one of its natural components. Produced + 5.5% Aromatics. by certain natural processes, such as the carbon cycle, and by the complete burning contained in fossil fuels. Rotterdam hydrocracking margin Cogeneration The Rotterdam hydrocracking margin has the following profile: -100% Brent dated, +2.2% LGP FOB Seagoing Power generation technology that allows the combined (50% Butane + 50% Propane), +19.1% PM UL NWE FOB production of heat and electricity. The advantage Bg., +8.7% Naphtha NWE FOB Bg., +8.5% Jet NWE CIF, of cogeneration is the capacity it has to take double +45.1% ULSD 10 ppm NWE CIF Cg. +8.9% LSFO 1% FOB advantage of the heat produced by burning the fuel Cg; Terminal rate: $1/ton; Ocean loss: 0.15% over Brent for the generation of thermal energy for the generation dated; Freight 2015: WS Aframax (80 kts) Route Sullom of electricity. This process allows the same installation Voe / Rotterdam – Flat $7.60/ton. Yields in % of weight. to comply with the heat (hot water or steam) and electricity needs of both industrial clients and urban settlements. This Rotterdam cracking margin system improves the energy efficiency of the generation process and reduces use of the fuel. The Rotterdam cracking margin has the following profile: -100% Brent dated, +2.3% LGP FOB Seagoing (50% Butane + 50% Propane), +25.4% PM UL NWE FOB Bg., +7.5% Naphtha NWE FOB Bg., +8.5% Jet NWE CIF, +33.3% ULSD 10 ppm NWE CIF Cg. and +15.3% LSFO 1% FOB Cg.; C&L: 7.4%; Terminal rate: $1/ton; Ocean loss: 0.15% over Brent dated; Freight 2015: WS Aframax (80 kts) Route Sullom Voe / Rotterdam – Flat $7.60/ton. Yields in % of weight. 408 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.11. Glossary and abbreviations Complexity Conversion The complexity of a refinery lies in its capacity to process Set of various treatments (catalytic or thermal) where crude oil and other raw materials and is measured the principal reaction is effected on the carbon connections, by means of the complexity index, calculated separately by with this having the possibility of being more or less deep different organisations within the sector, such due to the conditions imposed. This process is typically as energy sector consultants Solomon Associates associated with the conversion of fuel oils in lesser fractions and Nelson. A refinery’s complexity index is calculated by (diesel fuels, gasoline and gases) and fuel oils that are attributing a complexity factor to each one of the refinery’s more sophisticated from the perspective of their use. In a units, which is based above all on the level modern refinery, these processes have assumed a growing of technology used in the construction of the unit, taking importance. as a reference a crude oil primary distillation installation to which is attributed a complexity factor of 1.0. Cracking The complexity index of each unit is calculated by the multiplication of the complexity factor with the unit’s Transformation through a breaking down of the capacity. The complexity of a refinery is equivalent to hydrocarbon molecules in long chains, with the objective the weighted average of the complexity index of each one of obtaining hydrocarbon molecules in shorter chains, of its units, including the distillation units. A refinery with a thus increasing the proportion of lighter and more volatile complexity index of 10.0 is considered to be 10 times more products. Distinguishing between thermal cracking and complex than a refinery equipped with just crude catalytic cracking. Thermal cracking is only caused by oil atmospheric distillation, for the same quality the actions of heat and pressure. Catalytic cracking uses of processed product. catalysers that, at the same temperature, allow a deeper and more selective transformation of fractions that could Condensates be heavier. Hydrocarbons that, when stored in the respective deposits, Dated Brent are found to be in a gaseous state, but which on the surface become liquids under normal pressure and temperature Price of shipments of Brent oil as announced by the price conditions. This essentially concerns pentane and other fixing agencies. This is the reference price for the vast heavier products. majority of crude oils sold in Europe, Africa and the Middle East, and is one of the most important references for the Contingent resources prices on the spot market. Dated Brent oil is the light crude oil from the North Sea that, since July 2006, has included These are quantities of oil that are estimated on the Fortis and Oseberg branches. The crude mix has an a given date to be potentially recoverable from known average API density of approximately 38.9°. accumulations but are not currently considered to be commercially recoverable. This may happen Diesel for a variety of reasons. For example, maturity issues (the discovery needs further appraisal in order to firm up A mix of liquid hydrocarbons destined for feeding the elements of the development plan); technological compression ignition engines (Diesel cycle). The behaviour of issues (new technology needs to be developed and tested diesel fuel depends on the temperatures at which for commercial production); or market-driven issues (sales it is used. contracts are not yet in place or the infrastructure needs to be developed in order to get the product to market). Emissions 2C contingent resources are those that are calculated based on the best estimate, while 3C resources correspond to the Release of gases into the atmosphere. Within the context highest estimate, thus reflecting of global climactic alterations, the gases released include a larger level of uncertainty. Volumes that fall into this gases capable of altering the climate – the so-called GGEs. category cannot be referred to as reserves. A typical example is the release of CO₂ during the burning of fuels. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 409 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Direct emissions (A1) Jet fuel These can be directly controlled by the Company Fuel for jet motors used in aviation. and concern the emissions due to the consumption of fuel in its own installations: ovens, heat or steam Liquefied natural gas (LNG) generators, or the Organisation’s cars. Natural gas that is changed into its liquid state to enable Indirect emissions (A2) transportation. Liquefaction is performed by a reduction in the temperature of the gas, to atmospheric pressure, These are a result of the Company’s activities but which to amounts of less than -160°C. The volume of the LNG use another organisation’s resources: use of grid, heat or is approximately 1/600 of the volume of natural gas. steam electricity, produced at installations that are not the Company’s. Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) Indirect emissions (A3) Gaseous hydrocarbons, under normal conditions of temperature and pressure, and liquids, by raising the Emissions due to the consumption of fuel in installations pressure or reduction of temperature, which can legally that are not the Company’s: leased cars, planes, waste be transported and stored. The most common incineration, logistics activities or services. are propane and butane. Fuel oil Lubricants A mix of hydrocarbons destined for the production Products obtained by mixing one or more base oils of heat in thermal installations. There are various types and additives. This process obeys specific formulas due to of fuel oil, due to its viscosity, which conditions their use. the use of the lubricant. The percentage of additives in the lubricating oils reaches 40%. The lubricating oils have three Gasoline main uses: automobiles, industry and marine. Fuel for automobiles equipped with motors that use the Naphtha Otto cycle. This should comply with precise specifications concerning its physical and chemical qualities, of which the Oil product fraction that is located between gases and oil. most important is resistance to self-inflammation. This is also a raw material in the petrochemical industry, from which cracking provides a large variety of products. Hydrocracking This can also form part of the composition of engine Process of cracking with the use of hydrogen and under gasoline (light naphtha) or, in the case of heavy naphtha, the action of catalysts that allows the conversion of less serve as a raw material for the production of reformate. valuable, high-boiling-point oil fractions into lighter, more valuable fractions. The hydrogen allows working at Natural Gas lower temperatures and greater selectivity and, therefore, produces better results. Mix of light hydrocarbons found in the subsoil, in which methane is present at a percentage of more than 70% The products from the reaction are saturated compounds, volume. The composition of natural gas may vary depending which provide them with important stability qualities. upon the field in which it is produced and the processes of production, conditioning, processing and transport. ICE Net entitlement production The Intercontinental Exchange, Inc., or ICE, is a North-American company that operates virtual markets, The production percentage of the rights for the exploration in which futures contracts are transacted as well as OTC and production of hydrocarbons in contracts on energy and commodities, and other financial a concession following production-sharing agreements. derivatives products. 410 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.11. Glossary and abbreviations Prospective resources geological or engineering data similar to those used in estimates of proven reserves but in relation to which Quantities of oil that have, on a certain date, been technical, contractual, economic or regulatory uncertainties estimated as potentially recoverable from undiscovered preclude such reserves from being classified as proven. accumulations through future development projects. Probable reserves are those quantities of oil that, by The estimation of a prospect’s resources is subject analysis of geological and engineering data, to both commercial and technological uncertainties. Risked have a lower probability of being recovered than the proven mean estimate prospective resources have reserves, but higher than the possible reserves. a higher implied recovery probability than unrisked mean If probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a estimate resources. The quantities classified 50% probability that the quantities actually recovered will as prospective resources cannot be classified equal or exceed the 2P estimate. as contingent resources or reserves. Proven, probable and possible reserves (3P) Proven reserves (1P) 3P reserves correspond to the sum of proven, probable and Under the definitions approved by the SPE and the WPC, possible reserves. Under the definition approved by the SPE proven reserves are those quantities of oil which, by analysis and the WPC, possible reserves are a category of geological and engineering data, can be estimated of unproven reserves. Unproven reserves are based with reasonable certainty to be commercially recoverable, on geological or engineering data similar to those used from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and in estimates of proven reserves but in relation under current economic conditions, operating methods to which technical, contractual, economic or regulatory and government regulations. If deterministic methods are uncertainties preclude such reserves from being classified as used, the expression “reasonable certainty” is intended to proven. Possible reserves have a lower probability of being express a high degree of confidence that the quantities will recovered than probable reserves. If probabilistic methods be recovered. If probabilistic methods are used, there should are used, there should be at least a 10% probability that be at least a 90% probability that the quantities actually the quantities actually recovered will equal or exceed the 3P recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. estimate. The definition of current economic conditions should Refineries’ utilisation rate include relevant historical oil prices and associated costs. In general, reserves are considered proven if the Ratio of the total quantity of crude processed oil in commercial productivity of the reservoir is supported by the crude oil distillation units in relation to these units’ actual production or formation tests. In this context, the maximum processing capacities. term “proven” refers to the actual quantities of oil reserves and not just the productivity of the well or reservoir. The Refinery area of the reservoir considered as proven includes (1) the area delineated by drilling and defined by fluid contacts, if The installation where the industrial processes any, and (2) the undrilled portions of the reservoir that can designed to transfer the crude oil into products adapted to reasonably be judged as commercially productive on the the needs of the consumers (fuels, lubricants, bitumen, etc.) basis of available geological and engineering data. Reserves or into raw materials for other so-called may be classified as proven ”second generation” industries (for example, if facilities to process and transport those reserves the petrochemical industry). to market are operational at the time of the estimate or there is a reasonable expectation that such facilities will Renewable energy be installed. Energy that is available from permanent and natural energy Proven and probable reserves (2P) conversion processes and is economically exploitable under present conditions or in the 2P reserves correspond to the sum of proven (1P) foreseeable future. and probable reserves. Under the definitions approved by the SPE and the WPC, probable reserves are a category of unproven reserves. Unproven reserves are based on Annual Report and Accounts 2016 411 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance Replacement Cost (RC) Wind farm According to this method, the cost of goods sold is valued Group of wind turbines for the production of electrical at the cost of replacement, i.e. at the average cost of raw energy interlinked by a common network by means materials on the month when sales materialise irrespective of a system of transformers, distribution lines and, usually, of inventories at the start or end of the period. The a substation. The functions of exploration, control and Replacement Cost Method is not accepted maintenance are normally centralised by means of a by the Portuguese IFRS and is consequently not adopted for monitored IT system, which is complemented by visual valuing inventories. This method does not reflect inspections. the cost of replacing other assets. Wind power Replacement Cost Adjusted (RCA) Kinetic energy – that is, energy that is generated by In addition to using the replacement cost method, RCA movement that is obtained by displacement of the air, or in items exclude non-recurrent events such as capital other words, wind. This can be converted into mechanical gains or losses on the disposal of assets, impairment energy for the enactment of pumps, mills or reinstatement of fixed assets and environmental and electrical energy generators. or restructuring charges which may affect the analysis of the Company’s profit and do not reflect its regular Working interest production operational performance. The production percentage of the rights for exploration Seismic and production of hydrocarbons in a concession before the effect of production-sharing agreements. Seismic acquisition involves the generation (source) and recording (receiver) of seismic data. A source, such as a vibrator unit, dynamite shot, or an air gun, generates acoustic or elastic waves that travel into the Earth, pass through strata with different seismic responses and filtering effects, and return to the surface to be recorded as seismic data. The receiver may include different configurations, including laying geophones or seismometers on the surface of the Earth or seafloor, pulling hydrophones behind a marine seismic vessel, suspending hydrophones vertically in the sea or placing geophones in a wellbore (as in a vertical seismic profile) to record the seismic signal. Spot market The name, relating to products such as oil, used to describe the international commerce of products shipped in single cargos, such as crude oil, the prices of which closely follow the respective demand and availability. Storage facility Installation used by principal and collector pipeline companies, producers of crude oil, and terminal operators (except refineries) for storage of crude oil and oil products. 412 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.11. Glossary and abbreviations Abbreviations and acronyms EETS: European Emissions Trading Scheme EIB: European Investment Bank AFI: accident frequency index EII: energy intensity indicator Amorim Energia: Amorim Energia, B.V. EITI: Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative ANP: Agência Nacional do Petróleo, Gás Natural e Biocombustíveis (Brazilian energy sector regulator) EL: Emissions licenses b.p.: Basis points EMPL: Europe-Maghreb Pipeline bbl: oil barrel EMTN: Euro Medium Term Note BBLT: Benguela, Belize, Lobito and Tomboco EMV: Expected Monetary Value bcm: billion cubic metres EngIQ: Refining, Petrochemical and Chemical Engineering Doctorate Programme Black Creek: Black Creek Investment Management Inc. ENH: Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos (National BlackRock: BlackRock, Inc. hydrocarbons company of Mozambique) bn: billion Eni: Eni, S.p.A. BNY Mellon: The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ENMC: Portuguese National Entity for the Fuel Market boe: barrel of oil equivalent EQS: Environment, Quality and Safety BoD: Board of Directors EQSE: Environment, Quality, Safety and Energy CEC: Ethics and Conduct Committee EPCIC: Engineering, Procurement, Construction, CEO: Chief executive officer Installation and Commissioning CESE: Contribuicão Extraordinária sobre o Sector EPC: Engineering, Procurement and Construction Energético; Portuguese Energy sector extraordinary ERSE: Entidade Reguladora dos Serviços Energéticos contribution. (Portuguese energy market regulator) CFO: Chief financial officer EUA: Emission UnitnAllowances CGD: Caixa Geral de Depósitos, S.A. EUR (or €): Euro CGU: cash generating unit EWT: Extended well test CI Investments: CI Investments, Inc. FASB: Financial Accounting Standards Board CMVM: Comissão do Mercado de Valores Mobiliários FCC: Fluid catalytic cracking (Portuguese Securities Market Regulator) FEED: Front-End Engineering Design CNG: compressed natural gas FFB: fresh fruit bunches CNPC: China National Petroleum Corporation FID: Final Investment Decision CoEC: Code of Ethics and Conduct FLNG: Floating, liquefied natural gas CO2: Carbon dioxide FormAG: Advanced Management Training Course CompeC: Advanced Course in Commercial Skills FPSO #1: FPSO Cidade Angra dos Reis CONCAWE: Conservation of Clean Air and Water in Europe FPSO #2: FPSO Cidade de Paraty COOEC: Offshore Oil Engineering Co. Ltd FPSO #3: FPSO Cidade de Mangaratiba COSCO: China Ocean Shipping Company FPSO #4: FPSO Cidade de Itaguaí COSO: Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the FPSO #5: FPSO Cidade de Maricá Treadway Commission FPSO #6: FPSO Cidade de Saquarema CSC: Portuguese Commercial Companies Code FPSO: Floating, production, storage and offloading CTA: Cumulative Translation Adjustment G&P: Gas & Power CVM: Portuguese Securities Code Galp: Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A., Company, Group D&P: Development and production or Corporation DeMac: DeGolyer and MacNaughton GeoER: Advanced Study Programme in Geoengineering of Reservoirs DCF: Discounted Cash Flow GHG: greenhouse gases DP: Development plan GIIP: Gas initially in place DJSI: Dow Jones Sustainability Index GVA: Galp Added Value DoC: Declaration of Commerciality GWh: gigawatt-hour DST: drill stem test GWT: Global Water Tool for Oil & Gas E&P: Exploration & Production HC: Hydrocracking Ebit: Earnings before interest and taxes HSE: Health, Safety and the Environment. Ebitda: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation IAS: International Accounting Standards ECSI: European Costumer Satisfaction Index IASB: International Accounting StandardsBoard Annual Report and Accounts 2016 413 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategy execution Financial performance IASC: International Accounting Standards Committee OTC: Over-The-Counter IBAMA: Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente p.p.: Percentage points e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis (Brazilian Institute Parpública: Parpública – Participações Públicas, SGPS, S.A. for the Environment and Natural Resources) Petrobras: Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. IBAT: Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool Petrogal: Petróleos de Portugal – Petrogal, S.A. ICE: Intercontinental Exchange PIA: Production Individualisation Agreement IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards P.O.S.: Probability of Success IFRIC: International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee PPSA: Pré-Sal Petróleo S.A. Integra: Integra Offshore PSA: Production Sharing Agreement IPO: initial public offering PSI-20: Portuguese stock market reference index IRP: Imposto sobre o Rendimento do Petróleo PSL: Past Service Liability (Oil tax payable in Angola) PwC: PricewaterhouseCoopers ISIN: International securities identification number R&D: Research & Development ISO: International Organisation for Standardisation R&M: Refining & Marketing ISP: Tax on oil products (Portugal) R&T: Research & Technology IsPG: Instituto do Petróleo e Gás (Brazilian Institute RAB: Regulated Asset Base of Oil and Gas) RC: Replacement cost JOA: Joint Operation Agreements RCA: Replacement cost adjusted k: Thousand/thousands RCM: Reliability centred maintenance kboepd: Thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day RDA: Reservoir data acquisition kbpd: Thousand barrels of oil per day RLR: Last Resort Retailers km/km2/km3: kilometres / square kilometres / RLRW: Last Resort Wholesaler cubic kilometres ROC: Statutory Auditor KRI: Key resources indicators RRR: Reserves replacement ratio kton: thousand tonnes Schroders: Schroders Plc LNG: Liquefied natural gas SDG: Sustainable Development Goal LPG: Liquefied petroleum gas SGPS: Sociedade Gestora de Participações Sociais LRO: Local risk officer (Holding company) LTIFR: Lost time injury frequency rate SIC: Standing Interpretation Committee m: million SME: medium-sized enterprises m³: Cubic metres SPE: Society of Petroleum Engineers MIBEL: Iberian Electricity Market SROC: Firm of statutory auditors mm³: million cubic metres SROI: Social Return on Investment mmbbl: million barrels Standard Life: Standard Life Investments (Holdings) mmboe: million barrels of oil equivalent Limited MoU: Memorandum of Understanding SXEP: STOXX Europe 600 Oil & Gas Index MScEP: Masters in Petroleum Engineering tC02e: Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent mmscf: million standard cubit feet tcf: trillion cubic feet mton: million tonnes TSR: Total Shareholder Return MW: Megawatt TSU: Social Security contributions NE: North-east UN: United Nations NG: Natural gas UOP: Unit of Production method NGNDN: Natural Gas National Distribution Network USA: United States of America NGNS: Natural Gas National System USD (or $): United States Dollar NGNTN: Gas National Transportation Network VAT: value-added tax NYSE: New York Stock Exchange Ventinveste: Ventinveste, S.A. OECD: Organisation for Economic Cooperation VGO: Vacuum gas oil and Development. VR: Vacuum Residue OHSAS: Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Services WAG: Water alternating gas OJEU: Official Journal of the European Union WI: working interest OPEC: Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries W.I.P.: Winland International Petroleum, S.A.R.L WPC: World Petroleum Council 414 Commitment Corporate governance Proposal for Appendices Galp to stakeholders allocation of results 8.11. Glossary and abbreviations Disclaimer This report has been prepared by Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. (“Galp” or the “Company”) and may be amended and supplemented. This report does not constitute or form part of and should not be construed as, an offer to sell or issue or the solicitation of an offer to buy or otherwise acquire securities issued by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates in any jurisdiction or an inducement to enter into investment activityies in any jurisdiction. Neither this report nor any part thereof, nor the fact of its distribution, will form the basis of, or be relied on in connection with, any contract or commitment or investment decision whatsoever in any jurisdiction. This report may include forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements other than in respect of historical facts. The words “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “intends”, “estimate”, “will”, “may”, “continue”, “should” and similar expressions usually identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include statements regarding: objectives, goals, strategies, outlook and growth prospects; future plans, events or performance and potential for future growth; liquidity, capital resources and capital expenditures; economic outlook and industry trends; energy demand and supply; developments of Galp’s markets; the impact of regulatory initiatives; and the strength of Galp’s competitors. The forward-looking statements in this report are based upon various assumptions, many of which are based, in turn, upon further assumptions, including, without limitation, management’s examination of historical operating trends, data contained in the Company’s records and other data available from third parties. Although Galp believes that these assumptions were reasonable when made, these assumptions are inherently subject to significant known and unknown risks, uncertainties, contingencies and other important factors, which are difficult or impossible to predict and are beyond its control. Important factors that may lead to significant differences between the actual results and the statements of expectations about future events or results include the Company’s business strategy, industry developments, financial market conditions, uncertainty of the results of future projects and operations, plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, among others. Such risks, uncertainties, contingencies and other important factors could cause the actual results of Galp or the industry to differ materially from those results expressed or implied in this report by such forward-looking statements. The information, opinions and forward-looking statements contained in this report speak only as at the date of this report, and are subject to change without notice. Galp and its respective representatives, agents, employees or advisers do not intend to, and expressly disclaim any duty, undertaking or obligation to, make or disseminate any supplement, amendment, update or revision to any of the information, opinions or forward-looking statements contained in this report to reflect any change in events, conditions or circumstances. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 415 EDITION TEXT REVISION Caligrama Produção Editorial UNCREDITED PHOTOGRAPHS THROUGHOUT THE REPORT Banco Digital Galp DESIGN AND CONCEPTION J. Walter Thompson Rua Tomás da Fonseca, Torre C 1600 209 Lisbon Tel.: +351 217 240 866 Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Fax: +351 217 242 965 Strategy and Investor e-mail: investor.relations@galp.com Relations Division galp.com
