LWI LiveWell Initiative LIVEWELL INITIATIVE LWI UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COP REPORT (NOV 3, 2017 – NOV 2, 2018) STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF LWI LiveWell Initiative EXECUTIVE OFFICER WE SUPPORT: THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS • Principle 6 • Principle 1 The elimination of discrimination in respect Businesses should support and respect the of employment and occupation. protection of internationally-proclaimed human rights ENVIRONMENT • Principle 2 • Principle 7 Make sure that they are not complicit in Businesses should support a precautionary human rights abuses. approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 LABOUR Undertake initiatives to promote greater • Principle 3 environmental responsibility; and Businesses should uphold the freedom of • Principle 9 association and the effective recognition of Encourage the development and diffusion the right to collective bargaining of environmentally-friendly technologies. • Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and ANTI-CORRUPTION compulsory labour; • Principle 10 • Principle 5 Businesses should work against all forms The effective abolition of child labour; and of corruption, including extortion and bribery LWI LiveWell Initiative To our Stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that LiveWell Initiative LWI reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. It is the policy of the organisation that there should be no discrimination in considering applications for employment including those from the female gender and disabled persons. All employees are given equal opportunities for self-development. As at 2nd November, 2017, one (1) disabled (visually impaired) person was in the employment of the organization. In the area of environment, the organization has collaborated with Corona School Gbagada and engaged in Tree Planting. In its pursuit of the SDGs 1,3,4,5,6, and 17 the organization has collaborated with government, private sector, educational institutions, developmental partners and communities. LWI won recognition by the Economist Intelligence Unit this year (SDG1, 3) , see http://bit.ly/2xa665o We also spoke at the Harvard University Boston’s African Global Conference2017 Healthcare Faculty in March 2017 (SDG17). In April 2017 we launched the Women in Hepatitis Africa WIHA, giving a strong voice to the Women of Africa (SDG6) in the elimination of viral hepatitis by 2030 This has earned the organisation awards at the national and international levels, and a ‘worthy mention’ on the floor of the UN Global Summit, New York (June 22 -23, 2016). In this annual Communication on Progress, we provide an indepth description of our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our Multisectoral Stakeholders and Communities, using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, . . . promoting wellness Bisi Bright . . . Preventing ill health www.livewellng.org 1 Vice Chairman / CEO, LWI st LWI LiveWell Initiative Thank You 10/16/2017 www.livewellng.org
