目录 01 报告说明 01 Report Description CONTENTS 03 董事长致辞 03 Chairman's Statement 05 企业简介 05 Company Profile 企业概况 Company Profile 业务领域 Business field 治理结构 Governance Structure 项目分布图 Project Distribution 利益相关方信息 Stakeholders Involved 参加国内外主要的社会团体 Membership Involved 2016 年度所获荣誉 Honors in 2016 17 理念战略 17 Concept Strategy 企业战略及理念 Corporate Strategy & Concept 社会责任理念与推进 Social responsibility concept and promotion 21 管理运营 21 Management Operation 加强企业管理 夯实发展基础 Strengthen the enterprise management and lay solid foundation for development 抓好市场开拓 提升竞争实力 Strengthen market development to enhance competitive strength 创新引领发展 确保优质服务 Innovation leading development to ensure quality service 坚持以人为本 狠抓安全生产 Stay people-oriented, and stress safe production 倡导节能环保 共建绿色生态 Advocate energy saving and environmental protection to build a green ecology 关爱员工利益 共创和谐企业 Care for the interests of employees and create a harmonious enterprise 加强社区交流 共建社会关系 Enhanced community exchange and established social relations 65 探索发展 65 Exploration and development 区域公司化经营能力持续提高 Continuous improvement of regional operation capacity 区域公司化运营成果良好 Good operation achievements of Regional Corporatization 73 责任绩效 73 Responsibility and performance 2016 年度关键责任绩效 2016 annual key responsibility and performance 79 Prospective 79 未来展望 Management development 经营发展 管理提升 Management enhancement 企业社会责任建设 Construction of corporate social responsibilities 83 报告评价 83 Report Evaluation 85 意见反馈表 85 Reader’s Feedback Form 报告说明 Report Description 报告编制流程图 本报告是中材建设有限公司 (CBMI ConstructionCo., Ltd. 简称“中材建设”或 CBMI ) 在 2016 The report is the actual portrayal of the continuous improvements Process of report compilation on fulfillment of social responsibility of CBMI Construction Co., 年度履行社会责任方面持续改进的真实记录。通过这份报告，本企业员工、服务客户、合作伙伴、 Ltd. (CBMI) in 2016. By reading the report, employees, clients, 分包商、股东和出资人、国家各主管部门、社团及所有关注中材建设发展的相关人士，都可以了解 partners, sub-contractors, shareholders and contributors, 中材建设的社会责任理念与实践，了解中材建设为实现经济、社会可持续发展所做出的不懈努力。 various national competent departments in charge, societies 资料收集与分析 and all the people who cared about development of CBMI could Data collection and analysis 本报告采用《联合国全球契约年度进展报告实践指南——编写、分享和公布 COP》推荐的内容和 understand the social responsibility ideas and practices as well 形式提纲编写。报告有中英文对照两个版本，报告审核以中文为准。 as the unremitting endeavors the company had made for further promoting economic and social sustainable development. 本报告时间范围为 2016 年 1 月至 12 月。报告每年发布一次，组织范围为中材建设有限公司及所 The annual report is basically compiled in accordance with the 属项目。 content and form outline recommended by the United Nations Global Compact in terms of Communication of Progress (COP). 为了在更大范围内宣传履行社会责任的知识、理念，确保履行社会责任年度报告编制素材来源的广 The annual report is written in both Chinese and English, and the 利益相关者调研 泛性、专业性以及质量，中材建设成立了履行社会责任年度报告编写领导小组和编写机构，认真学 Chinese version shall prevail for report auditing. Stakeholders survey 习了《联合国全球契约年度进展报告实践指南》等指导文件。全球契约中国网络的专家对部分参与 The report ranges from January to December of 2016, which is 报告编写人员进行了具体培训和指导。 released once every year, covering CBMI and its all affiliated projects. 本报告中所涉及财务数据符合国家颁布的《企业会计准则》和《企业会计制度》的规定。 To publicize the knowledge and ideas of social responsibility in 为保证整个报告的真实性、可靠性，中材建设邀请全球契约中国网络执行秘书长韩斌进行了第三方 a larger scale and ensure the extensiveness, professionalism and quality of the material sources relating to the compiling of 主题与议题识别 评价并提出完善建议。 Identification of theme and topics the social responsibility report as well as the compiling quality, CBMI set up leading compiling panel and compiling body to prepare the annual social responsibility report. We formulated the issued policy papers such as CSR annual report compiling scheme, guidelines, communications, schedule, feedbacks, and seriously learned the United Nations Global Compact in terms of Communication on Progress (COP). We also invited experts of the United Nations Global Compact Network China to guide and 报告文本撰写与翻译 conduct training for some of those people who participated in the Compilation and translation of report social responsibility report compiling. The financial data involved in the report was in consistence with stipulations of the “Accounting Standard for Business Enterprises” and the “Accounting System for Business Enterprises” issued by the State. To ensure the contents are authentic and reliable, CBMI invited 设计与印刷 Dr. Han Bin, a Executive Secretary General from Global Compact Designing and printing 欲在线阅读《中材建设 2016 年度社会责任报告》电子版本，请访问中材建设网站 Network China to conduct the third-party evaluation and to http：//www.cbmi.com.cn。 《中材建设 2016 年度社会责任报告》已经提交联合国“全球契约”办公室指定的网站 provide improvement suggestions for CBMI Social Responsibility http：//www.unglobalcompact.org。 Report 2016. To read online “CBMI Social Responsibility Report 2016” in electronic version, please visit CBMI website at http://www.cbmi.com.cn. This report has been submitted to the website designated by the United States Global Compact Office, please visit http://www.unglobalcompact.org. 报告说明 01 02 Report Description CBMI 2016 董事长致辞 Chairman's Statement 中材建设接受“全球契约”在尊重人权、劳动权、环保 Adhering to social responsibility ideas put forward by the United Nations Global Compact in such aspects as respect 和反腐败等方面的社会责任理念，将继续在可影响的范 for human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and 围内，支持和促进其十项原则的实施，关注对利益相关 anti-corruption, CBMI will continue to support and promote 方的影响，履行相应的社会责任。 the implementation of the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles in its influencing extent. The strategies, 中材建设公开承诺，遵循“全球契约”持续改进理念， corporate culture and day-to-day operation will focus on the 继续改善在人权方面非歧视用工、杜绝童工、不强制劳 influence on stakeholders, implementing corresponding social responsibilities. 动和保护本地劳工权利等状况；保护全体作业工人职业 CBMI has publicly pledged to comply with the idea of 健康和人身安全，保障他们的劳动所得，关心他们的职 “continuous improvements” of the United Nations Global 业发展；推广和使用新技术，节约能源，减少排放，保 Compact, consistently improving the human rights condition 护工作和生活周边环境；努力建设公平公正文化，推进 such as non-discrimination employment, elimination of child labor, no forced labor, and local labor rights, safeguarding 反腐败工作的进程。 the occupational health and personnel safety of all workers, 现阶段，中国经济步入新常态，市场竞争格局深刻变化， guaranteeing their labor income and caring about personnel safety of all workers, guaranteeing their labor income and 在此挑战与机遇并存的时期，中材建设将继续以公开的 caring about their career development, promoting and utilizing 形式，报告履行社会责任的进展情况，接受公众的监督， new technologies to save energy, reduce emission and 不断加强社会责任管理，积极关注气候变化，切实保护 protect working environment and living surroundings, making efforts to construct fair and just culture, and advancing anti员工权益，大力建设环境友好型企业与劳动关系和谐企 corruption process. 中材建设有限公司董事长 业，热心关注社区发展与社会公益，努力实现负责任、 Chairman of CBMI Construction Co.，Ltd. At present, China's economy has stepped into a new 可持续的海外运营，与各利益相关方携手合作，共同推 normality and the landscape of international competition is 动国内与国际、经济与社会的可持续发展。 experiencing profound changes. In face of both challenges and opportunities, CBMI will continue to make the progress of the implementation of social responsibility known to the public, accepting the supervision of the public and constantly strengthening the management of social responsibility. Meanwhile, we engage ourselves in paying active attention 中材建设将全球契约十项原则视为企业战略和业务中不可或缺的 to the climate change and actually protecting the interests 一部分，并在整个企业中承诺，将传达到各级管理人员和全体员 of the employees. What we vigorously want to achieve is 工中，以确保这些原则得到广泛履行。 the construction of an environment-friendly enterprise and harmonious labor relations. And we greatly concern about Regarding the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles as the community development and social public welfare and an integral part of the corporate strategy and businesses, CBMI spare no efforts to achieve a responsible and sustainable promises to publicize the principles among its senior managers and business overseas. We will cooperate with all stakeholders all the employees, so as to gain extensive support for the principles. to mutually promote sustainability of the economic and social development at home and abroad. 董事长致辞 03 04 Chairman's Statement CBMI 2016 No.1 企业简介 Company Profile 企业概况 Company Profile 中材建设隶属于中国建材集团旗下的中国中材国际工程股份有限公司，已有近 60 年的历史， 注册于中国河北省唐山市，是国家高新技术企业，公司总部设在北京经济技术开发区。 中材建设具有对外经营权、进出口权及国家工程总承包一级资质，是中国建材行业率先实施“走 出去”战略的知名企业，在国际水泥工程建设领域具有良好的品牌和市场影响力，承建了国 内第一个 EPC 水泥总承包项目、第一个由中国企业建设的国外 EPC 水泥厂总承包项目，是 第一家在欧洲发达国家承建水泥工厂、第一家把中国大型水泥成套设备出口到欧洲的企业。 中材建设已通过 ISO9001 质量管理体系认证、 ISO14001 环境管理体系认证和 OHSAS18001 职业健康安全管理体系认证。企业信用度连续保持 AAA 级。 CBMI is affiliated to Sinoma International Engineering Co., Ltd. of China National Building Materials Group Corporation (CNBM) , which already has a history of nearly 60 years and is registered in Tangshan City, Hebei Province, China. It is a national high-tech enterprise headquartered in Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone. CBMI has the rights of foreign trade, import and export rights as well as the National Grade 1 qualification of engineering general contracting, it is the famous enterprise that firstly implements the strategy of going out , and it has a good brand and market influence in the international cement engineering construction field; the company contracted the first domestic EPC cement project, the first overseas EPC cement plant project by a Chinese enterprises, it is the first enterprise that has built its cement factory in the developed country in Europe, and the first Chinese enterprise that exports large cement complete equipment to European enterprises. CBMI has passed the certification of ISO9001 quality management system, ISO14001 environmental management system and OHSAS18001 occupational health and safety management system. Its enterprise credit rating maintains AAA level consecutively. 中材建设北京办公大楼——中材大厦 CBMI office building in Beijing——CBMI Mansion 企业简介 05 06 Company Profile CBMI 2016 经营规模 业务流程 Operation scale Business Process 目前中材建设业务主要集中在海外，遍布欧亚非美， 客户资源主要集中在拉法基豪瑞、海德堡、西迈克斯 工程咨询 Engineering 等高端市场，具有良好的品牌和信誉。 consulting 在中国水泥工业建设史上，中材建设承建了全球最大 项目策划、融资 的包括两条万吨线水泥厂项目和国内首条全套引进技 Project planning and 术生产线、首条自行开发干法旋窑生产线、首条中外 financing 合资生产线、首个国际总承包模式“交钥匙”项目， 并首次向欧洲国家出口水泥生产线成套设备等，创造 技术研发 了多项第一。 Technology research and development 中材建设先后承建了中国国内水泥行业大多数的水泥 生产线重点项目，其中包括绝大多数外商投资项目和 规模超过日产水泥熟料 4000 吨以上的水泥生产线项 工程勘察设计 中材建设北京办公大楼 Engineering 目，累计在全球建设水泥生产线近 160 条。 exploration CBMI office building in Beijing and design 中材建设千余人的职工队伍可在全球十几个国家同时 设备制造、 展开超 100 亿元人民币投资额、20 多个项目的建设 设备成套 工作。 Equipment manufacturing 业务领域 Business field Currently, CBMI’s main businesses are mainly located and complete equipment 物流运输、 overseas, spreading over Europe, Asia, Africa and 国际贸易 主营业务 America, while its client resources are largely from highLogistics and end markets including Lafarge-Holcim, Heidelberg and transportation Main Business CEMEX, with good brand and reputation. and international trade In the construction history of China, CBMI constructed 土建施工、 中材建设主营业务为水泥工程项目总承包，具有完整的 EPC 总承包服务链，可针对不同客户需求及环境 设备安装 the largest cement project including two 10kt cement 特点，在各种规模水泥生产线的工程咨询、设计研发、设备制造和成套、土建安装、生产调试、备品备件、 Civil construction lines around the globe and the first production line of full and equipment 售后服务和生产管理等方面，为客户提供 EPC、EP 等模式的个性化“总承包”集成服务。 introduction, the first dry method rotary kiln production installation line of independent R & D, the first production line based 近年来，中材建设积极探索和推进多元发展战略，在建筑、冶金、电力、市政、环保和主营业务延伸等方 生产调试、 on Sino-foreign joint venture, the first international EPC 操作培训 面进行了有益的尝试，开发和推广了节能、环保、低排放的水泥生产项目的改造技术，以及利用余热发电、 turnkey project, and the first to export complete set Commissioning and of equipment for cement production line to European operation training 脱硫脱硝技术等。 countries, it has been the first for many honors. CBMI engages in turn-key cement plant projects. The company provides customized EPCor EP-mode general CBMI has undertaken the construction of most of the 售后服务、 contracting integrated service in such aspects as engineering consultation, design and R&D, equipment key cement production lines in the domestic cement 备品备件 manufacturing and complete set, civil engineering and installation, production and commissioning, spare parts After-sales service industry in China, including the vast majority of foreignand and components, after-sales service, and production management of cement production line at various scales invested projects and the cement production line with spare parts supply for clients in accordance with their requirements and environmental characteristics. scale exceeding 4,000t/d cement clinker. It has built 生产运营 nearly 160 cement production lines around the globe. Production and In recent years, CBMI has actively explored and promoted multi-business development strategy. Good Operation explorations have been made in building, metallurgy, electricity, municipal construction, environmental protection With over 1,000 employees, CBMI could construct more and extension of main business. It developed and promoted reconstruction technology of cement production than 20 projects totaling nearly 10 billion yuan in more projects with the advantage of energy saving, pro-environment and low emission, and used the technologies of than 10 counties simultaneously. cogeneration and desulfurization and denitrification. 企业简介 07 08 Company Profile CBMI 2016 中材建设组织机构图 治理结构 Governance Structure Organizational Structure Chart of CBMI 中材建设是按照《中华人民共和国公司法》组建的有限责任公司，依照公司《章程》设立董事会、监事会 和经营团队。公司董事会下设企业战略发展委员会、安全生产委员会、招标委员会、技术委员会、风险管 理与内部控制领导小组、全面预算管理领导小组等专业委员会，管控企业经营风险，监督企业廉政经营。 公司每年定期或不定期召开董事会、监事会和总经理办公会，并按照公司《章程》、《董事会议事规则》、 《监事会议事规则》和《总经理工作细则》开展工作，对企业的生产、经营、管理工作进行决策。 CBMI is a limited liability company established in accordance to the ‘Company law of the people's Republic of China’. It has set up the board of directors, board of supervisors and management team in accordance to the corporate charts. The board of directors has set up specialized committees, including corporate strategy development committee, safety production committee, tender committee,Technical Committee,risk management and internal control leading group, and total budget management leading group, managing and controlling corporate operation risks and supervising clean operation. 战略发展委员会 Strategic Development Committee CBMI would hold meetings with shareholders, board of directors, and board of supervisors as well as the general manager’s office meeting regularly and irregularly, carrying out work in accordance with “CBMI Articles and Association”, “Meeting Procedure Rules of Shareholders”, “Meeting Procedure Rules of Board of Directors”, “Meeting Procedure Rules of Board of Supervisors”, and “Work Rules of General Manager”, an conducting decision-making in such areas as production, operation and management. Disciplinary Inspection and Supervision Office 企业简介 09 10 Company Profile CBMI 2016 项目分布图 Project Distribution 中材建设承接实施的建设项目主要分布在非洲、中东、东欧、东南亚、中美洲等地区的西班牙、 法国、意大利、俄罗斯、匈牙利、阿尔巴尼亚、乌克兰、摩尔多瓦、塞浦路斯、阿塞拜疆、保 加利亚、叙利亚、沙特阿拉伯、突尼斯、摩洛哥、毛里塔尼亚、赞比亚、南非、尼日利亚、乌 干达、贝宁、阿尔及利亚、加纳、几内亚、多米尼加、厄瓜多尔、马来西亚、布基纳法索、印 度尼西亚、肯尼亚、喀麦隆、东帝汶等国家和地区。 2016 年新开工项目：俄罗斯长城项目（桩基工程）、 宿迁项目（区域供水）、塔牌蕉岭项目（设备安装）、 The construction projects undertaken and implemented by CBMI are mainly distributed in Africa, 阿尔及利亚 BC 项目、常州项目、东帝汶教堂项目、 Middle East, East Europe, South-east Asia, and Central America and other regions, covering Spain, 马来西亚 RAPID 项目 France, Italy, Russia, Hungary, Albania, Ukraine, Moldova, Cyprus, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Morocco, Mauritania, Zambia, South Africa, Nigeria, Uganda, Benin, Algeria, New projects in 2016: Russia’s the Great Wall project Ghana, the Republic of Guinea, Dominica, Ecuador, Malaysia, Burkina Faso, Indonesia, Kenya, (pile foundation project), Suqian project (regional water Cameroon, and Cameroon, etc. supply), Tapai Jiaoling project (equipment installation), Algeria BC project, Changzhou project, Timor-Leste Church project, and Malaysia RAPID project. 企业简介 11 12 Company Profile CBMI 2016 利益相关方信息 Stakeholders Involved 沟通方式 利益相关方 利益关系 Means of CommuStakeholders Relationship nication 利益相关方概况列表 Overview of Stakeholders 公司、项目所在地政府 政策法律相关 Relevant policies and Local government laws 沟通方式 唐山市丰润区国家税务局 利益相关方 利益关系 税收征管 Means of CommuTangshan Fengrun Stakeholders Relationship Tax collection and nication District Office, State management Administration of Taxation 中材国际工程股份有限公司 全资子公司 唐山市丰润区地方税务局 股东 董事会 税收征管 Sinoma International Wholly owned Tangshan Fengrun Shareholder The board of directors Tax collection and Engineering Co., Ltd. subsidiary District Local Taxation management Bureau 交通银行、中国银行等商业 资金存取、信贷、保函 银行 客户 客户服务 业务往来 业务等 Bank of Communications, Clients Client service Business contact Access, credit, and Bank of China and other guarantee, etc. commercial banksFunds 丰润区住房公积金管理中心 职工住房公积金管理 职工一 在册职工 社区一 Fengrun District Housing Management of Staff I Registered Staff Community I Accumulation Fund employees’ housing Management Center accumulation fund 年度财务报告审计等 会计师事务所 合同、工会 Auditing of annual 会议及约访 职工二 国内雇佣劳工 劳资关系 Accounting firm Contract and trade financial statement Conference and visits Staff II Domestic Employees Labor relations union 国家外汇管理局唐山市中心 支局 外汇管理 国外项目所在地雇佣劳工 Tangshan Central 职工三 Foreign exchange Foreign project-based Branch of the State Staff III management employees Administration of Foreign Exchange 唐山市国家税务局进出口税 技术设计分包 供应商一 务分局 Technical design Supplier I Import and Export subcontract 出口退税 Taxation Branch of Export rebates Tangshan City Office, State Administration of Taxation 供应商二 采购业务分包 Supplier II Procurement subcontract 经济、就业、环境相关 社区二 公司、项目所在地居民 Economy, 业务分包 业务往来 Community II Local residents employment and Business subcontract Business contact environment 供应商三 工程分包 Supplier III Engineering subcontract 工会、信息等专题相关 社区三 公司、项目所在地社团组织 Tradeunion, Community III Local social organizations information and other special topics 供应商四 劳务分包 总部、分公司和项目所在地新闻媒体 信息、广告 Supplier IV Labor subcontract 采访 News media covering the headquarters, Information and Interview branches and projects of the company advertisement 企业简介 13 14 Company Profile CBMI 2016 参加国内外主要的社会团体 2016 年度所获荣誉 Honors in 2016 Membership Involved 序号 授予单位 荣誉名称 No. Granting Organization Honors 序号 名称 公司角色 中国施工企业管理协会 No. Name Position of CBMI 2016 年度全国优秀施工企业 China Association of 1 National Excellent Construction Enterprises Construction Enterprise of Year 2016 Management 联合国“全球契约”组织 成员 1 中国机治全国工业建材委员会 2016 年度“巨石杯”全国建材行业技术革新奖三等奖（“回 United Nations Global Compact Member National Industrial Building 转窑自适应托轮支承装置”项目） 2 Materials Committee 3rd Prize of “Boulder Cup” National Building Material of China Mechanical Industry Technical Innovation Award of Year 2016 Metallurgy (Adaptive supporting roller supporting device for Rotary Kiln) 中国建筑材料联合会 会员 2 2016 年度“巨石杯”全国建材行业技术革新奖三等奖（“立式 China Building Materials Federation Member 中国机治全国工业建材委员会 辊磨机光纤光栅多传感信息融合安全状态监测系统”项目） National Industrial Building 3rd Prize of “Boulder Cup” National Building Material 3 Materials Committee Industry Technical Innovation Award of Year 2016(FBG of China Mechanical Multi-sensor Data Fusion Safety Monitoring System for 中国企业联合会 会员 Metallurgy Vertical Roller Mill) 3 China Enterprise Directors Association Member 中国施工企业管理协会 理事单位 4 China Association of Construction Enterprise Council Members Management 中材建设荣获 2016 年度全国 优秀施工企业（荣誉牌） CBMI was awarded the National Excellent 中国对外承包工程商会 理事单位 中材建设荣获 2016 年度全国优秀施工 Construction Enterprises 5 China International Contractors Association Council Members 企业（奖状） of Year 2016 (Honor Card) CBMI was awarded the National Excellent Construction Enterprises of Year 2016 (Certificate of merit) 中国建材工程建设协会 副会长单位 6 China National Building Materials Vice Chairman Construction Association 中国水泥协会 常务理事单位 7 China Cement Association Executive Director 2016 年度“巨石杯”全国建材行业技术 2016 年度“巨石杯”全国建材行业技术革新奖 中国会计学会建材分会 革新奖三等奖：中材建设“回转窑自适应 三等奖：中材建设“立式辊磨机光纤光栅多传感 成员 托轮支承装置”项目 信息融合安全状态监测系统”项目 8 Building Materials Branch under Accounting Member 3rd Prize of “Boulder Cup” National 3rd Prize of “Boulder Cup” National Society of China Building Material Industry Technical Building Material Industry Technical Innovation Award of Year 2016: Innovation Award of Year 2016: FBG MultiCBMI “Adaptive supporting roller sensor Data Fusion Safety Monitoring supporting device for Rotary Kiln” System for Vertical Roller Mill 企业简介 15 16 Company Profile CBMI 2016 企业战略及理念 Corporate Strategy & Concept No.2 作为全球工程建设的服务商，中材建设始终以诚信的理念、务实的作风和科学的管理，持续 创新、热忱服务，努力建设精品工程，实现业主投资价值最大化。 中材建设的发展定位：以工程承包为主导业务，大力推进相关多元发展，坚持科学发展、以 人为本，坚持“创新型、国际型、价值型”的企业定位，以科技创新和管理创新为手段，以 加强业务功能建设和企业文化建设为保障，努力把企业建设成为国际一流的综合性工程公司。 理念战略 2016 年中，根据集团和中材国际“十三五”发展规划和总体部署，制订了公司“十三五”发 展规划，方向目标是 : 做优水泥技术装备工程、做大多元工程、做强节能环保与产业发展， 到“十三五”末，形成三业并举、均衡发展的业务格局。 Concept Strategy As a service provider of global engineering construction, CBMI consistently holds the concept of integrity, way of realistic and scientific management to innovate our service with the aim to build a high-quality project for maximizing the investment from our clients. CBMI’s development positioning: Adhering to the main business of project contracting, striving to boost diverse development, insisting on scientific development, placing people in the first place, persisting in the “innovation-oriented, internationalized and value-oriented” corporate positioning, making efforts to build a leading integrated engineering company throughout the world by means of science & technology innovation and management innovation as well as the strengthening of the business functional construction and the corporate culture construction. Based on the development plan and overall scheme for “the 13th Five-year formed by Sinoma Group and Sinoma International in 2016, the company’s “the 13th Five-year” development planning is set with the target of: optimizing the cement technical equipment project, enlarging diversified project, strengthening energy conservation & environmental protection and industrial development project, to form a business pattern of three business well balanced-developed by the end of the “13th Five Year . 中材建设北京办公大楼一楼大厅 The hall on the 1st floor of the CBMI office building in Beijing 理念战略 17 18 Concept Strategy CBMI 2016 企业战略及理念 Corporate Strategy & Concept 社会责任理念与推进 Social responsibility concept and promotion 核心价值观： 创新、绩效、和谐、责任 Core Values: Innovation, Performance, Harmony, Responsibility 公司副总经理胡芝娟与全球契约中国组织、美国哥伦比亚大学调研人员交流 Hu Zhijuan, Vice General Manager of CBMI, exchanges ideas with the investigators from United Nations Global Compact and Columbia University. 核心理念： 企业精神： 2016 年 3 月 22 日上午，应全球契约中国网络组织邀请，中材建设参加了联合国全球契约组织与美国哥伦 知成并重、务实创新、诚信为本 天天创业、事事认真 比亚大学合作开展的“联合国可持续发展目标访谈”活动，接受了全球契约中国组织和美国哥伦比亚大学 core values: Enterprise Spirit: 调研人员的采访。联合国全球契约组织开展此次访谈的宗旨，是为掌握成员企业对联合国可持续发展目标 的认识，并了解其根据联合国可持续发展目标调整部署企业可持续策略的能力；帮助联合国全球契约各国 Attaching equal importance to Making every day counts, being 网络更有效地推动其对可持续发展目标的认识和实践，为之提供符合当地实情的参考意见。 knowledge and achievement, serious about everything. being pragmatic and innovative, 作为联合国全球契约组织成员和全球契约中国网络组织成员，中材建设自从 2005 年加入全球契约组织以 and adhering to integrity. 来一直按照相关规定履行企业社会责任，同时在全球数十个国家项目的建设过程中积极践行各项承诺，为 各项目所在国的经济发展、环境保护等做出了众多贡献。 企业使命和目标： 建造质量优良、环境优美的工厂，不仅 In the morning of Mar. 22, 2016, CBMI, at the invitation of Global Compact Network China, participated and gave an interview in the activity “Discussions on UN Sustainable Development Goals” organized jointly by 使朋友们的工作更有效益，而且使他们 United Nations Global Compact and Columbia University. The Discussion was developed for the United Nations 的生活更有乐趣 Global Compact to get a knowledge of the member firms’ understanding of the Goals and their ability to adjust the sustainable development strategies in line with the Goals; in addition, the discussion would deepen the corporate mission: understanding of the Goals among the members and therefore accelerate the achievement of the Goals, and also provide the United Nations Global Compact with practical advices fit to local reality. Constructing high-quality and beautiful environment of factories, and bringing CBMI, as a member of both the United Nations Global Compact and the Global Compact Network China, benefits to the people and joy to their life. since the joining of the United Nations Global Compact in 2005, has been an active performer of its social responsibility as per corresponding regulations and a reliable keeper of its promises in the construction of dozens of projects in tens of countries, contributing a lot to the economic development and environmental protection where the projects were carried out. 理念战略 19 20 Concept Strategy CBMI 2016 加强企业管理 夯实发展基础 Strengthen the enterprise management and lay solid foundation for development No.3 制度体系建设 Institution and system construction 制度建设 2016 年，中材建设持续推进制度建设，进一步完善公司制度流程，努力提升公司的制度化、 管理运营 规范化管理水平，围绕人力资源、财务管理、资产管理、成本管理、运营考核、项目管理、 安全管理、审计内控、廉政建设等方面，全年制定各类管理制度 21 项，修订各类管理制度 15 项。 体系建设 Management Operation 2016 年，中材建设顺利通过内审外审，完成三认证体系换证工作。公司组织各职能部门修编、 评审并颁布了 29 个程序文件、207 个公司级管理制度文件，进一步修订和健全了质量、环境、 职业健康安全三体系的内容，保证了公司各环节一体化的可靠运行。 Institution construction In 2016, CBMI continued to promote the system construction, further perfected the company system process, and endeavored to enhance the institutionalization and standardized management of the Company. The Company focused on human resources, financial management, asset management, cost management, operation assessment, project management, safety management, auditing internal control and clean governance, etc. CBMI formulated 21 management systems and revised 15 management systems of various types throughout the year. System construction In 2016, CBMI successfully passed the internal and external audit and completed the renewal of the “Three Systems”(ISO9000, ISO14000, OSHMS18000). The functional departments of the Company organized, reviewed and promulgated 29 procedural documents and 207 corporatelevel management system documents, further amended and perfected the contents of the three systems of quality, environment and occupational health and safety to ensure the reliable operation of integration of all aspects of the company. 中材建设三体系外审工作会议 Conference on external audit for Three Systems of CBMI 管理运营 21 22 Management Operation CBMI 2016 加强企业管理 夯实发展基础 Strengthen the enterprise management and lay solid foundation for development 业务功能建设 Business function construction 技术设计 2016 年，中材建设技术工作以市场为导向，针对不同客户需求及特点，着力于构建差异化、个性化技术服 务能力。一是加强对市场开拓的技术支持，全年完成 44 个项目的投标设计工作，其中水泥项目 25 个，多 元业务拓展投标项目 17 个。二是努力提升自主设计能力，在传统水泥工程业务领域完成了对南非 PPC 项目、 阿尔及利亚 BISKRA 项目施工图设计，持续推进尼日利亚、阿尔及利亚地区的 4 个项目设计以及赞比亚水 泥项目设计；在新业务领域开展北控环保常州危废项目、山东脱硫石膏项目、哈尔滨静脉产业园等几个项 目设计。三是加强设计管理工作，围绕传统水泥工程及多元业务，积极整合国内外设计资源，较好地完成 了全年项目设计任务。 采购供货 2016 年，中材建设采购工作组织完成设备物资采买合人民币 12.76 亿元，签订合同 1310 个。加强采购供 货计划管理，组织完成 8.76 万吨（17.26 万立方米）设备物资的交货。组织制定了 2016 年供货商拓展规 划并得到有序实施，引进 38 家供货商进入公司合格供货商清单，拓宽了供货商资源。建立了《大宗物资 采购计划编制指南》和《调试及两年备件基本配置指南》。完善了商务条款规避风险，提高了商务合同签 中材建设承建赞比亚工业园项目采购招标会议 CBMI procurement tender conference for the Zambia Industrial Park 订的质量，为合同执行提供了强有力的保障。 Technical Design In 2016, CBMI adhered to market-oriented and aimed to establish differentiated and personalized technical services for different customer demand and characteristics. I. Reinforced technical support for market development. Tender designs of 44 projects have been completed throughout the year, including 25 cement projects and 17 tender projects on diversified business. II. Strived to enhance its independent design capacity. In the field of traditional cement engineering, CBMI completed the design of construction drawings for the PPC project in South Africa and the BISKRA project in Algeria, and continued to promote the designs for the 4 projects in Nigeria and Algeria and the cement project in Zambia; carried out in new business areas the Beikong Anaide, (Changzhou) hazardous wastes project, Harbin vein Industrial Park and several other project. III. Strengthened the design management work and actively integrated the design resources both in China and abroad around the traditional cement engineering and diversified businesses and completed the annual project design tasks well. Procurement and Supply In 2016, CBMI signed 1310 contracts, with a total amount of RMB 1.276 billion in purchasing of equipment and materials. By strengthening the management of procurement and supply plan CBMI made successful delivery of 87,600 tons (172,600 m3). It also formulated and carried out the supplier expansion plan of year 2016, and approved 38 suppliers to be in the qualified Vendors List, thus expanding the supplier resources. CBMI also prepared the Guide on Compilation of Bulk Materials Purchase Planning and the Guide on Basic Configuration 中材建设尼日利亚 EDO 熟料线运营项目中控室 of Commissioning and Two Years Spare Parts. It also perfected the business articles to mitigate risks and CBMI Central Control Room for the EDO Clinker Production Line in Nigeria improved the quality of signed business contracts and provided powerful guarantee for contract enforcement. 管理运营 23 24 Management Operation CBMI 2016 加强企业管理 夯实发展基础 Strengthen the enterprise management and lay solid foundation for development 物流运输 企业基础管理 2016 年，中材建设建立物流台帐及物流动态监控表，有效掌握物流发运情况。根据项目不同，在散货船、 Enterprise Basic Management 内陆运输的招标模式上，主要采用两种模式操作：一种是一船一招的模式，另一种是 COA 大包模式，大 大降低了物流成本。通过对集港的货物进行包装检查，采用并包的方式，有效利用非标、钢结构的空间， 降低发运货物容重比。全年共发运集装箱 730 个、散货船 21 船，累计发运货物 17.26 万立方米 /8.76 万吨， 完成出口额约 1.91 亿美元。 调试与生产运营 2016 年，中材建设着力挖掘和整合内部资源，强化调试组织筹备和计划管理，有效提高了项目调试效率， 降低了调试成本，较好完成了全年调试及生产运营任务。全年共完成了 8 个项目的调试工作。同时，EDO 中材股份领导调研阿尔及利亚 水泥生产运营项目现场团队克服设备、设计问题，超额完成了全年生产目标。 BISKRA 项目 Sinoma leadership is investigating the BISKRA project in Algeria Logistics and Transportation In 2016, CBMI established the Logistics Ledger and Logistics Dynamic Monitoring Table to effectively master the logistics and shipping. According to different projects, mainly two modes are used in the bidding mode of bulk carriers and inland transport: one is the mode of one ship and one move, and the other is the COA package mode, which greatly reduces the logistics cost. By checking the packages of the goods congregated in port, joined the packages together and effective use of the non-standard and steel structure space, the volume-weight ratio of the cargo are greatly reduced. During the year, 730 containers and 21 bulk carriers were shipped, with a total of 172,600 cubic meters / 87,600 tons of goods shipped and an export value of approximately 191 million U.S. dollars. Commissioning & Production and Operation In 2016, CBMI endeavored to tap and integrate its internal resources, intensified its commissioning preparation and planning management, and effectively raised the efficiency of project commissioning, lowered the commissioning costs and completed the annual commissioning and production & operation tasks. CBMI 中材建设 2016 年度财务工作会议 accomplished commissioning for 8 projects. Meanwhile, on-site EDO cement production and operation team CBMI Annual Financial Affairs Conference 2016 overcome the difficulties as equipment, design issues, over fulfilled the annual production target. 中材建设阿尔及利亚 BISKRA 项 目水泥调配站入料 Material charging at CBMI 中材建设 2016 年度工作述职会议 Cement Distribution Station for CBMI Annual Work Report the BISKRA project in Algeria Conference 2016 管理运营 25 26 Management Operation CBMI 2016 加强企业管理 夯实发展基础 Strengthen the enterprise management and lay solid foundation for development 人力资源 Human resource 2016 年，中材建设按照中材国际总体部署，结合市场形势和公司实际情况，积极推进人力资源管理提升与 In 2016, according to the overall plan of Sinoma, CBMI actively pushed on the promotion and optimization of human resources management based on the market situation and actual conditions of the Company. Revolving 优化专项工作。围绕业务转型，加强员工培训，加快员工有序向新业务转岗，重点向多元业务项目转岗。 around the business transformation, CBMI strengthened staff training, expedited the transfer of employees 调整考核激励机制，重点向多元工程、节能环保业务倾斜，引导员工积极投身新业务事业。加强人才队伍 to new businesses in an orderly manner, and shifted mainly to diversified business projects. By adjusting the 建设，尤其是新业务领域技术和管理人才。 assessment incentive mechanism, giving priority to diversified projects, energy conservation and environmental protection business, to encourage the staffs to actively join in the new business. Strengthen the building of talent 运营考核 team, especially the technology and management talent of new business areas. 2016 年，中材建设运营管理立足于经济运行分析，加强对企业经营管理的全过程进行计划执行和控制。通 Assessment on operation 过对公司月度、季度经济运行分析及项目运营指数测算，加强过程监测，为公司决策提供科学准确的数据 In 2016, CBMI's operation and management was based on the analysis of economic operation and stepped up 依据。加强成本预算与目标控制，通过项目对标和项目成本构成分析，总结了一套较为科学的成本预算和 the implementation and control over the whole process of operation and management of the Company. Through the monthly and quarterly economic operation analysis and project operation index calculation, the Company 目标数据，进一步提升公司 EPC 项目整体管理水平。 strengthened the process monitoring and provided scientific and accurate data bases for the Company's decision-making. CBMI strengthened the cost budget and target control. Based on the project benchmarking 资产财务 and project cost analysis, a set of more scientific cost budgeting and target data were summarized to further 2016 年，中材建设加强资产财务管理，严格执行资金收支预算管理、资金收支两条线管理和现金流收支平 enhance the overall management of the Company's EPC projects. 衡管理，确保公司资金运行安全。拓展融资渠道，积极协助业主融资工作，通过获取银行综合授信等方式 Asset Finance 多渠道筹措资金，降低财务成本。加强汇率风险防范，集中管理外汇资金，及时跟踪汇率波动变化，采取 In 2016, CBMI strengthened the management of assets and finance, strictly implemented budget revenue 合理选择合同计价货币、结售汇方案、锁定汇率等多种方式，切实做好汇率风险管理。加强税务管理，提 and expenditure budget management, separate channels of revenue and expenditure and cash flow balance 前策划做好税务风险防控体系，严格规范执行项目的周期审计。 management, to ensure the security of capital operation. CBMI expanded financing channels, actively assisted owners in their financing works, raised funds through multiple channels such as obtaining comprehensive bank 审计内控 credit, and reduced financial costs. By strengthening the prevention of exchange rate risks, centrally managing foreign exchange funds, tracking the changes in exchange rate fluctuations in a timely manner, and adopting a 2016 年，中材建设加强审计内控工作，按照年度计划，完成了衡阳、常州危废、梅州塔牌、三门峡、宿迁 variety of methods, including the rational choice of contract price, exchange settlement scheme and exchange 水处理等国内项目的项目效益审计，完成对坦桑尼亚 TK2、MBE 项目、阿尔及利亚 BISKARA 项目、尼 rate lock, so as to earnestly manage exchange rate risk. Strengthen tax administration, plan and control tax risk prevention and control system in advance, and strictly regulate the periodic audit of the implementation of the 日利亚 UNICEM、俄罗斯长城厂平项目、尼日利亚分公司、制造厂及 EDO 运营项目进行年度效益审计。 project. 通过对各在建项目的成本采用月度审阅方式，加强对项目成本的过程监控。积极配合上级单位、中介机构 对公司的内控审计和经济效益审计，严格按照上级单位和中介机构审计要求，加强全面风险内控管理，增 Audit internal control 强公司抵御风险的能力，促进公司各项业务顺利开展。同时，按照集团审计统一部署，完成了内控及审计 In 2016, CBMI strengthened the audit internal control work and completed the audit of domestic projects such as Hengyang, Changzhou Waste Disposal, Meizhou Tapai, Sanmenxia and Suqian Water Treatment, and 信息化平台的搭建和测试工作，积极有效推进公司各项内控管理制度有效运行。 completed the annual benefit audit of TK2, MBE projects in Tanzania, BISKARA of Algeria, UNICEM of Nigeria, Russia Great Wall site leveling project, Nigerian branch, manufacturing plant and EDO operating projects 法律法务 according to the annual plan. Through the monthly review of the cost of each project under construction, the 2016 年，中材建设持续加强法务建设，一是加强法务体系和人才队伍建设工作，二是持续开展员工法律知 process of project cost monitoring is strengthened. Actively cooperate with superior company and intermediary agencies in auditing the Company's internal control and economic benefits, strictly follow the audit requirements 识普及教育，三是加强商务合同法律风险的审核评估，四是积极通过法律途径解决合同纠纷，全年累计处 of superior company and intermediaries, strengthen internal control over overall risk management, enhance the 理各类诉讼仲裁案件共 18 起。 Company's ability to resist risks and promote the smooth development of various businesses of the Company. At the same time, in accordance with the unified arrangements of the Group audit, CBMI completed the establishment and testing of internal control and audit information platform and actively and effectively promoted the effective operation of various internal control management systems of the Company. Legal affairs In 2016, CBMI continued to strengthen its legal construction. First, it strengthened its legal system and personnel team building. The second was to continue popularizing education on employees' legal knowledge. The third was to strengthen the review and assessment of the legal risks of business contracts. The fourth was to actively resolve the legal issues of Contract disputes through legal means, handling a total of 18 types of litigation and arbitration cases all over the year. 管理运营 27 28 Management Operation CBMI 2016 加强企业管理 夯实发展基础 Strengthen the enterprise management and lay solid foundation for development 廉政建设 企业文化建设 Construction of incorruptible employment Construction of corporate culture 2016 年，中材建设持续开展员工廉洁从业教育活动，通过专题讲座、公司网站、中材建设报、LED 电子 2016 年，中材建设按“两材重组”后新中国建材集团 显示屏等形式大力加强反腐倡廉宣传。有针对性地制定各类廉洁风险防控措施，从源头上防范在履职过程 的总体要求，积极推进企业文化的传承融合，在全体 中可能出现的不廉洁现象。深化对招标采购、工程分包等重点领域廉政风险防控管理工作，加大网上采购 员工中开展崇尚“创新、绩效、和谐、责任”的新集 力度，努力推进招标采购的公开透明。结合廉政风险防控管理工作，安排纪检监察人员加强对招投标过程 团核心价值观教育，倡导“敬畏、感恩、谦恭、得体” 监督。修订了《业务招待管理规定》，进一步规范了业务招待标准，降低了公司管理费用。 的行为准则，本着以人为本的原则，积极营造待人宽 厚、处事宽容、环境宽松和向心力、亲和力、凝聚力“三 In 2016, CBMI continued to carry out the incorruptible education activities for employees and vigorously 宽三力”的人文环境，努力追求“让员工与企业共同 strengthened anti-corruption propaganda by ways of lectures, company website, Company Newspaper and 成长”。公司注重精神文明建设，继续举办“迎新春 LED electronic display, etc. It developed various types of clean risk prevention and control measures, to prevent against any possible corruption. Deepen the prevention and control of clean government risks in key areas such 健身月”活动、书画摄影比赛等各具特色的文体活动， as bidding and procurement and project sub-contracting, increase the online procurement, and strive to promote 丰富了职工的业余文化生活，努力营造企业和谐发展 中材建设 2016 年迎新春联欢会节目 the openness and transparency of bidding and purchasing. In combination with the work of prevention and CBMI Spring Party Shows 2016 氛围。公司参加集团改革创新发展图片及视频比赛， control of clean government risks, it arranged discipline inspection and supervision personnel to supervise the bidding process. It revised the Regulations on Management of Business Entertainment , further standardized 获得一等奖 1 个、二等奖 4 个、三等奖 3 个，积分位 the standards for business entertainment and reduced the administrative expenses of the company. 居总排名第一，获得“优秀组织奖”。 In 2016, CBMI actively promoted the integration of corporate culture in accordance with the overall requirements of the new-established CNBM after the regroup, and launched the new group’s core values education that advocates innovation, performance, harmony and responsibility among all its employees , and advocate the code of conduct that is awe-inspiring, thanksgiving, courteous, decent and the people-oriented principle, and actively create a humane environment that treats people with leniency, service tolerance, relaxed 中材建设总部趣味体育活动 environment and solidarity, affinity and cohesion. Let Interesting sports activities in the CBMI headquarters employees and businesses grow together. The company pays attention to the construction of spiritual civilization, and continues to hold Spring Festival Fitness Month activities, painting and calligraphy photography competitions and other distinctive style recreational and sports activities, enriches the amateur cultural life of employees and strives to create a harmonious atmosphere for the development of enterprises. The Company took part in the group reform, innovation and development of pictures and video games. It won 1 first prize, 4 second prizes and 3 third prizes. It ranked first in the overall ranking and won the Outstanding 中材建设领导与各单位签订 2017 年廉政责任书 Organization Award . CBMI leadership is signing Probity Statement with the Units 中材建设 2016 年荣获中国建材集团第一届羽毛球比赛优秀组织奖 CBMI was awarded Outstanding Organization Award in the 1st Badminton Game by Sinoma Group 管理运营 29 30 Management Operation CBMI 2016 抓好市场开拓 提升竞争实力 持续开拓水泥项目 Strengthen market development to enhance Continuous development of cement projects competitive strength 2016 年，面对全球经济下行、水泥行业投资环境低迷的不利局面，中材建设坚定不移贯彻执行公司制定的“市 场、转型、改革、创新”八字方针和战略部署，动态调整市场投标策略，大力加强传统水泥工程业务市场开拓， 积极拓展多元化工程项目，圆满地完成了公司年初制定的各项绩效指标。全年新签合同 55 亿元，完成全年 指标的 145%，较上年同期增长 142%，为加快公司转型升级和实施“十三五”规划奠定了坚实基础。 In 2016, in response to the global economic downturn and the unfavorable investment environment in the cement industry, CBMI unswervingly implemented the eight-character approach and strategic deployment of market, transformation, reform and innovation formulated by the Company to dynamically adjust its market bidding strategy, vigorously strengthen the market development of the traditional cement engineering business, and actively expand diversified projects, and successful completed of annual performance indicators. The newly signed contract was 5.5 billion yuan for the whole year, completing 145% of the annual target, up 142% over the same period of last year, laying a solid foundation for accelerating the company's transformation and upgrading and implementing the 13th Five-Year Plan. 中材建设签约阿尔及利亚 BECAHR 3200tpd 熟料水泥项目总承包合同 CBMI signing turkey contract on Algeria BECAHR 3200tpd Clinker Cement project 2016 年，中材建设继续加强传统水泥市场开拓工作，努力发挥公司国际化先行优势，着力抓好客户关系管 理和重点区域市场，加强潜在客户、潜在市场培育，主动配合集团资本“走出去”战略，积极提供支持服务， 超额完成了公司年初制定的各项绩效指标，全年签约承包工程项目 8 个，新签合同额 46.83 亿元，其中， 水泥生产线项目 3 个，粉磨站项目 3 个，技改项目 2 个。 In 2016, CBMI continued to strengthen its development on traditional cement markets, endeavored to exert its advantages of prior internationalization, focused on customer relationship management and key regional markets, strengthened potential customers and potential market cultivation, and proactively coordinated with the Group's strategy of going global”, actively provided support services and surpassed the various performance indicators set by the Company at the beginning of the year. During the year, 8 contracts were signed and the 中材建设出席参展 INTERCEM2016 美洲水泥大会 中材建设参加非洲投资与商务论坛 new contract value reached 4.683 billion yuan, including 3 cement production line projects, 3 grinding station CBMI in the INTERCEM2016 America CBMI in the Africa Investment and Business Forum projects, 2 technical renovation projects. 管理运营 31 32 Management Operation CBMI 2016 抓好市场开拓 提升竞争实力 Strengthen market development to enhance competitive strength 2016 年中材建设水泥工程签约项目 Cement Projects Signed by CBMI in 2016 合同模式 合同签订时间 序号 项目名称 Contract Signing SN Project name mode Date 阿尔及利亚 BC 2x6000tpd 项目合同变更 1 EPC 2016/3/20 Contract Modification of Algeria BC 2x6000tpd project 阿尔及利亚 ZAHANA 4500tpd 熟料水泥项目 2 EPC 2016/5/19 Algeria ZAHANA 4500tpd Clinker Cement project 阿尔及利亚 BECAHR 3200tpd 熟料水泥项目 3 EPC 2016/5/31 Algeria BECAHR 3200tpd Clinker Cement project BUA( 尼日利亚 ) EDO 二线长皮带项目 4 EPC 2016/8/6 BUA (Nigeria) EDO Second-line Long Belt project 中材（赞比亚）2500tpd 熟料水泥项目 5 EPC 2016/8/25 SINOMA (Zambia) 2500tpd Clinker Cement project 拉豪（乌干达）Tororo 80 万吨 / 年粉磨站项目 6 Lafarge Holcim (Uganda) Tororo 800,000t/y Grinding EPC 2016/12/8 Station project 中材建设签约中材（赞比亚）2500tpd 熟料水泥项目合同 CBMI signing contract on SINOMA (Zambia) 2500tpd Clinker Cement project 拉豪（肯尼亚）NAI 100 万吨 / 年水泥粉磨站项目 7 Lafarge Holcim (Kenya) NAI 1,000,000t/y Cement EPC 2016/12/8 Grinding Station project 拉豪（喀麦隆）YAO 50 万吨 / 年水泥粉磨站项目 8 Lafarge Holcim (Cameroon) YAO 500,000t/y Cement EPC 2016/12/17 Grinding Station project 中材建设签约阿尔及利亚 ZAHANA 4500tpd 熟料水泥项目合同 CBMI signing contract on Algeria ZAHANA 4500tpd Clinker Cement project 中材建设签约阿尔及利亚 BC 2x6000tpd 项目合同变更 CBMI singing the contract modification for Algeria BC 2x6000tpd project 管理运营 33 34 Management Operation CBMI 2016 抓好市场开拓 提升竞争实力 Strengthen market development to enhance competitive strength 大力拓展多元业务 Vigorously develop diversified business 2016 年，中材建设依托海外项目和区域市场，深耕细作，积极拓展多元化工程项目。全年先后签订了东帝 汶教堂项目、俄罗斯长城哈弗汽车桩基工程项目、马来西亚石油土建施工项目、东帝汶公路项目，同时还 中标了俄罗斯长城汽车厂房工程项目，全年新签多元化工程合同 6.48 亿元。在节能环保领域，紧密结合国 家产业发展的导向，着力拓展绿色、节能、环保产业业务，打造核心竞争力，在国内树立品牌的基础上， 逐步参与国际竞争。全年成功签订了北控环保常州危废项目、成都兴蓉危废技改项目，签订节能环保工程 合同 1.66 亿元。 In 2016, CBMI relied on overseas projects and regional markets to actively cultivate its diversified projects. 中材建设签约 BUA( 尼日利亚 ) Throughout the year, it signed the East Timor Church Project, the Russian Great Wall Hover Automotive Pile EDO 二线长皮带项目合同 Foundation Project, the Malaysian Petroleum Civil Construction Project and the East Timor Highway Project. CBMI signing contract on Meanwhile, it also won the bid for the Russian Great Wall Hover Vehicle Factory project. The newly signed BUA (Nigeria) EDO Seconddiversified contract was 648 million Yuan . In the field of energy conservation and environmental protection, Line Long Belt project in line with the guidance of the national industrial development, CBMI strives to expand its business in green, energy saving and environmental protection industries and to build up its core competitiveness. CBMI will gradually participate in international competition on the basis of establishing a brand in China. It successfully signed energy-saving environmental protection projects as the Beikong environmental Changzhou hazardous waste project, Chengdu Xingrong hazardous waste technological upgrading projects, etc of the value of 166 million Yuan. . 中材建设签约拉豪肯尼亚 NAI 及 乌干达 TOR 水泥粉磨站项目合同 CBMI signing contracts on Lafarge Holcim (Kenya) NAI and Uganda TOR Cement Grinding Station project 中 材 建 设 签 约 拉 豪（ 喀 麦 隆） YAO 50 万吨 / 年水泥粉磨站 项目合同 CBMI signing contract on Lafarge Holcim (Cameroon) 中材建设签约北控环保常州安耐得 3 万吨 / 年危废焚烧处置项目合同 YAO 500,000t/y Cement CBMI signing contractson 30,000t/y Hazardous Wastes Incineration Project with Beikong Grinding Station project Anaide (Changzhou) 管理运营 35 36 Management Operation CBMI 2016 抓好市场开拓 提升竞争实力 Strengthen market development to enhance competitive strength 创新引领发展 确保优质服务 Innovation leading development to ensure quality service 中材建设正在施工建设的东帝汶教堂项目 Timor-Leste church project in construction of CBMI 中材建设阿尔及利亚 ZAHANA 新线 项目三维设计效果图 3D Design Rendering for CBMI's Algeria ZAHANA New Line Project 中材建设正在施工建设的长城哈弗俄罗斯汽车工厂桩基工程 中材建设承建的北控环保常州安耐得 3 万吨年 Pile foundation engineering project for Russia Great Wall Hover Plant 危废焚烧处置项目 in construction of CBMI Beikong Anaide (Changzhou) 30,000t/y hazardous wastes incineration project is being built by the CBMI 2016 年中材建设多元业务签约项目 Diversified business project singed by CBMI in 2016 合同模式 合同签订时间 序号 项目名称 Contract Signing SN Project name mode date 中材建设阿尔及利亚 BECHAR 项 东帝汶教堂项目 目三维设计效果图 1 C 2016/2/4 Timor-Leste church project 3D Design Rendering for CBMI's 成都兴蓉危废技改项目 Algeria BECHAR Project 2 Chengdu Xingrong technological upgrading project for EPC 2016/5/3 hazardous wastes 长城哈弗俄罗斯汽车工厂桩基工程 3 Pile foundation engineering project for Russia Great C 2016/6/20 Wall Hover Plant 北控环保常州安耐得 3 万吨 / 年危废焚烧处置项目 4 Beikong Anaide (Changzhou) 30,000t/y hazardous EPC 2016/6/30 wastes incineration project 三星 ENGINEERING 马来西亚 RAPID6A 土建工程承包项目 5 Samsung ENGINEERING and Malaysia RAPID6A civil C 2016/7/27 engineering contracting project 东帝汶 77# 道路升级改造项目 6 C 2016/11/21 中材建设常州项目三维设计效果图 Timor-Leste 77# road upgrading project 3D Design Rendering for CBMI's 东帝汶 78# 道路升级改造项目 Changzhou Project 7 C 2016/11/21 Timor-Leste 78# road upgrading project 管理运营 37 38 Management Operation CBMI 2016 创新引领发展 确保优质服务 Innovation leading development to ensure quality service 2016 年中材建设取得国家授权的专利 强化技术创新 CBMI State-authorized patents in 2016 Strengthen technological innovations 序号 专利名称 授权专利号 专利类型 加大技术研发 SN Description Authorized patent No Type 滑履磨机的支撑装置 实用新型 2016 年，中材建设在对上一年度 9 个技术研发项目持续展开同时，新增 13 个研发项目；完成 1 项发明专 1 ZL 201520884731.7 Supports for Sliding Shoes Mill Utility model 利和 3 项实用新型专利的授权；完成 6 项专利的受理。公司再次通过高新技术企业认证。 皮带机导料槽密封装置 实用新型 2 ZL 201520884839.6 guide chute sealer for belt conveyor Utility model Increase technical research and development 能焚烧废旧轮胎的回转窑系统 发明专利 In 2016, CBMI continued to carry out the 9 technical research and development projects in the previous year. 3 Rotary kiln system that can incinerate ZL 2014 1 0217896.9 Patent of invention discarded tires In the meantime, it added 13 research and development projects; completed the authorization of one invention patent and three utility model patents; and completed the process of six patents. The company one again 非金属膨胀节 实用新型 4 ZL 2015 2 1094372.1 Non-metal expansion joint Utility model passed the high-tech enterprise certification. 2016 年中材建设新增研发项目 2016 年中材建设取得国家受理的专利 New research projects in 2016 State-accepted patents in 2016 水泥窑外预分解装备大型化技术研究 序号 专利名称 受理专利号 2016RD01 Technical study on upsizing pre-dissociation equipment SN Description Accepted patent No outside the cement kiln 危险废弃物焚烧系统 1 201610588318.5 料、风多重分级低氮分解炉研发 Hazardous wastes incineration system 2016RD02 R&D on low-nitrogen decomposing furnace separating materials and airs 电动闸板阀（密封装置） 2 201610766704.9 回转式废弃物焚烧炉装备研发 Electric gate valve (sealing device) 2016RD03 R&D on rotary waste incinerator 电动闸板阀（密封装置） 3 201620991555.1 Electric gate valve (sealing device) 回转窑浮点传动装置研发 2016RD04 R&D on floating-point transmission for rotary kiln 危险废弃物自动化仓储系统 4 201610766588.0 Automobile hazardous wastes warehousing system 自动仓储系统在危废储存、数据采集及物料配伍上的应用 2016RD05 Warehousing system applied in hazardous wastes storage, 风冷式灰渣冷却装置 data collection and materials compatibility 5 201610863043.1 Air-cooled clinker cooler 熟料库库壁新型结构形式的研究与开发 多物态危废焚烧预处理与配伍系统 2016RD06 R&D on new structures of clinker silo walls 6 Pretreatment and compatibility system for incineration of 201610885923.9 hazardous wastes in multi-physical states 折返式垃圾高温无害化处置装备研发 2016RD07 R&D on harmless high-temperature treatment equipment for returnable wastes 移动式粉磨站 推进设计优化 2016RD08 Mobile grinding station 2016 年，中材建设持续创新设计方式，继续大力推进 3D 设计，有效地提升了设计质量和设计效率，获得 ORC 系统用于低温余热发电的应用及研究 了业主的高度赞许。特别是在设计过程中充分利用多年的积累，进行设计的优化工作，使工程量得到了有 2016RD09 Study on ORC system applied in low-temperature cogeneration 效控制，为提高项目的利润率、降低项目成本、缩短工期奠定了基础，提供了保障。 模块快装式粉磨装置研发 2016RD10 R&D on grinding device with ready-packaged modules Promotion of design optimization 单机设备智能化关键技术研究与应用 In 2016, CBMI continued to innovate its design approach and continued to vigorously promote 3D design, 2016RD11 Study on and application of key technology of intelligent single equipment effectively enhancing design quality and design efficiency, winning high praise from the owners. Especially, CBMI makes full use of its accumulated experience in the design process to optimize the design work, so that EPC 全流程信息化管控系统技术 2016RD12 the BOQ of the project has been effectively controlled. It laid the foundation for improving profit rate, reducing EPC full-flow informatization control system technology project costs and shorten the construction period. 管理运营 39 40 Management Operation CBMI 2016 创新引领发展 确保优质服务 Innovation leading development to ensure quality service 创新项目管理 Innovative project management 项目管理对标 2016 年，中材建设继续推进工程项目对标工作，优化对标方案，细化数据填报，提高数据质量。其中， 以日产 5000 吨水泥工程项目为重点，主要分析项目合同额、毛利率、容重比、设计工程量、高峰期人员 投入等重要指标。实施对标月、季报告制度，通过数据的汇总分析，寻找差距，取长补短，努力提升公司 EPC 项目整体管理水平。 Project management bench-marking In 2016, CBMI continued to promote benchmarking of construction projects, optimized benchmarking plans, refined data reporting and improved data quality. Focusing on the 5,000 t/d cement projects, it mainly analyses the important index, such as: the project contract amount, gross profit rate, volume-weight ratio, design work quantity, personnel input at peak times, etc. By the implementation of the monthly and quarterly bench-marking reporting system, by the summarizing and analyzing of the data, CBMI learns from others and strives to enhance the company's overall EPC project management level. 中材建设阿尔及利亚 BISKRA 项目施工建设 Algeria BISKRA project Undertook by CBMI 施工工法创新 2016 年，中材建设阿尔及利亚 BISKRA 项目土建施工过程中，受场地及工期限制，针对小的钢结构基 础、电缆井、及皮带机输送基础，大范围采取了混凝土预制的做法，取得了良好的经济效益及工期效果。 BISKRA 项目第一次接触多仓结构库滑模，在保证质量的前提下按期完成水泥库壁滑模施工，有效保证了 水泥磨系统工期。南非 PPC 项目在施工管理过程中，主要采用了碗扣式脚手架、精轧螺纹地脚螺栓、CF 平底库翻模滑模结合、制作厂钢板拼装整体下料四种应用。 Innovation of construction method In 2016, during the civil construction of BISKRA project in Algeria, CBMI built a wide range of prefabricated concrete structures for small steel structure foundations, cable tunnel and belt conveyor foundation due to the limit of site space and construction time; it achieved good economic benefits and greatly shortened the construction time. BISKRA project initially adopted the multi-warehouse structure slip form method, the slip form of the cement silo wall was effectively completed with reliable quality, thus ensured the on time production of the cement mill system. During the construction of South Africa PPC project, CBMI adopts four applications, 中材建设沙特 UCIC 项目施工建设 including: the use of cup-lock scaffold, bright-rolled threaded anchor bolts, combination of turnover form and slip Saudi Arabia UCIC project Undertook by CBMI form for CF flat-bottomed silo, overall blanking of the assembled steel plate in the fabrication plant. 管理运营 41 42 Management Operation CBMI 2016 创新引领发展 确保优质服务 Innovation leading development to ensure quality service 确保服务质量 Ensure service quality 保证工程质量 2016 年， 中 材 建 设 顺 利 通 过 ISO9001、ISO14001、 加强项目履约 OHSA18001 三认证体系换证工作，不断完善健全公司 2016 年，中材建设坚持以项目为中心，实施矩阵式、全过程管理，以项目经理负责制为主要抓手，结合项 质量管控体系。加大设备质量的检查力度，安排专人赴设 目特点，加强项目团队建设，加强项目总体实施规划管理和过程管控，强化项目施工组织和技术创新，进 备厂家负责监造，对设备材质、技术参数、外观、运输等 一步提高了项目管理水平和执行效率。2016 年，公司在建项目 27 个，阿尔及利亚 BISKRA 项目、尼日 进行专项检查，2016 年重点完成了南非 PPC 项目等 9 利亚 UNICEM 项目提前合同工期顺利点火，坦桑尼亚 TK2、坦桑尼亚 MBE、贝宁 NOCIBE 等 5 个项目 个在建项目设备供货质量检查，确保设备供货质量。加强 顺利获得 PAC 证书，各在建项目进展可控有序。俄罗斯 FER 项目荣获建材行业优秀工程总承包项目一等奖、 现场工程质量管理，进一步完善了《工程质量管理评价管 阿塞拜疆 QAZAX 项目荣获优秀工程项目管理二等奖。公司全年在建项目未发生重大质量、安全和环境事故， 理办法》、《工程施工质量监控规定》、《施工现场建筑 全面实现了质量、职业健康安全和环境管理目标。 材料检验规定》等质量管理专项制度，加大项目施工现场 中材建设领导参加坦桑尼亚 TK2 项目竣工典礼 的质量监督检查，对尼日利亚 UNICEM 等 5 个在建项目 Leadership of CBMI is attending the Completion Strengthen project performance Ceremony for Tanzania TK2 project 进行专项质量检查工作。2016 年，公司项目现场施工质 In 2016, CBMI adhered to the project-centered, implemented matrix and whole process management, adopted 量合格率 100%，重大质量事故为零，业主投诉为零。 the project manager responsibility system. In light of project characteristics, CBMI strengthened the project team building and the overall executive plan management and process control, enhanced the project construction organization and technological innovation, to further improve the project management and implementation Guarantee project quality efficiency. In 2016, there are 27 projects under construction, Algeria BISKRA project & Nigerian UNICEM project achieved kiln ignition earlier than the contractual date, 5 projects as Tanzania TK2, Tanzania MBE, In 2016, CBMI successfully passed the renewal of Benin NOCIBE successfully obtained PAC certificates. The progress of all the projects under construction is certification of ISO9001, ISO14001 and OHSA18001 and controllable and orderly . The Russian FER project won the first prize of EPC project of building material industry constantly perfected and improved the quality control and QAZAX project of Azerbaijan won the second prize of outstanding engineering project management. The system of the Company. CBMI intensified the inspection company does not have major quality, safety and environmental accidents in its projects under construction of equipment quality, arranged special personnel to throughout the year, and has fully achieved the objectives of quality, occupational health and safety and go to the equipment manufacturers for supervision of environmental management. equipment manufacture, conducted special inspections on equipment materials, technical parameters, appearance and transportation, etc. In 2016, it focused on the quality 中材建设开展质量大检查行动 inspection of equipment supply for the 9 projects under CBMI is taking major quality inspection construction, such as: South Africa PPC project, etc, to ensure the quality of equipment. It also strengthened the site project quality management and further improved the quality management systems such as Project Quality Management Evaluation Measures , Project Construction Quality Control Regulations , Construction Site Construction Materials Inspection Regulations , increased the quality supervision and inspection for construction site, and carried out special quality inspection on the 5 projects under construction, such as Nigeria UNICEM. In 2016, the site project construction quality was 100% qualified, with zero major quality accidents and zero complaints from the owners. 中材建设尼日利亚 UNICEM 项目部人员在项目点火仪 中材建设阿尔及利亚 BISKRA 项目部人员在项目点火 式上合影 仪式上合影 中材建设承建沙特 UCIC 项目生产出水泥 Group Photo of CBMI Staff in the Commencement Group photo of CBMI Staff in the Commencement Cement Production of CBMI's Saudi Arabia Ceremonyof Nigeria UNICEM project Ceremony of Algeria BISKRA project UCIC project 管理运营 43 44 Management Operation CBMI 2016 坚持以人为本 狠抓安全生产 Stay people-oriented, and stress safe production 中材建设安全生产管理组织机构图 2016 年，中材建设按照国家安监总局相关规定，始终坚持“安全第一、预防为主、综合治理”的方针，进 CBMI Organizational Structure Chart of 一步落实安全生产主体责任，强化项目现场安全管理和领导责任，细化了各部门、分（子）公司、项目经 Safety Production Committee 理部安全管理责任。公司主要在安全管理制度建设、增强安全责任意识、构建安全生产监管新常态、安全 生产标准化建设、安全文明建设、安全文化建设等六方面加强安全管理工作。公司全年与所属 48 个部门 和单位签订了年度安全生产责任书，覆盖率达到 100%。公司全年未发生重伤及以上安全生产事故，安全 形势总体平稳。 In 2016, CBMI adhered to the principle of safety first, prevention first and integrated management in accordance with the relevant provisions of the State Administration of Work Safety (SAWS) to further implement the main responsibility for safety production and strengthen the site safety management and leadership responsibilities, and detailed the safety management responsibilities of all departments, branch/subsidiaries, project management departments. The Company mainly strengthens safety management in six aspects: system construction of safety management, consciousness raising of safety responsibility, new normal of safety production supervision, standardization of production safety, construction of safety and civilization and construction of safety culture. The company signed the annual production safety responsibility statement with its 48 departments and units throughout the year, covering 100% of the total. The Company did not experience serious injuries or safety accidents over the year, and the overall safety situation was stable. 中材建设境外项目施工现场 Construction site of the CBMI's overseas project 管理运营 45 46 Management Operation CBMI 2016 坚持以人为本 狠抓安全生产 Stay people-oriented, and stress safe production 构建安全生产监管新常态 加强安全生产管理 公司领导高度重视安全生产工作，把安全作为一切工作的出发点。公司展开安全大检查及与员工安全谈心 Strengthen safe production management 活动，共进行项目现场安全大检查 35 次，安全谈心 84 人次，查出隐患 117 项，隐患整改完成率 100%。 通过安全检查及谈心活动，既增强了各级负责人坚守“红线”的能力，又提高了敢于担当的责任意识。 安全生产标准化建设 安全生产标准化是预防事故、加强安全生产管理的重要基础，是强化源头管理的有力措施，也是开展安全 生产专项整治、分级管理、分类指导的根本性要求。2016 年，公司组织制订了《项目安全投入标准》和安 全标准化教材，从安全物资名称、临电、工机具及配备标准几个方面细化和规范对 EPC 项目的安全管理， 进一步推进施工现场安全标准化管理。 New normal of safety production supervision The company leaders attach great importance to work safety, considering safety as a starting point for all work. The Company conducted safety inspections and talk safety activities with employees. A total of 35 safety inspections were conducted on-site, 84 safety talks were held, 117 hidden dangers were detected, and the hidden rectification 中材建设 2016 年安全生产月动员部署会议 中材建设总部消防知识讲座 completion rate was 100%. Through safety inspection and talk activities, it not only enhanced the ability of leaders CBMI 2016 Safety Production Monthly Mobilization CBMI Headquarters Fire-fighting Knowledge and Deployment Meeting Lecture at all levels to stick to the red line but also increased their sense of responsibility to take on responsibility. Standardization of safety production 安全管理制度建设 Standardization of safety production is an important basis for accident prevention and safety production 2016 年，中材建设为规范安全管理工作，做好项目现场安全标准化建设，根据国家法律法规和上级单位有 management. It is a powerful measure to strengthen source management. It is also a fundamental requirement 关规定，修订了 4 个安全管理制度。为促进项目经理履职尽责，夯实项目安全管理基础，组织新编制《项 for special rectification, classification management and classified guidance on safety production. In 2016, the Company formulated Project Safety Input Standard and safety standardization teaching materials, and refined 目经理安全责任履职约谈及召回管理办法》和《境外人员猝死防控管理办法》，进一步完善了公司安全管 and standardized the safety management of EPC projects from the aspects of name of safety goods, power 理体系。 supply, working equipment and equipment standards, and further promoted the standardized management of construction site safety. 增强安全责任意识 2016 年，中材建设按照国家安监总局《企业安全生产安全生产责任体系“五落实五到位”规定》等相关规定， 围绕“党政同责、一岗双责、齐抓共管”的工作要求，全面落实安全生产主体责任，强化项目现场安全管 理和领导责任，按照责权对等、责任分明的原则，公司与所属各部门、分（子）公司、项目经理部共计 48 个部门和单位签订了 2016 年度安全生产责任书，2016 年签订安全生产责任书覆盖率达到 100%。 System construction of Safety Management In 2016, CBMI revised 4 safety management systems according to the laws and regulations of the state and the relevant regulations of the superior authorities, so as to standardize its safety management and realize site safety 中材建设项目安全月知识竞赛答题 中材建设非洲项目急救培训 standardization. In order to promote the project manager to perform his duty, consolidate the foundation of project CBMI Project Safety Month Knowledge Contest CBMI African Project First Aid Training safety management, CBMI organized the compilation of “Management Method on Appointment and Recall of Project Manager Concerning Safety Responsibility Performance and Measures for the Prevention and Control of Sudden Death among Overseas Staffs , and further improved the company's safety management system. Consciousness Raising of safety responsibility In 2016, CBMI, in accordance with the relevant provisions of SAWS “the Five Implementations and Five inPlaces Rules of Enterprise Safety Production Responsibility System”, practiced the working principle of “Party and Government Sharing Responsibility, Two Duties for One Post, and Joint Management”, fully implement the main responsibility of safety production and strengthen the site safety management and leadership responsibilities. In accordance with the principle of equal rights and responsibilities and clear responsibilities, the Company signed the 2016 production safety responsibility book with a total of 48 departments and units, 中材建设项目现场消防演练 中材建设项目应急救援培训 covering 100% of its subordinate departments, branches/subsidiaries, project management departments, etc. CBMI On-Site Fire Drill CBMI Project Emergency Rescue Training 管理运营 47 48 Management Operation CBMI 2016 坚持以人为本 狠抓安全生产 Stay people-oriented, and stress safe production 安全文明建设 安全生产实例 公司围绕“强化安全发展观念，提升全民安全素质”的活 Safety production example 动主题，以开展安全生产月活动为载体，强化安全理念的 宣贯，定期发布《安全简报》，进一步推进安全文明建设， 2016 年，中材建设尼日利亚 EDO 项目部认 In 2016, CBMI Nigeria's EDO Project Department 努力营造全员重视安全的良好氛围，不断夯实安全生产基 conscientiously implemented the safety production 真贯彻落实“安全第一，预防为主，综合治理” 础工作。 guideline of safety first, prevention first, comprehensive 的安全生产方针，按照公司的各项安全流程及 management and successfully completed the safety 安全文化建设 制度，圆满完成 2016 年的安全工作目标 , 实 targets for 2016 in accordance with the company's safety procedures and systems and achieved the 2016 年，中材建设围绕“强化安全发展观念，提升全民 现全年零安全事故目标。 annual safety target of Zero accident. 安全素质”的活动主题，以开展安全生产月活动为载体， EDO 项目是目前公司业务面最广的项目，与 EDO project is currently the company's most extensive 强化安全理念的宣贯，定期发布《安全简报》，进一步推 BUA 集团的 1 期生产运营，矿山运营，2 期总 business project, and the Phase1 production operations, 中材建设项目应急救援培训 进安全文明建设，努力营造全员重视安全的良好氛围，不 mining operations, Phase 2 general contracting project CBMI Project Emergency Rescue Training 承包 3 个合同同时在执行。在安全生产管理方 3 with BUA Group are implemented at the same time. 断夯实安全生产基础工作。公司组织了安全猜谜、有奖征 面，该项目主要采取了以下措施： The project mainly adopts the following measures in 文、演讲比赛等多种形式的宣传活动；安全月期间，公司 production safety management: 1、项目各级管理人员层层签订《安全生产责 共计 664 人次参与了安全月知识竞赛；共计开展安全教 1, Managers at all levels of the project signed the 任书》，从制度上明确每个人的安全职责。 育培训 40 余次，累计培训 5500 人次；累计检查项目 4 个， production safety responsibility book , clearly defining 隐患整改完成率 100%。 2、项目入场培训覆盖率 100%，特殊工种培 the safety responsibilities of each person a systematic level. 训覆盖率和持证上岗率全部 100%，从事高危 2, the project admission training coverage is 100%, all 作业的人员 100% 经过专业培训。 Safety civilization special workers well trained and certificated, all high3、举行逃生培训、灭火培训、高空救援培训等。 risk operators professionally well trained. Focusing on the theme of strengthening the concept of safety development and enhancing the safety quality of 3, held escape training, fire fighting training, altitude 4、大力推动安全设施、安全宣传的标准化建设， the whole people , the Company carried out the activities rescue training. of safety production month, strengthened the publicity of 包括临时电，安全标识及安全宣传栏等安全设 4, Vigorously promote the standardization construction safety concepts, and regularly issued safety briefings to 施标准件制作和布设，废物分类存放和处置， of safety facilities and safety propaganda, including further promote the construction of safety civilization and 中材建设阿尔及利亚 BC 项目 2016 年度安全表彰大会 消防器材等的规划和布置等。 the manufacture and arrangement of standard parts strive to create a fullPay attention to the good atmosphere CBMI Algeria BC Project 2016 Safety Commendation Conference of safety facilities such as temporary electricity, safety of safety and continuously consolidate the basic work of 5、严格执行特殊工作许可制度，对于脚手架 signs and safety bulletin boards, the classification and safety production. 作业、高大模板、大型吊装作业等高危作业， storage of waste, the planning and arrangement of fireSafety culture 都要有相关专业人员检查、确认后签字方可进 fighting equipment and so on. 5, Strict implementation of special work permit system. In 2016, CBMI focused on the theme of “Strengthening the 行。 All high-risk operations as: scaffold operations, tall Concept of Safety Development and Improving the Safety 6、严格执行安全检查制度和安全例会制度， formworks large-scale hoisting operations and other Quality of the Whole People”, carried out the activities of high-risk operations, can be carried out only after safety production month, strengthened the publicity of safety 对违章现象、违章行为和事故隐患限期整改。 inspection, confirmation and signature of relevant concepts, and regularly released the Safety Briefing, so 7、实施激励机制和安全投入，建立了一个 18 professional. as to further promote the building of safety culture, strive to create a good atmosphere that all staff pay great attention 万元人民币的安全奖基金，充分调动了员工安 6, strictly enforce the safety inspection system to safety, and constantly lay a solid foundation for safety in and safety regular meeting system. All the illegal 全生产的积极性和主动性。 production. During the safety month, a total of 664 people phenomenon, behaviors and accident potentials were participated in the Safety Month Knowledge Contest; a total required to be rectified within limited time. of more than 40 safety education and training sessions 7, the implementation of incentives and safety inputs, were conducted with a total of 5,500 training sessions; 中材建设阿尔及利亚 BC 项目 2016 年度安全表彰大会 the establishment of a 180,000 yuan safety prize fund, four project were checked and the hidden rectification CBMI Algeria BC Project 2016 Safety which fully mobilized the staff’s enthusiasm and initiative completion rate is 100%. Commendation Conference for safety production. 管理运营 49 50 Management Operation CBMI 2016 坚持以人为本 狠抓安全生产 Stay people-oriented, and stress safe production 倡导节能环保 共建绿色生态 Advocate energy saving and environmental protection to build a green ecology 修订完善制度体系 Improved institutional system 2016 年，中材建设组织公司各职能部门、各项目经理部完成了环境因素识别及评价工作，组织完成公司环 境绩效评价、法律法规测评等体系文件的编制工作。 In 2016, CBMI functional departments and Project Management Departments completed the environmental factor identification and evaluation, organized the compilation of system documentation such as the Company's environmental performance evaluation, laws and regulations evaluation, etc. 中材建设尼日利亚 EDO 2 线项目熟料及黄料库施工建设 CBMI Nigeria EDO 2 Line Project Clinker and unburned-clinker silos Construction 中材建设贯彻国家质量标准会议 中材建设领导调研尼日利亚 EDO 项目 中材建设尼日利亚 EDO 熟料线运营项目现场 CBMI Implemented the National Quality Standard Meeting CBMI Leaders Investigated and Surveyed Nigeria CBMI Nigeria EDO Clinker Line Project Site EDO Project 管理运营 51 52 Management Operation CBMI 2016 倡导节能环保 共建绿色生态 Advocate energy saving and environmental protection to build a green ecology 研发节能环保技术 拓展节能环保业务 R&D on the energy saving and environment Expansion of the energy saving and protection technology environment protection business 2016 年，中材建设在节能环保领域，紧密结合国家产业发展的导向，着力拓展绿色、节能、环保产业业务， 打造核心竞争力，在国内树立品牌的基础上，逐步参与国际竞争。做强节能环保是公司“十三五”三大目 标之一，节能环保产业也是公司运营发展的三大主业之一，公司紧密围绕集团和中材国际业务转型升级发 展战略，通过创新和资本投资双轮驱动公司业务转型，结合国家产业发展导向，着力拓展节能环保产业业务， 将其作为绿色发展的重要抓手，积极开拓以“高效融资、利益共享和风险分担”特性的政府与社会资本合 作 (PPP) 模式，加快推进哈尔滨静脉产业园项目、加快推进与安徽节源在节能环保投资项目的合作，尝试 探索创新商业模式、技术模式，扩大节能环保产业规模，由点到面发展，做强节能环保产业。 In 2016, CBMI, in the field of energy conservation and environmental protection, closely integrated with the guidance of the national industrial development, made efforts to expand its business in green, energy saving and environmental protection industries, built its core competitiveness, and gradually participated in international competition on the basis of building a brand in China. Stronger energy saving and environmental protection is one of the three major goals of the 13th Five-Year Plan of the Company. Energy-saving and environmental protection industry is also one of the three main businesses of the Company's operation and development. The Company closely follows the business transformation and upgrading development strategy of the Group and 中材建设承建常州项目开工仪式 SINOMA International, performs business transformation through the two-wheel-drive “innovation and capital CBMI Contracted Changzhou Project Commencement Ceremony Invest”. CBMI, in combination with the guidance of national industry development, makes efforts to expand the business of energy-saving and environmental protection industry, regard it as an important starting point for green development and actively explore government and social capital cooperation (PPP) mode with the characteristics of efficient financing, benefit sharing and risk sharing Cooperation (PPP) model, accelerate the 2016 年，中材建设重点发展节能低碳环保的水泥生产工艺先进制造技术，积极探索水泥技术的外行业移植 construction of Harbin Vein Industrial Park. CBMI tried to explore innovative business model and technological 和推广应用，为企业转型升级提供技术支撑。经过北控环保衡阳、常州多个项目的技术改造，积累了危废 mode, therewith to enlarge the scale of energy-saving and environmental protection industry, to gradually 处置项目经验，成功签订北控安耐得环保科技发展常州有限公司 3 万吨 / 年危废焚烧处理扩建项目工程总 strengthen the energy conservation and environmental protection industry. 承包合同 (EPC)。常州危废项目采用先进的智能化仓储系统、预处理系统、回转窑焚烧系统及尾气处理系统， 其技术水平处于国内危废处置行业领先水平。公司在项目施工过程中积极采用预拌砂浆技术、现浇混凝土 外墙外保温施工技术、铝合金窗断桥技术、太阳能与建筑一体化应用技术、透水混凝土、消能减震、建筑 隔音等建筑业十项新技术。 In 2016, CBMI focused on the development of advanced manufacturing technology for energy-saving and lowcarbon cement production technology, and actively explored the migration and promotion of the external industry of cement technology so as to provide technical support for the transformation and upgrading of enterprises. Through technological transformation projects of Beijing Enterprises Holdings Environment Technology Co., Ltd. in Hengyang and Changzhou, CBMI accumulated experience in hazardous waste disposal and won the award of EPC contract for the 30,000 Tons/Year Hazardous Waste Incineration Treatment Expansion Project of Beikong Annaide Environment Technology Development Changzhou Co., Ltd. Changzhou hazardous waste project adopts advanced intelligent warehousing system, pretreatment system, rotary kiln incineration system and exhaust gas treatment system, and its technical level is at the leading level in domestic hazardous waste treatment industry. In the process of project construction, the company actively adopts ten new technologies, as: the technology of ready-mixed mortar, construction technology of cast-in-place concrete external wall insulation, aluminum alloy window broken bridge technology, solar energy and building integrated application technology, 中材建设与建材行业协会交流会议 pervious concrete, energy dissipation and vibration damping, the building sound insulation technology, etc. Exchange Meeting between CBMI and Building Materials Industry Association 管理运营 53 54 Management Operation CBMI 2016 倡导节能环保 共建绿色生态 Advocate energy saving and environmental protection to build a green ecology 关爱员工利益 共创和谐企业 环保生产实例 Care for the interests of employees and create a Environmental production cases harmonious enterprise 尊重保护员工权益 Respect and protect the rights and interests of employees 截至 2016 年底，中材建设拥有员工 1153 人，大专以上学历有 743 人，占公司总人数的 64.4%；拥有科 研人员 224 名，占公司总人数的 19.4%；2016 年公司新增员工 5 人，其中录用大中专毕业生 3 人，社会 引进 2 人。 2016 年，中材建设全面执行了《公司总部职能部门奖金发放办法》和《项目经理部月度奖金发放办法》， 将员工个人待遇直接与公司经营效益挂钩，使员工与公司共担企业发展责任，共享企业发展成果。公司积 极维护职工的合法权益，全年劳动合同签订率 100%，社会保险覆盖率 100%。 As of the end of 2016, CBMI had 1153 employees, with 743 persons owning a college degree or above, occupying 64.4% of the total number of the Company; 224 scientific researchers, occupying 19.4%. In 2016, the Company employed 5 new employees, including 3 college graduates and 2 employees from the society. 中材建设承建的阿尔及利亚 BISKRA 项目 In 2016, CBMI fully implemented the “Methods on Payment of Bonuses of Functional Departments at The Algeria BISKRA Project Contracted by CBMI Headquarters” and the “Methods on Payment of Monthly Bonuses of Project Manager Department”, directly linking the individual emolument of employees to the operation performance of the Company, so that employees and the Company may share the responsibility of enterprise development, and enjoy the achievements of 中材建设作为一家国际水泥工程总承包商，一直注重环境管理。公司阿尔及利亚 BISKRA 项目在项目施工 enterprise development. The Company actively protected the legitimate rights and interests of employees, with the annual labor contract signing rate of 100% and the social insurance coverage rate of 100%. 环境管理方面坚持环保、节能降耗理念，在施工设计、工程建设等各个环节，大量采用新技术、新材料及 新标准。项目设置了高效布袋收尘器，粉尘排放控制在 10mg/Nm3 以内，优于国际环保排放标准。项目采 用无功补偿，电能使用效率超过 95%，实际吨水泥电耗比行业平均水平节约 11%。项目临建配套了污水 处理及净化设施，所有污水经处理达标后再外排；废铁等废旧物资由当地有资质的公司负责回收；垃圾分 类管理，当地垃圾处理公司负责回收和处理。所有污水、废旧物资及垃圾的处理接受政府环保部门的监督 和检查，非常好地保护了当地的环境。 As a general contractor of international cement project, CBMI has always placed emphasis on environmental management. The Algeria BISKRA Project adheres to the concept of environmental protection, energy saving and consumption reduction in project construction environmental management and extensively adopts new technologies, new materials and new standards in all aspects of design and construction.The Project set up efficient bag filter, with the dust emission controlled within 10mg/Nm3, better than the international environment protection emission standard. The Project uses reactive power compensation, with the electric energy efficiency of more than 95%, and the actual electricity consumption per ton of cement reduced by 11% comparing to the average level of the industry. The Project was constructed with temporary sewage treatment and purifying facilities; all sewage shall be discharged after being treated and reached the standard. Waste materials such as scrap irons shall be recycled by qualified local companies; rubbishes shall be recycled and disposed by local rubbish disposal companies in a classified mode. Disposal of all sewage, waste materials and rubbishes shall 中材建设 2016 年工作会议暨第二届职工代表大会 be under the supervision and inspection of government environmental protection departments, which may well CBMI 2016 Working Conference and the Second Workers Congress protect the local environment. 管理运营 55 56 Management Operation CBMI 2016 关爱员工利益 共创和谐企业 Care for the interests of employees and create a harmonious enterprise 组织员工职业培训 Organize professional training for employees 2016 年，中材建设组织实施培训 37 项，培训总投入 27.76 万元，共计培训近 500 人次。全年共有 42 人 通过专业技术职务任职资格评审，其中：高级工程师 16 人，高级经济师 1 人。共有 5 人取得相关注册执业 资格。 In 2016, CBMI organized and implemented 37 trainings, with a total training investment of RMB 277,600 and nearly 500 person-times. A total of 42 persons passed the qualification assessment for professional and technical posts throughout the year, including 16 senior engineers and 1 senior economist. A total of 5 persons obtained relevant registered practice qualifications. 解决员工实际困难 Solve the practical difficulties of employees 2016 年，中材建设坚持以人为本，切实关心员工工作和生活，积极为广大员工办好事实事、解难事，继续 为员工办理了住院安心保险、补充医疗保险，努力为职工排忧解难，使广大员工深切感受企业“家”的温馨， 构建公司和谐稳定发展环境。公司继续修订《爱心基金会章程》，健全完善职工互助保障体系，累计为患 中材建设 2016 年迎新春健身月活动 大病的职工、困难职工发放困难补助、救济金约 21.3 万元。 CBMI 2016 Welcoming the Spring Festival and Celebrating Fitness Month Activity In 2016, CBMI persisted in people-oriented principle, earnestly cared for the work and life of employees, and actively benefited employees. In addition, CBMI continued to provide in-patient insurances and supplementary medical insurances to employees, and made efforts to solve difficulties of employees, so as to make the 丰富员工业余生活 employees feel the care from the company, deeply establish a sense of belonging, and build a harmonious and stable development environment for the Company. The Company continued to revise the “Articles of Association Enrich employees' leisure life of Love Foundation”, improved and perfected the mutual assistance and protection system for employees, and provided allowances and relief fund of about RMB 213,000 in total to the employees suffering serious disease 2016 年，中材建设将文化娱乐活动融入职工生产生活，将活动开展到项目部和生产现场。各项目部按照公 and difficulties. 司规定在营地均设置了图书室、棋牌室、篮球场等文化娱乐设施，丰富了现场员工的业余文体生活。阿尔 及利亚 BISKRA 项目部组织“迎新春、贺新年”娱乐庆祝活动；尼日利亚 EDO 项目部组织“快乐新年， 快乐工作”系列比赛和抽奖活动；沙特 UACC 项目举行“快乐健身、快乐工作”趣味活动。公司总部职工 关爱员工职业健康 活动中心定期组织各类文体活动，开展了“迎新春 健身月”活动、“三八”妇女节讲座活动、职工书画摄 Care for employees' occupational health 影比赛活动、羽毛球比赛活动；公司组织参加集团“中联水泥杯”羽毛球赛，取得小组第一、总成绩第八 2016 年，中材建设关心职工健康，积极为全体职工办理平安保险和进行体检。2016 年继续为全体在职职 的良好成绩，被授予“优秀组织奖”。 工、退休职工办理了平安住院安心保险和补充医疗保险，生病职工的正常医药费基本上全部能够报销，减 In 2016, CBMI incorporated cultural and sports activities into the production and life of employees, and extended 轻了生病职工的经济负担。全年办理平安保险理赔 140 人次，理赔金额 309422.95 元。组织全体在职员工、 activities to the project departments and the production sites. All project departments established libraries, 退休员工进行年度体检，并对体检结果进行分析，及时提出改善健康状况的建议。 chess and card rooms, basketball courts and other cultural and entertainment facilities at camps in accordance with the provisions of the company, enriching the amateur life of employees on the site. Algeria BISKRA Project In 2016, CBMI was concerned about the health of employees and actively conducted Ping An Insurance and Department organized the celebration activity themed on “Welcoming the Spring Festival, and Celebrating the physical examination for all its employees. In 2016, CBMI continued to purchase in-patient insurances and New Year”; Nigeria EDO Project Department organized series of races and raffle activities on “Happy New Year, supplementary medical insurances from Ping An Insurance for all in-service employees and retired staff. Almost Happy Work”; Saudi Arabia UACC Project Department held the fun activities on “Happy Fitness, Happy Work”. all of the normal medical expenses for sick employees were basically reimbursed, thus alleviating the financial The staff activity center at the headquarters of the Company regularly organized various cultural and sports burden on sick workers. activities, including activities of “Welcoming the Spring Festival, Celebrating the Fitness Month”, the lecture CBMI handled insurance claims with Ping An Insurance for 140 person-times throughout the year, with insurance of Women’s Day, competitions of calligraphy and photography by employees, and badminton competitions. claim amount of RMB 309,422.95. The Company organized the annual physical examination for in-service The Company organized employees to participate the “China United Cement Cup” Badminton Competition employees and retired staff, analyzed the physical examination results, and promptly put forward suggestions to and ranked 1st in the group score and 8th in the total score, and was awarded the “Outstanding Organization improve the health of employees. Award”. 管理运营 57 58 Management Operation CBMI 2016 关爱员工利益 共创和谐企业 Care for the interests of employees and create a harmonious enterprise 中材建设阿尔及利亚 BISKRA 项目 2016 年迎新春活动 中材建设 2016 年“三八”妇女节举行应急救护知识讲座活动 The Activity of Welcoming the Spring Festival in 2016 Held by CBMI CBMI Emergency Rescue Knowledge Lecture Held on Women's Day in 2016 Algeria BISKRA Project Department 中材建设尼日利亚 EDO 项目部 2016 贺新年活动 中材建设总部餐厅 2016 年夏日为员工提供送凉茶服务 The Activity of Celebrating the New Year in 2016 Held by CBMI Nigeria EDO Project Department The Canteen of CBMI Headquarters Provided Staff with Herbal Tea in Summer of 2016 管理运营 59 60 Management Operation CBMI 2016 加强社区交流 共建社会关系 Enhanced community exchange and established social relations 促进社区经济发展 改善当地生活环境 Promote community economic development Improved local living environment 2016 年，中材建设大力推进本土化战略，合法经营，依法纳税，努力提升人力资源本土化比例，促进了当 地就业及经济发展。公司承建的赞比亚建材工业园项目雇佣当地员工超过 1200 人，尼日利亚 UNICEM 项 2016 年，中材建设尼日利亚 FABCOM 工厂修复了工厂所在地周围的公路。赞比亚建材工业园 目雇佣当地员工 180 人，尼日利亚 SOKOTO 项目雇佣当地员工 279 人，尼日利亚 EDO 熟料线运营项 项目为项目所在地社区学校捐赠了图书及文教用品。 目雇佣当地员工 80 人，尼日利亚子公司雇佣当地员工 5 人，FABCOM 工厂雇佣当地员工 32 人。 In 2016, the roads around the site of CBMI Nigeria FABCOM Factory were repaired. Zambia Building Materials Industrial Park Project donated books and stationeries to local community schools. In 2016, CBMI vigorously promoted the localization strategy, made legal operation, paid tax according to law, endeavored to increase the localization rate of human resources, and promoted local employment and economic development. The Zambia Building Materials Industrial Park Project contracted by the Company employed more than 1,200 local employees, Nigeria UNICEM Project employed 180 local employees, Nigeria SOKOTO Project employed 279 local employees, Nigeria EDO Clinker Line Project employed 80 local employees, the Nigeria subsidiary of CBMI employed 5 local employees, and the FABCOM Factory employed 32 local employees. 中材建设赞比亚建材工业园项目 部为社区学校捐赠礼物 Gifts to Community Schools Donated by CBMI Zambia Building Materials Industrial Park Project 中材建设尼日利亚 FABCOM 工厂雇佣的当地焊工 中材建设尼日利亚 FABCOM 工 The Local Welders Employed by CBMI Nigeria FABCOM Factory 厂修复的工厂所在地周围公路 Roads around the Site of CBMI Nigeria FABCOM Factory after Repair 管理运营 61 62 Management Operation CBMI 2016 加强社区交流 共建社会关系 Enhanced community exchange and established social relations 增进社区文化交流 Enhance community cultural exchange 2016 年，中材建设继续注重同项目所在国家和地区的文化交流，尊重当地民族习惯和文化信仰，构建和谐 融洽的沟通环境，为各项目建设顺利推进奠定了坚实基础。各项目部在整个生产运营过程中，积极融入当 地文化，充分考虑当地社区人民及聘请员工的利益，有力促进了双方和谐发展。 In 2016, CBMI continued to focus on cultural exchange with the countries and regions where the projects are located, respected local ethnic customs and cultural beliefs, and established a harmonious communication environment, laying a solid foundation for the smooth progress of all projects. During the entire production and operation process, all project departments actively integrated into local cultures, fully considered the interests of local communities and hired employees, and promoted the harmonious development of both parties. 中材建设赞比亚建材工业园项目部当地员工参加项目部活动 Local Employees of CBMI Zambia Building Materials Industrial Park Project Participated in Activities Held by the Project Department 中材建设贝宁项目部与当地群众组织足球联谊赛 Football Game between CBMI Benin Project Department and Local People 管理运营 63 64 Management Operation CBMI 2016 No.4 探索发展 Exploration and development 探索发展 65 66 Exploration and development CBMI 2016 区域公司化经营能力持续提高 Continuous improvement of regional operation capacity 2016 年，中材建设积极推进国际市场属地化经营，充分发挥区域内资源共享的优势，深入推进公司国际化 发展战略。重点围绕区域公司实体化运营，规范管理，打造区域公司的造血能力、独立经营能力和市场开 拓能力。将区域公司转变成经营中心、管理中心，适当分担公司总部部分管理职能，进一步贴近市场、贴 近业主，增强对区域内项目管理和服务能力，提升客户服务能力和服务水平，提升公司海外资产管理水平 和资产效益。 2016 年，公司在阿尔及利亚区域市场在手合同额成功突破 10 亿美元，并初步与 GICA 集团达成了合作建 立工程服务中心协议，与 BC 项目业主在多元业务领域稳步开展合作，为扎根阿尔及利亚及北非区域市场 奠定了良好基础。尼日利亚区域在承建 UNICEM、SOKOTO、EDO 二线等 EPC 项目的同时，EDO 一 线工厂运营和矿山运营顺利推进，区域化经营取得了较好的成果。 In 2016, CBMI actively promoted the localization operation of international market, gave full play to the advantage of resource sharing in regions, and further promoted the internationalization development strategy of the Company. Focused on the substantive operation of regional companies and standardized management, to build hematopoietic ability, independent operation ability and market development ability of regional companies. 中材建设阿尔及利亚分公司办公地址 Regional companies were transferred into business centers and management centers, to appropriately share Address of CBMI Algeria Branch Office part of management functions of the headquarters, further approaching the markets and the owners, enhancing the project management and service capabilities in the regions, improving the customer service capabilities and service levels, and enhancing the Company’s overseas asset management levels and asset efficiency. In 2016, the Company successfully broke through the contract amount of 1 billion U.S. dollars in the Algerian region, and initially reached an agreement with the GICA Group to establish an engineering service center, to work steadily with the BC project owners in the diversified business areas, it has laid a good foundation for the company to take root in Algeria and North Africa. While undertaking the EPC projects such as UNICEM, SOKOTO and EDO 2nd Line in Nigeria, the Company promoted the operation of EDO 1st Line factory and mine smoothly, and achieved good results in regional operation. 中材建设尼日利亚子公司与当地业主合影 Group Photo of Employees of CBMI Nigeria Subsidiary and Local Owner 中材建设尼日利亚子公司办公地址 Address of CBMI Nigeria Subsidiary Office 探索发展 67 68 Exploration and development CBMI 2016 2016 年沙特区域主要项目一览表 区域公司化运营成果良好 List of Major Projects in Saudi Arabia in 2016 Good operation achievements of Regional 合同类型 Corporatization 序号 SN 项目名称 Project description Contract 项目情况 Projectstatus type 沙特 EICO 公司变电站土建工程项目合同 新签 2016 年，阿尔及利亚、尼日利亚、沙特 In 2016, the Company continued to actively explore the 1 Substation Civil Works Project of Saudi Arabia EICO C Newly signed market in three regions, i.e. Algeria, Nigeria and Saudi Company 三区域继续积极开拓市场，全年成功签约 Arabia, and successfully signed contracts for 3 projects 沙特朱拜勒危险废物焚烧回转窑供货 3 个项目。区域内资源共享，统筹调配， 新签 throughout the year. Resources within three regions were 2 Supply of Rotary Kiln for Hazardous Wastes Incineration P Newly signed 降低了项目成本。 shared and deployed coordinately, to reduce the project in Jubail, Saudi Arabia costs. 沙特 UACC 项目 在建 3 EPC Saudi Arabia UACC Project Under construction 2016 年阿尔及利亚区域主要项目一览表 4 沙特 UCIC 项目 EPC 获 PAC 证书 Saudi Arabia UCIC Project Obtained PAC certificate List of Major Projects in Algeria in 2016 沙特 EICO 变电站项目 在建 5 C 合同类型 Saudi Arabia EICO Substation Project Under construction 序号 项目名称 项目情况 Contract SN Project description Projectstatus type 2016 年，中材建设尼日利亚制造公司（FABCOM In 2016, CBMI Nigeria Manufacturing Company (FABCOM Factory) 在建 was successfully put into operation, forming a comprehensive 阿尔及利亚 BISKRIA 2×6000TPD 项目 工厂）顺利建成投产，形成了一个以彩石瓦、彩钢 1 EPC Under factory dominated by series of products such as colored tone Algeria BISKRIA 2×6000TPD Project construction 板等系列产品为主导，以结构与设备制造、机械加工、 tiles and colored steel plates and supported by the structure and 阿尔及利亚 BISKRA 项目 运营 安装与服务为辅助的综合性工厂。公司投入运营后， equipment manufacturing, machining, installation and services. After 2 OM Algeria BISKRA Project Under operation operation, the quality of products produced by the company was 生产的产品质量要优于当地市场产品质量，取得了 superior to the quality of those in the local market, achieving a good 获 PAC 证书 良好的市场业绩，产销两旺，有力促进了当地经济 阿尔及利亚 ZAHANA 项目 market performance. Both production and sales were satisfactory, 3 C Obtained PAC Algeria ZAHANA Project 发展。为了满足市场需求，提高产能，降低成本， promoting the local economic development. In order to meet the certificate market demands, increase production capacity and reduce cost, the 公司又引进了第二条彩石瓦生产线，使工厂产能提 company introduced a second production line for colored stone tiles, 高了 2 倍，达到 60 万平米 / 年。公司还自行筹建了 which increased the production capacity by two times to 600,000 2016 年尼日利亚区域主要项目一览表 一个展览室、两个原材料库房，总占地面积约 700 square meters per year. The company also built a self-exhibition List of Major Projects in Nigeria in 2016 room and 2 raw material warehouses, with a total area of about 700 平米。通过跟踪和调查了解到，公司获得了市场用 square meters. Through tracking and investigation, the products of 合同类型 户的一致好评。 序号 项目名称 项目情况 the company have been well received by local users. Contract SN Project description Projectstatus type 尼日利亚 EDO 二线 6000TPD 项目 在建 1 EPC 尼日利亚制造公司 2016 年销售收入 Nigeria EDO 2nd Line 6000TPD Project Under construction 尼日利亚 EDO 矿山运营项目 运营 Annual sales revenue of CBMI Nigeria Manufacturing Company in 2016 2 OM Nigeria EDO Mine Operation Project Under operation 名称 数量 金额（奈拉） 获 PAC 证书 Description Qty Amount (NGN) 尼日利亚 EDO 安装项目 3 C Obtained PAC Nigeria EDO Installation Project 彩钢板 certificate 48774m 93,731,433.00 Colored steel plate 尼日利亚 UNICEM 项目 在建 4 EPC 金属彩石瓦 Nigeria UNICEM Project Under construction 172335m² 417,201,435.00 Metal colored stone tile 尼日利亚 SOKOTO 项目 在建 5 EPC 钢结构与设备 Nigeria SOKOTO Project Under construction 6.251t 3,570,193.00 Steel structure and equipment 尼日利亚 EDO 工厂生产运营 运营 机加工 6 O﹠M 17.46t 14,549,950.00 Nigeria EDO Factory Operation Under operation Machining 尼日利亚 EDO 矿山生产运营 运营 7 O﹠M 汇总： In total: 529,053,011.00 Nigeria EDO Mine Operation Under operation 探索发展 69 70 Exploration and development CBMI 2016 区域公司化运营成果良好 Good operation achievements of branches 客户反馈彩石瓦效果图 Effect Picture of Colored Stone Tiles Provided by Customers 中材建设尼日利亚制造公司生产制造培训 Production and Manufacturing Training of CBMI Nigeria Manufacturing Company 中材建设尼日利亚制造公司彩钢板系列产品 Series Products of Colored Steel Plates 客户定制彩钢板 of CBMI Nigeria Manufacturing Company Customized Colored Steel Plates 中材建设尼日利亚制造公司彩石瓦系列产品 等待装车的彩石瓦 Series Products of Colored Stone Tiles of Colored Stone Tiles Waiting for CBMI Nigeria Manufacturing Company Truck Loading 中材建设尼日利亚制造公司 CBMI Nigeria Manufacturing Company 探索发展 71 72 Exploration and development CBMI 2016 No.5 责任绩效 Responsibility and performance 2016 年度关键责任绩效 2016 annual key responsibility and performance 2016 年，是“十三五”开局之年，中材建设面对错综复杂的国内外发展环境，坚持国际化、 多元化发展战略，立足水泥技术装备工程、多元化工程、节能环保三大主导业务，积极推进 “十三五”发展规划和相关部署举措，在全体员工的共同努力下，抓发展、促转型、强管理、 转作风，公司各项业务继续保持良好势头，全面完成了各项目标任务和考核指标，取得了 “十三五”开门红。 The year of 2016 is the first year for “13th Five-Year Plan”. Facing the complicated development environments at home and abroad, CBMI persisted in the internationalization and diversification development strategies, based itself on the three leading businesses, i.e. cement technology and equipment engineering, diversified engineering, and energy saving and environmental protection, and actively promoted the development planning and related deployment of the “13th Five-Year Plan”. The Company focused on development, promoted transformation, strengthened management and transformed the work style. With the joint efforts of all employees, CBMI continued to maintain a good momentum in various businesses, fully completed all targets and realized assessment indicators, and achieved a good start of the “13th Five-Year Plan”. 责任绩效 73 74 Responsibility and performance CBMI 2016 2016 年度关键责任绩效 2016 annual key responsibility and performance 经济责任 产品责任 Economic Responsibility Product Responsibility 指标名称 指标值 指标名称 指标值 Index Index Value Index Index Value 营业收入（亿元） 2016 年在建项目数量 24.77 23 Business income (100 million) Number of Projects in Progress in 2016 2016 年完工项目数量 6 Number of Completed Projects in 2016 纳税总额（亿元） 0.8 Total Taxes (100 million) 2016 年开工项目数量 7 Number of Projects Started in 2016 国有资产保值增值率（%） 117.43 Rate of Value of State-owned Assets(%) 2016 年取得 PAC 证书数量 5 Number of Projects Obtaining PAC Certificate in 2016 净资产收益率（%） 17.7 ROE(%) 业主综合满意度（%） 89 Overall Satisfaction of Clients(%) 经济增加值（亿元） 业主分项满意度（%） 1.85 88 Economic Value Added (100 million) Component Satisfaction of Clients(%) 合同履约率（%） 100 毛利率（%） Rate of Contract Execution(%) 18.79 Gross Profit Rate(%) 取得经由国家授权的专利（项） 4 Number of Patents Authorized by the State (item) 人均创利税（万元） 24.21 Profits and Taxes Per Capita (10 thousand yuan) 截至目前累计拥有专利（项） 30 Number of Patents Granted in 2016 (item) 全年新签合同额（亿元） 55 Amount of Newly Signed Contracts Annually (100 million) 技术研发主要成果（项） 22 Number of Technology R&D Achievements (item) 完成出口额（亿美元） 增加并完善企业标准（项） 1.91 Value of Exports (100 million US dollar) Number of Enterprise Standards Newly Established and Upgraded 1 (item) 责任绩效 75 76 Responsibility and performance CBMI 2016 2016 年度关键责任绩效 2016 annual key responsibility and performance 安全责任 员工责任 Safety Responsibility Employment Responsibility 指标名称 指标值 指标名称 指标值 Index Index Value Index Index Value 年末员工总数 安全培训覆盖率（%） 1153 100 Total Number of Employees at the End of the Year Coverage Rate of Safety Training(%) 中层以上管理者中女性员工比例（%） 1.25% 重伤以上事故发生率（%） Rate of Female Middle-level Managers(%) 0 Rate of Incidents Causing Serious Injuries or Even Worse(%) 少数民族员工人数 30 劳动环境与劳动条件治理后的有害作业场所达标率（%） Minorities Employees Control Rate of Harmful Operating Sites After Treatment in Labor 100 Environment and Labor Conditions(%) 残疾员工人数 2 Employees with Disabilities 事故隐患整改完成率（%） 100 Completion Rate of Potential Dangers Rectification(%) 员工参与工会组织率（%） 100 Rate of Employees’ Participation in Labor Union(%) 特种作业人员持证上岗率（%） 100 劳动合同签订率（%） Rate of Employment with Certificates of Special Operation Workers(%) 100 Rate of Labor Contracts Signing(%) 社会保险覆盖率（%） 100 Coverage Rate of Social Insurance(%) 参保雇主责任险（人次） 750 Insured Employers’ Liability Insurance (person) 支付金额（万元） 47.14 Payment Amount (10 thousand yuan) 环境责任 Environment Responsibility 参保意外伤害险（人） 777 Insured Accident Insurance (person) 指标名称 指标值 Index Index Value 支付金额（万元） 24.7 Payment Amount (10 thousand yuan) 有毒有害废弃物平均回收率（%） 年培训总投入（万元） 100 22.2 Rate of The Average Recovery of Hazardous Waste(%) Total Investment in Training (10 thousand yuan) 接受体检的员工比例（%） 项目施工噪声超标、投诉次数 100 0 Percentage of Employees Receiving a Medical Examination(%) The Number of Complaints for Exceeded Noise in Project Construction 发生劳动争议人数 0 Number of Labor Disputes 节能减排法规宣传覆盖率（%） 100 Publicity Rate of Energy-saving and Emission cut(%) 普通员工人均收入较上年增长（%） 9.8 Ordinary Employees Income Increase over the Previous Year(%) 责任绩效 77 78 Responsibility and performance CBMI 2016 No.6 未来展望 Prospective 未来展望 79 80 Prospective CBMI 2016 经营发展 Management development In 2017, the operation objective of CBMI is to achieve the operating income of RMB 3.05 billion, a total profit 2017 年，中材建设的经营目标：完成营业收入 30.5 亿元，利润总额 2.64 亿元；新签合同额 40 亿元。中 of RMB 264 million, and the newly signed contract value is RMB 4 billion. CBMI shall firmly grasp the historical 材建设要紧紧抓住“两材重组”的历史机遇，努力提升公司的综合实力。将主动适应新常态，积极融入大战略， opportunity of “reorganization of CNBM and SINOMA” and strive to enhance the overall strength. The Company 突出“转型升级”的主题，坚定信心，深化改革，强化创新，坚持稳中求进谋发展，坚持战略转型促升级， will take the initiative to adapt to the new normal and actively integrate into the grand strategy, highlight the theme of “transformation and upgrading”. Besides, it will firm its confidence, deepen the reform, enhance the 坚持严格管理转作风，全面开创公司改革发展的新局面。公司发展多元业务，一要坚持国际国内两极发展， innovation, persist in seeking improvement and development in stability, adhere to strategy transformation 并以国外为主；国内要以环保、危废、水处理、小城镇改造、河道治理、能源管理等符合国家政策导向和 and promoting the upgrading, insist in strict management and transforming the work style, and fully create a 时代发展的产业领域，走技术引领的道路；国外要紧密结合公司传统区域、传统客户，发挥公司国际化、 new situation for reform and development of the Company. In order to develop diversified businesses, firstly, the Company shall persist in development of both the domestic and international markets, especially the 区域化优势，发挥国家一带一路、国际产能合作政策优势，重点抓住有一定规模、有市场影响力的项目。 international market. For the domestic market, the Company shall focus on environmental protection, hazardous 二要坚持多元业务和产业投资相结合道路，产业投资要紧密结合集团、中材国际海外产业发展战略，要抓 wastes and water treatment, small town reconstruction, river control, energy management and other fields 住市场机遇，做大产业规模。三要建立容错机制，创造宽松的多元发展环境，要先行先做，在发展的过程 that are in line with the national policy and the era development. For the international market, the Company shall closely integrate traditional regions and customers, to exert the advantages of internationalization and 中不断完善。 regionalization of the Company, make use of the advantages of the national Belt and Road and international capacity cooperation policies, and give priority to projects with certain scale and market influence. Secondly, 管理提升 the Company shall persist in the combination of diversified businesses and industrial investment: industrial investment shall closely integrate with the overseas development strategies of the Group and SINOMA, and 2017 年，是中材建设实施“十三五”规划的起步年，是中材建设转型升级发展的关键年。中材建设将积极 the Company shall seize the market opportunities and expand the industrial scale. Thirdly, the Company shall 把握机遇，坚定发展信心，坚持国际化、多元化发展战略，立足做优水泥技术装备工程、做大多元化工程、 establish a fault-tolerant mechanism, to create a relaxed diversified development environment, start off before others and continue to improve in the process of development. 做强节能环保三大主导业务，围绕“市场、调整、创新、提升”工作方针，深化改革调整，强化创新驱动， 扎实抓好 2+2+2 战略：两个市场——国外市场和国内市场，两轮驱动——主业和多元业务同时发展，两个 Management enhancement 定位——定位基本建设、定位生产服务，全面推进落实公司“十三五”发展规划，开创公司转型升级发展 The year of 2017 is the starting year for CBMI to implement the plan for “13th Five-Year” and the crucial year 新局面。 for CBMI’s transformation and upgrading. CBMI will actively seize the opportunities, firm the development confidence, persist in the internationalized and diversified development strategies, and focus on our three leading businesses, i.e. cement technology and equipment engineering, diversified projects and energy 企业社会责任建设 conservation and environmental protection. Furthermore, CBMI will center on the concept of “market, adjustment, innovation, and improvement” to deepen the reform and adjustment and strengthen the innovation 2017 年，中材建设将持续加强企业社会责任建设，重视工程质量，以优质高效的项目展示公司的实力和负 driving development, and implement the 2 + 2 + 2 strategy: two markets foreign market and domestic market, 责任的企业形象。重视属地化经营，聘用当地工人，提高员工本土化占比。依法纳税，在境外各市场依法纳税。 two-wheel driving simultaneous development of main businesses and diversified businesses, two orientations 积极参加社会公益活动，在项目所在国等市场捐资捐物。坚持合作共赢，持续加强与联合国全球契约组织 capital construction and production services, thus comprehensively promoting and implementing the development plan of the Company for the “13th Five-Year”, and creating a new situation for reform, upgrading 的沟通与交流，认真履行作为全球契约组织成员的责任和义务。 and development of the Company. Construction of corporate social responsibilities In 2017, CBMI will continue to strengthen the promotion of corporate social responsibility, attach importance to the engineering quality, and display the company’s strength and responsible image with high-quality and efficient projects. The company will attach importance to the localized operation, employ local workers and increase the proportion of local employees. The company will pay taxes according to law in all overseas markets, actively participate in social welfare activities, and donate money and materials in the project countries. The company will persist in win-win cooperation, continue to strengthen communication and exchange with the UN Global Compact, and conscientiously fulfill its responsibilities and obligations as a member of the UN Global Compact. 未来展望 81 82 Prospective CBMI 2016 中材建设 Evaluation on 2016 2016 年社会责任报告评价 CBMI CSR Report 中材建设有限公司很早就加入联合国全球契约组织，多年来积极遵守和奉行联合国全球契约十项原则。作 CBMI Construction Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as CBMI) joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) long ago and adhered to the UNGC’s ten principles over the years. As a state-owned enterprise, CBMI 为一家很早就响应国家“走出去”战略和“一带一路”倡议，在全球化的可持续运营中作出杰出贡献的国 responded very early to China’s going global strategy and the Belt and Road Initiative and made outstanding 有企业，中材建设已发展成为履行社会责任、践行可持续发展理念的典范。 contributions to the sustainable operation of globalization, CBMI has developed into a model enterprise in fulfilling social responsibilities and practicing the philosophy of sustainable development. 从中材建设 2016 年社会责任报告中可以看出，该公司具有全球化的负责任、可持续发展思维与理念，并 It can be seen from the Social Responsibility Report 2016 of CBMI that, CBMI is a company with globalized 在运营和管理过程中积极深入地开展了履行社会责任的实践，全方位地关照到员工、客户、供应链等商业 thinking and philosophy of responsibility and sustainable development, and it positively and thoroughly 伙伴、投资人、运营地社区、政府、行业组织、NGO、媒体与公众等各个利益相关方，在尊重人权、体面 implemented the practice of social responsibilities in operation and management. CBMI roundly cares for 劳动、职业安全卫生、创新能力建设、促进就业和运营地可持续发展、实现资源可持续利用和环境保护、 various interested parties including employees, customers, business partners, investors, communities where it operates, governments, industry organizations, NGOs, media and the public, and makes unremitting efforts 加强合规管理和公平竞争等方面均作出了不懈的努力，取得了卓有成效的业绩。中材建设在联合国可持续 and achieved fruitful results in respect for human rights, decent work, occupational health and safety, innovation 发展目标涉及的多项领域开展了大量具有特色的优秀实践，为可持续发展目标的实现做出了积极贡献。 ability construction, promotion of employment and sustainable development in where it operates, realization of sustainable utilization of resources and environmental protection and enhancement of compliance management 中材建设 2016 社会责任报告体系完整、内容详实，并能用大量的案例、数据、图表、图片来生动多样地 and fair competition. CBMI has conducted a large number of excellent practices in many fields covered by 进行分析和描述，是一份高质量的社会责任报告。 the UN Sustainable Development Goals and made positive contributions to the realization of the sustainable development goals. 鉴于中材建设在海外特别是“一带一路”沿线多个国家和所开展项目的负责任、可持续运营都有较为突出 CBMI 2016 Social Responsibility Report is system completed and content detailed, and can be vividly and 的表现，积累了不少在中国企业海外运营中可资推广借鉴的社会责任管理和实践经验，建议在以后的社会 diversely analyzed and described with a large number of cases, data, charts and pictures. It is a high-quality 责任报告中为国别或项目的可持续运营实践提供独立、系统的板块来进行梳理总结，并在有条件的情况下 social responsibility report. 形成单独针对某个国别或项目的可持续发展或社会责任简报。 In view of CBMI’s outstanding performance in responsible and sustainable operation of its projects abroad, especially in countries and regions along the One Belt and One Road , many of CBMI’s accumulated social responsibility management and practical experience can be used for reference in the overseas operation of Chinese enterprises. It is recommended that an independent and systematic section should be provided and summarized for sustainable operation practice in a country or at a project, that where conditions allow, a brief report can be made specific to sustainable development or social responsibilities in a country or at a project. 韩斌 执行秘书长 全球契约中国网络 Han Bin Executive Secretary Global Compact Network China 报告评价 83 84 Report Evaluation CBMI 2016 意见反馈表 3. 您对本报告的哪一部分最感兴趣？ 3. Which part of the report interest you the most? Reader’s Feedback Form □企业简介 Company Profile □理念战略 Concept Strategy 非常感谢您阅读《中材建设有限公司 2016 年度社会责任报告》。为不断提升中材建设社会责任报告的编写质量，更好地披露公 司履行社会责任情况，期盼您对本报告提出宝贵意见和建议。请您填写以下问卷并按公司联系方式返回，我们承诺所有信息仅用 □管理运营 Management Operation 于分析、改进报告编写工作。感谢您的反馈！ □探索发展 Exploration and development We sincerely appreciate for your reading of the CBMI SOCIAL RESPONSBILITY REPORT 2016. To constantly boost the quality of the □责任绩效 Responsibility and performance report and to better disclosure our CSR information, we expect comments and advice from you. Please fill out the questionnaire below, and send it back according to the contact information. We promise that all the information will be only used for analysis and improvement □未来展望 Prospective of the report. □报告评价 Report Description 您的基本信息 4. 您认为本报告对利益相关方的期望进行的回应和信息披露程度如何？ Basic Information 4. What do you think of the extent of the information disclosure and the responses to the expectation of the interest parties? 姓名 电话 邮箱 Name Tel. E-mail address □很高 Great □较高 Good □一般 Moderate □较低 Poor 5. 您认为本报告的可读性如何？ 工作单位 职务 5. How is the readability of the report? Employer Position □很高 Great □较高 Good □一般 Moderate □较低 Poor 您对本报告的评价 6．您认为本报告的版式设计是否有利于您的阅读： Comments 6. How is the format design of the report facilitating your reading process? □很好 Great □较好 Good □一般 Moderate □较低 Poor 请您在相应的“□”内打“√”： Please tick in the appropriate boxes. 您对中材建设社会责任工作及社会责任报告编写工作有何改进意见？ Your advice for CBMI's CSR work and compilation of CSR Report 1. 您对本报告的总体评价是： 1.Your overall evaluation of the report? □很好 Great □较好 Good □一般 Moderate □较差 Poor 2. 您认为本报告所披露信息的清晰、准确、完整性如何？ 2. What do you think of the clearness, accuracy and integrity of the disclosure information? □高 Great □较高 Good □一般 Moderate □较低 Poor 意见反馈表 85 86 Reader’ s Feedback Form CBMI 2016 公司注册地 地址：河北省唐山市丰润区幸福道 7 号 电话：0086 0315-3241249 传真：0086 0315-3221044 网址：http://www.cbmi.com.cn 邮政编码：064000 公司总部 地址：北京亦庄经济开发区隆庆街 7 号 电话：0086-10-67285000 传真：0086-10-67285001 邮政编码：100176 CBMI Registered Address: No.7 Xingfu Road, Fengrun District, Tangshan City, Hebei Province, P.R.China Tel: 00860315-3241249 Fax: 0086 -0315-3221044 Http://www.cbmi.com.cn ZIP CODE:064000 CBMI Headquarters NO.7, Longqing Street, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Area, China Tel: 0086-10-67285000 Fax:0086-10-67285001 ZIP CODE:100176 环保纸张
