UN Global Compact Communication of Progress 2017 NASDAQ. MORE SUSTAINABLE MARKETS. 2017 UNGC COP Statement of Support from the Chief Executive I am pleased to reaffirm Nasdaq’s support for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the 10 Principles with respect to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Since joining the UNGC in 2012—and well before—Nasdaq has been focused on executing its business responsibly, building an ethical culture, and providing effective governance. If performance must be measured before it can be managed, then companies have to find smart ways to measure sustainability. We start this process with data, which drives awareness, insight, and action. Nasdaq tracks environmental, social, and governance (ESG) data because it exposes inefficiency; we disclose ESG data because it creates opportunity. The recent publication of our ESG Reporting Guide makes a compelling business case for both, but there are larger implications. We led two global working groups (UN Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative and the WFE Sustainability Working Group) in order to better understand how sustainability impacts market value. As the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the work of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) make clear, we have to put a longer lens on this effort; we must examine the trajectory of global sustainable development. Companies and investors are already doing so, collaborating on the indicators of long-term value creation. Because Nasdaq technology powers so many markets, serving so many different clients, we have to ensure the long-term stability of our operation. Our data center in Sweden is now completely fueled by renewable energy; Nasdaq Helsinki has been carbon neutral for many years; and our new office building in Philadelphia is rated LEED Platinum. These are recent accomplishments, but our quest for safer, faster, and more accessible markets is never-ending. As the world changes, the needs and expectations of the capital markets will change with it, and new opportunities arise. How can we capture this emerging impulse to track, manage, and distribute ESG data? Will the booming green bond and climate finance space successfully push capital into more sustainable channels? Can exchanges empower passionate entrepreneurs to bring new technologies to market, delivering investor returns and sustainable remedies in equal measure? Nasdaq will continue to create markets and innovate solutions as we all work together for a more sustainable future. ADENA T. FRIEDMAN PRESIDENT & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 1 SUSTAINABILITY@NASDAQ.COM 2017 UNGC COP Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 United Nations Global Compact The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a The effective abolition of child labor; and voluntary business initiative designed to promote Principle 6 universal sustainability principles and support progress on global development goals. It provides a global forum The elimination of discrimination in respect of for all companies to collaborate, regardless of revenue, employment and occupation. size, or location. Environment Nasdaq supports the UNGC assertion that responsible Principle 7 business practices positively impact markets and Businesses should support a precautionary approach to societies, and that principles and profits can go hand in environmental challenges; hand. Nasdaq and many other Nasdaq-listed companies are Global Compact signatories, and our Head of Principle 8 Sustainability serves on the UNGC Network USA board. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development All signatories are required to provide an annual and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Communication of Progress (COP), documenting continued commitment to 10 key principles and Anti-Corruption detailing related progress made during the previous year. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its Nasdaq's Communication of Progress on these forms, including extortion and bribery. principles can be found in the remainder of this report. SUSTAINABILITY@NASDAQ.COM 2 2017 UNGC COP External Engagement Nasdaq MarketSite to help us celebrate companies included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Listed Companies for 2016. Nasdaq itself was one of the selected companies, along with CA Technologies, Cisco Systems, SUSTAINABILITY WEBINAR SERIES and many others. Nasdaq has been collaborating with BrownFlynn since • GMHC, the world’s first and leading provider of HIV 2014 to produce and distribute web-based, educational and AIDS prevention, care and advocacy, visited programming to support our listed companies in their MarketSite in celebration of LGBT Pride Month. sustainability efforts. The series focuses on expert perspectives from various stakeholder groups. Recent episodes include: VIDEO BROADCASTS • Big Data & Corporate Sustainability Performance: How The Nasdaq Corporate Responsibility team uses the the World is Using ESG Data (with Nasdaq, EcoVadis, reach of our social media platform to engage and inform Datamaran, and RepRisk) the public on key issues. A series of brief videos on the Facebook Live platform attracted significant interest • Celebrating World Water Day: Management Practices during the past year. Recent highlights include: from Leading Environmental Stewards (with Nasdaq and Ceres) • World CSR Day Roundtable, moderated by Nasdaq, featuring participants from Wyndham, Nielsen, • Business & Human Rights: How Companies are Managing Human Rights Risks Around the Globe (with Deloitte, and Futerra Nasdaq, Labor Affairs, USCIB and General Electric) • National Volunteering Week interview, a conversation • What the Reg S-K Concept Paper Really Means for between Nasdaq and Rehana Farrell, executive director Business (with Nasdaq, UN PRI, Baker & McKenzie, of Youth INC and Domini) • Sustainability as a Brand Multiplier, a discussion with • Proxy Season and ESG Activism: What Issuers Should Ben Boyd, President, Edelman Know (with Nasdaq, US SIF, Global ProxyWatch, and AMD) • Three Steps Boards Should Take to Monitor Sustainability, a conversation between Nasdaq’s Evan Harvey and TK NASDAQ MARKETSITE EVENTS Kerstetter of Inside America’s Boardrooms Nasdaq frequently leverages the prominence and Sustainability Frameworks impact of its MarketSite studio and event space in Times Square (New York City) to focus attention on our listed Nasdaq is a longtime supporter of the Global Reporting companies, as well as related sustainability causes and Initiative (GRI), an independent and global organization projects. Recent highlights include: designed to create dialogue and reporting standards on critical sustainability issues, such as climate change, • Nasdaq commemorated Gender Equality International human rights, corruption and many others. Women's Day with Women in ETFs and five partner organizations at Nasdaq MarketSite in Times Square. • Nasdaq is currently a GRI Gold Community member Lise Kingo, Executive Director, United Nations Global • Nasdaq’s Global Head of Sustainability, Evan Harvey, Compact, rang the Closing Bell. serves on the Global Sustainability Standards Board • Walgreens came to the Nasdaq MarketSite in (GSSB). The GSSB creates globally accepted standards celebration of Red Nose Day. The event raised for sustainability reporting, working in the public awareness and money for the Red Nose Day Fund, interest and according to the vision and mission of GRI. which benefits numerous charity organizations that Nasdaq is a United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) have programs supporting the safety, education and signatory. health of children in need in the U.S. and around the world. Red Nose Day has raised over $1 billion • Nasdaq is a member of UNGC Network USA globally in the last 25 years. • Nasdaq’s Global Head of Sustainability, Evan Harvey, • RobecoSAM, an investment specialist focused currently serves on the UNGC Network USA Board of exclusively on Sustainability Investing, came to Directors 3 SUSTAINABILITY@NASDAQ.COM 2017 UNGC COP Internal Engagement Volunteerism Highlights Fresh Air Fund. Fishkill, NY Volunteerism Wall Street Walk (American Heart Association). As a global exchange, Nasdaq engages in vital New York, NY relationships with—and exerts a profound impact Colleen’s BA 5K. Rockville, MD upon—the communities in which we live and work. We believe corporate citizenship enables us to sustain PS 120. Brooklyn, NY our communities by creating shared value for our Habitat for Humanity. More than a dozen Nasdaq employees and our shareholders. Nasdaq’s commitment San Francisco staff members helped to build Habitat to our communities encompasses our businesses, Terrance in the Ocean View neighborhood. Ocean View philanthropy activities and employee engagement is one of the most ethnically and economically diverse programs. Giving back is an action that can be carried neighborhoods in the city, with almost no affordable out in countless ways. For some, it means volunteering housing. This new block of 28 single-family homes in their community. For others, it means donating features three stories, multiple bedrooms, and attached money or goods to those who need it most. garages. The green construction even includes solar Under the Nasdaq Global Corporate Volunteer Program, panels and smart utility metering. Teams helped with all Nasdaq employees with a minimum of 12 months of priming and painting the exterior siding, drywall taping, continuous service are eligible for 2 paid days off per plumbing and washer / dryer installation. Because the calendar year to volunteer. Our volunteer events enrich homes back up to a major interstate, Nasdaq workers the lives of the communities where we live and work. also installed soundproofing materials. Our employees are encouraged and rewarded for their Rosie’s Place. Boston, MA personal philanthropy and volunteerism. Philabundance Relief Center. Philadelphia, PA Year 2016 2015 2014 Red Cross Louisiana Flood Relief. In response to the devastating flooding in Louisiana—the worst natural Volunteering Events 46 39 32 disaster to hit the United States since Superstorm Volunteering Hours 1,803 735 350 Sandy in 2012—Nasdaq partnered with the American Employee Participants 186 83 60 Red Cross to send relief to those in need. Nasdaq double-matched all employee donations up to $500. Percentage of US FTEs 9.3% 4.1% 3% Scandinavian Fest. Budd Lake, NJ Prevent Cancer Foundation. Washington, DC A robust and inclusive corporate volunteering program Manna Food Center. Rockville, MD helps both companies and employees. Employee volunteerism fosters greater buy-in to the company's PS 138. Brooklyn, NY corporate culture, while enhancing awareness and Barkann Family Healing Hearts Foundation. Nasdaq understanding of business goals and strategies. The PHLX assisted families across the Delaware Valley company gets better productivity and retention. affected by sudden illness or the loss of a loved one. Employees can engage emotionally / intellectually, Our group volunteered alongside social workers and and gain professional development, better health and families with children who are receiving various leadership skills. treatments from the Children’s Hospital of Pennsylvania Our long-term goals for this program are ambitious, but and/or have profound physical disabilities. achievable: GOOD+ Foundation. New York, NY & Los Angeles, CA • Increased FTE volunteerism rate Central Texas Food Bank. Austin, TX • Increased FTE participation in PTO benefit Sanctuary for Families. Sanctuary for Families is a • Average at least one local volunteerism target for New York-based non-profit dedicated to the safety, every Nasdaq office healing and self-determination of victims of domestic violence and related forms of gender violence. Members • Partner with issuers on joint volunteering effort of the Nasdaq Marketing & Communications team • Continued inclusion in DJSI or similar ranking joined Nasdaq GoodWorks to volunteer and help the SUSTAINABILITY@NASDAQ.COM 4 2017 UNGC COP organization sort clothing, stock their provisions room, These organizational types are generally eligible for and clean out the supply room. corporate donation matching: VA Hospital Fisher House. Chicago, IL • Educational institutions Junior Achievement. Nasdaq CEO Adena Friedman and • Civic, arts and cultural groups other volunteers partnered with Junior Achievement • Health and human service advocates to teach financial literacy, work readiness and entrepreneurship to 6th graders at Parkland Middle • Environmental organizations School in Rockville, MD. Year 2016 2015 2014 The Home of Little Wanderers. Boston, MA Total Impact (USD) $289,753 $128,321 $0 Employee Donations 919 359 0 Program Participants 740 310 0 • On one single day—Giving Tuesday, 11/29/2016— Nasdaq employees made 122 separate donations, Philanthropy generating more than $92k in charitable impact. The Nasdaq Matching Gifts Program is an important way to enhance the Company's commitment to help Employee Empowerment the communities in which we work and live. Through Nasdaq GoodWorks, this program effectively doubles Nasdaq currently has two influential employeethe impact of all Nasdaq employee and contractors cash led working groups, both focused on the needs and contributions to charitable organizations, which enables expectations of specific audiences within the company. our families, fellow citizens, communities and resources • The Women’s Initiative at Nasdaq (WIN) is an to thrive. Nasdaq is proud to partner with our engaged organization made up of Nasdaq employees dedicated employees to make the world a better place. to promoting the professional growth of women at For 2017, this program is open to the following: Nasdaq. WIN’s primary focus is to engage, educate and empower professionals across all divisions • All Nasdaq regular, full and part-time employees as within Nasdaq and to champion the firm’s guiding well as Nasdaq contractors principles. Many Nasdaq offices have dedicated WIN • Employee cash donations are matched by Nasdaq, Ambassadors, responsible for awareness, coordination, dollar-for-dollar (1:1) networking, and local events. Members meet regularly to host influential speakers for interactive discussions • Minimum donation: $25 on relevant topics. • Per-employee annual matching limit: $1,000 • Nasdaq OPEN (Out and Proud Employees of Nasdaq) • Employees may donate to multiple organizations represents LGBT employees, families, and allies at • Nasdaq will only match up to the first $1,000 total work. OPEN seeks to foster an inclusive community per year focused on the diverse needs of Nasdaq’s LGBT community by establishing supportive programs, • Employees retain the tax-deductible benefit of their hosting events, and advocating for new policies. original donation To be eligible, all chosen organizations must be recognized by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) as taxON ONE SINGLE DAY (#GIVINGTUESDAY) NASDAQ exempt and designated as a public charity under section 501(c)(3) of the IRS Code, or as an instrumentality of EMPLOYEES GENERATED MORE THAN $92K IN a federal, state or local government as provided by CHARITABLE IMPACT. Section 170(c)(1) of the Code. The organization must have no political affiliation and must be open to full non-discriminatory participation. 5 SUSTAINABILITY@NASDAQ.COM 2017 UNGC COP Nasdaq: Environmental Update ­-­ Women & Negotiation: Challenges and Potential • Our Philadelphia office project was awarded the LEED • The Nasdaq OPEN (Out and Proud Employees of Platinum level LEED ID+C certification in sustainability Nasdaq) affinity group, representing LGBT employees, for both the construction process and interior design. families, and allies, was established in 2017. This is the highest rating and a great achievement • Nasdaq was proud to earn a Corporate Equality Index for the project team. In addition to the positive (CEI) rating of 85 from the Human Rights Campaign environmental benefits, it improves community (HRC). The CEI is the most prominent national relations and helps us attract and retain talent. benchmarking tool for corporate policies and practices • Nasdaq partnered with DigiPlex on one of the most regarding lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender sustainable data centers currently in operation. The (LGBT) employees. Swedish facility features: • Nasdaq announced the hiring of its first-ever diversity ­-­ 100% renewable energy sourcing and inclusion lead, focused on recruiting and employee engagement, in 2017. ­-­ Evaporative air cooling • Through a combination of M&A activity and business ­-­ Lowor no-wastewater generation, compared to growth, Nasdaq was able to post a third consecutive conventional data centers year of positive staff turnover. • The Nasdaq Helsinki exchange has achieved carbon • Nasdaq has, through its longtime membership in neutrality for 5 straight years the UN Global Compact, previously affirmed its ­-­ In addition, the Helsinki office has earned a difficult commitment to vital human rights standards. WWF Green Office distinction • In 2017, Nasdaq CEO Adena Friedman was honored • In 2016, the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra found by the Markets Media Choice Awards with its that “the calculated carbon intensity of the listed Outstanding Contribution Women in Finance companies on Nasdaq Helsinki has decreased by 20% distinction since last year.” • Nasdaq welcomed nearly 150 summer interns to • To meet increasing interest in sustainable bonds offices across the Americas, APAC and EMEA in 2017. from both investors and issuers, Nasdaq Stockholm Our intern program features a diverse group of launched a new list for sustainable corporate bonds. talented individuals, and our business has benefited from their unique contributions. ­-­ The main focus has been green bonds so far, but there is a growing progression towards sustainable • To commemorate Gender Equality International bonds with a broad focus on environmental and/or Women's Day in March, 2017, Nasdaq and its social positive impact. partner organizations hosted a celebration at Nasdaq MarketSite in Times Square. NASDAQ HELSINKI HAS OPERATED AS A CARBON NEUTRAL EXCHANGE FOR FIVE YEARS. Nasdaq: Social Update • The Women’s Initiative at Nasdaq (WIN), a longstanding internal affinity group, has grown to include more than 600 members. WIN speaking and education programs in 2016-2017 covered these topics: ­-­ FemTech: Supporting and Developing Female Leadership in Technology (featuring Nasdaq SVP Ann Dennison, SVP Heather Abbott, and EVP Stacie Swanstrom) ­-­ Educating Women in FinTech SUSTAINABILITY@NASDAQ.COM 6 2017 UNGC COP Nasdaq: Governance Update Board Demographic Changes Ethics program • The current Nasdaq Board of Directors is made up of 9 individuals • In 2016, more than 2,300 employees were trained in person, online and through “Ethics in Action” webinars; ­-­ 3 Women, 6 Men case studies also used to strengthen ethics training ­-­ 8 Independents, 1 Non-Independent • Ethics training was incorporated into HR onboarding 2017 Shareholder Voting and new hire orientations, covering more than 1,500 • In addition to electing all nominated Board members, new hires in 2016 Nasdaq stockholders also approved the following The 2017 Nasdaq Proxy is fully interactive, assisting proposals: the user in quickly finding key data. This model is one ­-­ The company's executive compensation on an that very few corporate proxies have thus far adopted. advisory basis; ­-­ An advisory vote to conduct future advisory votes on the company's executive compensation every year; and Notice of 2017 ­-­ Ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Nasdaq's independent registered public accounting Annual Meeting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2017. • The stockholders did not approve a stockholder of Stockholders proposal relating to the right to act by written consent. • The 2017 Nasdaq proposal for a comprehensive and Proxy Statement revision of our capital markets system (The Promise of Market Reform: Reigniting America’s Economic Engine) W E D N E S DAY, M AY 10, 2017 helped to create a national debate on a broad range of 8:30 A.M. (EDT) corporate governance issues and practices. Nasdaq FMC Tower • Nasdaq EVP and Chief Counsel Ed Knight contributed a 2929 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 lengthy public comment letter to the SEC regarding the recent Regulation S-K concept release. • In the last year, Nasdaq senior executives have testified before various government institutions on the following issues: ­-­ U.S. Equity Market Structure ­-­ The JOBS Act & Capital Formation ­-­ The RAISE Act (Note: This refers to the “Reforming Access for Investments in Startup Enterprises Act” of 2016, not the immigration reform measure put forward in 2017) BWise • In 2017, Nasdaq BWise won both the Operational Risk and GRC Category Winner award and the “Category THE PROMISE OF MARKET REFORM HELPED TO Leader award from Chartis CREATE A NATIONAL DEBATE ON GOVERNANCE • In 2016, Operational Risk named Nasdaq BWise the Best Operational Risk Product, Best GRC Product, and ISSUES AND PRACTICES. Best Overall Provider of the Year 7 SUSTAINABILITY@NASDAQ.COM 2017 UNGC COP © Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. Nasdaq is a registered trademark of Nasdaq, Inc. 36 SUSTAINABILITY@NASDAQ.COM
