UNGC COP 2017 GLOBAL SYNERGETIC FOUNDATION www.gsfn.in Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in ORGANIZATION Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in CEO's Statement Dr.S.S.D.Pandey CEO, Global Synergetic Foundation December,30th,2017 On 26th of May 2014, India witnessed and entered a New Era of dynamism with the able leadership of Hon. Sri Narendra Modi as its New Prime Minister. The energies manifested and started transforming the synergies in all walks of life, society and economy. As we know, On June 5th, the year 2002, Global Synergetic Foundation joined the UN’s Global Compact, and in doing so expressed its steadfast commitment to the Ten Principles that the Compact puts forth. Compliance with these principles is, without a doubt, one of the cornerstones for the democratic and cohesive existence of both companies and society as a whole. While GSF has continuously been consolidating and restructuring itself, much of activities are on the same path. We are committed to doing everything we can, in the interests of stakeholders, clients, employees and the communities in which we do business. Through Topfield Ventures, the Corporate Managing arm of the Global Synergetic, has as its primary objective to serve as our clients' most trusted external adviser and service providers on the greatest challenges facing senior management and Governing bodies. Topfield Ventures now establishes its subsidiary in India this year. We work with a range of organizations – Indian non-profits, companies, and emerging multinational entities. We serve them on a variety of strategic, operational, and organizational issues and help them become world-class companies. We continue to pursue our dynamic management of environmental issues, including the implementation of our climate change strategy. In addition, we have heightened our focus on the client-related aspects of climate change. We remain strongly committed to investing in our people and we continue programs and processes across the firm. We continue to work on the implementation of important projects linked to our Statement on Human Rights, in particular, pertaining to the issue of responsible supply chain management and to the development of sensitive industry guidelines. We remain firmly committed to our effective risk-based approach to anti-money laundering – a key responsibility for any global firm – and to promoting the development and implementation of anti-money laundering and anticorruption standards for the financial industry as a whole. Our continued dedication to key corporate responsibility activities demonstrates that we have not lost sight of areas of relevance beyond the fundamental consulting and service sphere. Equally, we have not lost sight of the longterm, even while, at present, our main efforts are focused on the short-term, i.e. the resolution of the crisis and the restoration of solid foundations for a successful future. Focused fully on consultancy, training, and research activities, supporting processes of institutional development or change, tailored to the specific sector, or the respective organization. Conventional ideas about organizational engineering are being supplemented by broader notions on promoting learning, empowerment, and social capital. The approach towards institutional development puts emphasis on effective and sustainable self-management, individual creativity, principles of gender equity, local knowledge and participation of stakeholders which gives us sufficient grounding to work with the UNGC Ten Principles. We embrace, support and enact the 10 principles within our “spheres of influence”. In the year 2017-2017, we are able now to disseminate the Ten Principles but to get it implemented in a networked manner through GSF Network. We became UN Caring for Climate Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in Signatories in the year 2008. Our goal with the Climate Manifesto is to give a voice to the strong public opinion that exists with respect to the climate issue, but also to spark a debate. Foundation has been highly adaptive and has been undergoing a drastic transformation during the intervening period according to the changing socioeconomic and political world order. We are to give now equal thrust to the promotion of World View and Eternal Wisdom for world peace and harmony and Climate and Environment under the umbrella of GSF Network, also represented as GSFN. It is, therefore, with particular pride that I present our ninth “Communication on Progress”, which describes how our signature of the Global Compact has paved the way to tangible, long-term actions both within our Organization and on behalf of our members. Best Wishes on Happy and Peaceful New Year Regards Yours Dr.S.S.D.Pandey New Delhi, India Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in Principle 1 Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Human rights are commonly understood as being those rights that are inherent to the human being (e.g., right to education, freedom of speech). The concept of human rights acknowledges that every single human being is entitled to enjoy his or her human rights without distinction as to race, color, sex, language, religion, political or another opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or another status.? COMMITMENT Global Synergetic has well established human resources policies and practices that address issues such as employment, diversity, equal opportunity and discrimination. Such policies also tackle human rights issues, as do policies relating to health and safety practices. Global Synergetic’s human resources policies and practices are regularly reviewed to ensure that labor standards are respected. In line with the firm’s endorsement of the UN Global Compact and its underlying principles, Global Synergetic adopted a statement supporting basic human rights in 2006. The “Global Synergetic Statement on Human Rights” outlines important human rights issues and sets out the firm’s position on the topic. In 2008, Global Synergetic reaffirmed its commitment to human rights by supporting the UN Global Compact’s Chief Executive Officer statement, which marked the 60th anniversary of the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In 2008 Global Synergetic continued with the implementation of its human rights statement with the introduction of a responsible supply chain guideline. In 2011 it finalized industry sector guidelines to support the consistent identification and assessment of environmental and social risks in the firm’s banking activities. The sector guidelines cover industry sectors that have a high potential for environmental and social risk including chemicals, oil and gas, utilities, infrastructure, forestry products and biofuels and metals and mining. Regarding Human Rights, we are committed to: Promote the protection of international human rights within our sphere of influence, promote the right to health, promote equal opportunities and diversity, Contribute to the development of international standards on human rights for business. And above all to strengthen the Rights of Children which needs a reworking Globally. We declared on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we, business leaders from all corners of the world, call on governments to implement fully their human rights obligations. We also reiterate our own commitment to respect and support human rights within our sphere of influence. Human rights are universal and are an important business concern all over the globe. SYSTEMS • Company policy and strategy to support human rights: We ascribe and have strong commitment to the human rights policy of the United Nations and Global Compact. Integrity, trust, fairness and honesty are the basics that guide our strategies, our behaviour and the relationships we build with people, both internally and externally. Each of us will exercise the highest level of ethical and professional behaviour, Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in • Human rights management system We have instilled the relevant clauses in all our agreements and documents the policies that protect the human rights of workers in the company’s direct employment and throughout its supply chain, company’s security arrangements do not contribute to human rights violations, whether it provides its own security, contracts out to others or uses security supplied by the Government departments. • We have been conducting the ongoing staff training on how human rights issues can be affected by business, on internal company policies as they relate to human rights, and lastly • We conduct from time to time, Human rights impact assessments of business activities • Monitoring system to ensure that the company’s human rights policies are being implemented: • We have been very sensitive and vigilant for Human rights assessment of the situation in countries where the company does, or intends to do in future, business so as to identify the risk of involvement in human rights abuses and the company’s potential impact on the situation. • We remain actively engaged through ICT and have Open dialogue with human rights organizations or business partners. Further, we keep issues raising again and again unless some significant positive move is perceived. ACTIVITIES • We ensure that standard is maintained in providing safe and healthy working conditions • We facilitate, as per our policy, access to basic health, education and/or housing for workers and their families and protect the economic livelihood of local communities We are Think Tank and not a brick and mortar company. Our crew and participants vary year by year but our Conscience and Aim remain the same. We operate more on platonic plain of humans and insist and motivate to implement the ideas in their own spheres of lives. Now we have focused fully on consultancy, training, and research activities, supporting processes of institutional development or change, tailored to the specific sector, or the respective organization. Conventional ideas about organizational engineering are being supplemented by broader notions on promoting learning, empowerment, and social capital. The approach towards institutional development puts emphasis on effective and sustainable self management, individual creativity, principles of gender equity, local knowledge and participation of stakeholders. Support is given at different levels: *individual: upgrading of knowledge and skills of professional staff, as well as in grass root level organizations; *organizational: assisting in setting of clear goals and putting efficient organization structures to work (NGOs, interest groups, civil service organizations); *inter-organizational: generating synergy between organizations with a common goal (i.e.NGOs, credit associations, women based/community-based groups, small businesses; mutual social services);*policy/sector environment: programme design and evaluation, creating enabling environments for stakeholders in institutional development processes. Organization has a selfmanaging team of senior advisors with professional backgrounds in development economics, institutional development, gender, who have extensive international experience. Specific consultancy, training and research expertise can be provided either by the unit itself or by other units of the Organization. PERFORMANCE Investment: Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. 2017 (99.99%) 2016 (99.99%) Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in Implementing vigilance: Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that underwent screening on human rights and actions taken. 2017 (84%) 2016 (86%) Training: Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 2017 (360) 2016 (360) Women Empowerment & Gender Justice: Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 2017 (male 40%,female 60%, Minority 10%) 2016 (male 40%,female 60%, Minority 10%) Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. One in all the cases 2017 (1:1) 2016 (1:1) Result: Targeted performance achieved with in Circle of spheres I,II& III. Relevant GRI Indicators HR 1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. 2017 (99%) 2016 (99%) HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that underwent screening on human rights and actions taken. 2017 (90%) 2016 (90%) HR 3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 2017 (360) 2016 (360) HR 4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 2017 (nil) 2016 (nil) HR 5 Operations identified where the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions to support these rights. 2017 (05) 2016 (05) HR 6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and measures to contribute to eliminate child labor. 2017 (nil) 2016 (nil) Policies have been enacted from the very beginning to prevent any mishappening. HR 7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. 2017 (nil) 2016 (nil) Policies have been enacted from the very beginning to prevent any mishappening. Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in HR 8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the company’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights relevant to operations. NA 2017 (100%) 2016 (100%) HR 9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. 2017 (nil) 2016 (nil) Policies have been enacted from the very beginning to prevent any such mishappening. EC 5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 2017 (1:1 to 1:3) 2016 (1:2 to 1:3) LA 4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 2017 (95%) 2016 (95%) LA 6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. 2017 (5%) 2016 (5%) LA 7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workrelated fatalities by region. 2017 (nil) 2016 (nil) LA 8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. 2017 (06) 2016 (06) LA 9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 2017 (yes) 2016 (yes) LA 13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 2017(male 40%,female 60%, Minority 10%) 2016 (male 40%,female 60%, Minority 10%) LA 14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. One in all the cases 2017 (1:1) 2016 (1:1) SO 5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Continued... 2017 (11) 2016 (11) PR 1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and service categories subject to such procedures. 2017 (nil) 2016 (nil) Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in PR 2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PR 8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 2017 (nil) 2016 (nil) Principle 2 Human Rights Principle 2: Business should make that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights are commonly understood as being those rights that are inherent to the human being (e.g., right to education, freedom of speech). The concept of human rights acknowledges that every single human being is entitled to enjoy his or her human rights without distinction as to race, color, sex, language, religion, political or another opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or another status.? COMMITMENT We ascribe and have a strong commitment to the human rights policy of the United Nations and Global Compact. Integrity, trust, fairness, and honesty are the basics that guide our strategies, our behavior and the relationships we build with people, both internally and externally. Each of us will exercise the highest level of ethical and professional behavior, states the policy. The international human rights norms are a call upon governments to respect these rights of their citizens to the largest extent possible. Although international human rights are not directly enforceable upon the private sector, it is our view that private companies such as Global Synergetic can and should support governments in implementing human rights. In this spirit, the Global Synergetic statement on human rights sets out our approach to promoting and respect human rights standards within our sphere of influence. This is in line with our endorsement of the UN Global Compact and its underlying principles. Our ability to promote and respect human rights standards depends on the nature of our relationship with the various stakeholders with which we engage: as an employer, we act in line with the principles underlying human rights; with suppliers, our level of influence is lower, but we can act to a certain extent through the contractual agreements we have with them; our level of influence is limited to our clients. The human rights principles below describe our aspirations. We endeavor to embed the principles in our culture by integrating them into our business practices and internal communications. Employees We respect and support human rights standards through our human resources policies and practices. Suppliers and contractors We strive to assess the business practices of significant suppliers in light of human rights standards and integrate relevant aspects into our contractual relationships with them. Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in Clients We aim to promote the responsible use of our products and services by taking human rights standards into account when vetting prospective clients and executing transactions. We regularly report on our progress in implementing this Statement as part of Global Synergetic’s annual reporting. We have been critically focused on issues relating to injustice and complicity and we have been communication it through our blog. SYSTEMS Besides those stated under Principle I, • We have instilled the relevant clauses in all our agreements and documents the policies that protect the human rights of workers in the company’s direct employment and throughout its supply chain, company’s security arrangements do not contribute to human rights violations, whether it provides its own security, contracts out to others or uses security supplied by the Government departments. • We have been conducting the ongoing staff training on how human rights issues can be affected by business, on internal company policies as they relate to human rights, and lastly • We conduct from time to time, , Human rights impact assessments of business activities ACTIVITIES • We have been very sensitive and vigilant for Human rights assessment of the situation in countries where the company do or intends to do in future, business so as to identify the risk of involvement in human rights abuses and the company’s potential impact on the situation. • We remain actively engaged through ICT and have an Open dialogue with human rights organizations or business partners. Further, we keep issues raising again and again unless some significant positive move is perceived. PERFORMANCE Progress on tracking and addressing complaints about human rights abuses as reflected by GRI indicators support our belief that we have been performing and moving ahead successfully. Target achieved. Relevant GRI indicators HR 1 Percentage and a total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. 2017 (99.99%) 2016 (99.99%) HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that underwent screening on human rights and actions taken.99.99% 2017 (90%) 2016 (90%) HR 3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 2017 (360) 2016 (360) HR 4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 2017 (nil) 2016 (nil) Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in HR 5 Operations identified where the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions to support these rights. 2017 (05) 2016 (05) HR 6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and measures to contribute to eliminating child labor. 2017 (nil) 2016 (nil) Policies have been enacted from the very beginning to prevent any such mishappening. HR 7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. 2017 (nil) 2016 (nil) Policies have been enacted from the very beginning to prevent any such mishappening. HR 8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the company’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights relevant to operations. NA 2017 (100%) 2016 (100%) HR 9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. 2017 (nil) 2016 (nil) Policies have been enacted from the very beginning to prevent any such mishappening. SO 5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 2017 (11) 2016 (11) Principle 3 Labor Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Freedom of association implies a respect for the right of employers and workers to join associations of their own choice. Employers should not interfere in an employee’s decision to associate, or discriminate against the employee or a representative of the employee because of such association. Collective bargaining refers to the process or activity leading up to the conclusion of a collective labor agreement. Collective bargaining is a voluntary process used to determine terms and conditions of work and the regulation of relations between employers, workers, and their organizations. COMMITMENT Organization strives to promote the Human freedom, equal opportunities and establishment of a liberal system worldwide where humanity sustains and creativity finds an unobstructed way to grow. We believe that it is our responsibility to promote and uphold freedom of association and human development through competition. SYSTEMS We have inbuilt the policies, programs and management systems, relating to: Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in • Union-neutral policies and procedures in areas such as applications for employment, recordkeeping and decisions on advancement, dismissal or transfer • Facilities to enable worker representatives to carry out their functions within the company, such as: collecting union dues on company premises, posting trade union notices, and distributing union documents related to normal trade union activities in the enterprise and time-off with pay for union activities ACTIVITIES Global Synergetic has been involved intensively during recent months with its massive employment generation program in India. The news link: PERFORMANCE The massive employment generation program is in progress and we have been satisfied with the in built mechanism based on ten principles. Relevant GRI indicators LA 4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 2017 (95%) 2016 (95%) LA 5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether specified in collective agreements. 2017 (90days) 2016 (90days) HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that underwent screening on human rights and actions taken. 2017 (86%) 2016 (86%) HR 3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 2017 (360) 2016 (360) HR 5 Operations identified where the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions to support these rights. 2017 (05) 2016 (05) SO 5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 2017 (11) 2016 (11) Principle 4 Labor Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor was defined in ILO Convention No. 29, Forced Labor Convention, in 1930 as “All work and service which is exacted from any person under the menace of any penalty and for which the said person has not offered her/himself voluntarily.”The most extreme examples are slave labor and bonded labor; but debts, withholding of identity papers, or the lodging of compulsory deposits can also be used as means of forcing labor. Another form of forced labor is Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in when workers are compelled, under threat of firing, to work extra hours to which they have not previously agreed. COMMITMENT We have strong Commitment to support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor using words from your policy or international standards (e.g., ILO Convention No. 29) SYSTEMS • Management systems on labor practices, as they address the issue of forced labor • Policies and procedures to prohibit the requirement that workers lodge financial deposits with the company • In planning and conducting business operations, ensure that workers in debt bondage or other forms of forced labor are not engaged, and where found, provide for the removal of such workers from the workplace with adequate services and provision of viable alternatives in the community of operation ACTIVITIES Providing grievance mechanisms for workers subjected to forced labor Making available to all employees, employment contracts stating the terms and conditions of service, the voluntary nature of employment and the freedom to leave (including the appropriate procedures that may be associated with a departure or cessation of work) Engaging with suppliers on forced labor and how to avoid its use Helping develop skills training and income-generating alternatives, including micro-credit financing programs, for adults removed from situations of forced labor PERFORMANCE • When the objective is the non-existence of a condition, such as forced labor, it is sometimes more appropriate to discuss performance in qualitative terms (i.e., you can’t measure what’s not there) • Audit results would be a relevant indicator to report Relevant GRI Indicators HR 1 Percentage and a total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. 2017 (99.99%) 2016 (99.99%) HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that underwent screening on human rights and actions taken.99.99% 2017 (90%) 2016 (90%) HR 3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 2017 (360) 2016 (360) Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in HR 7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. 2017 (nil) 2016 (nil) Policies have been enacted from the very beginning to prevent any such mishappening. SO 5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 2017 (11) 2016 (11) Principle 5 Labor Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labor What is Child Labor? ILO conventions recommend a minimum age for admission to employment or work that must not be less than the age for completing compulsory schooling and in any case not less than 15 years. Lower ages are permitted – generally in countries where economic and educational facilities are less well-developed. The minimum age is 14 years and 13 years for “light work”. The minimum age for hazardous work is higher at 18 years. COMMITMENT We have strong Commitment to support the effective abolition of child labor as per international standards (e.g., ILO Convention Nos. 138 and 182), including that the policy is universally applied independently of local laws SYSTEMS We have inbuilt policies, programs and management systems, and strive for implementing: • Adherence to minimum age provisions of national labor laws and regulations and, assumable where national law is insufficient, taking account of international standards • Adequate ssuredly mechanisms for age verification in recruitment procedures • Development and implementation of mechanisms to detect child labor and provide remediation where abuse is found • Ensuring that adult workers are given secure employment and decent wages and working conditions so that they do not need to send their children to work ACTIVITIES Global Synergetic has been involved intensively during recent months with its massive employment generation programme in India. The news link: While formulating strategies for the programme, we have been keeping in mind carefully to instill the Ten Principles, and • When children below the legal working age are found in the workplace, providing for their removal with adequate services and viable alternatives for both the children and their families • Exercising influence on subcontractors, suppliers and other business affiliates to combat child labor • Supporting and helping design educational, vocational training, and counseling programmes for working children, and skills training for parents of working children PERFORMANCE Progress on tracking and addressing complaints about human rights abuses as reflected by GRI indicators support our belief that we have been performing and moving ahead successfully. Target achieved. Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in Relevant GRI Indicators HR 1 Percentage and a total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. 2017 (99%) 2016 (99%) HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that underwent screening on human rights and actions taken.99.99% 2017 (90%) 2016 (90%) HR 3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 2017 (360) 2016 (360) HR 6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and measures to contribute to eliminating child labor. 2017 (nil) 2016 (nil) Policies have been enacted from the very beginning to prevent any such mishappening. SO 5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 2017 (11) 2016 (11) Principle 6 Labor Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation What is Discrimination? Discrimination was defined in ILO Convention No. 111 in 1958 as: “Any distinction, exclusion or preference made on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin, which has the effect of nullifying or impairing equality of opportunity or treatment in employment or occupation.”Since that time, additional considerations have been included in some jurisdictions (e.g., sexual orientation, marital status, physical ability except where identified as a bona fide occupational requirement). COMMITMENT We have strong Commitment to support the elimination of discrimination as per international standards (e.g., ILO Convention No. 111), including a statement that the policy applies to hiring, employment opportunity and promotion decisions. SYSTEMS • High-level responsibility for equal employment opportunity issues, clear companywide policy and procedures to guide equal employment opportunity practices, and link between advancement and desired performance in this area • Company policies and procedures which make qualifications, skill and experience the basis for the recruitment, placement, training and advancement of staff at all levels • Grievance procedures that apply when discrimination is identified, to address complaints, handle appeals and provide recourse for employees Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in ACTIVITIES • Working on a case by case basis to evaluate whether a distinction is inherent to a job requirement (e.g., does the job require a female to perform it), and avoid the application of job requirements in a way that would systematically disadvantage certain groups • In foreign operations, working with representatives of workers and governmental authorities to ensure equal access to employment by women and minorities PERFORMANCE Describe impact of systems, outcomes of actions and progress achieved in regard to this principle, for example: The number of employees from population groups (i.e., race, gender or age) that have been traditionally discriminated against Relevant GRI Indicators LA 13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 2017 (male 40%,female 60%, Minority 10%) 2016 (male 40%,female 60%, Minority 10%) LA 14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. One in all the cases 2017 (1:1) 2016 (1:1) HR 1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. 2017 (99%) 2016 (99%) HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that underwent screening on human rights and actions taken.99.99% 2017 (90%) 2016 (90%) HR 3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 2017 (360) 2016 (360) HR 4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 2017 (nil) 2016 (nil) EC 7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. 2017 (open selection/40%) 2016 (open selection/40%) SO 5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 2017 (11) 2016 (11) Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in Principle 7 Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges The precautionary approach is defined as: “ Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.” COMMITMENT We have developed internal industry sector guidelines to support the consistent identification and assessment of environmental and social risks in all its banking activities. The sector guidelines cover industry sectors that have a high potential for environmental and social risk including chemicals, oil and gas, utilities, infrastructure, forestry products and biofuels and metals and mining. The guidelines summarize industry standards for dealing with these issues in the various life cycles of the sector. Standard for energy efficiency: Global Synergetic has adopted a technical standard supporting worldwide oversight of measures taken to improve energy efficiency in fields such as building operation, replacement investments, and rehabilitation. The standard sets energy efficiency target values, for example for heating boilers, chillers, and heat pump systems as well as for glazing, facades, and lighting. It generally applies to all owned buildings, whereas in leased buildings applicability is limited to Global Synergistic sphere of influence as a tenant. SYSTEMS Responsible supply chain guideline which we have adopted, a supply chain guideline that provides group-wide guidance for identifying, assessing and monitoring supplier practices in the areas of human and labor rights, the environment and corruption. We keep under intensive vigilance the Environmental risk assessment which establishes the potential for unintended environmental damage alongside other risks, Environmental impact assessment that ensures that impacts of development projects are within acceptable levels and Strategic environmental assessment – ensures that impacts of policies and plans are taken into account and mitigated ACTIVITIES We manage our operations with openness, effectiveness, and accountability and, for each energy source and type of technology, we strive to be best in class. • We do our utmost to choose modern, efficient and environmentally effective technologies while making a sound assessment, balancing environment and economy when making investments. • We strive to increase our use of energy sources and technologies that have low emissions of carbon dioxide and other emissions. • We invest in Research and Development to improve energy efficiency in our operations, in renewable and low emission energy sources and to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from power plants based on fossil fuels. • We have a structured and systematic approach to taking environmental aspects into account, including setting requirements and targets as well as performing follow-ups. We handle this as an integral part of our business management. We assess environmental, social and ethical performance when selecting suppliers, contractors, and business partners. We endeavor to get the desired impact under UNGC Ten Principles by: Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in • Creating a managerial committee or steering group to oversee the application of precaution • Establishing two-way communication with stakeholders (e.g., via workshop discussions, focus groups, public polls) about uncertainties and potential risks • Supporting scientific research, including independent and public research, on the issue involved • Participating in industry-wide collaborative efforts to share knowledge and deal with issues, in particular, production processes and products around which high level of uncertainty, potential harm, and sensitivity exist PERFORMANCE Results from regular consultations with stakeholders and/or cooperation with external organizations in dealing with issues that require the application of precaution and in the light of GRI Indicators, we feel satisfied as moving ahead. Relevant GRI indicators EC 2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. Advocacy and Campaign EN 18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Advocacy and Campaign EN 26 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. NA EN 30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Less than 0.50% of Profits SO 5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 2017 (11) 2016 (11) Principle 8 Environment Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility What does greater environmental responsibility mean to my business? resource productivity,ecoefficiency cleaner production corporate governance life-cycles, business design, management systems multi-stakeholder, active dialogue COMMITMENT We are committed to promoting greater environmental responsibility. SYSTEMS • Adoption of voluntary charters, codes of conduct, codes of practice in global and sector initiatives • Strategies, policies and systems that incorporate the “triple bottom line” of sustainable development and introduce Life Cycle Management • Quantifiable objectives and targets, and measurement of progress made against them Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in ACTIVITIES We manage our operations with openness, effectiveness and accountability and, for each energy source and type of technology, we strive to be best in class. • We do our utmost to choose modern, efficient and environmentally effective technologies while making a sound assessment, balancing environment and economy when making investments. • We strive to increase our use of energy sources and technologies that have low emissions of carbon dioxide and other emissions. • We invest in Research and Development to improve energy efficiency in our operations, in renewable and low emission energy sources and to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from power plants based on fossil fuels. • We have a structured and systematic approach to taking environmental aspects into account, including setting requirements and targets as well as performing follow-ups. We handle this as an integral part of our business management. We assess environmental, social and ethical performance when selecting suppliers, contractors and business partners. We endeavor to get desired impact under UNGC Ten Principles by : • Creating a managerial committee or steering group to oversee the application of precaution • Establishing two-way communication with stakeholders (e.g., via workshop discussions, focus groups, public polls) about uncertainties and potential risks • Supporting scientific research, including independent and public research, on the issue involved • Participating in industry-wide collaborative efforts to share knowledge and deal with issues, in particular, production processes and products around which high level of uncertainty, potential harm and sensitivity exist PERFORMANCE Progress on tracking and addressing complaints about human rights abuses as reflected by GRI indicators support our belief that we have been performing and moving ahead successfully. Target achieved. Relevant GRI Indicators En 1 Materials used by weight or volume. En 2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. En 3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. En 4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. En 5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. EN 6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives during the reporting period. EN 7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source. EN 9 Water sources significantly affected by the withdrawal of water. EN 10 Percentage and a total volume of water recycled and reused. EN 11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN 12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN 13 Habitats protected or restored. EN 14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in EN 15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by a level of extinction risk. EN 16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN 17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN 18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. EN 19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. EN 20 NOx, Sox, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. EN 21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN 22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. EN 23 Total number and volume of significant spills. EN 24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN 25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. EN 26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN 27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. EN 28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN 29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. EN 30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. SO 5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 2017 (11) 2016 (11) PR 3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR 4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Principle 9 Environment Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies What is meant by an “environmentally sound technology”? best are those that:“...protect the environment, are less polluting, use all resources in a more sustainable manner, recycle more of their wastes and products, and handle residual wastes in a more acceptable manner than the technologies for which they were substitutes. [ESTs] are not just individual technologies, but total Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in systems which include know-how, procedures, goods and services, and equipment as well as organizational and managerial processes.” (Agenda21, Chapter 3 ) COMMITMENT Global Synergetic is continuously: -seeking to consider environmental risks in all our businesses, especially in consulting, advisory and research, and Global Synergetic’s own investments; -seeking to pursue opportunities in the financial markets for environmentally friendly products and services, such as socially responsible investments; -seeking ways to reduce our direct environmental impact on air, soil, and water from in-house operations, with a primary focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Global Synergetic also assesses the environmental impact of its suppliers’ products and services; -ensuring efficient implementation of Global Synergetic’s policy through a global environmental management system certified according to ISO 14001 – the international environmental management standard; -integrating environmental considerations into internal communications and training. SYSTEMS Responsible supply chain guideline which we have adopted, a supply chain guideline that provides group-wide guidance for identifying, assessing and monitoring supplier practices in the areas of human and labor rights, the environment and corruption. We keep under intensive vigilance the Environmental risk assessment which establishes the potential for unintended environmental damage alongside other risks, Environmental impact assessment that ensures that impacts of development projects are within acceptable levels and Strategic environmental assessment – ensures that impacts of policies and plans are taken into account and mitigated. We focus on: • Corporate or division/subsidiary policies on the use of environmentally sound technologies (ESTs) • Life cycle assessment (LCA) for the development of new technologies and products, so as to take into account impacts on the manufacture, use, and disposal of the product • Environmental Technology Assessment (EnTA) – analytical tool designed to ensure that Decision-making processes related to technology adaptation, implementation, and use are sustainable ACTIVITIES We manage our operations with openness, effectiveness, and accountability and, for each energy source and type of technology, we strive to be best in class. • We do our utmost to choose modern, efficient and environmentally effective technologies while making a sound assessment, balancing environment and economy when making investments. • We strive to increase our use of energy sources and technologies that have low emissions of carbon dioxide and other emissions. • We invest in Research and Development to improve energy efficiency in our operations, in renewable and low emission energy sources and to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from power plants based on fossil fuels. • We have a structured and systematic approach to taking environmental aspects into account, including setting requirements and targets as well as performing follow-ups. We handle this as an integral part of our business management. We assess environmental, social and ethical performance when selecting suppliers, contractors, and business partners. We endeavor to get the desired impact under UNGC Ten Principles by: Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in • Creating a managerial committee or steering group to oversee the application of precaution • Establishing two-way communication with stakeholders (e.g., via workshop discussions, focus groups, public polls) about uncertainties and potential risks • Supporting scientific research, including independent and public research, on the issue involved • Participating in industry-wide collaborative efforts to share knowledge and deal with issues, in particular, production processes and products around which high level of uncertainty, potential harm, and sensitivity exist PERFORMANCE • Quantitative description of how many people/companies might be affected by external technology sharing, and how it helps to improve environmental or social conditions Relevant GRI Indicators En 2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. En 5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. En 6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives during the reporting period. En 7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. En 10 Percentage and a total volume of water recycled and reused. En 18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. En 26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. En 27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. En 30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. SO 5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 2017 (11) 2016 (11) Principle 10 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Corruption can take many forms that vary in degree from the minor use of influence to institutionalized bribery. Transparency International’s definition of corruption is “the abuse of entrusted power for private gain”. This can mean not only financial gain but also non-financial advantages. The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises define extortion in the following way:“The solicitation of bribes is the act of asking or enticing another to commit bribery. It becomes extortion when this demand is accompanied by threats that endanger the personal integrity or the life of the private actors involved.” ... and bribery? Transparency International’s Business Principles for Countering Bribery define “bribery” in the following way: “Bribery: An offer or receipt of any gift, loan, fee, reward or other advantage to or from any person as an inducement to do something which is dishonest, illegal or a breach of trust, in the conduct of the enterprise’s business.”The UN Convention against Corruption adopts the widest notion of corruption, which goes well beyond the traditional forms of bribery and embezzlement both in the private and public sectors. By global standards, corruption also means trading in influence, abuse of functions, illicit enrichment, obstruction of justice, laundering and concealment of ill-gotten gains. Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in COMMITMENT Anti-corruption policies and procedures are in place in all Business Divisions which aim to prevent bribery occurring in Global Synergetic ‘s own operations. These policies are derived from the standards that are set out in the Group Policy Against Corruption which was revised and re-issued in 2008 together with the Group Policy on Gifts and Business Entertainment. All Business Divisions reviewed their respective policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the Group standards. This resulted in various actions which are now completed, progress continues to be monitored by the cross Business Division Anti-Corruption Network (ACN). The ACN is also mandated to address specific areas that may need more detailed standards and for these to be implemented across the bank where practicable. We have been among Signatories of UN Convention Against Corruption. SYSTEMS Global Synergetic takes its responsibility to preserve the integrity of the financial system, and its own operations, very seriously. The firm has developed extensive policies intended to prevent, detect and report money laundering, corruption, and terrorist financing. These policies seek to protect the firm, and its reputation, from those who may intend to legitimize their ill-gotten gains through Global Synergetic. Global Synergetic also seeks to ensure its employees adhere to the firm’s strict know-your-customer regulations, while at the same time not treating clients a priori as criminals or undermining their right to privacy Global Synergetic also utilizes advanced technology to assist in the identification of transaction patterns or unusual dealings. ACTIVITIES Over the last few years, and as a core part of its risk-based approach, Global Synergetic has been particularly vigilant about enhancing controls with regard to regimes and countries with heightened risks. The need for increased vigilance has been underscored by the acknowledgment by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) of the importance of country risk considerations in the risk-based approach, increasing international focus on corruption, and the need for the firm to manage its global security risk activity. As a result of these considerations, Global Synergetic has implemented a global sanctions policy, ceasing all business activities with a limited number of countries. Thus we focus on: • Anti-corruption policy and implementation of a program tailored to the risk profile of the company • Human resources management systems supporting the ethical behavior of employees • Monitoring and sanctions system and whistle blower schemes • Reporting procedures and continuous improvement processes • Functions of compliance officers PERFORMANCE Progress on tracking and addressing complaints about human rights abuses as reflected by GRI indicators support our belief that we have been performing and moving ahead successfully. Target achieved. Relevant GRI Indicators SO 2 Percentage and a total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 2017 (95%,22) 2016 (95%,22) Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in SO 3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. 2017 (90%) 2016 (90%) SO 4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Legal Proceedings SO 5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Continued... 2017 (11) 2016 (11) SO 6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions by country. 2017 (nil) 2016 (nil) Global Synergetic Foundation : UNGC COP 2017 www.gsfn.in
