Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 www.frigoglass.com Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Contents 1 CEO’s message 5 7 Marketplace 32 7.1 Economic performance and impact 32 2 About this year’s sustainability report 6 7.2 Product quality and responsibility 33 2.1 Process for defining the report’s contents 6 7.3 Customer satisfaction and brand promotion 34 7.4 Responsible procurement 36 3 About Frigoglass 9 and supplier assessment 3.1 Financial highlights 10 7.5 Regulatory compliance 37 3.2 Global presence 11 3.3 Our business strategy 12 8 Environment 38 3.3.1 Customer Focus 12 8.1 Product environmental stewardship 38 3.3.2 Innovation Leader 14 8.2 GHG emissions management and reduction 40 3.3.3 Integrated Services 17 8.3 Energy efficiency of operations 42 3.3.4 Quality First 18 8.4 Resource management and efficiency 44 3.3.5 Cost Leadership 19 8.5 Waste management and control 46 3.4 Corporate governance 20 9 Workplace 48 4 Our sustainability strategy 24 9.1 Labour practices and human rights 49 9.2 Fair business practices 49 5 Stakeholders and materiality 26 9.3 Diversity and equal opportunity 50 5.1 Stakeholder engagement 26 9.4 Health and safety 50 5.2 Materiality 28 9.5 Employee satisfaction 51 6 Our sustainability performance 30 9.6 Training and development 51 10 Community 52 10.1 Supporting local communities 52 11 Appendices 54 2 3 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 1 CEO’s message At Frigoglass, we recognized early the GRI has supported Frigoglass in complying With regards to the Community pillar, need to integrate environmental, social with the new EU Directive on Non-Financial we have continued supporting local and corporate governance issues to the Disclosure and has enabled broader communities of operations by hiring local core of our operations, and harmonize our organizational transparency. The aim is workforce, making in-kind investments in sustainability and business strategies. to improve corporate performance on the local infrastructure and empowering environmental and social issues, as well as relationships with local suppliers. Identifying and evaluating the issues that maintaining high level of business ethics. are material for our organization and Greater transparency will also help us better At Frigoglass, we believe that sustainable stakeholders is essential to providing manage risks and identify opportunities. development means meeting the needs long-term direction and focus on our of the present without compromising sustainability strategy which highlights The materiality analysis, that was conducted the ability of future generations to meet business imperatives, monitors results and in 2016, resulted in four core pillars – their own needs; and we are working hard drives progress. Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and towards this direction. Community – and 20 identified sustainability The past year has been one of challenge issues, which are portrayed in the Nikos Mamoulis and change for Frigoglass, but sustainability Materiality Matrix. Chief Executive Officer remained central to our business. I’m proud to report that we have made progress on our In each of the four pillars, we have made sustainability goals and have created positive noticeable progress during the year. In the social, environmental and business impact. Marketplace pillar, we have improved the energy efficiency and noise levels of our Early in the year, we expressed our beverage coolers and have significantly determination to pursue responsible increased sales share of environmentally business activities by signing the letter of friendly coolers. We have maintained a very commitment to the ten principles of the high recycling rate of our products and United Nations Global Compact. We have have reduced their environmental impact. also listened closely to our stakeholders We have also broadened the scope of our and have improved our policies in the field goals to include our procurement and of business ethics, supplier responsibility, supply chain. labour and human rights. With regards to our Environmental In 2016, we decided to take sustainability objectives, we have achieved to reduce reporting one step further by adopting Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and a recognized framework for developing optimize water consumption and recycling a standardized sustainability report. The in our Cool and Glass operations. Moreover, adopted framework is the Global Reporting we have enhanced resource efficiency in Initiative (GRI G4) that provides detailed production and have reduced the volume of guidelines and determines the content waste generated. and manner sustainability information is disclosed. In the Workplace pillar, we have invested in talent attraction, training and development, and have taken steps in improving diversity and equality in our operations. Also we have continued promoting fair business practices and ensuring a safe and healthy working environment. 4 5 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 2 About this year’s sustainability report Sustainability is central to our business strategy and is firmly embedded in our 2.1. Process for defining Input was provided through continuous engagement of the involved departments This is Frigoglass’ corporate strategy, operations and products. the report’s content in all our operations, which assessed and validated the outcomes of each phase. Final first sustainability report This is Frigoglass’ first sustainability report The development of the report was validation and approval of the content was that is aligned with the according to the guidelines of the Global carried out by our sustainability team in provided by the Frigoglass Management. Reporting Initiative (GRI G4), covering the collaboration with all departments, which “Core” approach of the organisation’s performance for the year jointly shaped the content of this report. In an effort to demonstrate transparency, GRI G4 sustainability 2016. Compliance with the GRI G4 guidelines metrics regarding our energy consumption ensures that the contents of the report are The process for defining the report content and carbon emissions have been verified by reporting guidelines, relevant, consistent and comparable. consisted of establishing the main pillars a third party (TUV Hellas). They are presented for the year 2016. of sustainable development and the in the GRI index at the end of this report. Our sustainability report describes our issues associated with them, prioritising purpose, our focus areas and the actions the identified issues considering both our Other metrics which have not been subject taken for accomplishing our goals. strategy and our stakeholder’s perspective, as to third party assurance, have been verified well as defining Key Performance Indicators through regular internal audits. The scope of this report covers all (KPIs) and targets linked to those issues. operations and sites over which Frigoglass Our aim is to further improve our has operational control, such as During the preparation of the sustainability sustainability reporting process through manufacturing facilities and sales offices, report, we have adhered to the four GRI wider engagement of Departments and as well as subsidiary companies (unless principles for defining report content: stakeholders and the deeper exploration stated otherwise). materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, of the impact of our operations. sustainability context and completeness. The 2016 sustainability report relates to the period of January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016. 1 Identiﬁcation 2 Prioritisation 3 Validation Frigoglass is a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and we align our reporting to the criteria set by it. The report includes • Sustainability pillars • Deﬁne Materiality • Outcomes are information regarding the Group’s work on of issues in relation assessed and • Issues related to the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the Frigoglass and our to us and our validated by the Sustainability shareholders sustainability team report areas of human rights, labour, environment stakeholders and anti-corruption. This report should be read in conjunction with the Frigoglass 2016 annual report which 4 Review discloses financial performance, strategic priorities update and business review for the • Reassessment of issues and their relevance year 2016. Primary audiences for this report are our customers, investors, current and potential employees, our suppliers and the communities in which we operate. 6 7 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 3 About Frigoglass Frigoglass is a strategic partner to the world’s include leading beverage companies in more opportunity for our customers and as such leading beverage brands. than 100 countries that we serve globally. we remain committed to supporting them in capitalizing on this opportunity. We are the global leader in Ice Cold Our innovative coolers enhance our Merchandisers (ICM), providing our customers’ beverage branding at the point As a global company with approximately customers with a complete range of of sale, drive impulse consumption and 5.000 employees worldwide, Frigoglass is innovative merchandising solutions, which maximize merchandising opportunities. We fully committed to applying a strict code uniquely position and promote their brands are committed to providing increasingly of business conduct to all employees as for consumers around the world. environmentally friendly product solutions well as complying with local laws and which enable our customers meet their regulations. At our organization, we believe Frigoglass supplies Ice Cold Merchandisers ambitious sustainability and carbon emission that ethical management is not only a tool (beverage coolers) to soft drinks and reduction targets. for responding to the rapidly changing global alcoholic beverage companies. Our market, but also a vehicle for building trust market-leading products combined with Frigoglass is also a principal supplier of with our various stakeholders, including our commitment for consistent, superior glass bottles and complimentary packaging customers, shareholders, suppliers, after-sales support, have allowed us to build solutions in the high-growth markets of employees and the society. and continuously develop long standing Africa and the Middle East. These markets partnerships with our customers, who present an attractive long-term investment 8 9 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 3.1 Financial highlights 3.2 Global presence Sales Consolidated revenue breakdown Cool Operations Cool Operations Glass Europe & North America Asia & Africa / Middle East Operations Year €m 2016 413.2 By geography Production plants and sales offices Production plants and sales offices Production plants and sales offices Greece, Romania, Russia India, Indonesia, South Africa Nigeria, UAE (Dubai) 2015 453.9 Eastern Europe €105.7m (26%) Sales offices Sales offices 2014 487.0 Germany, Norway, Poland, Turkey, USA China, Kenya, Nigeria, UAE (Dubai) 2013 522.5 Western Europe 2012 581.3 €66.1m (16%) Asia/Oceania EBITDA €68.3m (17%) Year €m Africa/Middle East €168.3m (41%) Norway 2016 40.1 Russia 2015 52.8 North America €4.8m (1%) 2014 63.0 USA Poland Germany China 2013 63.9 Romania 2012 67.8 India By customer group Turkey Net Profilts Greece Year €m Kenya 2016 -35.3* Coca-Cola €229.5m (56%) UAE UAE 2015 -36.5* Indonesia Nigeria (Glass) 2014 -20.4* Breweries €87.6m (21%) Nigeria (ICM) 2013 -13.8* 2012 0* All others €96.1m (23%) South Africa * Adjusted Net Profit excludes restructuring costs and one-off items 10 11 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 3.3 Our business strategy 3.3.1 Customer Focus In the Cool business, we made changes in the commercial structure after taking into A new ICM Chief Commercial Officer joined our leadership team early in 2016, while The Frigoglass Advantage is a key determinant of our positioning as the global leader in In addition, the integrated product offering of glass bottles and crates, has not only We are pleased to report that in 2016, In Frigoglass, we keep customers at the heart account the recent customers’ consolidations further organizational changes were made innovative, IceCold Merchandising solutions. reinforced the Frigoglass Glass brand, but we remained relentlessly focused on of our business. In 2016, we made further and their requirements towards customized to secure a well-oiled commercial function. The four pillars that form it – Merchandising has also allowed customers to minimize glass our strategic priorities and continued progress in enhancing our customer focus, coolers at competitive prices. Changes in Frigoglass sales team is now divided in two Strength, Sustainability Leadership, Technical breakage and reduce logistics costs. creating value-adding, innovative, cold mainly through redefining Frigoglass ICM the structure also reflect the intensified customer focus areas: the Coca-Cola Account Excellence and Digital Services – remained merchandising solutions for our customers Commercial Vision which was built around competition and the imperative to gain back focusing on growing our market share the key drivers behind every offering of In both our Cool and Glass businesses, three pillars: market share, profitably. into the Coca-Cola system, and the Market pioneering and sustainable products customer is at the center of our organization’s around the world. Development sales team, with the main and services. efforts. We strive to provide our customers objective to expand our market share in other with high-quality, innovative and value-adding International Accounts and our customer base In the Glass business, several customer solutions. across all regions and channels. collaboration initiatives implemented throughout the year resulted in continuous A Central Marketing was formulated with quality enhancement. Incorporating detailed the mission to ensure the right prioritization customer feedback into the new product of global and local projects in line with design process has led to product innovation, Build on Optimize Frigoglass strategy. Finally, Innovation & as in the case of lightweight bottles which successful route-to-market Product Development was integrated into the have delivered both cost and environmental partnerships approach Commercial function, aiming to achieve faster benefits for customers. Maintain strong partnership Integrate our customers’ commercialization of our pioneering solutions. with our Global Accounts requirements into our and deepen relationships products and serve them with Coca-Cola, to serve with great value, while them with a diﬀerentiated Innovation & Sustainability oﬀering in line with remain key pillars for any regional requirements. Customer new development. Focus Enhance commercial capabilities to strengthen customer relationships Create a strong and ambitious commercial organization and culture as enabler of our go-to-market strategy and reach our targets. Split Sales teams to Coca-Cola and other Accounts to increase focus and reﬂect customers’ needs. 12 13 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 3.3.2 Innovation Leader Market penetration Evocool The year was marked by ICOOL and Evocool, the digital cooling device was Hybrid cooler Smart ranges commercial expansion, with developed and launched in 2016, adding Our latest breakthrough development, Coca-Cola bottlers placing more than 90,000 connectivity capabilities to more than 50,000 Hybrid, has created excitement to our ICOOL coolers in the European market, and ICOOL coolers in the market. customers in the emerging markets. Breweries and other Key Accounts started ordering the new Smart coolers. Both Customers have recognized the benefits of In Africa, immediate consumption grows ICOOL and Smart ranges offer premium this digital solution that combines energy faster than electrical power availability and aesthetics and combine the advantages optimization functionality with the latest Hybrid cooler is designed to mitigate the of merchandising strength, sustainability technology of remote connectivity and impact of power outages in the continent. leadership and technical excellence (Total reduced Total Cost of Ownership (TCO), With the use of eutectic technology, it Cost of Ownership), which have subsequently providing them with a pioneering cooler fleet. maintains low temperatures for more than generated solid demand. 16 hours in an environment of 40°C without R&D requiring electrical power source. In addition, innovative solutions have In our R&D lab in India, one test climatic been developed to satisfy the increasing For our beer customers, we successfully chamber was certified with ISO 17025, while demand for quality coolers at competitive performed field tests in seven countries in in our lab in Greece, six chambers received pricing in different markets. In 2016, Africa. For Coca-Cola bottlers, field tests were the same certification. we introduced the Plus range that performed in three countries in the same incorporates lower cost options that help continent. It is worth mentioning that three out of deliver cold-drink availability targets, these test climatic chambers, one in India as well as faster returns currently sought The Hybrid solution is available in both and two in Greece, were recognized and by our customers. Our innovative offering Smart and ICOOL cooler ranges, keeping authorized by The Coca-Cola Company and in Asia was complemented with a line-up their merchandizing efficiency provided by PepsiCo for certification tests. This significant of Chest coolers and freezers, which were the glass door and advanced aesthetics. development makes our labs equivalent to developed to capture placement needs in During power-off hours, coolers remain fully internationally recognized independent labs developing countries. illuminated with LED lighting that boosts and allows us to test new configurations impulse beverage sales. Also it uses HFC-free locally. In addition, it leads to important refrigerant that is preferred by customers time and cost savings in the and aligns with their sustainability goals. commercialization process. 14 15 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Service Operating Model Warehouse Control Centre managing: 3.3.3 Integrated Services regional distribution centers, medium and light refurbishment hubs, spoke storage at • Warehousing Frigoglass Integrated Services that were district level and an extensive network of filed • Distribution first launched in 2014, gradually rolled out services professionals located throughout the • Spoke replenishment countries we operate in. Spare Parts Distribution in Russia, Nigeria and other countries of • Technicians on-site • CDE field maintenance Europe and Africa in 2015, and were further expanded in 2016, resulting in double digit In 2016, we made material investments in • Spare parts sales growth. developing people capabilities, initiating • Reporting / KPI’s • Administration Customer new processes and integrating Information • e-Archiving Our new Integrated Service offering has Technology (IT) systems. Our Service team • E2E integrated process covered twelve countries during the year has been enriched by specialists, ranging from highly trained technicians and IT Frigoglass (Romania, Bulgaria, Serbia, Montenegro, experts to high-caliber team leaders. The Kosovo, Greece, Cyprus, Poland, Russia, Norway, Nigeria and Kenya), providing processes that we put in place include service to more than 750,000 cold drink standard operating procedures manuals, Spoke detailed spare parts forecasting and Field Services equipment for commercial use. Specifically Replenishment systematic field audits to secure high in Nigeria, after the successful pilot with a fleet of 5,000 units in part of Lagos city, we quality services. Frigoglass e-Service is rolled out our offering in more regions in the a highly sophisticated IT solution that country, servicing a fleet of 25,000 coolers. allows the management and control of the In the same country, we also inaugurated a entire cycle of integrated services offered, Refurbishment featuring industry-unique modules (asset refurbishment center in Ibadan. In Europe, we added logistics services in our offering scanning, GPS location tracker, photographs, to Serbia, Montenegro and Kosovo, while e-signature, e-surveys, reporting and real in Russia we expanded our services to time synchronization). distant regions, like Urals and the North West district. In other countries, we made Going forward, we will continue our journey significant improvements in refurbishment, capitalizing on established networks serving field and logistics services, achieving a strong more regions and more customers around overall performance. our refurbishment and distribution centers. We will also continue to expand our business The successful roll out of our Integrated by offering the complete package of our Regional Services is based on the well-thought-out Integrated Services to more customer Distribution design and thorough implementation of groups. Heavy Centers POS/Outlets Field Refurbishment (Main storage) In the market Services our operating model, which puts customer priorities at its center. It is a holistic customer Medium & Light solution that includes advanced warehousing Refurbishment and distribution, spare parts management, Centers refurbishment, and field services. It utilizes a network of heavy refurbishment centers, 16 17 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 3.3.4 Quality First improvement, we are preparing to adapt to the requirements of the recently revised 3.3.5 Cost Leadership Frigoglass changed its operating model in the Asian market in order to enable the Quality remains one of our major strategic ISO9001:2015 and ISO14001:2015 to further Cost leadership has been one of our top optimization of the production capacity priorities. During last year, we have taken elevate the overall quality of our processes, priorities throughout the year. Our focus on in Asia, improve the company’s fixed cost significant steps in improving the quality of our solutions and services. cost efficiency initiatives remained unchanged structure and strengthen its long-term products and services, ensuring the continuous and was mainly placed on three areas: product competitiveness. Through our established enhancement of the Quality Management In the Service business, the systematic standardization, plant efficiency and supplier presence and access to the Chinese supply Systems. monitoring of field repair data with a new optimization. We have succeeded in delivering base, as well as a robust and efficient supply tool has led to early identification and significant savings across these initiatives. chain for the group, we maintain our ability Most of our Quality performance metrics faster response times, as well as significant to provide high quality and cost efficient have been considerably improved this year, improvement of field failure rates. More Product standardization products in the market. especially in our Romanian and Indian than 400,000 coolers have been placed under monitoring in the markets of In the past year, we made further progress Lean manufacturing principles are operations. Overall material rejections Romania, Russia, Greece, Cyprus, Serbia, in product standardization, aiming to achieve systematically implemented in all our have impressively reduced by 50%, while Nigeria, Montenegro and Kosovo, and more cost efficiencies while enhancing customer operations, transforming our plants into important key performance indicators (KPIs), are expected to be put under monitoring value. Standardization of processes in cost-efficient entities with standardized and like the First-Time Pass Index and Product according to the e-Service rollout plan. design, production and supply chain, and unified processes. Our next goal is not only Release Index, have improved year-on-year. in components, such as compressors, fan to align processes among our operations, We are satisfied with this development motors and heat exchangers, has resulted in but also unify them and take advantage of and we will continue strengthening our cost savings. economies of scale in the long-term. capabilities in the Quality function. In addition, we enriched our product Supplier optimization We have also improved internal procedures portfolio with cost-competitive coolers, the and established regular meetings to In 2016, we put emphasis on several costPlus range, responding to market trends review all Quality metrics and issues. In saving projects in both our Cool and Glass and changes in customer demands and the Quality Circle meeting, that takes place businesses and relied on supplier integration expectations. The new product development on a monthly basis and is attended by the for optimizing our cost structure. Effective was achieved through lean cabin design top management, quality KPIs are closely integration of suppliers into the product and optimization of the cooling mechanism, monitored and improvements in quality development process and the supply chain which resulted in a robust construction with projects are identified and reviewed, aiming has been a key factor in achieving the full size glass door that ensures ultimate to achieve sustainable performance. improvement necessary to become more product visibility and enhances impulse purchase, while at the same time, provides competitive. As part of our continuous improvement lower cost options to our customers. plan, in 2016 we also initiated a new project During the year, our focus on cost that aims to further improve Product optimization with suppliers and the Development through cross functional teams, Plant efficiency implementation of a carefully designed communication and monitoring tools. This is Our Lean journey continued in 2016, during strategic sourcing framework, including expected to secure Product and Engineering which we remained consistent to our supply base rationalization, standardization data integrity, cost effectiveness and on-time commitment for continuous optimization of specifications and strategic partnerships, delivery in all our ICM operations and receive of our manufacturing footprint, cost base remained firmly on track. tangible results displayed in Quality KPIs in improvement and transformation to a leaner the years ahead. organization. All our ICM manufacturing operations We took the decisive step to reduce are certified with ISO9001, while most of complexity within our manufacturing base them have also received ISO14001 and in Asia by discontinuing our manufacturing OHSAS18001. Committed to continuous operations at the Guangzhou-based facility in China. 18 19 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 3.4 Corporate protected, whereas the executive member is responsible for ensuring the implementation The members of the Audit Committee have been appointed by the General Meeting of The Audit Committee considered a wide range of financial reporting and related Internal Audit Department More specifically, its duties are to: governance of the strategies and policies decided by the the Company as per the provisions of law matters in respect of the 2015 annual The main duties and obligations of the Internal Audit Department include: • Oversee the management’s succession planning policy Board. 3693/2008 and are the following: financial statements and the 2016 half-year Governance framework financial information. In this respect the • Monitoring the accurate implementation • Establish the principles governing the According to the Company’s Code of Business Chairman Audit Committee reviewed any significant of and compliance with the Company’s Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility The Board is responsible for dealing with the Conduct and Ethics the members of the John Androutsopoulos areas of judgment that materially impacted Articles of Association, Internal Regulation policy Company’s affairs exclusively in the interests Board must avoid any acts or omissions from Non-executive/ Independent reported results, key points of disclosure of Operation and directives, and in general • Establish the Compensation and Benefits of the Company and its shareholders within which they have, or may have, a direct or and presentation to ensure the adequacy, any applicable legislation. Strategy the existing regulatory framework. The indirect interest and which conflict or may Members clarity and completeness of the financial Board’s key responsibilities are: possibly conflict with the interests of the • Reporting cases of conflict of interests • Submit to the Board proposals for Loucas Komis statements and the financial information, Company. between members of the Board or executive Board members remuneration • Setting the Company’s long-term goals. Non-executive and the content of results announcements managers and the interests of the prior to their submission to the Board. The The Human Resources and Remuneration • Making all strategic decisions. The members of the Board receive Doros Constantinou Company. Audit Committee also considered reports Committee, which is appointed by the Board, remuneration which is approved by the Non-executive • Making available all required resources from PwC on their annual audit of 2015 • Submitting written reports to the Board at Company’s General Meeting, in accordance is comprised of the following 3 non-executive for the achievement of the strategic goals and their review of the 2016 half year least once each quarter on any important with the specific provisions of the Articles of Board members: of the Company. The above members have substantial past findings of the internal audits it has Board of Directors report that forms part Association and the Law. experience in senior financial positions and • Appointing senior executive of the statutory reporting obligations of the conducted. Chairman other comparable experience in corporate management. Company. Audit Committee activities. • Attending the General Meetings. Loucas Komis • Cooperating with state supervisory Non-executive The Board is appointed by the General According to article 37 of Law 3693/2008 the Moreover, in 2016, Mr. Androutsopoulos fulfils the requirements authorities and facilitating them in their Meeting of the Company and at the time Company has established and operates an the Audit Committee has: provided by law regarding the requisite Members Audit Committee (“the Audit Committee”) work. of execution of this present consists of 9 knowledge of accounting and auditing. • Reviewed the results of the audits which is, inter alia, responsible for Haralambos (Harry) G. David members, 8 of which are non-executive and 4 undertaken by Internal Audit and monitoring: The internal auditor acts according to the Non-executive of which are independent. The only executive The Audit Committee shall meet whenever considered the adequacy of management’s International Standards for the Professional member is the Chief Executive Officer. The • the process for provision of financial response to the matters raised, Evangelos Kaloussis this is deemed necessary and in no Practice of Internal Auditing and the policies members of the Board serve for a three (3) information; including the implementation of any Non-executive/ Independent circumstances less than four times a year. and procedures of the Company and reports year term that can be prolonged until the It must also hold at least two meetings recommendations made. • the effective operation of the internal to the Audit Committee. Annual General Meeting to be held following The Chief Executive Officer and HR Director audit and risk management systems; attended by the Company’s regular auditor, • Reviewed and approved the 2017 Internal the termination of their term. Their term shall normally attend all meetings of said without the presence of the members of the Audit program, including the proposed Human Resources and shall in no case exceed four (4) years. • the course of the mandatory audit of Committee, except when discussions are administration. individual and consolidated financial audit approach, coverage and allocation of Remuneration Committee conducted concerning matters affecting them resources. personally. The experience of the members of the statements; The Audit Committee meets validly when The role of the human resources and Board encompasses diverse professional at least two of its members are present, of • Reviewed the effectiveness of Internal remuneration committee (“the Human • matters relating to the existence and backgrounds, representing a high level Audit, taking into account the views of Resources and Remuneration Committee”) The Human Resources and Remuneration safeguarding of the impartiality and whom one must be its Chairman. The Audit of business, international and financial the Board and senior management on is to establish the principles governing the Committee held 3 meetings in 2016. independence of the legal auditor or Committee held a total of five (5) meetings knowledge contributing significantly to the in 2016. The said meetings were scheduled matters such as independence, proficiency, Company’s human resources policies which audit office, particularly in relation to the successful operation of the Company. The in such a way so as to coincide with the resourcing, and audit strategy, planning guide management’s decision-making and provision to the Company of other services Board is fully balanced as far as the number publication of the Company’s financial and methodology. actions. by the legal auditor or audit office. of independent and non-independent information. • Reviewed regular reports on control issues members is concerned. The independent, The Audit Committee is also responsible of major level significance, as well as non-executive members contribute to the for the submission of proposals to the details of any remedial action being taken. Board’s decision-making with the provision Board regarding any change to the chart of It considered reports from Internal Audit of impartial opinions and resolutions, thus authorities and the organizational chart of and PwC on the Company’s systems of to ensure that the interests of the Company, the Company. internal control and reported to the Board the shareholders and the employees are on the results of its review. 20 21 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Investment Committee Communication Board of Directors Management Committee Certified auditors with Shareholders (three-year term ending in 2018) (as of March 2017) PricewaterhouseCoopers The duties of the investment committee (“the Investment Committee“) are to recommend Frigoglass recognizes the importance of the 268 Kifissias Avenue, Haralambos (Harry) G. David Nikos Mamoulis to the Board the Company’s strategy and effective and timely communication with 152 32 Halandri, Athens, Greece Chairman, Chief Executive Officer business development initiatives, as well as shareholders and the wider investment non-executive member to evaluate and suggest to the Board new community. The Company maintains an Legal advisors active website www.frigoglass.com which Manolis Fafalios proposals for investments and/or Company Nikos Mamoulis Chief Financial Officer Kyriakides-Georgopoulos, Law Firm expansion according to the defined strategy is open to the investment community and Chief Executive Officer, Theodore Rakintzis of the Company. to its own shareholders; the site features executive member Nick Evangelou this Code, as well as a description of the Company’s corporate governance, Chief Commercial Officer ICM Moreover, the Investment Committee is also Ioannis K. Androutsopoulos responsible for evaluating and suggesting management structure, ownership Vice Chairman, Darren Bennett-Voci to the Board opportunities for business status and all other information useful or non-executive member / independent Glass Division Director development and expansion through necessary to shareholders and investors. acquisitions and/ or strategic partnerships. Finally, Frigoglass also communicates with Doros Constantinou Manolis Souliotis the investment community through its non-executive member Group Human Resources Director The Investment Committee, which is participation in a number of conferences and appointed by the Board, comprises meetings held in Greece and abroad and the Ioannis Costopoulos Vassilis Soulis 4 members, two of whom are non-executive, schedule of conference calls. non-executive member / independent Service Director and is formed as follows: Vassilis Fourlis Chairman non-executive member / independent Haralambos (Harry) G. David Non-executive Evangelos Kaloussis non-executive member / independent Members Nikos Mamoulis Loucas D. Komis Executive non-executive member Loucas Komis George Leventis Non-executive non-executive member Manolis Fafalios Executive The Investment Committee held 2 meetings in 2016. 22 23 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 4 Our sustainability strategy At Frigoglass, our sustainability strategy is Four focus areas Linking Materiality with the underpinned by a set of guiding principles; Our group-wide corporate responsibility Sustainable Development Goals in specific, upholding high professional Marketplace Environment framework focuses on four areas, which are In 2016 Frigoglass affirmed its continued standards, being transparent, trusted and complementary and mutually supported. support to the principles of the UN Global fair, fostering a culture of partnership and collaboration, valuing the long-term Compact by signing the UN declaration. relationships with our customers and 1 Marketplace Building on our commitment towards the UN Product responsibility Environmental impact of operations suppliers, and leading by example to Quality and innovation are two important Global Compact, this year we advanced our create a more sustainable future. drivers in our sustainability strategy. We materiality analysis so as to correlate it with Supplier engagement Environmental impact of products aim to create value for our business and the Sustainable Development Goals of the customers by developing high quality, United Nations (SDGs). Regulatory compliance reliable products and services, continuously enhancing their efficiency, whilst ensuring regulatory compliance with applicable laws in all areas of our operation. 2 Environment We create value by recognizing and reducing our products’ impact on the environment. In our operations we measure performance through regular monitoring the Quality and Performance environmental impact of our products and The implementation of the SDGs will rely on innovation and eﬃciency undertaking actions to improve the efficiency countries’ internal sustainable development of materials’ use. Performance and efficiency policies. constitute key drivers behind all our efforts to minimise our environmental impact. Frigoglass memberships or associations Local Talent and 3 Workplace society wellbeing Our memberships or associations include: Our people are our greatest asset. Engaging • World Economic Forum/Community of and developing our people for the long Global Growth Companies term is our firm objective. We are therefore • Athens Stock Exchange Association Listed strongly committed to attracting, developing Companies and retaining the best people to successfully • Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV) support our business strategy, whilst • General Commercial registry (G.E.MI.) providing them a healthy and safe working • Athens Chamber of Commerce and environment. Industry • Hellenic Network for Corporate Social 4 Community Workforce development Responsibility It is important for us to be a responsible Community engagement satisfaction and wellbeing • UN Global Compact Hellas corporate citizen by supporting the local • Federation of Peloponnese & Western society. We work closely with our community Community relations Workplace health and safety Greece Industries stakeholders to find out how we can achieve • Goulandris Natural History Museum greater social impact through our business Community Workplace • United Nations Global Compact operations and focus our efforts on creating • Elliniki Etairia, Society for the Environment value for the communities in which we and Cultural Heritage operate. 24 25 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 5 Stakeholders and materiality 5.1 Stakeholder The key stakeholders, whose actions and views are significant to us, were Feedback received from our stakeholders on what we can do to improve our management Stakeholder Basis for Type of Frequency of Relevant group engagement engagement engagement issues engagement examined in relation to the interest they and reporting of sustainability issues have on the actions and the objectives included the following recommendations: Customers Customers are vital to the Contracts, sales, Monthly/ Product responsibility Our stakeholders are people or organisations of our organization. Benefiting from all • Integrate sustainability issues further into organisation’s success and have direct service, customer Quarterly Quality management who we work closely with and have a direct departments’ engagement we initiated business strategy interest to our market impact and satisfaction surveys, Use of resources sustainability performance meetings, presentations, Supplier relations or indirect interest in our business and several discussions, which have led to • Enhance our sustainability reporting performance, quality KPIs Human rights performance. the successful identification of our key practices to demonstrate transparency Economic performance stakeholder groups. • Set clear KPIs and targets and measure Innovation Frigoglass firmly believes that inclusive and progress against them transparent communication can lead to value • Promote greater standardisation of Employees Our people are critical to our business, Contracts, direct Daily/ Talent development and wellbeing creation and therefore strives to establish its strategy and decision making. We communications, Monthly/ Health and safety procedures on quality, labour management • Customers therefore aim to create a diverse and performance reviews, Quarterly Diversity and equal opportunity and maintain sustainable relations with all and environmental issues across all • Financial institutions inclusive environment whilst engaging feedback process, trade Human rights stakeholder groups. locations of operation • Employees and collaborating with them to achieve union negotiations Training • Business partners our sustainability goals Economic performance Engaging with our stakeholders is essential • Investors for understanding their needs and creating • Media value. Their insight also helps us acquire a Investors Investors are essential to the BOD meetings, stock Quarterly Economic performance • Suppliers organization and its performance exchange, annual report, Business strategy multi-angle perspective that supports our • Local communities since they provide the required equity annual shareholder Governance decision making process and ensures that meeting, Quarterly results our Sustainability Report is relevant and responsive to our stakeholders. Suppliers We aim to understand our suppliers’ Contracts, business Monthly/ Product quality In mapping our stakeholders, we have concerns and develop channels of relationships, supplier Quarterly Supplier relations Ongoing dialogue and collaboration with mutual support that enhance the audits, vendor meetings, Supplier assessment identified those for which we have legal, quality of our supply chain and Quality KPIs Use of resources different stakeholders enable us to identify commercial or moral responsibility, such as foster long term collaboration and New technologies opportunities to improve our performance, our investors, clients and the communities in opportunities create value for our customers and which we operate. Stakeholder groups, such shareholders and provide the basis for as our employees and our suppliers, are also Financial Financial institutions are critical to our Contracts, performance Monthly/ Economic performance setting our sustainability targets. important because we depend on them to institutions business, its strategy and sustainable reviews, Quarterly results Quarterly Business strategy Integrity, transparency and compliance are growth. We aim to keep them Governance operate. Finally we are conscious of external continuously informed on our strategic the key principles guiding all our engagement groups, such as our business partners and goals and progress made initiatives. product end users, that have an interest in our products and performance. Business Collaboration with various Contracts, development Daily/ Product quality Our ongoing engagement with our partners business partners e.g. universities, projects, performance Monthly/ Supplier relations stakeholders helps us understand: In order to drive lasting and meaningful governmental bodies, third party updates Quarterly Cooperation on products experts, is crucial for enhancing and technologies • The impact of our activities and how to value, we first need a deep understanding quality,ensuring sustainability and Innovation handle them in a responsible manner of what our stakeholders perceive as the expediting innovation Sustainability • The potential risks and opportunities most significant issues in relation to our associated with stakeholders and how organisation and how they expect us to we can effectively manage them in address them. The following table describes Media Media support large companies, such Quarterly results, ad-hoc Quarterly, Product quality a proactive way the basis for our engagement, as well as the as Frigoglass, by communicating their communication, press ad-hoc Sustainability strategy views on sustainability and business releases, press interviews Innovation • The ongoing effectiveness of our engagement channels with each stakeholder matters to the wider community Economic performance sustainability strategy group. Local We support the local society with Social events, Quarterly, Community investment communities community-focused initiatives and communication, local ad-hoc Employing and sourcing from local take their needs into consideration to legislation communities of operation maximise shared value Economic performance 26 27 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Materiality Matrix 5.2 Materiality Subsequently, we evaluated our impact and associated risk for each of the issues and Ethics 1 Product responsibility filtered them through the perspective of our High For us at Frigoglass, engaging in sustainability and quality 2 means aligning with the needs and organisation and the expectations of our expectations of our stakeholders customers, stakeholders in order to prioritise them. consumers, employees and shareholders The list of identified issues was then Customer Product environmental around the globe. reviewed, validated and “mapped” against satisfaction stewardship the GRI standards. Diversity and 3 9 Identifying and evaluating the issues that equal opportunity 17 Responsible are material for our organisation and The outputs from our materiality process procurement Economic are set out in the respective matrix (right). Labour practices Workplace 4 performance stakeholders is essential for providing 15 7 18 health and safety and impact 8 and human rights strategic direction and focus on our Regulatory sustainability strategy which highlights Our materiality matrix includes our most compliance material issues, as well as a range of Customer business imperatives, monitors results and Emissions management 12 5 brand promotion additional relevant issues that we are Employee satisfaction 14 and reduction drives progress. proactively managing. It illustrates what 19 Resource management 10 is important for Frigoglass as well as for and eﬃciency Energy eﬃciency The process of identifying and prioritising Community relations 16 11 of operations Material to stakeholders our stakeholders, and is aligned with our and engagement Supplier assessment 6 Waste management the sustainability issues that are material to 13 strategic priorities, operational risks and Workforce training and control our organisation and stakeholders consisted and development of three steps: identification, prioritisation sustainability strategy. It includes twenty and approval. We identified the range of (20) sustainability issues divided among sustainability issues based on international our four sustainability pillars standards i.e. GRI, UNGC, WBCSD, sector challenges and trends, as well as As we maintain firm engagement with our benchmarking and feedback obtained from stakeholders and the business environment 20 the stakeholders, through the engagement is continuously shifting, the content and arrangement of our materiality matrix will be Supporting local we have had with them over the years. communities reassessed on a regular basis in the future. Materiality analysis process Identify Prioritise Approve Industry Potential risks Review and standards and impact validation Stakeholder Signiﬁcance to Results mapping feedback business strategy according to the and operations GRI standards Sector trends and benchmarking Stakeholder Final list of expectations sustainability issues Low Material to business High 28 29 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 6 Our sustainability performance For Frigoglass, sustainability is a key Actions and progress component of our overall strategy and is In order to evaluate the effectiveness of placed at the core of our organization. We set our sustainability strategy we track the goals to innovate, build and deliver solutions progress of our actions and the initiatives to our clients and meet the expectations of we have taken as part of this strategy. So, the people we employ and the communities we constantly monitor and seek to improve in which we live and operate. our performance in relation to the four aforementioned sustainability pillars: As part of our sustainability strategy, we hold ourselves accountable to the goals we set by measuring and monitoring our progress during the year. Throughout the course of the report, we keep track of and demonstrate • Marketplace our progress in two key ways: measuring our • Environment performance against metrics and evaluating the outcomes of actions and initiatives that • Workplace derive from our sustainability strategy. • Community Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and targets We have established KPIs for each sustainability pillar for which we present metrics and set short or long term targets for improvement. Monitoring and setting of targets with specific KPIs are determined internally by the corresponding teams. 30 31 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 7 Marketplace 7.1 Economic Economic value generated (in millions €) 7.2 Product quality components we are able to minimize failures and the need for preventive maintenance. Average EC (kWh/day) of Frigoglass cooler fleet Marketplace Environment performance and impact Revenues 413,2 and responsibility LEAN operational excellence 6,20 Ensuring the economic stability of the EBITDA 40,1 Quality is a top priority and we are committed 6,09 The LEAN operational excellence project company forms an integral part of Frigoglass’ Net profit -57,7 to continuously improve our standards across focuses on achieving and reinforcing 6,00 sustainable development. We aim to the entire scope of all our operations from excellence throughout our operations. The ensure that economic value is created on our supply chain to manufacturing processes Economic value distributed (in millions €) LEAN manufacturing operational model a constant basis and distributed among all to customer offering. Community Workplace includes mapping the value flow in the 5,80 5,73 stakeholders, and that the company’s social Operating costs 54,7 manufacturing process, identifying value and environmental responsibility are fulfilled Consistently delivering high quality, adding activities, establishing a pull flow 5,60 to the maximum extent. The organisation’s Employee wages 69,2 reliable products to our customers is one 5,60 Material issues: mode to match customer demand pace sustainability strategy is based on achieving and benefits of our core values. It helps ensure high while identifying and eliminating all waste Economic performance and impact long-term economic stability and as with customer satisfaction as well as long-term 5,39 Payments to 29,4 from transport, inventories, overproduction, 5,40 any business, our primary obligation is prosperity for the company. Quality is part Product responsibility and quality providers of capital overprocessing, and defects. Supplier to generate value for our shareholders. of our established culture and is achieved integration and product innovation are two Customer satisfaction and brand In pursuit of this we also generate and Payments to 16,6 through uncompromising commitment additional pillars of the Frigoglass Excellence 5,20 promotion distribute broader economic value for our governments taxes to the industry standards and a sustained System. wider stakeholders. The most notable means focus on constantly improving our products Responsible procurement and of distributing economic value are through: to meet customers’ requirements. In this 5,00 supplier assessment The table above shows our key economic Driving product innovation • Payments to our employees; context our efforts to ensure quality and 2013 2014 2015 2016 performance figures for 2016. For full details Regulatory compliance • Payments to our suppliers and business maintain product stewardship are mainly Sustainable innovation is at the core of our and further information for Frigoglass’ partners; demonstrated through: business strategy and forms the foundation economic performance, including sales • Payments to our providers of capital; • efficiency in product design and material Best-in-class on noise Key stakeholders: by division and consolidated revenue by of our research and development (R&D) • Government taxes; selection; efforts. Frigoglass operates R&D centres Customers customer segment, please refer to our 2016 Previous New Noise • Community investments. • rationalisation of products / components; in Greece and India with 19 test chambers Annual Report. range range Reduction Suppliers • optimization of components’ portfolio; globally and allocates around 2% of sales Preserving the economic stability and • reduction of product maintenance needs; to research and development every year. 6 facings 6 facings Business partners continuing to generate value is our most • improvement of manufacturability and Innovation has long been a key product 150 ltr 150 ltr 4 dBA Local communities material issue in our sustainability strategy, recyclability; development driver and within the past few 57 dBA 53 dBA whilst we have put forward considerable • reduction of noise level; years we have yielded particularly strong Media 6 facings 6 facings effort and several initiatives which are • continuous investment in product Research results in this area. As a result of our focus on 3 dBA 280 ltr 280 ltr directly related to it. and Development (R&D). energy use across the ICM fleet, we were able 58 dBA 55 dBA Strategic priorities: to achieve a 10% reduction in average energy Ensure economic stability and growth Reducing the need for maintenance consumption from 2013 to 2016. 8 facings 8 facings 500 ltr 500 ltr 4 dBA Improve customer satisfaction and We have been long working on further We have also carried out a cutting edge 63 dBA 59 dBA collaboration improving product engineering as well world leading project on the operational as using more reliable components. As a 9 facings 9 facings Drive product innovation sound evaluation and optimisation of our 4 dBA result, we have developed coolers which are 750 ltr 750 ltr products from which we managed to achieve 63 dBA 59 dBA Promote supply chain transparency more robust and require substantially less a considerable reduction in noise levels (up and responsibility maintenance. This translates not only in a to 4 dBA), taking us a great step closer to reduced lifetime cost but also in an overall our target of “near silent” operation of our reduction of a unit’s emissions throughout its products. A sound quality index was also lifecycle. As part of this project, we applied formulated which will set the reference base “low maintenance” engineering solutions to towards the optimisation of our coolers’ our entire ICM fleet. Through stress-resistant overall sound performance in the future. 32 33 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 7.3 Customer satisfaction • Expansion of Frigoglass Integrated Services, a unique and unprecedented and brand promotion customer service program aimed at providing our customers with an As a global leader in Ice Cold Merchandisers outsourcing model to manage their (ICM) we have to ensure that our customers’ cold drink equipment at a significantly products are uniquely positioned for the reduced total cost of ownership. Through consumer. As a result, we are constantly this service we are able to support our upgrading our products to meet the customers in the management of their increasingly demanding technical, legal ICMs from distribution to the end of life. and quality control requirements of our This includes placement, storage, service, customers. Any significant deviation on refurbishment and end-of-life recycling. An any of these aspects is likely to affect the advanced IT infrastructure and a central products of our customers and potentially control centre enable a seamless and live undermine their brands. Being fully monitoring of all units at all stages of the conscious of this implication, we not only process. Keeping the sustainability focus, meet our customers’ extensive requirements, this program also allows customers to but also actively participate in joint refurbish their old units, thus reducing meetings and contribute to updating those material use. requirements, using our expertise and deep knowledge of the products. • The expansion of our portfolio rationalization program, focusing on both Examples of these efforts include: models and components used • Engagement with our customers through In the Glass business, several customer regular meetings and annual satisfaction collaboration initiatives implemented surveys, utilising their feedback in order throughout the year resulted in continuous to improve our service and product quality enhancement. Incorporating detailed offerings. As our latest surveys indicate, customer feedback into the new product key focus areas of our customers in the design process has led to product innovation, last years are technical innovations and as in the case of lightweight bottles which solutions on lower energy consumption, have delivered both cost and environmental lower noise, easier and less maintenance, benefits for customers. In addition, the and component rationalization and integrated product offering of glass bottles standardization. We have already and crates, has allowed customers to included all those focus areas in our main minimize glass breakage and reduce development priorities. logistics costs. • Development of customised ICM units that enhance our customers’ brand equity and visibility at the point of sale. This collaborative approach involves customers and third parties and helps us develop differentiated ICM solutions to promote cold drink availability. 34 35 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 7.4 Responsible The Frigoglass Supplier Code As part of our risk management strategy, compliance with the Frigoglass Supplier 7.5 Regulatory We expect all of our suppliers to sign and comply with our Supplier procurement Our business relationships with suppliers Code is subject to audit by Frigoglass or Code of Conduct. By doing so we impose and ensure minimum compliance are underpinned by the Supplier Code an independent third party. We have also and supplier which Frigoglass has put forward. In this revised our supplier auditing to give higher standards with respect to issues concerning: As is the case with any responsible assessment policy, Frigoglass lays out the standards and principles to which we expect our suppliers gravity to sustainability-related factors. In cases where Suppliers fail to comply with company, it is essential for our business to demonstrate full compliance with the • Anti-trust Given the nature of our business model and to adhere. Ethics, labour and human rights, the requirements addressed in this Code, laws and regulations of the countries in • Bribery our commercial relationships, responsible health & safety but also the environment are Frigoglass reserves the right to renegotiate Ethics which we operate. In order to safeguard our • Conﬂict of interest compliance we put emphasis on and adjust procurement is a particularly important integral parts of our Supplier Code policy. and/or terminate an agreement. We assess Every new party, defined by Frigoglass as a wide range of suppliers representing • Protection of information and intellectual property our management approach in the different subject for Frigoglass. Being a global corporation with plants operating in several Supplier or Business Partner, is required annual purchases of over 90% of our total regions and types of our operations. We countries, we always strive to establish to sign the Supplier Code thus committing group spent. In 2016 we achieved our target closely and systematically monitor the legal honest working relationships with our themselves to complying with the principles of auditing on-site over 35% of the defined frameworks, conform to any changes that suppliers which adhere to the principles of described. supplier base and had over 50% agree and may arise and anticipate potential ones. Our sign our Supplier Code of Conduct. • Child labour regulatory compliance is ensured by our local sustainable development. Compliance covers all activities throughout • Forced labour management teams and overseen by our Labour We perform audit process on our largest and all Supplier’s premises and operations, As part of our responsible procurement • Work hours Board of Directors. most important suppliers as well as on all our including their own supply chain, whilst some strategy we have initiated a training program • Wages and beneﬁts new suppliers and our ultimate objective is to contracts may contain specific provisions on the sustainability criteria we are looking In 2016 we have not been subjected to any progressively include a wider range of criteria addressing these issues. for in our suppliers. Our aim for all our material legal sanctions or fines for noninto our supplier assessment processes and buyers is to have completed the Sustainable compliance with applicable laws. audit forms. By requiring our suppliers to comply Procurement training by 2018. In 2016 with the requirements as outlined in the around half of our buyers received this • Diversity and equal opportunity This includes not only operational issues, Supplier Code, Frigoglass helps “cascade” training. Human good practice throughout its supplier base • Harrassment and volience such as the mitigation of supply chain rights constraints, but also sustainability aspects and minimise its indirect negative impacts. In addition we regularly conduct risk analysis • Freedom of association such as: By doing so, it is not only protecting its on key purchasing categories to ensure • The impact of our suppliers on ethics, own reputation, but also the reputation security of supply. We identify suppliers that labour and human rights of its suppliers – some of whom might be have high probability of failing to comply • Health and safety performance amongst vulnerable to consumer activism. Suppliers with our Supplier Code of Conduct and our suppliers are achieving a level of performance that is develop respectively alternative ones. It’s • The environmental impact of our suppliers, in line with our customers’ own requirements also important to highlight at this point our • Occupational health and safety Health with regard to both the materials used in (for example, requirements about supplier commitment to support local communities • Hygiene environmental performance). through our supply base strategy. As a Group and Safety manufacturing and their products • Work conditions • Specific RFQ forms targeted at examining over 45% of our suppliers are of local origin. sustainability aspects of our suppliers’ operations New Supplier audits 2014 2015 2016 % of new suppliers assessed 100% 100% 100% on sustainability criteria • Regulatory compliance Environment • Pollution and waste Instances of identified actual or potential 0 0 0 negative impact on the assessment criteria* * Suppliers are filtered during the pre-selection process and those who demonstrate potential inability to meet our criteria do not reach the audit stage. 36 37 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 8 Environment At Frigoglass, we analyze the impact 8.1 Product Improving environmental • In 2015 we started the development Production of optimized bottles of our products and operations on the performance across our ICM range of the Hybrid range, using the eutectic in our glass operations Marketplace Environment environment and take measures to minimise environmental Listening to our customers and anticipating technology, securing cold drink availability In Nigeria we are continuing to develop it. We are committed towards reducing our in countries with long power outages, e.g. environmental impact through concrete stewardship global regulations, we have set as one in the region of Africa. This way we have lighter weight returnable bottles reducing actions which relate to our products, of our top priorities the improvement of managed to further enrich our range the carbon footprint of our customers, as As a global supplier of beverage coolers, we the environmental performance of our well as developing one way bottles and jars processes and supply chain. of coolers that make use of alternative are committed to designing and producing cooler range. Our work throughout the for the spirits and food segments with an power sources (e.g. Solar 200, EcoCantine), innovative products with energy efficient previous years has been intense and yielded optimized weight to ensure safe product We focus on maintaining sustainable and require lower maintenance and work at Community Workplace design that minimise the environmental substantial results. transportation in the country – also known as environmentally sound business practices, exceptionally low energy, in relation to impact. rightweighting. which directly inform our growth strategy their size (higher efficiency is achieved and drive our approach to innovation. • Together with our customer and suppliers through storage of cooling energy within We are also producing returnable bottles, Material issues: Throughout 2015 and 2016 we made ICMs make up the most significant we gradually convert our full product the cooler). Since 2016 Hybrid models have which are heavier than non-returnable or proportion of our customers’ carbon portfolio into a fleet with environmentally one way containers, but have considerable Product environmental stewardship considerable progress in the areas of been placed in the field and are gaining footprint – in some cases from 40% to 60% friendly refrigerants. In 2015 our so-called benefits for the environment, since they can minimising the environmental impact of our increasing interest. Emissions management of their overall footprint –therefore offering “Eco range” accounted for 48% of our be used more than 25 times before being products, improving the efficiency of our and reduction energy efficient solutions has profoundly ICM placements worldwide, succeeding a downcycled to cullet and reused. They are operations and enhancing and streamlining • In addition, we continue to extend shaped our product strategy and provided considerable increase from the 41% share heavier, because they need to withstand Energy efficiency of operations our manufacturing process. our manufacturing capabilities for one of main competitive advantages. we had the year before. In 2016 we further multiple trips as part of large floats of glass environmentally friendly refrigerants in Resource management and efficiency increased the Eco-range share to 60% and bottles, which are refilled numerous times. We regularly train our employees on our plants around the world so that we Waste management and control We focus on maintaining high component aim to reach over 70% in 2017. environmental awareness and in 2017 we can quickly and efficiently roll out new recyclability, controlling the use of plastic Our Dubai operations are meeting the are launching an e-learning platform, with products that can address potential future parts and rationalizing models as well as growing demand for lightweight one-way Key stakeholders: the key target among others to enhance the Eco-range share of total ICM placements changes in refrigerant regulation. components used. Our product design glass containers, producing an increasing environmental awareness throughout the Customers is ensuring easy dismantling for further number of bottles in a particular process, company. 100% Assessing the lifecycle recycling, following internal procedures on which allows products to be manufactured at Suppliers product end-of-life treatment. Furthermore in of our ICMs the lightest weight possible. Business partners our product design we consider optimization Based on the life cycle analysis (LCA) of an 80% Local communities of transport, maximizing the loading average product’s lifecycle, from extraction of In general, we have managed to increase capacity to the extent possible in trucks and raw materials to disposal, the key outcomes the use of cullet or scraps of broken glass, Media containers. have highlighted the importance of: which allows us to reduce raw material 60% • in-use energy efficiency consumption and at the same time 60% Strategic priorities: Glass production on the other hand, is not • refurbishment reduce energy consumption during the only energy intensive during production, • dematerialisation of high impact manufacturing process. Ongoing improvement of product 48% but also requires a large amount of raw 40% components. energy efficiency 41% materials. Recycling and reusing as much Maintain high levels of material as possible is therefore our primary Following these findings all our new component recyclability goal in glass operations. An other equally ranges have been developed according to 20% Reduce energy consumption important goal is to innovate on lightweight these criteria. per unit produced bottle production, which again leads to less raw material use. Enhance resource efficiency 0% 2014 2015 2016 in production Reduce emissions and waste generated Eco-range Standard Range 38 39 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 8.2 Emissions Total GHG emissions of operations in kilo tonnes of CO2e In 2016, GHG emissions occurring from Frigoglass Cool operations, have been Total GHG emissions from Cool operations management substantially reduced by 45%. While Tonnes of CO2e Tonnes of CO2e/ standard unit Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 emissions from our European and African and reduction 50,000 0.08 plants remained at 2015 levels, a significant 80 45,000 decrease at around 75% is being observed 0.07 Protecting the natural environment in which for our Asian plants. This is primarily due to 40,000 we operate is imperative to the sustainability 70 a shift in our business focus and the resulting 0.06 of our business. We believe that one of the 35,000 smaller quantity produced. key growth drivers is reducing and managing 60 0.05 our energy consumption and associated 30,000 GHG emissions from our Glass operations emissions. As a manufacturing business, we 50 0.04 have slightly increased in 2016, particularly 25,000 recognise the potential environmental impact because of increased production in one of 20,000 of our operating facilities. Consequently, our 40 0.03 our Nigeria plants, which was undergoing focus on reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) 15,000 maintenance in the year before. We remain emissions is a key business priority and at the 30 0.02 committed to reducing further our GHG forefront of our sustainability initiatives. 10,000 emissions in all our operations, which is 20 0.01 reflected in our target to decrease by 2022 5,000 At Frigoglass, we actively monitor and (vs. 2016 reference levels) our emissions measure our GHG emissions since 2014. In 10 0 0.00 intensity levels per tonne of production 2015 2016 comparison to 2015 levels, our overall GHG by 5%. emissions in 2016 were reduced by 7%. 0 Africa Asia Europe Emissions intensity (per standard unit) Direct emissions (Scope 1) remained almost 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Environmental protection constant, while a significant decrease of 19% was observed for Scope 3 i.e. indirect Cool Glass expenditures emissions related to business travel and In our efforts to continuously enhance the Total GHG emissions from Glass operations outbound third-party deliveries. Scope 2 sustainable character of our operations, indirect emissions from consumption of Tonnes of CO2e Tonnes of CO2e/tonnes of production every year we are allocating approximately purchased electricity decreased by 5%. Crowns & 1% of our ICM sales revenue for actions 0.60 Kilo tonnes of CO2e Cool Glass Total 100,000 Plastics related to improving energy efficiency in operations as well as protecting the 90,000 0.50 2015 Scope 1 6,61 58,52 7,52 71,67 environment and ensuring we don’t 80,000 negatively impact on it. As a result we Scope 2 12,12 21,38 0 33,5 70,000 have never received grievances about the 0.40 Scope 3 23,78 2,02 1,07 26,87 environmental impact of our operations as 60,000 long as we monitor them. Total 42,51 81,92 8,59 133,02 50,000 0.30 In addition, as every year, also in 2016 we 40,000 2016 Scope 1 5,71 62,06 2,79 70,56 invested about 5% of our annual IT budget in 0.20 “Green IT”, allowing for reduction of business 30,000 Scope 2 9,80 21,94 0 31,74 travels, while maintaining or even improving 20,000 Scope 3 7,51 14,34 0 21,85 internal and external communication 0.10 capabilities. 10,000 Total 23,02 98,34 2,79 124,15 0 0.00 2015 2016 Africa Asia (Jebel Ali) Emissions intensity (per tonnes of production) 40 41 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 8.3 Energy efficiency Total MWh of energy consumption In our India plant we managed to reduce energy consumption of the products by Total energy consumption of Cool operations of operations 300,000 upgrading our cabin foaming technology. MWh MWh/ standard unit We have also replaced a big part of lighting 50,000 0.10 Improving the energy efficiency in our with LEDs and installed motion sensors 250,000 45,000 0.09 operations makes up an integral part of our enabling considerable energy savings. activities and constitutes a key element in our 40,000 0.08 overall sustainability and competitiveness. 200,000 In South Africa we have outsourced As a result we are constantly seeking ways to 35,000 0.07 production of selected parts to suppliers enhance the utilisation of the resources and 150,000 who had higher efficiency through higher 30,000 0.06 minimise any negative environmental impact. volumes and more advanced technologies in manufacturing of these parts. 25,000 0.05 100,000 Below we highlight a few among numerous 0.04 20,000 investments across our plants. These Glass operations are inherently more energy range from process optimisations such 50,000 intensive than ICM. In 2016 at Frigoglass we 15,000 0.03 as simple solutions of motion sensors and managed to keep the energy consumption 10,000 0.02 automatic scheduling to light switch-off to 0 for Glass at similar levels despite the full sophisticated equipment upgrades in our 2015 2016 operation of one of our Nigerian facilities 5,000 0.01 production processes. that was undergoing maintenance the year Cool Glass 0 0.00 before. In ICM we reached a 16% reduction 2015 2016 In our Romania plant, we have optimised that primarily originates from the use of less the painting process and installed Total MWh of energy consumption per source energy intensive technology and process Africa Asia Europe Energy intensity per standard unit automatic illumination control. We also optimisation. invested on the implementation of more environmental-healthy welding methods Certification and production Grid electricity Other fuels Liquid fuels Natural gas Total energy consumption of Glass operations that replace use of acetylene. We are constantly looking for ways to reduce our impact on the environment whilst MWh MWh/tonnes of production 140,000 Another two major investments have optimizing our performance. taken place in our Jebel Ali plant with the 300,000 1.6 installation of two new compressors and 120,000 In our on-going effort to manage our a cooling tower. The new, more efficient, 1.4 environmental responsibilities and as part 250,000 compressors contribute to significant of our environmental management system, 100,000 1.2 reductions in energy requirements while the over 75% of our operation facilities are cooling tower enables reduced usage for the certified as per ISO14001 in 2016. Our plan 200,000 80,000 1.0 rest of the compressors. is to have all facilities certified by 2019. 150,000 0.8 60,000 0.6 100,000 40,000 0.4 20,000 50,000 0.2 0 0 0.0 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Cool Glass Africa Asia (Jebel Ali) Energy intensity per standard unit 42 43 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 8.4 Resource Tonnes of materials used in Cool operations Tonnes of materials used in Glass operations Water consumption management Material Location 2014 2015 2016 Material Location 2015 2016 Water is a key input of our manufacturing process, especially in Glass operations. and efficiency Recoginzing its scarcity, we are committed Metals Europe 11618 10456 10001 Silica sand Africa 47170 51952 to making every effort to avert water At Frigoglass, we understand that our losses in the production processes through operations are material-intensive. We have Asia 9380 9481 6330 Asia (Jebel Ali) 94208 84517 water recycling both in our Cool and Glass been monitoring and reporting on our Africa 2506 2256 2127 operations. material use since 2010 with the objective Cullets Africa 18829 8484 of managing the rates of material In our Cool operations, water used is being Glass Europe 3756 3380 3992 Asia (Jebel Ali) 67837 65294 consumption over produced volume properly treated according to the required despite varying product mix. Asia 1781 2721 1647 specifications for discharge back into the Soda ash Africa 16453 17765 sewage system. Furthermore our Procurement cooperates Africa 710 639 602 Asia (Jebel Ali) 23070 22765 with strategic suppliers to maintain share In our Glass operations we have set of raw material stock at warehouses close Plastics Europe 1241 1117 1100 procedures for leakage avoidance and Limestone powder Africa 11864 12850 to the plants. This helps avoid sub-optimal maximum recycling. Especially in our freights (e.g. by air) while still enables us Asia 658 2840 2490 Effluent Treatment plant in Nigeria, utilising Asia (Jebel Ali) 21696 20988 to satisfy our customers’ needs for shorter Africa 20 176 163 latest technologies, we have achieved delivery times. over 95% water recycling and reusage in Other Africa 7703 8638 our operations. The remaining 5% mostly Refrigerants Europe 41 39 35 Asia (Jebel Ali) 4918 5002 evaporates during the process while Asia 51 47 32 a negligible part is being treated and discharged in the sewage system. Africa 10 19 14 Insulation Europe 1348 1266 1159 Asia 1026 1045 624 Africa 210 337 320 Paint Europe 132 122 99 Asia 610 126 41 Africa 3.2 33 12 44 45 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 8.5 Waste management Tonnes of general waste in Cool Operations and control 6,000 Due to the nature of our Cool operations, both hazardous and non-hazardous waste 5,000 is generated from manufacturing. Reducing waste from production is a key priority for Frigoglass: in 2016 we managed to reduce 4,000 our general waste in Cool operations by 20%. We are also committed to increasing the 3,000 levels of recycling waste, which is reflected in the fact that the ratio of recycled waste to waste generated in 2016 increased by 3% 2,000 compared to 2015. Our target is to reach over 90% recycle or reuse of waste by 2020. 1,000 At Frigoglass we respect logal legislations as well as internal policies governing the handling of hazardous waste. No hazardous 0 2014 2015 2016 waste is shipped internationally, whilst all is collected from the plants by authorized agencies using their own transportation General Waste General Waste Recycled methods for further disposal and/or recycling. In 2016, hazardous waste was reduced by 6,5% compared to 2015 and accounted for less than 1% of the overall Tonnes of hazardous waste in Cool Operations waste being generated. We remain committed to firmly maintaining these levels. 70 Both general and hazardous waste in Glass 60 operations are of negligible quantities. General waste is fully recyclable, while 50 hazardous waste comes mainly in form of machinery oil and water contaminated 40 with oil. All waste is properly discharged by authorized companies. 30 20 10 0 2014 2015 2016 Hazardous Waste 46 47 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 9 Workplace In Frigoglass, we believe that people are a key We are always looking for ways to attract The contracts we offer have at least one Gender Age group factor for the success of our organisation. qualified personnel, to respect their week’s notice to employees before significant Our long-term success depends on our ability aspirations and we are committed to their Male Female <30 31-40 41-50 >51 operational changes need to take place as Marketplace Environment to attract, develop and maintain an engaged continued professional growth. The data required by local laws. Head offices 73 32 5 32 53 15 workforce. We are committed to a longbelow reports on the diversity of our people. term strategy that focuses on foundational priorities like finding and retaining talent, Our key focus areas include maintaining Nigeria 790 27 39 218 339 221 9.2 Fair business practices India 236 4 57 123 55 5 promoting their development whilst employee satisfaction by creating an supporting and safeguarding their rights. inclusive, diverse and safe working Indonesia 219 30 60 145 43 1 Community Workplace We also pay particular attention in providing environment, promoting their development Our values guide our actions in conducting Dubai 90 9 0 6 56 37 a healthy, safe and supportive working through trainings, whilst encouraging their business in a socially responsible and ethical environment with the highest ethical active participation in the workplace. We Romania 662 179 205 250 246 140 manner and distinguish Frigoglass in the Material issues: standards whilst ensuring the diversity of strive to provide a unique, engaging and eyes of our stakeholders. So far, policies Russia 645 95 172 311 164 93 Labour practices and human rights our workforce. Our success relies on our motivating experience to allow our people and procedures related to Human Rights, corporate culture and high quality workforce to give their best and develop their full South Africa 237 48 54 117 79 35 Business Ethics, Anti-Corruption and Bribery Fair business practices that innovates, leads and learns. potential. have been communicated to all (permanent) Total 2952 424 592 1202 1035 547 Diversity and equal opportunity employees and business partners (e.g. customers and suppliers) through webHealth and safety Composition based or in person training programs and Permanent Employee satisfaction employees Managerial Non-managerial 9.1 Labour practices Forced or slave labour and child labour are strictly forbidden, while we prohibit the communication. From 2017 onwards, we will additionally launch, at least for the internal Training and development Head offices 105 53 52 and human rights hiring of individuals that are under 18 years stakeholders, an e-learning platform that of age for positions in which hazardous will offer regular training and verify the Key stakeholders: Nigeria 817 82 735 In some of the countries where Frigoglass work is required, as provided for in ILO understanding and statistical coverage of the Employees India 240 21 219 operates there is higher risk of labour and Convention 182. training through respective tests. The training human rights violations. To mitigate this will include: Local communities Indonesia 249 10 239 type of risks in all locations of our operations All employees have the right to join a union • Structured mechanisms to deal with policy Dubai 99 11 88 we regularly evaluate our standards and and be covered by a collective agreement. In violation Strategic priorities: procedures for identifying, and preventing the majority of our plants we have unions or • Regular risk assessment and audits on Romania 841 19 822 adverse labour practices and human employee representatives which are legally corruption, bribery, anti-competitive Integrate digital training across all workforce Russia 740 13 727 rights impacts in our operations and value recognized. We encourage constructive behavior, business ethics, and information chain. Our Labour Relations policy ensures dialogue with our employee’s freely chosen security, internally as well as with our Maintain compliance with South Africa 285 11 274 compliance with the national legislation, representatives and we are committed to business partners labour laws and internationally agreed human rights Total 3376 220 3156 bargaining in good faith. Our Speak up policy, • Awareness training on fair business Promote policies against standards and regulations such as the which is designed to support our employees practices discrimination Universal Declaration of Human Rights and business partners raise any concerns (UNDHR). and indicate any violationsof the company Maintain fair compensation across policies and procedures, allows also for the our workforce Human rights are integrated into our free interactive communication around the working culture in different ways, for clock every day of the year. example through the Human Rights Policy which we have recently put forward. The When offering employment, we aim at policy is guided by the International Bill of compensating our employees competitively Human Rights and the ILO Declaration on based on their role. We always try and offer Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, wages which are well above the local law and provides the principles we follow in our and we comply with all national laws on processes across the organization. overtimes and working hours. 48 49 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 9.3 Diversity and equal In terms of gender representation, we are constantly trying to improve the men to • Have in place protective equipment and procedures of handling chemicals and 9.5 Employee We help our people realize that their daily work and relationships contribute to solving 9.6 Training opportunity women ratio across all our areas of operation hazardous materials in all our plants, which satisfaction issues not only for our clients, but also and development and have set specific continuous targets. are regularly inspected and updated for society and the communities in which Our goal is to foster an inclusive environment • Are in close cooperation with clinics and/ Creating value for our customers and we live and work. We foster frequent At Frigoglass we believe it is crucial for people where our people can develop and exceed Governance or hospitals located in the vicinity of our communities begins with building and communication and provide open channels to be able to grow as professionals, while Male Female their expectations, regardless of their personnel plants. maintaining strong relationships with for discussion. providing them with resources for advancing background or gender and conversely make • Conduct regular risk analysis on H&S our people. their career. Head offices 7 0 the most out of diversity to deliver the issues, assuming appropriate measures, highest value to our stakeholders. Nigeria 76 6 when necessary New employee hires Number Total workforce % We put emphasis on performance reviews which take place twice a year and give our India 6 1 Head offices 13 12,4% Diversity and inclusion are vital parts of Our head offices as well as our plants workforce the opportunity to provide and our people strategy. At Frigoglass, we take Indonesia 3 1 in Romania, Russia and South Africa are receive feedback through individual coaching. Nigeria (all plants) 44 5,4% proactive measures during recruitment certified per OHSAS 18001, whilst as part 100% of our supervisors and management through our respective policy, to ensure Dubai 3 1 of our commitment to promote workplace India 13 5,4% level employees receive annual performance a diverse workforce without any form of Romania 5 1 health and safety, we target to obtain OHSAS reviews on pre-determined and agreed-upon Indonesia 11 4,4% discrimination based on gender identity, 18001 certification for all our plants by 2020. performance criteria. ethnicity, national origin, age, disability, Russia 6 1 Dubai 0 0% marital status or any other characteristics Our commitment to guaranteeing a healthy Career development needs and actions are South Africa 7 1 Romania 319 38% protected by law. We do not accept any form and safe environment is also highlighted by often tackled through informal meetings of harassment and our Code of Business 113 12 the investment we recently made for the Russia 47 6,4% and mentoring, while we always keep an Total Conduct upholds our commitment to (90,4%) (9,6%) purchase of an ambulance in the Nigeria open mind and take note of our workforce’s providing equal employment opportunities plant. South Africa 34 11,9% opinions on how to secure that their career in the workplace and treating all employees goals are met. without bias. Our Code of Conduct, apart 9.4 Health and safety At Frigoglass, we monitor closely the number Total 481 14,7% from being read and signed by all employees of accidents occurring in all our plants For us in Frigoglass, training is seen as an Ensuring a safe and healthy workplace is during the hiring process, will also be part and we have set targets in order to reduce investment rather than as an expense. We always a top priority for Frigoglass. We Employee turnover Voluntary Total of the regular training agenda of our new the number of work-related injuries and emphasise technical strengths and personal operate in the heavy industry, where the e-learning tool, from 2017 onwards. We illnesses. All our plants operate according to Head offices 13 12,4% 20 19% development in our training programs, work environment and various types of provide fair compensation for all employees concrete and comprehensive safety plans, but we also provide training for issues manufacturing processes hold several Nigeria (all plants) 264 32,3% 578 70,8% irrespective of their ethnicity, gender identity which are subject to a strict approval process. such as anti-corruption, anti-competitive potential risk elements. At Frigoglass, we aim or other characteristic, and firmly believe that India 14 5,8% 19 7,9% behaviour and human rights, which aim at to maintain high level of safety across the quality of talent diversity has a direct impact To ensure the desired results, we monitor further promoting an equal and fair working business whilst consistently improving our Indonesia on our success. the accident frequency rates for all our plants environment. safety culture. and we are constantly working towards Dubai 2 2% We embrace diversity and celebrate the achieving a continued improvement in them. In 2017 we will initiate a program of digital It is of outmost importance that all unique qualities, differences and similarities Romania 85 10,7% 324 38,5% training, “e-learning”, for which our goal is to employees are aware of the hazards and among talent, so much that our success is During 2016 we recorded an injury rate of have it completed by all our existing and new potential risks and that there is sufficient Russia 31 4,2% 31 4,2% attributed to it. Diversity is part of our culture 0,35% and a lost day rate of 1,3% per one employees. knowledge and ambition to always perform and inspires fresh, innovative solutions for thousand hours of work. Injury rate has South Africa 13 4,6% 16 5,6% the job with safety in mind. In this respect, at our customers. dropped by 53% from our past reporting Frigoglass we: Total 420 12,8% 990 30,2% and our continuous commitment is to keep • Provide compulsory training on health There have been no recorded incidents of reducing work related accidents. and safety issues to employees as well as discrimination during the reporting period external partners working at our facilities and our internal audits and whistle-blowing • Offer health care programs for all our procedures are aiming on maintaining zero personnel incident levels. 50 51 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 10 Community 10.1 Supporting local In Greece, where our headquarters are located, we continued the successful Marketplace Environment communities initiative “Cool for Good” for third year in a row, donating beverage coolers to charity At Frigoglass we remain dedicated to having organizations and nonprofit institutions, and and maintaining a positive impact at a local supported hundreds of people in need. level. We firmly believe that supporting local economies by providing workplace to local Through our Romanian operations we are people and empowering local communities systematically supporting the “Lighthouse Community Workplace contribute to the overall success of our for the Blind of Greece” as the organization business whilst highlighting our strong is our preferred supplier of shelf clips used commitment to social responsibility values. in our coolers, generating an income of more Material issues: than 200,000€ annually. Supporting local communities We have a long-standing tradition in supporting local communities, either directly Last but not least, at Frigoglass we also through donations or by making in-kind make significant efforts towards employing Key stakeholders: investments in the local infrastructure. As staff from the local community in which we part of our community investment strategy, operate in: above 90% of our workforce is Employees every year we are donating coolers to local of local origin and all employment contracts Local communities schools and the wider local community in offer wages above local average. various countries of our operations. Media Also in our procurement strategy we do a Our commitment is further highlighted by significant effort to support local companies. the in-kind investments we make every year Collectively as a Group over 45% of all Strategic priorities: in the area of our Nigerian plant, whereby our suppliers worldwide in 2016 are of Hiring local workforce we annualy pledge 30,000 to 40,000 Euros local origin and we are planning to at least contributing to the construction of classroom maintain these levels for 2017. Making investments in local communities blocks, community town hall renovations as well as the purchase of market stalls and Supporting local suppliers school desks. 52 53 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 11 Appendices UN Global Compact – Alignment with UN Global Compact principles GRI Index Table Key: Fully reported Partially reported United Nations Global Compact principles Chapter Page GRI Index Reported Assurance Chapter Page GRI Index Reported Assurance Chapter Page Human rights General standard disclosures Identified material aspects and boundaries (continued) Strategy and analysis G4-20 Materiality 28 Businesses should support and respect the protection of 1 Labour practices and human rights 49 internationally proclaimed human rights G4-1 CEO’s message 5 G4-21 Materiality 28 Responsible procurement and supplier 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 36 Organizational profile G4-22 assessment There are no restatements or changes G4-3 About Frigoglass 9 G4-23 from previous reports Labour G4-4 About Frigoglass 9 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Stakeholder engagement 3 Labour practices and human rights 49 G4-5 Community 52 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining G4-24 Stakeholder engagement 26 G4-6 About Frigoglass 9 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Labour practices and human rights 49 G4-25 Stakeholder engagement 26 5 The effective abolition of child labour Labour practices and human rights 49 G4-7 Corporate governance 20 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement 26 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and G4-8 Financial highlights 10 6 Diversity and equal opportunity 50 G4-27 Stakeholder engagement 26 occupation Global presence, 11 G4-9 Workplace 48 Report profile Environment G4-10 Workplace 48 About this year’s Businesses should support a precautionary approach to G4-28 6 7 Emissions management and reduction 40 G4 -11 Workplace 48 sustainability report environmental challenges About this year’s G4-12 Innovation leader 14 G4-29 6 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental sustainability report 8 Energy efficiency of operations 42 responsibility G4-13 Cost leadership 19 About this year’s Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally G4-30 6 9 Product environmental stewardship 39 sustainability report G4-14 Our business strategy 12 friendly technologies G4-31 Contact information 56 Our sustainability G4-15 24 Anti-corruption strategy About this year’s G4-32 6 Our sustainability sustainability report Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, G4-16 24 10 Fair business practices 49 strategy About this year’s including extortion and bribery G4-33 6 sustainability report Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Corporate governance 20 Governance G4-34 Corporate governance 20 Our sustainability G4-18 24 strategy Ethics and integrity G4-19 Materiality 28 G4-56 Customer focus 12 54 55 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 GRI Index Table Key: Fully reported Partially reported GRI Index Reported Assurance Chapter Page GRI Index Reported Assurance Chapter Page GRI Index Reported Assurance Chapter Page GRI Index Reported Assurance Chapter Page Specific standard disclosures Category: Environmental Aspect: Emissions (continued) Aspect: Supplier environmental assessment Aspect: Materials Category: Economic Emissions management Responsible G4-EN17 40 Product environmental and reduction G4-DMA procurement and 36 Aspect: Economic performance G4-DMA 38 stewardship supplier assessment Emissions management Economic performance G4-EN18 40 G4-DMA 32 Product environmental and reduction Responsible and impact G4-EN1 38 stewardship G4-EN32 procurement and 36 Emissions management supplier assessment Financial highlights, G4-EN19 40 10 Product environmental and reduction G4-EC1 Economic performance G4-EN2 38 32 stewardship Responsible and impact Aspect: Effluents and waste G4-EN33 procurement and 36 Aspect: Energy supplier assessment Aspect: Market presence Waste management and G4-DMA 46 Energy efficiency of control G4DMA Workplace 48 G4-DMA 42 Category: Social operations Labour practices and G4-EN23 Waste management and 46 Aspect: Employment G4-EC5 49 Energy efficiency of control human rights G4-EN3 42 G4-DMA Employee satisfaction 51 operations Waste management and Labour practices and G4-EN25 46 G4-EC6 49 Energy efficiency of control G4-LA1 Employee satisfaction 51 human rights G4-EN5 42 operations Aspect: Products and services Aspect: Labour management and relations Aspect: Indirect economic impacts Energy efficiency of G4-EN6 42 Product environmental Labour practices and Supporting local operations G4-DMA 38 G4-DMA 49 G4-DMA 52 stewardship human rights communities Product quality and G4-EN7 33 Product environmental Labour practices and Supporting local responsibility G4-EN27 38 G4-LA4 49 G4-EC7 52 stewardship human rights communities Aspect: Water Aspect: Transport Aspect: Occupational health and safety Aspect: Procurement practices Resource management G4-DMA 44 Product environmental G4-DMA Health and safety 50 Responsible and efficiency G4-DMA 38 stewardship G4-DMA procurement and 36 G4-LA5 Health and safety 50 Resource management supplier assessment G4-EN10 44 Product environmental and efficiency G4-EN30 38 G4-LA6 Health and safety 50 stewardship Responsible G4-EC9 procurement and 36 Aspect: Emissions G4-LA8 Health and safety 50 supplier assessment Aspect: Overall Emissions management G4-DMA 40 Product quality and and reduction G4-DMA 33 responsibility Emissions management G4-EN15 40 Product quality and and reduction G4-EN31 33 responsibility Emissions management G4-EN16 40 and reduction 56 57 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 GRI Index Table Key: Fully reported Partially reported GRI Index Reported Assurance Chapter Page GRI Index Reported Assurance Chapter Page GRI Index Reported Assurance Chapter Page GRI Index Reported Assurance Chapter Page Aspect: Training and education Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining Aspect: Anti-corruption Aspect: Compliance Training and Labour practices and G4-DMA Fair business practices 49 Product quality and G4-DMA 51 G4-DMA 49 G4-DMA 33 development human rights responsibility G4-SO3 Fair business practices 49 Training and Labour practices and No non-compliance with G4-LA9 51 G4-HR4 49 G4-SO4 Fair business practices 49 G4-PR9 development human rights regulations has been identified Training and Aspect: Child labour Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour G4-LA11 51 development Responsible G4-DMA Regulatory compliance 37 Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA procurement and 36 supplier assessment G4-SO7 Regulatory compliance 37 Labour practices and G4-DMA 49 human rights Responsible Aspect: Supplier assessment for impacts on society G4-HR5 procurement and 36 Labour practices and supplier assessment Responsible G4-LA12 49 human rights G4-DMA procurement and 36 Aspect: Forced or compulsory labour supplier assessment Aspect: Supplier assessment for labour practices Responsible Responsible Responsible G4-DMA procurement and 36 G4-SO9 procurement and 36 G4-DMA procurement and 36 supplier assessment supplier assessment supplier assessment Responsible Responsible Responsible G4-HR6 procurement and 36 G4-SO10 procurement and 36 G4-LA15 procurement and 36 supplier assessment supplier assessment supplier assessment Aspect: Supplier human rights assessment Aspect: Product and service labelling Aspect: Investment Responsible Product quality and G4-DMA 33 Responsible G4-DMA procurement and 36 responsibility G4-DMA procurement and 36 supplier assessment supplier assessment Product environmental G4-PR3 38 Responsible stewardship Responsible G4-HR10 procurement and 36 G4-HR1 procurement and 36 No non-compliance with supplier assessment supplier assessment G4-PR4 regulations has been Responsible identified Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR11 procurement and 36 Customer satisfaction supplier assessment G4-PR5 34 Diversity and equal and brand promotion G4-DMA 50 opportunity Diversity and equal G4-HR3 50 opportunity 58 59 Frigoglass Sustainability Report 2016 Contact information Frigoglass welcomes feedback on our sustainability report. If you would like to comment or require further information, please contact: Marketing Communications Eva Hioti T +30 210 6165768 E ehioti@frigoglass.com Sustainability George Alyfantis T +30 210 6165787 E galyfantis@frigoglass.com Frigoglass Head Office 15, A. Metaxa Street 145 64 Kifissia Athens, Greece T +30 210 6165700 F +30 210 6199097 www.frigoglass.com 60 www.frigoglass.com
