Arcus ASA Destilleriveien 11 Postbox 64 NO-1483 Hagan Tel. (+47) 67 06 50 00 post@arcus.no www.arcus.no Facebook: ArcusGruppen ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA iPDF USER GUIDE This document is an interactive PDF (iPDF). It functions like an ordinary PDF, but has interactive navigation functions. For a printer-friendly version, see under printing version below. NAVIGATION You can navigate the document by clicking on menus, buttons, hyperlinks or in the tables of contents. Left-hand arrow: Flip one page chronologically backward (or use arrow keys) Right-hand arrow: Flip one page chronologically forward (or use arrow keys) Previous view: Go back to previously viewed page Next view: Go forward to previously viewed page Find text: Search for text in Adobe Reader/Acrobat Full-screen view on/off PDF reader This iPDF report is designed for Adobe Reader/Acrobat 8 or later versions. Some functions may not work in web browsers with PDF plug-ins. If you experience problems viewing in your web browser, please save/download the report to your hard drive and re-open the PDF in Adobe Reader/Acrobat. Download the free Adobe Reader here: http://get.adobe.com/uk/reader/otherversions TABLETS The document is optimised for widescreen view on PC/Mac, but the top navigation panel should function with all PDF readers for tablets supporting hyperlinks. The navigation buttons mentioned above may not be visible on your tablet, and you will then have to use the tablet’s own navigation tools for browsing through the document. 3 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA 4 IN BRIEF | Business Structure ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA IN BRIEF Business Structure Business Model BUSINESS STRUCTURE CONTENTS A leading Nordic brand Key Figures 2016 IN BRIEF Important Events in 2016 Business Structure 4 Group CEO Arcus ASA Business Model 5 A leading Nordic brand company 6 Key Figures 2016 7 Important Events in 2016 8 Group CEO 9 THE COMPANY The Company in brief 10 Business Area Spirits 12 Arcus-Gruppen AS Distribution Wine 16 Group Supply Chain 20 Norway: Distribution 21 Vectura AS Organisation 23 Group Management 25 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 26 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 33 Finance, IT, HR, Communication DIRECTORS' REPORT 38 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS & NOTES Contents 44 Consolidated Financial Statements Business Area Business Area Group Supply Chain with Notes 45 Wine Spirits Parent Company Financial Statements with Notes 101 Sweden: Subsidiaries: Norway: Auditor's Report 109 Vingruppen i Norden AB NO, SWE, FI, DK, GER Gjelleråsen Norway: Third-party distribution: IR and Media Contact Vingruppen AS DE, US and others Group Director Communications and IR Finland: Tiffon (Cognac): Per Bjørkum 34% owner share per.bjorkum@arcus.no Social Wines Oy + Vinum Import Oy Tel. (+47) 922 55 777 + Wineworld Finland Oy Photos: Arcus ASA / Eivind Røhne – beyondtheice.no Olav Heggø – fotovisjon.no CF-Wesenberg – kolonihaven.no Concept, design and production: oktanoslo.no 5 IN BRIEF | Business Model ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA IN BRIEF Business Structure Business Model A leading Nordic brand BUSINESS MODEL Key Figures 2016 Important Events in 2016 Group CEO VECTURA Agency Import Distribution Sales brands WINE Arcus’ Import bulk Bottling Distribution Sales brands ARCUS Arcus’ Production Bottling Distribution Sales brands SPIRITS Agency Import Distribution Sales brands 6 IN BRIEF | A leading Nordic brand company ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA IN BRIEF Business Structure Business Model A leading Nordic brand A LEADING NORDIC BRAND COMPANY SALES REVENUE BY BUSINESS AREA IN 2016 Key Figures 2016 SOLID FOOTPRINT IN THE NORDIC 10 % Important Events in 2016 REGION AND GERMANY Group CEO #1 Spirits 30 % #1 Wine ■ Wine #8 Spirits ■ Spirits 60 % ■ Distribution (Vectura) #3 Wine SALES REVENUE BY COUNTRY IN 2016 #2 Spirits 4% 1% #4 2% Spirits 5% 39 % 8% #2 Wine #1 Aquavit ■ Norway ■ Sweden THE BEST OF NORDIC ■ Finland ■ Denmark SPIRITS TO THE WORLD AND ■ Germany THE WORLD’S BEST WINES ■ Tax-free 41 % ■ Other countries TO THE NORDICS 7 IN BRIEF | Key Figures 2016 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA IN BRIEF Business Structure Business Model A leading Nordic brand KEY FIGURES 2016 Key Figures 2016 Important Events in 2016 Group CEO Arcus ASA Group 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Operating revenues NOK million 2,582.5 2,470.9 2,332.4 2,268.2 1,957.2 OPERATING REVENUES Of which operating revenues outside Norway NOK million 1,567.7 1,479.5 1,288.5 1,255.9 977.6 NOK million 2 583 EBITDA NOK million 290.5 257.8 272.1 259.0 38.2 EBITDA adjusted for non-recurring items NOK million 335.3 274.4 266.3 268.0 209.6 EBITDA margin adjusted for non-recurring items (%) 13.0% 11.1% 11.4% 11.8% 10.7% Number of FTEs, 31.12 Number 409 422 448 441 469 GROWTH 2006–2016 EBITDA adjusted for non-recurring items NOK million 335 NOK million NOK million 400 3000 2 583 350 2 332 2 471 2500 2 268 300 335 1 957 1 789 2000 250 274 1 632 268 266 1 505 200 1500 1 220 1 309 210 198 150 170 965 1000 100 128 NUMBER OF 121 109 500 EMPLOYEES 409 50 68 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ■ EBITDA adjusted for non-recurring items ■ Operating revenues 8 IN BRIEF | Important Events in 2016 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA IMPORTANT EVENTS IN 2016 IN BRIEF Business Structure RUBY ZIN Business Model The Ruby Zin red wine is an example of A leading Nordic brand good Arcus cooperation across national Key Figures 2016 LØITEN TURAKEVITT AQUAVIT IN DRINKS borders: Ruby Zin has been developed Important Events in 2016 In March, Løiten Tur Aquavit was Lysholm No. 52 was especially for the Swedish market by Group CEO launched, a rapidly increasing success. launched in January the Swedish wine company Vinunic and Initially, Løiten Turakevitt was only 2016. It is the first Norwegian Arcus Wine Brands. Vinunic available in Vinmonopolet's order aquavit made especially has put a lot of effort into sales and assortment, but after six months it was to meet the growing marketing, which has made good results. available on the shelves of more than interest in using aquavit Within a short time, Ruby Zin has half of t­ he outlets. As from the autumn in drinks. become extremely popular in Sweden, of 2016, Løiten Turakevitt has a and at the turn of the year was available ­permanent listing. in 372 Systembolag out of 426 in total. DWOREK In the third quarter, Arcus acquired the Dworek brand. This is the largest vodka brand at VinmonoFALLING FEATHER polet and the third The bestseller Falling Feather was Norway's largest at Systembolaget, most popular wine in 2016. Sales rose by measured by the number 6 per cent from 2015. The Norwegian wine of litres sold. journalist Ingvild Tennfjord said to TV2: During the autumn, all STOCK-EXCHANGE LISTING Falling Feather is like a popular radio production of Dworek On 1 December, Arcus was listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange. By year-end, Arcus had more song. It's easy to like and everyone can was moved to Arcus’ own than 3,000 shareholders, and 40 per cent of the employees had invested in Arcus shares. sing along to the Falling Feather chorus. facility outside Oslo. 9 IN BRIEF | Group CEO ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA IN BRIEF Business Structure Business Model A leading Nordic brand Group CEO Kenneth Hamnes: 2016 – Key Figures 2016 Important Events in 2016 Group CEO A HISTORIC YEAR FOR ARCUS December 1st, Arcus ASA was listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange, and by year-end had more than 3,000 shareholders. The stock-exchange listing has strengthened Arcus' financial situation, giving a good and sound basis for the company's further development. 2016 was the 18th consecutive year with The fourth quarter was a good conclusion revenue growth, while underlying profitability to 2016, with underlying sales growth for wine, (adjusted EBITDA) improved significantly. Total and increased earnings for spirits. The operating revenue was NOK 2,582 million, ­performance of the distribution business has which was 4.5 per cent higher than in 2015, turned to positive results, and in the fourth while adjusted EBITDA amounted to NOK 335 quarter this business was profitable for the million, which is an improvement of 22.5 second consecutive quarter. percent from 2015. I promise that we will work hard to keep on Our iconic spirits brands continued to be creating growth and shareholder value in the subject to high demand. The Wine business area coming years. delivered good results despite the challenging currency market, and distribution activities gained new contracts. Kenneth Hamnes Group CEO 10 THE COMPANY | The Company in brief ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY The Company in brief Spirits Wine Group Supply Chain Distribution Organisation Group Management The company in brief Arcus is one of the Nordic region's largest brand companies within wine AGENCIES, PRODUCTION AND BRANDS wine-related operations cover a wide range of Arcus is the world’s largest producer of aquavit agencies, representing all categories in all the and spirits. Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland and Germany constitute and one of the major spirits players in the important wine producing countries. In addition, the domestic market. Vectura, is Norway's leading logistics business for Nordic region. The company has an extensive Arcus has significant sales of its own brands, brand portfolio and a modern, efficient produced according to tailor-made specificaalcoholic beverages. ­production facility outside Oslo. The welltions for each market. These products are known Norwegian aquavit brands are produced imported in bulk and bottled at Gjelleråsen. Arcus ASA owns the brand company handles all distribution operations in Norway. here and, as from 2015, also the traditional ­Arcus-Gruppen AS and the distribution company In other countries, this function is handled by Danish spirits, such as Aalborg Akvavit and HISTORY Vectura AS. The Group’s operational activities external partners. Gammel Dansk. As from September 2016, the Arcus-Gruppen AS, including Vectura, was are run via the Spirits, Wine and Distribution Vectura offers logistics services for popular Dworek vodka is also bottled at the established as a state-owned enterprise on 1 business areas. Group Supply Chain (GSC) is producers, agents and importers of wine, Gjelleråsen facility. Arcus owns 34 percent of January 1996. As part of Norway’s adaptation reported as part of the Spirits business area. spirits, beer and other beverages, delivering the French cognac house, Tiffon, the producer to the EEA rules, the operations of Vin­ The Spirits and Wine business areas handle their goods to Vinmonopolet’s shops, as well as of Braastad Cognac. In addition to its own monopolet AS were split. Sales to Norwegian product development, imports, sales and to hotels, restaurants and cafés (HORECA) in ­production, Arcus holds a number of agencies. consumers remained the responsibility of the marketing within their respective product Norway. ArcusGruppen is the largest importer of state monopoly, while the newly established categories. GSC is responsible for purchasing, wine in Norway, the second largest in Sweden commercial enterprise took over the activities production, storage and bottling. Vectura and the third largest in Finland. The Group’s related to imports, production, distribution and 11 THE COMPANY | The Company in brief ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY exports. The traditional distilleries and recipes, over other operators, that may be producers and the rights to the extensive brand portfolio and agents. The Company in brief with an emphasis on aquavit, were also included Sales to the monopolies consist mainly of Spirits in the commercial enterprise. The company was popular, listed products. In many cases, the Wine partly privatised in 2001 and fully privatised in monopolies add new products by obtaining bids Group Supply Chain 2003. As from 2005, the investment company from several suppliers, where they specify the Distribution Ratos was the largest owner, with an interest of price level and characteristics in detail. Finally, Organisation 83.4 per cent, and Hoff was the next largest blind taste tests are run by the monopoly to Group Management owner with an interest of 9.9 per cent. On 1 determine which bids to accept. December 2016, Arcus ASA was listed on the Based on their own assessments of market Oslo Stock Exchange, and by year-end had more potential, wine and spirits companies may also than 3,000 shareholders. introduce products through the catalogues of the monopolies. The sales figures then THE NORDIC ALCOHOL MARKET ­determine whether a product may be added to The Nordic alcohol market is complex, with the inventory of the monopolies’ stores, and in significant variations in each market. The how many stores, dependent on each individual structure, regulatory regimes, advertising store’s size and customer base. The wine and opportunities and pricing mechanisms differ spirits companies set the price to the consumers. greatly from country to country. Vinmonopolet The suppliers’ wine and spirits knowledge, in Norway, Systembolaget in Sweden and Alko as well as their insight into the taste preferences in Finland all have a monopoly on consumer of the target customers, are crucial, both in sales. The monopolies are the consequence of relation to invitations to tender and self-initiated social policies designed to regulate and restrict product launches. Arcus' size, its longstanding access to alcohol by means of availability, experience and the systematically accumulated pricing and responsible trading practices. knowledge, have proved highly valuable. Apart from the monopoly outlets, importers and producers can sell directly to hotels, CROSS-BORDER SHOPPING AND ­restaurants and cafés, usually referred to as ­DUTY-FREE the HORECA market, as well as to duty-free The cross-border retail trade is a factor outlets. Around 90 percent of the domestic influencing all the Nordic markets, particularly volume is sold off-trade, which means via Norway, Sweden and Finland, where taxation monopolies in countries with a monopoly strucpolicies lead to significantly higher prices than ture, and via supermarket chains in Denmark. in their respective neighbouring countries such The remaining approximately 10 percent is as Sweden, Germany/Denmark and Estonia. sold on-trade (HORECA). The volume of duty-free sales is also substantial in the Nordic countries. The SALES THROUGH MONOPOLIES ­duty-free retailers primarily purchase their Arcus' companies in Norway, Sweden and goods directly from the producer. They are Finland each have years of experience from therefore an important customer group for the interacting with the retail monopolies in their Spirits business area, while the wine companies Aalborg Basis is an organic do it yourself respective countries, and are highly knowledgesell very little to this customer segment. aquavit to which the consumer can add able about how the monopolies work. This flavour. Aalborg Taffel is Denmark's most creates an important competitive advantage sold aquavit. 12 THE COMPANY | Spirits ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY Business Area The Company in brief Spirits Wine Group Supply Chain SPIRITS Distribution Organisation Arcus is the world’s largest producer of aquavit and a leading player in Group Management the Nordic spirits market. The primary focus of the Spirits business area Arcus has an important competitive is to develop and market Nordic spirits brands. advantage over its international competitors, Norwegian, Danish and Swedish aquavit constitute due to the distinctive market situation, with the core of the product range, followed by bitters, state-run alcohol monopolies. The operations in vodka and cognac. In addition, the business area all the Nordic countries are run through local has its own brands within most of the other sales companies that have many years’ important spirits categories, as well as extensive ­experience from selling to the retail monopolies agency operations for foreign products. in their respective countries, and detailed The operations of the Spirits business area knowledge of how these monopolies work. include product development, marketing and sales. GERMANY THE NORDIC MARKETS In Germany, which together with the Nordic Norway, Sweden and Finland are characterised countries constitutes Arcus' domestic market, by the three major state-owned retail there are no restrictions on the sale of spirits. ­monopolies, Vinmonopolet, Systembolaget and For Arcus, aquavit is the largest export Alko respectively. In Denmark, spirits sales are ­category, and both Norwegian and Danish unrestricted and spirits are primarily sold to brands are well-represented. Malteser Aquavit consumers via supermarket chains. Sales are has a long tradition in the German market. LINIE subject to highly competitive pricing, and Aquavit and Aalborg Taffel Akvavit are also participation in campaigns run by the chains is popular. Sales and marketing in Germany take essential to promote sales. Spirits advertising place via a local importer. is permitted in Denmark, while the monopoly markets in Norway, Sweden and Finland are heavily regulated in this respect. Arcus’ expertise from working with the alcohol monopolies is an important competitive advantage. 13 THE COMPANY | Spirits ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY DUTY-FREE Duty-free retailers mainly purchase their The Company in brief goods directly from the producer. Due to Spirits its significant portfolio of own products Wine and popular brands, the Spirits business Group Supply Chain area is a significant supplier in the Nordic Distribution region. The most important categories are Organisation Norwegian and Danish aquavit, although Group Management cognac and vodka also hold a strong position. BRANDS AND AGENCY BRANDS The largest proportion of brands produced in-house are Norwegian and Danish aquavits, although significant volumes of vodka, bitters and gin are also produced. In External sales revenue by category addition, Arcus offers its own brands of whisky and grape spirits, based on imported spirits, bottled at the Gjelleråsen facility. 41 % The company owns a 34 percent stake in the French cognac house, Tiffon SA, the 49 % producer of Braastad Cognac. NOK million 746,2 Arcus manages agencies for producers in several countries, the largest of which ■ Aquavit are the USA, the UK and France. When ■ Bitters competing for the most attractive agencies, 10 % ■ Other the Spirits business area's expertise, consumer insight and close cooperation with the Swedish, Norwegian and Finnish alcohol monopolies are important competitive External sales revenue by country advantages. 1% Another advantage is the fact that 12 % Arcus is one of only a few players in the 8% 41 % industry who are able to operate throughout the Nordic region. Even though the Nordic countries individually represent NOK million 746,2 small markets for major international BUSINESS AREA SPIRITS 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 17 % suppliers, the Nordic region in total ■ Norway Total operating revenue (NOK million) 904.0 855.0 903.2 887.5 647.1 generates a large customer base. ■ Sweden 5% ■ Finland EBITDA (NOK million) 158.7 112.2 154.3 163.8 47.5 PREFERENCES AND TRENDS 16 % ■ Denmark EBITDA adjusted for non-recurring items (NOK million) 162.6 113.0 142.0 166.3 94.8 For several years now, there has been an ■ Germany international trend for growth in the ■ Tax-free EBITDA margin adjusted for non-recurring items 18.0% 13.2% 15.7% 18.7% 14.7% premium segment for the most important ■ Other countries 14 THE COMPANY | Spirits ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY spirits categories, with increasing interest in OPERATIONS IN NORWAY specialised whiskey and exclusive aquavits, for The management of the Spirits business area, The Company in brief example. In parallel, a sharp growth in the low which handles central sales, marketing and Spirits Wine price segment indicates a degree of ­polarisation in the market. R&D, is located at Gjelleråsen, outside Oslo. This is also the home of Arcus' main facility for LEARN MORE ABOUT SPIRITS Group Supply Chain Vodka is the best-selling category in the production, bottling and storage. Distribution western world, and the Nordic region is no Organisation exception. Overall, aquavit and whisky are OPERATIONS IN DENMARK Group Management slowly gaining ground in the market at the In Denmark, marketing and sales of Arcus' expense of cognac and grape spirits, although spirits products are handled by Det Danske there are fluctuations from year to year and Spiritus Kompagni A/S (DDSK). between markets. Bitters are relatively stable, although also with certain variations between OPERATIONS IN SWEDEN the countries. Low alcohol products are also Arcus Sweden AB handles marketing, sales and gaining ground. agency management for the Swedish market. Small niche manufacturers of spirits are The company is a wholly owned subsidiary of found in all the Nordic countries, producing Arcus-Gruppen AS. The operations are located primarily gin, aquavit and whisky. The number of in the same premises as Vingruppen i Norden micro distilleries is increasing, showing how the AB in Stockholm. local production of spirits is following the same trend as microbreweries and a growing interest OPERATIONS IN FINLAND for local food traditions. Arcus is capitalising on Arcus Finland Oy handles marketing, sales and this trend through its broad selection of agency management in Finland. This is a wholly regional aquavits and other locally-distilled owned subsidiary of Arcus-Gruppen AS. Its spirits. With the small-scale craft beer operations are located in the same premises as ­operations at Atlungstad Brenneri in Stange, Vingruppen i Norden's wine companies in Norway, and the Snälleröds brewery in Helsinki. ­Ljungbyhed in Skåne, Sweden, Arcus has created excellent conditions for enhancing its OPERATIONS IN GERMANY position in the craft spirits market. Arcus Deutschland GmbH, in close cooperation with the German wine and spirits importer STRATEGY 2020 Eggers & Franke, handles marketing and sales One of our highest priorities is to ensure a in Germany. continued strong aquavit and bitter position in our home market (the Nordic countries and Germany). To succeed, we must continuously adapt and deliver on our strategy of strong brands. In the long term, we will also be ­focusing Welcome to a tour of our production! on increased growth in Sweden and Finland, and innovation is of great importance in all markets. See arcus.no/om-oss/besøk-vårt-destilleri for a programme, tastings and menus, or contact opplevelse@arcus.no 15 THE COMPANY | Spirits ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY The Company in brief Spirits Wine Group Supply Chain Distribution Organisation Group Management 16 THE COMPANY | Wine ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY Business Area The Company in brief Spirits Wine Group Supply Chain WINE Distribution Arcus is the largest player in the Norwegian wine market and the Organisation Group Management second largest in Sweden. In addition, Arcus has secured a significant position in Finland through ambitious growth initiatives. The Wine business area covers imports, marketing basis for Arcus’ new website www.arcus.no, and sales of wine in Sweden, Norway and launched November 2016. Alcohol advertising in Finland. The core business for Arcus' wine Sweden and Finland is also subject to significant import companies in each country, is to manage restrictions. This necessitates a specialised their respective agencies. However, operations insight into the relevant marketing tools when also include in-house brands, produced according launching and promoting new products. to specifications from the wine companies, and The media is an important channel, together bottled in Arcus' facilities at Gjelleråsen. with fairs for consumers, and employees of the monopolies, as well as the hotel and restaurant THE NORDIC MARKETS industry. In Sweden, Norway and Finland, all wine sales to consumers are channelled through state retail DUTY-FREE monopolies. Duty-free players make the bulk of their The situation in Denmark is different, where purchases directly from the producers, and consumers are free to buy wine in grocery stores therefore their contribution to Arcus' wine and supermarkets. revenue growth is minimal. In the autumn of The Danish market is subject to fiercely 2016, Heinemann at Gardermoen began to sell competitive pricing. So far, Arcus has chosen to Ruby Zin red wine in bag-in-box. concentrate its Danish operations on spirits. Marketing opportunities also vary between AGENCIES AND BRANDS the countries. Most of Arcus' wine sales in Sweden, Norway In Norway, alcohol advertising is forbidden, and Finland take place through national import apart from the trade press. The regulations were companies in each country. These companies eased in 2016 to permit the publication of sober manage overseas producers’ agencies for product images with sober text. This is the established and new brands. Arcus’ wine companies have substantial consumer insights in the Nordic wine market. 17 THE COMPANY | Wine ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY Winning and retaining attractive agencies requires a strong network of The Company in brief contacts, in addition to professional wine Spirits expertise, to earn the trust and respect of Wine the suppliers. The industry is characterised Group Supply Chain by personal relationships between producers Distribution and agents. This is why Arcus' import Organisation operations are orga­nised into a number of Group Management smaller companies, several of which are owned by founders or key people with strong relationships to attractive suppliers. This model also encourages the continuation of an entrepreneurial approach and the continued development of the business. There is a clear trend towards closer cooperation between producers and importers to develop products adapted to local preferences. Wines produced on special order from Arcus, and marketed under its External sales revenue by brands brands, is one manifestation of this trend. 10 % Arcus holds a leading position in this segment. PREFERENCES AND TRENDS There are major differences in the taste NOK million 90 % preferences of consumers in Sweden, Norway 1 515,4 and Finland. This applies to grape varieties and country of origin, as well as brands. In both ■ Arcus brands Sweden and Norway, Italian and French wines ■ Agency brands are popular. In Sweden, new wine countries such as South Africa, Chile and Australia are relatively strong, while traditi­onal wine External sales revenue by country producing countries such as Germany and Spain have high market shares in Norway. 11 % Chile and Spain are the most popular wine producing countries in the Finnish market. 29 % All three markets are characterised by a BUSINESS AREA WINE 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 high change rate, with a strong focus on new NOK million Total operating revenue (NOK million) 1,552.4 1,466.6 1,281.3 1,177.1 1,128.7 products. Wine brands have shorter life 1 515,4 cycles than spirits brands. Consumer insight EBITDA (NOK million) 194.2 197.1 180.3 192.8 198.5 and the ability to innovate in combination ■ Norway EBITDA adjusted for non-recurring items (NOK million) 194.2 197.5 179.4 195.6 199.2 with market knowledge, is crucial to maintain 60 % ■ Sweden a product portfolio that can be quickly ■ Finland EBITDA margin adjusted for non-recurring items 12.5% 13.5% 14.0% 16.6% 17.7% adapted to meet new customer preferences. ■ Tax-free 18 THE COMPANY | Wine ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY OPERATIONS IN SWEDEN The Wine business area in Sweden is run by The Company in brief Vingruppen i Norden AB, parent company of Spirits Arcus' Swedish and Finnish wine companies. Wine The parent company is responsible for functions Group Supply Chain such as finance, IT, HR and logistics for all of Distribution the wine companies, while each wine company Organisation manages its own agencies and undertakes Group Management imports, marketing and sales. Sales to the HORECA market are organised through the parent companies in Sweden and Norway. The primary strategy of Vingruppen i Norden is to achieve continued growth by winning new agencies, through acquisitions, new product launches and product ­development. http://www.vingruppen.se OPERATIONS IN NORWAY Operations in Norway are run through Vingruppen AS, parent company for Arcus' Norwegian wine companies. Internal functions such as finance, IT and HR are provided centrally by Arcus. The individual wine companies manage their own agencies and are responsible for imports, marketing and sales. Vingruppen’s strategy is to expand through organic growth in its existing companies, growth in new agencies, and the establishment of new companies. http://www.arcus.no/vin/vingruppen-as/ OPERATIONS IN FINLAND Operations in Finland are run through Social Wines Oy, Wineworld Finland Oy and Vinum Import Oy, which are owned by Vingruppen i Norden AB. The Finnish wine companies manage their own agencies and are responsible for imports, marketing and sales. The strategy of Vingruppen i Norden in Finland is also to achieve continued growth by winning new agencies, acquisitions, new product launches and product development. 19 THE COMPANY | Wine ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY The Company in brief Spirits Wine Group Supply Chain Distribution Organisation Group Management 20 THE COMPANY | Group Supply Chain ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY The Company in brief Spirits Wine GROUP SUPPLY CHAIN Group Supply Chain Distribution Group Supply Chain ensures the efficient flow of goods Organisation across business areas and national borders. At its advanced Group Management production facilities at Gjelleråsen, outside Oslo, Arcus' Norwegian and Danish aquavit brands are produced, and large volumes of wine are bottled. Group Supply Chain (GSC) is responsible for few to have its own accredited laboratory for purchasing, production, storage, bottling, quality assurance and monitoring. The distribution and logistics across the business ­laboratory carries out chemical, microbiological areas. GSC's financial figures are reported and sensory tests. All products to be bottled at together with the accounts of the Spirits the facilities in Gjelleråsen are checked and business area. approved by the laboratory prior to bottling. Based on their own sales forecasts and The facilities offer extensive capacity and other underlying material, the Wine and Spirits one of GSC's strategic goals is to achieve the business areas place orders with GSC, which highest possible degree of utilisation. In line then plans the purchasing, production and stock with this, production and bottling of the levels. The purchase of finished goods, as part Aalborg aquavits, Gammel Dansk and of the agency operations, is handled by the ­Malteserkreuz were moved from Denmark to Wine and Spirits business areas themselves. Norway during 2015. PRODUCTION FACILITIES RESTRUCTURING AND INNOVATION At Gjelleråsen outside Oslo, GSC is responsible With modern facilities GSC now perform large for operating the raw materials warehouse and bottling assignments for external companies. casks warehouse, the latter consisting of Finished goods warehousing and around 7,300 casks for the maturing of aquavit ­distribution are part of GSC's responsibility. and other spirits. At all times there are always In Norway, these functions are outsourced to around 1,100 casks on board the Wallenius Vectura, who distribute directly to Wilhelmsens ships, a four-month voyage during ­Vinmonopolet and HORECA. In other countries’ which the Equator is crossed twice. GSC is also distribution takes place via partners and responsible for the operation and maintenance wholesalers with agreements with GSC. of the spirits production facility and the spirits Arcus stores around 7,300 casks for and wine bottling facility. The facilities at Gjelleråsen, is one of Europe’s maturing of aquavit and other spirits. newest and most advanced. It is one of the very 21 THE COMPANY | Distribution ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY Business Area The Company in brief Spirits Wine Group Supply Chain DISTRIBUTION Distribution Organisation Vectura AS is Norway’s leading logistics operation for alcoholic drinks, Group Management with a market share of approximately 44 per cent. Vectura makes use of one of the industry’s most modern facilities. Arcus is the largest customer, and accounts for approximately 30 per cent of sales revenue. Vectura delivers a full range of inbound logistics stocks, low costs, high stability and a high services, storage and product distribution. degree of predictability. Vectura also offers Vinmonopolet, the hotel and restaurant purchasing forecasts, extensive advisory industry, wholesalers and the duty-free services and various key performance reports segment are the main customers. Its partners that measure delivery services, circulation and include well over a hundred producers/importers forecasting accuracy. of alcoholic beverages, covering the entire In addition to the role as a logistics supplier range from the largest industry players to small for importers, Vectura has its own wholesale crafts producers. The products handled operation, targeting the HORECA market. The originate from more than 40 countries. portfolios of all importers with logistics Vectura AS was established in 1996 and is agreements with Vectura, are automatically owned by Arcus ASA. The company is located at available to all HORECA customers. Gjelleråsen, outside Oslo, in the same facilities as Arcus, and is closely integrated with this SALES FORCE operation. Vectura has state-of-the-art logistics The Vectura sales force is the company’s point facilities, among the most modern in the of contact with customers in the HORECA industry, and handles approximately 10,000 market, in the purchasing chains and different products. ­Vinmonopolet. The primary task of the sales Vectura has in total 166 employees and an force is to meet the customer’s wishes and annual turnover of NOK 263 million. needs in line with the Vectura business model. The customers are also free to make their PURCHASING AND WHOLESALE SERVICES purchases through Vectura's online store. Vectura's purchasing department is made up of experienced buyers. Close dialogue with SHIPPING AND CUSTOMS importers and advanced IT systems enable Through its network, Vectura offers shipments them to deliver correct amounts at the right to Norway from more than 800 suppliers. The Vectura has state-of-the-art logistics facilities, time and price. This provides excellent, consistent size of its network makes it possible to be among the most modern in the industry, and handles results for purchasing portfolios managed by competitive, both with fully loaded cargoes and Vectura: increased delivery precision, reduced singular transports. Vectura has its own approximately 10,000 different products. 22 THE COMPANY | Distribution ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY BUSINESS AREA VECTURA 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 The Company in brief Volume (millions of litres) 43.5 40.6 45.0 48.0 50.5 Spirits Total operating revenue (NOK million) 262.9 250.1 272.0 286.7 307.2 Wine EBITDA (NOK million) 2.2 -19.2 -37.2 -68.9 -123.2 Group Supply Chain EBITDA adjusted for non-recurring items (NOK million) 2.6 -15.7 -34.6 -63.1 -57.9 Distribution EBITDA margin adjusted for non-recurring items 1.0% -6.3% -12.7% -22.0% -18.9% Organisation Group Management customs service for all goods imported via the company’s warehouse. WAREHOUSING SERVICES Vectura's modern warehousing facilities at Gjelleråsen can hold a total of 36,000 pallets. The facilities are temperature-controlled and fully automated. A monorail transport system is used for goods restocking from the raised storage platforms to the picking stations. There is also an automated weight control station for pallets with picked goods. This will detect potential errors in the shipment before the goods are transported to the customer. DISTRIBUTION As the only beverage supplier for alcoholic beverages in Norway, Vectura has country-wide distribution to both the HORECA market and all of Vinmonopolet's stores. In the regions close to Oslo (Østlandet), this service is provided via an in-house fleet of 21 trucks with a dedicated maintenance and repair shop. For the rest of the country, distribution is handled via a partnership agreement with postal services, Bring. 23 THE COMPANY | Organisation ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY The Company in brief Spirits Wine Group Supply Chain Distribution Organisation Group Management Organisation EMPLOYEES AND EXPERTISE progress from the survey in 2015. On a scale of HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT comprehensive emergency situation. This Committed employees are crucial to the success 1-5, where 5 is the best, the result of the survey Arcus is strongly focused on health, safety and training is conducted with police, fire brigade of each business area. The Group, therefore, invests was 3.9 in November 2016. The biggest imthe environment (HSE). and ambulance personnel present. in competence development and measures to provement was related to managers’ ability to Great emphasis is placed on avoiding Arcus is an IA (inclusive working life) increase the mastery of those skills. Increased give recognition and praise. The target for 2020 accidents and injuries. Risk assessments, job company in Norway, and works closely with mastery encourages greater commitment, is 4.1. The result for Vectura in 2016 was 3.5, a safety analyses and root cause analyses are occupational health services and NAV improved performance and increased work quality. decline of 0.1 since 2015. therefore performed on a regular basis at our ­(Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration) To strengthen the leadership within Arcus, a Arcus has established tools and processes facilities in Norway. to reduce sick leave. Individual follow-up and leadership programme, ArcusAcademy, was for performance management. The purpose is Arcus is a company that handles flammable facilitation are important tools in this work. In launched in January 2015. All managers and key to set clear goals for the Group’s employees, liquids. In addition to the high degree of safety 2016, sick leave amounted to 4.2 per cent in employees of Arcus are enrolled for the and to create an understanding of how they embedded in the buildings, production processes Norway. For 2017, the Group’s target is a programme, and the aims are to enthuse relate to the Group’s overall objectives and and procedures,comprehensive emergency maximum of 4.2 per cent sick leave. In Vectura, customers, make change happen, and inspire priorities. Performance evaluation in addition measures are in place for dealing with adverse sick leave was 9.1 per cent in 2016, and the teams and employees. to career and succession planning are imporincidents. Employees take part in annual target for 2017 is 7.5 per cent. Twice a year, a survey is conducted to tant elements. An annual Management Audit courses and training on how to best handle Sick leave statistics and HSE incidents are assess the commitment of our employees. For report is submitted, with focus on a succession accidents. A separate rescue staff team presented each month at departmental Arcus-Gruppen the survey in 2016 showed plan for the Board of Directors. undergoes annual training in a hypothetical, but ­meetings and on bulletin boards. 24 THE COMPANY | Organisation ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY The Company in brief Spirits Wine Group Supply Chain Distribution Organisation Group Management Distribution and logistics Warehouse Sales and administration Bottling Cask warehouse Production Coopers Arcus’ production facility outside Oslo, inaugurated in 2012, is as large as six football grounds. 25 THE COMPANY | Group management ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA THE COMPANY GROUP MANAGEMENT The Company in brief Spirits Wine Group Supply Chain Distribution Organisation Group Management Kenneth Hamnes Erlend Stefansson Thomas Patay Claes Lindquist Sigmund Toth Group CEO of Arcus ASA Group Director Spirits Group Director Wine Norway CEO Vingruppen i Norden CFO, Group Director Finance/IT Master of Business Administration Master of Business Administration Bachelor of Arts, Major in Marketing (Wine Sweden and Finland) Master, Business Administration Group CEO since August 2015. Member of Group management since Member of Group management since Master of Business Administration (Diplôme ESSEC), ESSEC, France CEO Maarud 2009-15, sales director at 2012. Sales Director Ringnes 2008-12, 2008. Managing Director of Bibendum, Established Vingruppen in 1992. Member Member of Group management since Orkla-owned Stabburet 2006-09 and CEO Spits ASA 2006-08, CEO Virtual 2003-08. Previously held management of Group Management at Hexagon AB with 2016. Head of business controlling & Bakers 2004-06. Consultant/project Garden/Staal 2003-06, between 1993 and positions within sales and marketing of responsibility for M&A, IR and trading treasury, Arcus-Gruppen 2015-16. manager Boston Consulting Group 2003 various roles within sales, marketing FMCG in Norway and internationally, company (1994-00). Broad experience Associate and Engagement Manager 2000-04 and brand manager/key account and consulting (incl. McKinsey 1993including as Marketing Director of Steen from Indutrade, VBG and Svedberg i McKinsey 2012-15, and Sales Finance ­manager Lilleborg (Orkla) 1997-00. 1996). & Strøm ASA. Dalstorp Manager, Business Controller , etc. Procter & Gamble 2011–12. Erik Bern Christian Granlund Per Bjørkum Bjørn Delbæk Group Director Group Supply CEO Vectura AS Group Director IR and Group Director HR Chain, Purchasing and Property (commencement by 1 July 2017) Communications Military Academy and Master's ­program Management Master of Business Administration Bachelor of Commerce, Master of in HR & Change Management Master in Engineering VP Sales, on-trade Ringnes 2015–2017. Business Administration Member of Group management since June 2015. Member of Group management since Logistics Director, Ringnes 2012–2015. Member of Group management since January HR Director Vectura og Director Change program 2012. Managing Director Vectura AS, Factory Director, Farris/Imsdal 2010–2012. 2013. Partner in First House 2009-12, in Arcus, Program Director NHO, Partner and Factory Manager 2000-03, Technical Planning Director, Ringnes 2008–2010. Director of Trolltind Kommunikasjon Advisor, HR Director/Vice President Ringnes/ Director Ringnes 1999-08 and Sales Prognosis & Planning TINE 2003–2008. 2003-09, GCI Monsen 2000-03, VP ComCarlsberg 1995-08. . Long experience as Head Manager Landteknikk 1986-99. munications NetCom 1996-00, journalist of Negotiation and about 9 years as an army and editor Reuters Norge 1992-96. officer (Major R). 26 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | Guidelines ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Guidelines Responsible alcohol consumption Environmental goals Environmentally-friendly production Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate social responsibility is important to Arcus and we are i­ nitiative and complies with all requirements of Arcus' annual Global Compact reports are the NAM Code of Conduct. The Group expects available at www.unglobalcompact.org particularly committed to encouraging a responsible approach to the same from all our suppliers and partners. alcohol consumption This work is monitored through established ETHICAL GUIDELINES follow-up systems. The NAM Code of Conduct The Group’s ethical guidelines define, clarify must be part of all purchasing contracts and and ensure a common business ethics frameTo preserve competitiveness and realise the anti-corruption in the day-to-day operations agreements entered into by Arcus. work to outline the expectations for the ethical ambition of becoming the leading wine and of the company. and appropriate behaviour of all employees. spirits brand company in the Nordic region, An annual assessment of the corporate UN GLOBAL COMPACT The Group’s ethical guidelines stipulate that Arcus must have a relationship of trust with its social responsibility report, prepared by Arcus supports the UN Global Compact Arcus has zero tolerance for discrimination, most important stakeholders: employees, management, is evaluated by the Board of ­initiative for social responsibility work. The harassment and corruption. All employees are customers, suppliers, owners, politicians and Directors. Group adheres to the ten principles laid down in required to sign a declaration stating that they government authorities. the Global Compact for the environment, human are familiar with the CSR policy and the This involves integrating a responsible NAM CODE OF CONDUCT rights, standards for working life and anti-­ company’s ethical guidelines, and that they approach to alcohol consumption, workers’ Arcus supports and participates actively in the corruption. understand what it means to comply with these. rights, social issues, the environment and Nordic alcohol monopolies' (NAM) CSR All managers with staff responsibility are 27 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | Guidelines ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY required to discuss the ethical guidelines with ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY their employees on an annual basis. This will Consideration of the external environment is an Guidelines strengthen compliance with the guidelines. important part of corporate social responsibility Responsible alcohol consumption As part of the ethical guidelines, provision at Arcus. The Group’s operations affect the Environmental goals is also made for the notification of any external environment through the production Environmentally-friendly production ­misconduct within the Group. Whistle-blowers and distribution of its products. can use a designated phone number, Arcus supports a precautionary approach to ­established for this purpose. All employees environmental challenges, and works have been made aware of this, and the fact that ­systematically to reduce the impact of the their anonymity is guaranteed. There were no business on the external environment. reported cases of whistle-blowing in 2016. DRUGS AND ALCOHOL POLICY As a major provider of alcohol, Arcus has assumed an active role in promoting responsible alcohol consumption. In 2015 and 2016, a public awareness campaign related to responsible alcohol consumption was launched. All of the target groups relevant for Arcus must in a simple way be familiar with and understand the Group's approach to alcohol and responsible consumption. This is the background to the Think before you drink campaign, which is ­continuing in 2017. Arcus has its own drugs and alcohol policy, aiming to combat alcohol abuse among its own employees. All employees are expected to comply with the Group's drugs and alcohol policy. The Group has its own AKAN committee to prevent gaming and/or substance abuse, and to help those who already have an addiction to quit. The two coopers at Arcus ensure that the old craft is kept alive and that the 8,400 oak casks can still be used to mature aquavit and other spirits. 28 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | Responsible alcohol consumption ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Guidelines Responsible alcohol consumption Environmental goals Environmentally-friendly production THINK BEFORE YOU DRINK. GREAT MOMENTS MAKE GREAT MOMENTS We are passionate about creating great moments. We want to help our customers enjoy themselves – at home, in restaurants, or in bars and clubs. We are proud of our products. We generate revenue, we create EVEN BETTER. good places to work, and we preserve Nordic culture. But we are also aware of the dark side of alcohol. We have to take both its good and its bad aspects into account. At Arcus we are as keen as everyone else to live in a safe and healthy society. Arcus is a leading Nordic wine and spirits company, and we have always taken our corporate social Arcus takes a clear stance on responsible alcohol consumption. responsibility seriously. We will continue to do so in the future. Our aim is to raise awareness and understanding The main message of the campaign RESPONSIBILITY among all of the target groups relevant for to think before you drink – is based on We are proud of our products. We are pleased that our products help our customers enjoy themselves. Arcus is an important partner to the Nordic alcohol monopolies. One fundamental requirement for us is Arcus about our corporate approach to alcohol Arcus' mission: to follow their initiatives to contribute to the safety of the entire supply chain. and responsible consumption. This is the We are passionate about creating great Regardless of the external requirements we are expected to meet: Arcus will not and cannot remain background to our Think before you drink moments, that’s why we bring the best of indifferent to the consequences of the abuse of alcohol, both for people and society. We are therefore campaign, launched in the autumn of 2015. Think Nordic spirits to the world and the world’s committed to responsible and sensible consumption of alcohol. before you drink” is both an internal and external best wines to the Nordics. awareness campaign, reaching all employees and all stakeholders in contact with Arcus. 29 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | Environmental goals ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ARCUS' ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AT ARCUS HAS SET SPECIFIC ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS. Guidelines Responsible alcohol consumption GOAL TARGET STATUS 2016 Environmental goals Environmentally-friendly production To increase the energy efficiency 0.323 KWh/litre The 12-month rolling measurement per December was 0.28 KWh. of our production processes. ­produced To increase the percentage of ­renewable 62 per cent The percentage was 70 per cent in 2016. The most important contribution ­energy used in the ­operation of our buildings. to this was the geothermal heating system. To reduce our water consumption 10 per cent reduction Measurements in 2016 show that the consumption of water has been ­reduced in production. in 2016 by 8 per cent on average from the level when measurement began. Arcus supports the UN Global Compact initiative for social responsibility work. The Group adheres To reduce the amount of waste in production 10 per cent reduction in Since setting this goal in 2014, wine wastage has been reduced by around 40 percent. to the ten principles laid down in the Global per bottled litre. 2016 per bottled litre. Compact for the environment, human rights, The production process for spirits is far more complex than for wine. standards for working life and anti-corruption. To establish a reference This means that a reference point for spirits, sub-goals and an action plan will Arcus' annual Global Compact reports are point for spirits. not be established until during 2017. available at www.unglobalcompact.org 30 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | Environmentally-friendly production ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTALLY-FRIENDLY PRODUCTION Guidelines Responsible alcohol consumption Environmental goals Environmentally-friendly production Clean water Clean energy Plastic bottles Bag in Box In the Nordic countries, we take clean Before inaugurating the bottling plant and Every year, Arcus fills 4 million plastic Boxed wine (Bag in Box, BiB) was introduced drinking water for granted. But even though head office at Gjelleråsen in May 2012, the bottles (PET) in many different sizes. This is to the Nordic region in the 1980s and has all the water we use is clean and ready for local authorities set clear requirements for equivalent to approximately 19 per cent of become very popular. In 2016, 58 per cent bottling, Arcus is still committed to water energy consumption: 40 per cent of Arcus' all the bottles filled. PET bottles weigh little of all red wine sold in Sweden, and 59 per quality. The Group has its own water total energy consumption should be and are recycled like other plastics. cent in Norway, was BiB. For white wine, BiB treatment plant, where the water is emission-free. Hence, a geothermal heating An ordinary wine bottle made of glass sales were 57 per cent in Sweden and 55 per ­continuously sampled and, if necessary, the system was installed. (75 cl), weighs 350 grammes. A similar PET cent in Norway. natural salinity is adjusted. Geothermal energy is surplus heat from bottle weighs only 50 grammes. The low BiB has a number of practical features The water used by Arcus is locally the ground and, therefore, classified as weight makes transport easier and less such as low weight, large volume and the produced. It arrives at the bottling plant clean energy. Geothermal energy does not resource-demanding. fact that it is unbreakable. Wine in a BiB will without the use of polluting transport, contribute to global warming. PET is also advantageous to consumers: keep for six weeks after opening, without through the established pipeline network in Arcus' geothermal systems deliver 70 PET bottles are easy to carry and they do comprising the quality of the product. the area. Most of the water used for percent of the total energy consumed. not smash. There are huge environmental savings bottling and cleaning purposes is sourced Natural gas, also a clean and pollution free with BiB: the wine is poured into large locally, from Nittedal Municipality. energy source, makes up the additional flexi-tanks in the country of origin and then For Vikingfjord Vodka, we use water energy supply. transported to Arcus, where it is bottled. from the Folgefonna glacier in Hardanger, This form of transport ensures low weight transported by tank trucks. and large volumes per load, compared with the transport of ordinary glass bottles. 31 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | Environmentally-friendly production ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTALLY-FRIENDLY PRODUCTION Guidelines Responsible alcohol consumption Environmental goals Environmentally-friendly production High-quality spices Locally-produced LINIE voyage Traditional Norwegian spirits ­craftsmanship To ensure high-quality end products, Arcus Every year, Arcus uses around two million Arcus' LINIE aquavit spends four months of Arcus has approximately 8,400 casks for is particularly careful about the raw litres of 96 per cent rectified alcohol in the the year on board a Wallenius Wilhelmsen storing aquavit. Each of these casks was ­materials used and where they are sourced. production of its spirits. The alcohol is ship and crosses the Equator twice. This bought from Spanish sherry and port wine Caraway, which is the most important spice produced from Norwegian potatoes and method of maturing aquavit dates back to producers, and they are used over and over used in Norwegian aquavits, is exclusively delivered to Arcus by HOFF. The potatoes 1807 and is essential for the quality, taste again. The oldest are 100 years old, and all produced in Norway. used to make the alcohol are potatoes that and smell of the aquavit. Before, during and the casks need to be maintained. The two The wild caraway type used is of very would have otherwise been discarded. after the trip, the aquavit is kept in casks coopers who maintain the casks represent good quality and has a high content of Tanker trucks from the HOFF plant at that were previously used to store sherry. a traditional Norwegian craft. essential oils. In this way, we are able to Gjøvik transport the potato spirit to Arcus' The voyage through different climate zones Cooperage was widespread in Norway maintain a high level of the essential oils production facility at Gjelleråsen. The with varying degrees of humidity, until 1930, and the main products produced that contribute to the nice and spicy flavour organic aquavit manufacturer Snälleröds in ­temperature and waves gives the aquavit by Norwegian coopers were herring barrels. of the aquavit. Skåne, Sweden, bases the production of its a unique nose and flavour. Arcus has However, as time passed, the wooden aquavit on organic wheat spirit. ­approximately 1,100 casks on the high seas barrels were replaced with plastic. at all times. By the 1960s, most of the barrel production in Norway had ceased. The two coopers at Arcus ensure that a traditional craft lives on, and that the around 8,400 oak casks still can be used to store aquavit and other spirits. 32 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | Environmentally-friendly production ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTALLY-FRIENDLY PRODUCTION Guidelines Responsible alcohol consumption Environmental goals Environmentally-friendly production Testing in our own laboratory Arcus has its own laboratory that performs chemical, microbiological and sensory tests. All liquids to be bottled at the Gjelleråsen facility are checked and approved by the laboratory before the bottling can begin. In addition, samples are taken of spices, wine and spirits even before they are bought. Five employees, with an academic background from organic analytical chemistry and food science, each year perform several thousand tests, including smelling and tasting everything that is produced. Production at Arcus is certified according to the ISO 9001 standard. The laboratory is accredited according to ISO 17025, meaning there is a strict regime to ensure that the test results are accurate. Each month, along with more than a hundred other laboratories, the laboratory takes part in a proficiency testing program to ensure that its results are comparable. 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CORPORATE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE other business activities in connection last no longer than until the date of the next therewith, including participation in other general meeting. Authorisation granted to the companies engaged in such activities. board of directors is restricted to specific GOVERNANCE The articles of association are available on the Company’s website at www.arcus.no/ purposes. At the extraordinary general meeting on 20 October 2016, the Board was given an authoriinvestor. To achieve the objective set forth in sation to increase the share capital of the Arcus ASA (“Arcus” or the “Company”) considers the Board on 10 October 2016 for and on the articles of association, the Company has Company by up to NOK 400,000 in connection good corporate governance to be a prerequisite behalf of the Company and is, in all material established a strategy for profitable growth with the offering and listing of the Company’s for value creation and trustworthiness and for respects based on the Code, to which the board primarily in the Group’s home markets, the shares on the Oslo Stock Exchange. The access to capital. In order to secure strong and has resolved that the company shall adhere. The Nordic countries and Germany, based on its own authorisation could only be used to issue shares sustainable corporate governance, it is imporBoard will ensure that the Company at all times brands and agency brands within wine and spirits. in connection with the offering and the listing tant that the Company ensures good and has sound corporate governance. Deviations from the Code: None of the Company’s shares including issuance of healthy business practices, reliable financial Arcus works continuously to develop shares in connection with the settlement of reporting and an environment of compliance attitudes and monitoring systems which lives 3. EQUITY AND DIVIDENDS synthetic shares and synthetic options and has with legislation and regulations. Arcus’ Board of up to the expectations set for a significant The shareholder’s equity as of 31 December thus lapsed. Directors (the “Board”) actively adheres to good Nordic player in the wine and spirits. The Group 2016 was TNOK 1.503.590, which represents At the extraordinary general meeting on 20 corporate governance standards and will at all defines it social responsibility through its 35 per cent of the Company’s total assets. In October 2016, the Board was furthermore times ensure that Arcus complies with “The corporate social responsibility policy which is the opinion of the Board, Arcus’ equity capital is given an authorisation to increase the share Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate available at www.arcus.no/investor. The appropriate for its objectives, strategy and risk capital of the Company by up to NOK 100,000 Governance” most recently revised 30 October company also sets clear standards for itself profile. following the listing of the Shares on the Oslo 2014 (the “Code”) as issued by the Norwegian and its employees through its ethical standards, The Board has resolved to target a dividend Stock Exchange. The authorisation may only be Corporate Governance Policy Board, or explain environmental policy, workplace regulations pay-out ratio of 50-70 per cent of the Compaused to finance further growth and to issue possible deviations from the Code. The Code and other internal guidelines. Arcus’ values are ny’s net profit for each year going forward. shares as consideration in connection with can be found at www.nues.no. Arcus has Market Focused, Determined and Collective. The Board may obtain authorisation from acquisitions of other companies/businesses/ governance documents setting out principles Deviations from the Code: None the general meeting of shareholders to buy assets or to finance such acquisitions. The for how business should be conducted, and back Arcus shares in the market. In such cases, authorisation expires at the annual general these also apply to Arcus’ subsidiaries (togeth2. BUSINESS the Board will normally request that the shares meeting in 2017. er with Arcus, the “Group”). The Code covers 15 Arcus is involved in the production, bottling, be acquired in the open market, and that the Deviations from the Code: None topics, and this statement covers each of these import, marketing, sale and distribution of wine authority lasts no longer than until the next topics. Information concerning corporate and spirits. The Group is represented in all general meeting. At the extraordinary general 4. EQUAL TREATMENT OF governance pursuant to section 3-3 b of the Nordic countries, with subsidiary companies in meeting on 20 October 2016, the Board was SHAREHOLDERS AND TRANSACTION Norwegian Accounting Standard Act is included Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland, as well given an authorization to acquire own shares in WITH CLOSE ASSOCIATES in section below. as in Germany. The Group has further exports of the Company on behalf of the Company with an Arcus has only one class of shares. Each share Arcus holds the view that its current spirits to markets outside the Nordic region aggregate nominal value of up to NOK 100,000. in the Company carries one vote, and all shares policies for corporate governance are in line and Germany, most importantly to the United The authorisation expires on at the annual carry equal rights, including the right to particiwith the latest version of the Code. The following States. general meeting in 2017. pate at general meetings of the Company. The section explain how Arcus has addressed the Arcus’ business is defined in the Company’s When the general meeting of shareholders nominal value of each share is NOK 0.02. various issues covered by the Code. articles of association as follows: considers whether or not to authorise the If the board resolves to propose to the Board to carry out share capital increases for general meeting a share issue without pre-emp1. IMPLEMENTATION AND REPORTING ON The Company’s purpose is to operate, import, multiple purposes, each purpose must be tion rights for existing shareholders, the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE export, produce, store and distribute considered separately by the meeting. Such justification shall be publicly disclosed in the A corporate governance policy was adopted by alcoholic beverages and other goods, and authorisation will be limited in time, and will notice to the relevant general meeting. 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In the event that the Board decides to use 5. FREELY NEGOTIABLE SHARES the Company’s website, the Board may decide committee), Lars Johansson and Karin Bing its current authorisation to re-purchase its own All shares are freely negotiable with no form of that the documents shall not be sent to shareOrgland. The members of the nomination shares, the transactions will be carried out through restriction on negotiability. holders by ordinary mail. This also applies to committee were elected at the extraordinary the stock exchange or at prevailing stock Deviations from the Code: None documents which, according to law, shall be general meeting on 2 March 2017 in order to exchange prices if carried out in any other way. included in or enclosed with the notice of a propose a new board member to replace Isabelle The Board is currently authorised to set 6. GENERAL MEETING general meeting. A shareholder can, however, Ducellier at the annual general meeting in 2017. aside the pre-emption rights of existing The interests of the Company’s shareholders demand that documents concerning matters The members of the nomination committee shareholders in capital increases if it exercises are primarily exercised at the Company’s that are to be dealt with at a general meeting be shall be shareholders or representatives of its authority to issue new shares. This is to general meetings. It is the Company’s goal that sent to him or her by ordinary mail. shareholders. The members of the nomination simplify the procedure in connection with as many shareholders as possible are given the The notice of a general meeting contains a committee, including its chairman, are elected capital increases with the intention to finance opportunity to participate in its general reference to the Company’s website, where by the general meeting. The members of the further growth and/or the offering shares as meetings and that the general meetings are shareholders can access relevant documents nomination committee’s period of service shall consideration in acquisitions where this is organized so as to ensure that they represent and, if appropriate, any other information that be two years unless the general meeting deemed a favourable term of settlement. If the an effective forum for the Company’s shareshareholders may need to gain access to such decides otherwise. The members of the nominaBoard resolves to carry out a share issue holders to express their views. documents. tion committee’s fees shall be determined by without pre-emption rights for existing shareNotices of general meetings are made The annual general meeting elects a chair to the general meeting. holders based on its authorisation, then the available on the Company’s website, www.arcus. preside over the meeting and one person to sign The majority of the nomination committee justification shall be publicly disclosed in a no/investor, and through a separate notice to the minutes of the meeting together with the will be independent of the Board and the stock exchange announcement issued in the Oslo Stock Exchange at least 21 days in elected chair. The minutes are published on the Company’s executive management. connection with the share issue. advance of the general meeting. Company’s website. The nomination committee will submit its The Board will arrange for a valuation to be The notice contains detailed information on The annual general meeting approves the recommendations to the annual general obtained from an independent third party, in the resolutions proposed and matters to be annual accounts and annual report, and any meeting regarding the election of members to the event of a not immaterial transaction considered at the general meeting. It includes proposed dividend. The annual general meeting the Board and the nomination committee and between the company and its shareholders, a the deadline for shareholders to register their also approves the remuneration to be paid to their respective remuneration. The nomination shareholder’s parent company, members of the intention to attend the general meeting, as well the members of the Board, the nomination committee should have contact with shareholdboard, executive management or closely-relatas instructions on how they can cast their votes committee (as defined below) and the external ers, the board of directors and the company’s ed parties of any such parties. by proxy. The deadline for registration is set as auditor. executive personnel as part of its work on Members of the Board and executive close to the date of the general meeting as All shares carry an equal right to vote at proposing candidates for election to the board. management are obliged to notify the Board if possible. The notice shall also include informageneral meetings. Resolutions at the annual The nomination committee shall justify its they have a significant, direct or indirect, tion regarding the right of shareholders to general meeting are normally passed by simple recommendations. interest in any transaction carried out by the propose resolutions for consideration by the majority unless otherwise required by NorweOn 21 October 2016 the general meeting Company other than by virtue of their position general meeting. gian law. approved a set of instructions defining the within the Company. The Board will report in the The general meeting votes for each candiThe chairperson of the board of directors, responsibilities of the nomination committee. annual report any transactions with related date nominated for election to the company’s the nomination committee representative and All shareholders are invited to propose candiparties. corporate bodies. To the extent possible, the the auditor attend the general meeting. dates to the Board and the nomination commitThe Company has implemented rules of form of proxy will facilitate separate voting Deviations from the Code: None tee through the Company’s website. procedure which state that the members of the instructions for each matter to be considered Deviations from the Code: None Board and the Company’s chief executive officer by the meeting and for each of the candidates 7. NOMINATION COMMITTEE may not participate in discussions or decision of nominated for election. It is possible to vote in In accordance with Arcus’ articles of associa8. CORPORATE ASSEMBLY AND BOARD issues of significant importance to the relevant advance. tion, the Company shall have a nomination OF DIRECTORS: COMPOSITION AND person or anyone affiliated with him/her. When documents concerning matters that committee consisting of three members. The INDEPENDENCE Deviations from the Code: None are to be dealt with at a general meeting have current members of the nomination committee The Company does not have a corporate been made accessible to the shareholders on are Sverre R. Kjær (head of the nomination assembly. 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE According to the Company’s articles of and retail in general, and wine and spirits in under an obligation to ensure that its activities, the Company’s largest shareholder holding association, the Company shall have a Board particular. financial statements and asset management 23.63% of the outstanding shares in Arcus. consisting of a minimum of three and a The Board has conducted a total of 13 are subject to adequate control through the Pursuant to section 6-43 of the Norwegian ­maximum of eight shareholder-elected board ordinary board meetings (5 by mail and 5 by review and approval of the Group’s monthly and Public Limited Liability Companies Act, the members. The chairman of the Board is elected conference call). quarterly reports and financial statements. The audit committee shall: by the general meeting based on a proposal Participation in the Board meetings for the Board shall also ensure that the Group has from the nomination committee, as are the present Board (since 1 September 2016) is satisfactory internal control systems. • prepare the Board’s supervision of the other members representing the shareholders. summarized below: The Board establishes annual plans for its group’s financial reporting process; In addition, board members are elected by and work with particular emphasis on business • monitor the systems for internal control and among the employees in accordance with objectives, strategy and implementation. The risk management; Number of applicable company legislation. Board has established instructions for its own • have continuous contact with the group’s meetings Board members are elected for a period of work as well as for the executive management auditor regarding the audit of the annual Name attended two years at a time. with particular emphasis on clear allocation of accounts; and At present, the Board consists of ten Michael Holm Johansen 8/8 responsibilities and duties. • review and monitor the independence of the members, of which 7 are elected by the general Mikael Norlander 8/8 If the chairperson of the board is or has group’s auditor, including in particular the meeting and three are representatives of the Hanne Refsholt 8/8 been actively involved in a given case, for extent to which services other than auditing employees. One position at the Board is to be Eilif Due 8/8 example in negotiations on mergers, acquisitions provided by the auditor or the audit firm elected at the General meeting 3 May, filling Leena Maria Saarinen 8/8 etc., another board director will normally lead represent a threat to the independence of the vacant position. Isabelle Valerie Ghislaine Ducellier 6/8 discussions concerning that particular case. the auditor. Other than Eilif Due who is chairman of the Trond Berger (from 1.12) 1/1 The chief executive officer is in charge of board of Hoff SA, which is the sole supplier of the day-to-day management of the Group, and The Board has established a remuneration Erik Hagen 6/8 potato spirits to the Group, all Board members is responsible for ensuring that the Group is committee that consists of two members of the Kjell Arne Greni 7/8 are considered independent of the Company’s organized in accordance with applicable laws, Board. The members of the remuneration executive management and material business Ingrid Elisabeth Skistad the Company’s articles of association and the committee are and shall be independent of the partners. All shareholder-elected members of (from 02.11) 5/5 decisions adopted by the Board and the group’s executive management. The committee the Board are independent of the Company’s Arne Larsen (deputy for Company’s general meeting. The chief executive currently consists of Michael Holm Johansen as largest shareholders other than Mikael Erik Hagen/Kjell Arne Greni) 3 officer has particular responsibility for the leader and Hanne Refsholt as member. ­Norlander who is employed by Ratos AB, the ­ensuring that the Board receives accurate, The Company has adopted guidelines that Company’s largest shareholder holding 23.63% Deviations from the Code: None relevant and timely information in order to describe the responsibility and tasks of the of the outstanding shares in Arcus. No execuenable it to carry out its duties. The chief remuneration committee. The remuneration tives are members of the Board. 9. THE WORK OF THE BOARD executive officer shall also ensure that the committee shall ensure that the Company has a The employee-elected board members have The Board has an overall responsibility to Group’s financial statements comply with remuneration scheme that contributes to seven deputy members. The shareholder-­ oversee the management of the Company, while Norwegian legislation and regulations and that promote and grant incentives for governance of elected board members have one deputy the chief executive officer is responsible for the assets of the company are soundly and control with the Company’s risks, countermember. day-to-day management. The Board is ­managed. act a high degree of risk taking and avoid The members of the Board, including their ­responsible for ensuring that the Group’s The Board has elected an audit committee conflict of interests. CVs, are presented on the Company website. activities are soundly organized and for amongst the members of the Board. The Deviations from the Code: None The shareholdings of Board members are listed approving all plans and budgets for the committee currently comprises of two in Note 8 in the Annual Report 2016. The Board ­activities of the Group. The Board approves a ­members: Trond Berger as the chair person and 10. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL is of the opinion that it has sufficient expertise statement of the chief executive officer’s Mikael Norlander as member. The two members CONTROL and capacity to perform its duties in a duties, responsibilities and authorizations. of the audit committee are independent of the Management is responsible for risk manage­satisfactory manner. Board members possess The Board keeps itself informed about the Company’s largest shareholders other than ment and internal control in the Company and strong experience from finance, distribution Group’s activities and financial situation, and is Mikael Norlander who is employed by Ratos AB, ensures that business opportunities are used 36 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE through safe and efficient operations with members of the audit committee and taken by the Company to ensure an impartial Company’s business activities are not disrupted reliable reporting in accordance with applicable ­remuneration committee receive separate, distribution of information when dealing with unnecessarily. The Board will strive to ensure laws and regulations, including requirements additional remuneration. The remuneration paid shareholders and analysts. that shareholders are given sufficient for ethics and social responsibility. to members of the Board is disclosed in Note 8 Arcus will publish its financial calendar ­information and time to form a view of the The Company has established a risk to the Arcus financial statements. every year, identifying the dates on which it will offer. management programme where group critical Deviations from the Code: None present its quarterly reports, when the annual The Board will not seek to prevent any risk factors are mapped out and monitored and general meeting will be held and other key ­take-over bid unless it believes that the followed up through a systematic process. The 12. REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE events. interests of the Company and the shareholders Group’s financial risk management programme PERSONNEL All information considered to be relevant justify such actions. The Board will not exercise is carried out by its central treasury departThe Board has established guidelines for the and significant for valuing the company’s shares mandates or pass any resolutions with the ment, in co-operation with the various business remuneration of the executive personnel. These will be distributed and published in English via intention of obstructing any take-over bid segments, under policies approved by the guidelines are communicated to the annual the Oslo Stock Exchange's disclosure system unless this is approved by the general meeting Board. Critical processes with instructions and general meeting and included in the Company’s www.newsweb.no, and via the Company’s following the announcement of the bid. There guidelines for risk management are documented. annual report. website www.arcus.no. All financial reports and are no defence mechanisms against take-over The goal of the Group’s risk management The Board is directly responsible for other information are prepared and disclosed in bids in Arcus’ articles of association or in any programme is to minimise potential adverse determining the chief executive officer’s salary such a way as to ensure that shareholders, underlying steering document. Neither has the financial performance effects of these risks and other benefits. The chief executive officer investors and others receive correct, clear, Company implemented any measures to limit which result from unpredictable changes in is, in consultation with the chairman of the relevant and up-to-date information equally the opportunity to acquire shares in the among other capital markets. The Group uses to Board, responsible for determining the salary and in a timely manner. The Company holds ­Company. a certain extent financial derivatives to hedge and other benefits for the Group’s other senior public presentations of its results quarterly. If a take-over bid is made, the Board will against part of these financial risks. executives. The presentation material are made available issue a statement in accordance with statutory It is the responsibility of the Board to The purpose of Arcus' terms and conditions via the Oslo Stock Exchange's news site requirements and the recommendations in the ensure that the Company has sound internal policy is to attract personnel with the compewww.newsweb.no and www.arcus.no. Code. controls in place and systems for risk managetence that the Group requires, to further The Company will publish an annual, In the event of a take-over bid, the Board ment that are appropriate in relation to the develop and retain employees with key experelectronic finance calendar with an overview of will obtain a valuation from an independent extent and nature of the company’s activities. tise, and to promote a long-term perspective the dates for important events, such as the expert. The Board conducts an annual review of the and continuous improvement with a view to annual general meetings and publishing of Any transaction that is in effect a disposal Company’s most important areas of exposure achieving Arcus' business goals. In general, interim reports. Any communication with of the Company’s activities will be submitted to to risk, such as internal control arrangements. Arcus’ policy shall be competitive but not shareholders outside the Company’s general the general meeting for its approval. Deviations from the Code: None market-leading in terms of the total compensameeting will take place in accordance with Deviations from the Code: None tion package. For further detail of the Groups applicable equal treatment requirements and 11. REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD policy regarding salaries and other remuneraapplicable legislation regarding inside 15. AUDITOR The remuneration of the Board is proposed by tion to executive personnel, see note 8 to the information. The Company’s elected external auditor is EY. the nomination committee and decided by the Group’s consolidated financial accounts for 2016. Deviations from the Code: None The auditor is independent of Arcus and is shareholders at the annual general meeting of Deviations from the Code: None appointed by the general meeting. The auditor’s the company. The level of remuneration of the 14. COMPANY TAKE-OVERS fee is approved by the general meeting. Board reflects the responsibility of the board, 13. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS The Board has established guiding principles The auditor presents a plan to the audit its expertise and the level of activity in both the The Board has established guidelines for for how it will act in the event of a take-over committee for the audit, and is present at Board and any Board committees. The investor communication. The Company’s offer. Board meetings dealing with the preparation of ­remuneration of the Board is not linked to the objective is to ensure that the financial market In the event of a take-over bid being made the annual accounts where the audited financial Company’s performance. All members of the and the shareholders have sufficient informafor the Company, the Board will follow the statements are reviewed and approved. The Board, with the exception of the chairman of tion about the Company to be certain that overriding principle of equal treatment for all auditor is also present at all meetings with the the Board receive the same remuneration. The pricing reflects underlying values. Care will be shareholders, and will seek to ensure that the audit committee. The auditor also participates 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE in meetings of the Board that deal with the annual financial statements and, at least once a year, carries out a review of the company’s procedures for internal control in collaboration with the audit committee. In addition, the external auditor meets with the Board, without management being present, at least once per year. The board reports annually to the annual general meeting on the auditor’s overall fees, broken down between audit work and other services. Deviations from the Code: None 38 DIRECTORS' REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA DIRECTORS' REPORT Directors' Report non-current bank debt, the Group has NOK 199 million in non-current liabilities related to Financial development ARCUS ASA financial leasing. As of 31 December 2016, the Statement of income Group’s total liabilities amounted to NOK 2,792 Financial position, investments and liquidity million (NOK 3,135 million). Interest-bearing Financial risk and risk management debt amounted to 32 per cent. Credit risk Consolidated net cash flow from operating activities was NOK -2 million (NOK 282 million). Interest-rate risk Arcus ASA is a holding company whose purpose is the import, export, production, storage and Liquidity risk The decrease is significantly affected by the distribution of alcoholic beverages and other goods, as well as other activities related to this business, termination of the factoring agreement with Currency risk About the company and the ownership of interests in other companies that conduct such business. With its head office at SEB (NOK -225 million). Net cash flow from investment activities Employees, working environment and sick leave Gjelleråsen in Nittedal Municipality, the Group is a leading wine and spirits company in the Nordic region. was NOK -48 million (NOK -91 million). Net cash Equal opportunities The Group is a global market leader in the aquavit category, a market leader in spirits in Norway and flow from investment activities was affected Environment number two in Denmark. The Group is also the market leader for wine in Norway, number two in Sweden, by the acquisition of the Dworek brand. Alcohol Net cash flow from financing activities was Ownership and number three in Finland. The consolidated financial statements of Arcus ASA are in accordance NOK 75 million (NOK -193 million). The cash Continued operations with IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards). flow from financing activities is affected by the Events after the close of the financial year refinancing of the non-current credit financing Appropriation of profits with SEB, the settlement of former and current Future prospects FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT employees' synthetic shares and options, In 2016, financial assets totalled NOK 58 employees' synthetic shares and options, and Declaration Statement of income related to Arcus' gradually increased value. million (NOK 55 million). increased ownership interests in subsidiaries In 2016, the Group’s total operating revenue The Group’s pre-tax profit was NOK 2.1 Total current assets were NOK 2,004 with non-controlling interests. Board of Directors was NOK 2,583 million (NOK 2,471 million). The million (NOK 101.7 million). million, compared with NOK 1,674 million at the Holdings of cash and cash equivalents were revenue increase was primarily due to i­ ncreased The Group’s profit for the year after tax same time last year. Receivables at year-end NOK 199 million (NOK 190 million). Deviations demand for aquavit and other spirits products, was NOK -24.1 million (NOK 84.4 million). amounted to NOK 1,426 million (NOK 1,095 between the company’s operating profit and continued high sales of wine, and new The parent company has no operating million). The change is affected by a factoring operating cash flow are the Group’s financial ­customers for Vectura. revenues. agreement with SEB for NOK 225 million that expenses, changes in working capital and tax Consolidated operating costs totalled NOK The pre-tax profit of the parent company, was concluded in 2016. paid during the period. 2,305 million (NOK 2,257 million). The increase Arcus ASA, was NOK -232.6 million, compared At the end of 2016, cash and bank deposits in costs was primarily related to higher with NOK -105.1 million in the previous year. were NOK 199 million (NOK 190 million). Financial risk and risk management ­commodity costs due to increased sales and Group equity was NOK 1,503 million as of The Board has adopted a financial policy, challenging currency market. Financial position, investments and liquidity 31 December (NOK 876 million). Changes in defining the framework and guidelines for In 2016, the Group’s operating profit before At year-end, the Group had intangible assets of equity are significantly positively affected by financial risk management within the Group. depreciation (EBITDA) was NOK 290 million, NOK 1,710 million (NOK 1,742 million). The the IPO, but reduced by the year's deficit and Arcus' principal source of income is the compared with NOK 258 million in 2015. decrease is mainly related to foreign exchange dividends paid to minority shareholders, as well core business. The main risk management Operating EBITDA (adjusted for non-recurring effects concerning brands and goodwill in as changes related to increased ownership strategy for the Group is to limit the financial items) was NOK 335 million, compared with foreign currency. The change is also affected by interests in companies with non-controlling risk created by the core business. NOK 274 million in 2015. the acquisition of the Dworek brand in the third interests. At year-end, the equity ratio was 35 The Group’s net financial items amounted quarter of 2016. per cent, compared with 22 per cent at the end to NOK -237 million (NOK -101 million). The In 2016, the Group invested NOK 15 million of 2015. decline was mainly due to the costs related to in fixed assets and software. No significant The Group is financed through non-current the IPO and the buy-out of former and current investments are expected in the coming years. loans of NOK 711 million. In addition to 39 DIRECTORS' REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA DIRECTORS' REPORT The most important financial risks to which the Group is exposed are associated with credit Financial development risk, interest-rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign Statement of income currency risk. Financial position, investments and liquidity To a small extent, Arcus uses financial Financial risk and risk management instruments to hedge interest-rate and currency Credit risk risks. The Group does not meet the accounting Interest-rate risk requirements for hedge accounting, and such Liquidity risk instruments are therefore, on initial recognition, Currency risk accounted for as financial instruments at fair value, while changes in value are recognised About the company through profit or loss. Employees, working environment and sick leave Equal opportunities Credit risk Environment The finance policy stipulates that credit risk must Alcohol be assessed before establishing credit purchase Ownership agreements with new customers. The assessment Continued operations includes a review of accounting information, as Events after the close of the financial year well as other relevant and accessible data, to Appropriation of profits determine the credit limit and credit terms. Once Future prospects a relationship has been established with a Declaration customer, credit risk and credit limits are Board of Directors continuously assessed in relation to the client’s financial performance and payment history. Outstanding receivables are continuously monitored by the finance department in cooperation with the marketing departments of the individual businesses. A large proportion of the Group’s accounts receivable arise from the sale of wines and spirits to the state-owned monopoly outlets in the Nordic region. Credit risk associated with these From Arcus' modern production facility outside Oslo. customers is considered to be non-existent. The Group’s credit risk is otherwise spread over a large number of small customers within the hotel, non-current liabilities consisted of credit f­ acilities EBITDA, while the agreement with Nordea Group’s surplus liquidity. The Group will work restaurant and café market, as well as a small at SEB and financial leasing at Nordea Finans. Finans involves a fixed interest-rate margin. continuously to develop its financial number of distributors outside the Nordic region. The interest-rate hedging policy entails that up ­independence, through close monitoring of to 50 per cent of the base rate on non-current Liquidity risk income development and capital binding, and Interest-rate risk loans can be hedged. At the end of 2016, none Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not through continuous assessment of alternative The Group is exposed to interest-rate risk of the Group's interest-bearing debt was be in a position to service its financial liabilities sources of finance. through financing activities (debt financing and hedged. The interest-rate margin on credit as they fall due. Arcus must at all times have Arcus aims for the highest possible degree financial leasing liabilities) and investments facilities at SEB is related to the size of the sufficient liquidity to meet its obligations. At of flexibility in terms of utilising liquid assets as (bank deposits). At the end of 2016, the Group’s Group’s net interest-bearing debt relative to the same time, the aim is to minimise the effectively as possible in day-to-day operations. 40 DIRECTORS' REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA DIRECTORS' REPORT This is achieved through a Group cash pool system financing. This entailed net reduction of offset by changes in customer prices and Some of the Group’s non-current borrowing with a drawing facility managed by Arcus ASA. external debt by NOK 262 million. through renegotiation of purchase prices from is undertaken in Swedish kronor, as a natural Financial development When funds are needed for investment suppliers. The most significant currencies are hedging of cash flows in the form of dividends Statement of income purposes, the Group relies on its own liquidity Currency risk Euro, Danish krone, Swedish krona and US in Swedish kronor. Financial position, investments and liquidity as far as possible. However, for larger The Group is exposed to currency risk as it dollar. For reporting purposes, receivables and Financial risk and risk management ­investments external debt financing from a operates in several countries and makes The risk horizon, i.e. the time it takes to debt, as well as monetary items in foreign Credit risk financial institution is also used. The Arcus significant purchases in foreign currencies. The compensate for negative currency movements, currency, are translated at the closing rates in Interest-rate risk Group acquired the Dworek brand in the third Group’s currency exposure can mainly be is generally controlled by the price-adjustment the companies' functional currencies. The Liquidity risk quarter of 2016, and during 2016 also acquired divided into two groups: cash flow risk and opportunities in relation to the Nordic state Group’s presentation currency is Norwegian Currency risk additional non-controlling interests in existing translation risk. The principal objective is to monopolies. In Norway this takes place every kroner. The Group is therefore further exposed subsidiaries for NOK 146 million. limit the effect of exchange rate fluctuations fourth month and in Sweden every sixth. As a to currency risk on translating foreign About the company The Group refinanced its credit facilities on the Group’s cash flow in Norwegian kroner. general rule, currency is purchased in the spot ­subsidiaries from their functional currency to Employees, working environment and sick leave with SEB in connection with the IPO in December Changes in purchase costs from suppliers in market, but also to some extent in the forward the Group’s presentation currency. This Equal opportunities 2016. The entire original credit exposure was functional currency, due to exchange rate market, in order to continuously offset net cash ­translation risk is not hedged. Environment redeemed and replaced with new non-current fluctuations, are continuously sought to be positions. Alcohol Ownership Continued operations Events after the close of the financial year NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES IN THE ARCUS GROUP AS AT 31.12.2016 Appropriation of profits Future prospects Vingruppen Vingruppen Arcus Declaration Arcus NorArcus Vingruppen i Norden AB i Norden AB Arcus Arcus Arcus Deutschland Total Board of Directors way AS Gruppen AS AS Sweden Finland Sweden AB Denmark A/S Finland OY GmbH Total AG Vectura AS Arcus ASA Women 38 12 14 21 7 2 0 1 1 94 28 122 Men 74 25 12 18 5 7 4 2 0 149 138 287 Total 112 37 26 39 12 9 4 3 1 243 166 409 DISTRIBUTED BY COUNTRY Norway Sweden Denmark Finland Germany Total Women 92 23 0 8 1 122 Men 249 25 4 7 0 287 Total 341 48 4 15 1 409 Women Men Total Spirits 42 87 129 Wine 40 37 77 Arcus-Gruppen AS 12 25 37 Vectura 28 138 166 Total 122 287 409 41 DIRECTORS' REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA DIRECTORS' REPORT ABOUT THE COMPANY plans are established and followed up, both Sick leave statistics and HSE incidents are All injuries are investigated to discover the Arcus ASA owns all of the shares in Arcus-­ centrally and regionally. presented each month at departmental underlying cause and measures are then Financial development Gruppen AS and Vectura AS. The purpose of the The companies in Arcus ASA in Norway are ­meetings and on bulletin boards. implemented to avoid similar incidents. Statement of income company is to manage shares and other company IA (inclusive working life) companies and work To avoid serious injuries and incidents, it is One injury resulting in absence due to illness Financial position, investments and liquidity holdings and the Group operates in the business closely with the occupational health service and important to have an organisation that was reported in 2016. This injury was not Financial risk and risk management areas of spirits, wine and distribution. NAV (Norwegian Labour and Welfare ­identifies hazardous conditions, registers serious and the person returned to work after a Credit risk The Spirits business area imports, produces, ­Administration) to reduce sick leave. Individual adverse incidents and introduces corrective brief absence. In 2015, seven injuries resulted Interest-rate risk bottles, markets and sells wine and spirits follow-up and facilitation are important tools in measures on an ongoing basis. In this respect, in leave of absence. The Group’s goal for 2017 Liquidity risk primarily in the Nordic region and Germany, but this work. In 2016, sick leave for Arcus-Gruppen the operating companies in the Group have is zero absence due to injuries. Currency risk also in other selected export markets. The AS with subsidiary in Norway was 4.2 per cent. been largely successful. Adverse incidents are company also provides bottling services for The goal for 2017 has been set at a maximum of reported regularly. These incidents are Equal opportunities About the company associated companies. 4.2 per cent. In Vectura, sick leave was 9.1 per ­reported on a monthly basis to management, Of the Group’s 409 employees at year-end, 30.0 Employees, working environment and sick leave The Wine business area imports, bottles, cent in 2016, and the target for 2017 is 7.5 per employees, working environment committees per cent were women and 70.0 per cent were Equal opportunities markets and sells wine in Norway, Sweden and cent. and safety representatives. men. Arcus ASA had no employees in 2016. Environment Finland. Alcohol The Distribution business area distributes Ownership wine and spirits in the Norwegian market. Continued operations The company’s registered office is in Events after the close of the financial year Nittedal Municipality. Appropriation of profits Future prospects Employees, working environment and Declaration sick leave At year-end, the Group had 405 FTEs (Full Time Board of Directors Equivalents) distributed as 409 permanent employees. The parent company, Arcus ASA, had no employees, but will gain some employees as from 1 January 2017. The Board considers the working environment and cooperation with employee representatives to be good. The co-involvement of employees is assured at several levels of the Group. Permanent co­ operation committees, consisting of employee representatives and representatives from management, have been set up in the operating companies in Norway. At these meetings, the management provides information, and engages in discussions when needed. A corporate committee has also been established where the employees’ Board members and key representatives meet before each Board meeting to discuss relevant issues. The Group’s operating companies work systematically with health, safety and the environment. Individual action 42 DIRECTORS' REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA DIRECTORS' REPORT At year-end, the management group (Group and all stakeholders in contact with Arcus. 2017. Based on the 2016 results, this would years. The Board continues to set these targets Management) at Arcus ASA consisted of eight AKAN (organisation to prevent alcohol abuse at have contributed annual revenue growth of as the basis for the Group's continued Financial development men and one woman. The management group at work) committees and AKAN contacts have also around NOK 25 million and improved EBIT by ­development. Statement of income Vectura AS consisted of one woman and four men. been established in the operating companies. approximately NOK 5 million. Financial position, investments and liquidity At the end of 2016, the Board of Directors DECLARATION Financial risk and risk management of the holding company (Arcus ASA) comprised The Annual Report includes a separate report APPROPRIATION OF PROFITS The Board of Directors and the General Credit risk nine Board members, of whom three were women. on Arcus' corporate social responsibility and The parent company Arcus ASA reported a ­Manager confirm that, to the best of their Interest-rate risk There was one vacant position. Three of the organisation. result for the year of NOK -199.7 million in knowledge, the annual financial statements Liquidity risk Board members were employee representatives. 2016, compared with NOK -85.3 million in have been prepared in accordance with current Currency risk The Group’s goal for the operating companies Ownership 2015. The Board proposes the allocation of accounting standards and that the information is for them to be workplaces with no discrimi­ On 1 December 2016, Arcus ASA was listed on dividend of NOK 1.47 per share, in total NOK presented in the financial statements provides About the company nation. At the end of 2016, the employees the Oslo Stock Exchange, and by year-end had 100.0 million, and that the loss of NOK -199.7 a true and fair view of the assets, debt, financial Employees, working environment and sick leave represented 35 different languages. The Group more than 3,000 shareholders. Three sharemillion be transferred from other equity. position and overall results of the Group. The Equal opportunities has a stated policy not to discriminate on the holders each held more than 5 per cent of the Board of Directors and the General Manager Environment basis of gender, disability, ethnicity, religion, company's shares. The largest owner was the FUTURE PROSPECTS also confirm that, to the best of their Alcohol etc. The Board of Directors and the management Swedish investment company, Ratos, with an In conjunction with the IPO, the company ­knowledge, the Annual Report presents a true Ownership groups of the operating companies’ consider interest of 23.6 per cent. Arcus attaches published its long-term growth targets, and fair view of the development, results and Continued operations this in relation to recruitment, appointments, importance to a good and open dialogue with ­including organic revenue growth of 3-5 per position of the company and the Group, and a Events after the close of the financial year salaries and working conditions, as well as the share market. In conjunction with the IPO, cent including minor acquisitions, and EBITDA good description of the most central risks and Appropriation of profits through awareness-raising activities. investor meetings were held in Norway, Swegrowth of 6-9 per cent in the next three to five uncertainty factors faced by the company. Future prospects den, Germany, Finland, the UK and the USA. In Declaration Environment connection with the coming quarterly reporting, Board of Directors Consideration for the external environment is investor meetings will be held in Norway and an important part of corporate social also certain other countries. Gjelleråsen, 15 March 2017 ­responsibility at Arcus. The Group’s operations affect the external environment via the The Annual Report includes a separate report production and distribution of its products. on Arcus' corporate governance compliance. Arcus supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, and works system­ Continued operations Michael Holm Johansen Mikael Norlander Hanne Refsholt Eilif Due atically to reduce the impact of its activities on In accordance with Section 3-3a of the Chairman of the Board the external environment. ­Norwegian Accounting Act, it is confirmed that the company is a going concern. The basis for Alcohol this lies in the long-term plans and strategic Arcus takes a clear stance on responsible choices that have been made. Trond Berger Leena Saarinen Erik Hagen Kjell Arne Greni alcohol consumption. Our aim is to raise awareness and understanding among all of the EVENTS AFTER THE CLOSE OF THE target groups which are relevant for Arcus ­FINANCIAL YEAR about our corporate approach to alcohol and In January 2017, Arcus acquired the remaining responsible consumption. This is the back50 per cent of the shares in the Joint Venture ground to our Think before you drink c­ ampaign, company, Det Danske Spiritus Kompagni A/S Ingrid E. Skistad Kenneth Hamnes launched in the autumn of 2015. Think before (DDSK). After this transaction, Arcus owns 100 Group CEO you drink is both an internal and external per cent of the shares. DDSK will be consolidated awareness campaign, reaching all employees in Arcus' financial statements as from 1 January 43 DIRECTORS' REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA DIRECTORS' REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS Financial development Statement of income Financial position, investments and liquidity Financial risk and risk management Credit risk Interest-rate risk Liquidity risk Currency risk About the company Employees, working environment and sick leave Equal opportunities Environment Alcohol Ownership Continued operations Michael Holm Johansen Mikael Norlander Hanne Refsholt Eilif Due Trond Berger Events after the close of the financial year Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Board member Board member Appropriation of profits Future prospects Declaration Board of Directors Leena Saarinen Erik Hagen Kjell Arne Greni Ingrid E. Skistad Board member Board member Board member Board member 44 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Contents ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA Financial Statements and Notes FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES Consolidated Accounts with Notes Statement of income 01.01.–31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income 01.01.-31.12. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Statement of financial position as at Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. 45 Statement of income 01.01.–31.12. 101 31 December Statement of other comprehensive income 01.01.-31.12. 46 Statement of financial position as at 31 December 102 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Statement of financial position as at 31 December 47 Statement of cash flows 01.01.–31.12. 103 Statement of changes in equity Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. 49 Accounting policies 104 Brief history of the Group Statement of changes in equity 50 Notes Accounting policies Brief history of the Group 51 Note 1: Payroll costs 105 Notes to the accounts Accounting policies 52 Note 2: Tax 105 Alternative performance measurements Notes Note 3: Subsidiaries 106 Parent Company Accounts with Notes Note 1: Companies in the Group 58 Note 4: Share capital and shareholder information 106 Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities 62 Note 5: Equity 107 Statement of financial position as at 31 December Note 3: Other investments in shares 63 Note 6: Provisions for liabilities 107 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Note 4: Management of financial risk 63 Note 7: Loans, pledges and guarantees etc. 107 Accounting policies Note 5: Segment information 71 Note 8: Intragroup receivables and liabilities 108 Notes to the accounts Note 6: Transactions with related parties 75 Note 9: Cash and cash equivalents 108 Auditor’s Report Note 7: Other operating expenses 76 Note 10: Events after the close of the financial year 108 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs 76 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations 80 AUDITOR'S REPORT 109 Note 10: Financial income and costs 83 Note 11: Tax 84 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets 85 Note 13: Intangible assets 87 Note 14: Leasing agreements 89 Note 15: Other receivables 90 Note 16: Inventories 90 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents 90 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information 91 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions 93 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 94 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities 95 Note 22: Current liabilities 96 Note 23: Pledges and guarantees 96 Note 24: Major individual transactions 97 Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year 97 Alternative performance measurements 98 45 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of income 01.01. 31.12. Statement of financial position as at 31 December Figures in NOK 1,000 Note 2016 2015 Figures in NOK 1,000 Note 2016 2015 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Statement of changes in equity OPERATING REVENUE AND EXPENSES Brief history of the Group Sales 5,6 2,521,826 2,365,242 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Accounting policies Net gain on sale of fixed assets 12 144 223 Interest income 10 7,944 9,859 Notes Other operating revenues 5 60,571 105,397 Other financial income 10.20 10,419 21,510 Note 1: Companies in the Group Total income 5 2,582,541 2,470,862 Interest costs 10 -70,414 -77,805 Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Other financial costs 10.20 -184,677 -54,190 Note 3: Other investments in shares Cost of sales 16 -1,467,920 -1,394,637 Net financial profit -236,728 -100,626 Note 4: Management of financial risk Salaries and other personnel costs 8.9 -392,545 -380,301 Note 5: Segment information Depreciation and amortisation 12.13 -51,625 -51,123 PRE-TAX PROFIT 2,122 101,717 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Write-downs 12.13 0 -4,380 Note 7: Other operating expenses Other operating expenses 7.14 -392,516 -426,128 Tax 11 -26,211 -17,329 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Share of profit from associated companies and jointly control2 5,789 4,557 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations led entities Profit for the year -24,089 84,388 Note 10: Financial income and costs Operating profit before other income and expenses 283,724 218,850 The profit for the year is allocated to Note 11: Tax Non-controlling interests 1 10,480 20,305 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Other income and expenses 7 -44,874 -16,507 Parent company shareholders -34,569 64,083 Note 13: Intangible assets Operating profit 238,850 202,343 -24,089 84,388 Note 14: Leasing agreements Earnings per share (NOK) Note 15: Other receivables Earnings per share 18 -0.67 1.28 Note 16: Inventories Diluted earnings per share 18 -0.67 1.28 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 46 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Total comprehensive income 01.01. 31.12. Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income Figures in NOK 1,000 Note 2016 2015 01.01.-31.12. Statement of financial position as at 31 December Profit for the year -24,089 84,388 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Statement of changes in equity Items that will not be reclassified against the statement of income: Brief history of the Group Estimate deviations, pensions 9 -1,278 6,402 Accounting policies Total items that will not be reclassified against the statement of income, before tax -1,278 6,402 Notes Note 1: Companies in the Group Tax on items that will not be reclassified against the statement of income 11 320 -1,729 Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Total items that will not be reclassified against the statement of income, after tax -959 4,673 Note 3: Other investments in shares Note 4: Management of financial risk Items that may be reclassified against the statement of income: Note 5: Segment information Translation differences on translation of foreign subsidiaries -39,242 58,888 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Total items that may be reclassified against the statement of income, before tax -39,242 58,888 Note 7: Other operating expenses Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Tax on items that may be reclassified against the statement of income 0 0 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Total items that may be reclassified against the statement of income, after tax -39,242 58,888 Note 10: Financial income and costs Note 11: Tax TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME -40,201 63,561 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Note 13: Intangible assets TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR -64,290 63,561 Note 14: Leasing agreements Note 15: Other receivables Note 16: Inventories The total comprehensive income for the year is allocated as follow Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Non-controlling interests 7,703 20,699 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Parent company shareholders -71,993 42,862 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions -64,290 63,561 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Total comprehensive income per share (NOK) Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Earnings per share 18 -1.40 0.86 Note 24: Major individual transactions Diluted earnings per share 18 -1.40 0.86 Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 47 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of financial position as at 31 December Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income Figures in NOK 1,000 Note 2016 2015 Figures in NOK 1,000 Note 2016 2015 01.01.-31.12. Statement of financial position as at 31 December ASSETS Current assets Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Fixed assets Inventories 16 378,777 388,217 Statement of changes in equity Intangible assets Brief history of the Group Goodwill 13 1,010,176 1,042,182 Receivables Accounting policies Brands 13 669,237 665,689 Trade receivables 4 1,344,067 1,003,328 Notes Software 13 30,651 34,042 Prepayments to suppliers 15 62,810 65,290 Note 1: Companies in the Group Total intangible assets 1,710,064 1,741,913 Other receivables 11.15 19,112 26,383 Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Total receivables 1,425,989 1,095,001 Note 3: Other investments in shares Tangible assets Note 4: Management of financial risk Machinery and equipment 12 326,049 284,875 Bank deposits 4.17 199,385 190,419 Note 5: Segment information Fixtures and fittings, tools, office equipment etc. 12 21,454 25,600 Cash and cash equivalents 199,385 190,419 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Assets under construction 12 2,732 67,417 Note 7: Other operating expenses Total tangible assets 350,235 377,892 Total current assets 2,004,151 1,673,637 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Deferred tax assets 11 172,120 162,370 TOTAL ASSETS 4,294,816 4,011,202 Note 10: Financial income and costs Note 11: Tax Financial assets Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled 2 56,811 54,719 Note 13: Intangible assets entities Note 14: Leasing agreements Other investments in shares 3 200 200 Note 15: Other receivables Other long-term receivables 15 1,235 471 Note 16: Inventories Total financial assets 58,246 55,390 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Total fixed assets 2,290,665 2,337,565 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 48 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of financial position as at 31 December Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income Figures in NOK 1,000 Note 2016 2015 Figures in NOK 1,000 Note 2016 2015 01.01.-31.12. Statement of financial position as at 31 December EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Other non-current liabilities Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Equity Debt to financial institutions 4.19 886,255 1,033,486 Statement of changes in equity Paid-in equity Other long-term liabilities 0 271 Brief history of the Group Share capital 18 1,360 1,000 Total other non-current liabilities 886,255 1,033,757 Accounting policies Share premium 770,743 794 Notes Total paid-in equity 772,103 1,794 Current liabilities Note 1: Companies in the Group Debt to financial institutions 19 16,498 172,222 Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Retained earnings Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 4.20 24,135 48,735 Note 3: Other investments in shares Other equity 716,582 843,010 Trade payables 628,347 551,457 Note 4: Management of financial risk Total retained earnings 716,582 843,010 Tax payable 11 0 13,504 Note 5: Segment information Unpaid public duties 22 912,310 879,099 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Non-controlling interests 1 13,905 31,603 Other current liabilities 21.22 197,334 232,153 Note 7: Other operating expenses Total current liabilities 1,778,624 1,897,170 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Total equity 1,502,590 876,407 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Total liabilities 2,792,226 3,134,795 Note 10: Financial income and costs Liabilities Note 11: Tax Provisions TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4,294,816 4,011,202 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Deferred tax liability 11 92,628 96,562 Note 13: Intangible assets Pension obligations 9 34,092 35,902 Note 14: Leasing agreements Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 4.20 0 70,264 Note 15: Other receivables Other provisions 21 627 1,140 Note 16: Inventories Total provisions 127,347 203,868 Gjelleråsen, 15 March 2017 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Michael Holm Johansen Mikael Norlander Hanne Refsholt Eilif Due Trond Berger Chairman of the Board Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Leena Saarinen Erik Hagen Kjell Arne Greni Ingrid E. Skistad Kenneth Hamnes Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Group CEO Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 49 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of cash flows 01.01. 31.12. Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income Figures in NOK 1,000 Note 2016 2015 Figures in NOK 1,000 Note 2016 2015 01.01.-31.12. Statement of financial position as at 31 December CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Pre-tax profit 2,122 101,717 Proceeds incentive programme 20 1,000 2,000 Statement of changes in equity Ordinary depreciation 12.13 51,625 55,503 Payments incentive programme 20 -158,316 -2,500 Brief history of the Group Share of profit from associated companies and jointly controlCapital increase 768,883 0 Accounting policies led entities 2 -5,789 -4,557 Proceeds from non-current interest-bearing debt to Notes Dividends received from associated companies and jointly 2 2,947 4,553 financial institutions 4.19 802,632 124,298 Note 1: Companies in the Group controlled entities Repayment of non-current interest-bearing debt to Note 2: Investments in associated companies Taxes paid -46,711 -50,613 financial institutions 4.19 -1,081,048 -149,811 and jointly controlled entities Interest costs during the period 70,414 77,805 Change in other non-current loans -246 0 Note 3: Other investments in shares Note 4: Management of financial risk Pension costs without cash effect -3,601 1,324 Interest cost paid during the period -83,031 -76,887 Note 5: Segment information Value changes without cash effect 10 144,338 -18,235 Payments for acquisition of non-controlling interests -146,325 -70,828 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Loss/profit on sale of shares/fixed assets -1,051 -15,603 Payments of dividends/Group contributions -28,260 -19,155 Note 7: Other operating expenses Other financial items without cash effect 20,636 9,756 Net cash flow from financing activities 75,289 -192,883 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Unrealised agio -15,964 32,610 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Change in inventories 16 9,440 22,690 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash Note 10: Financial income and costs Change in trade receivables1 -340,739 40,442 and cash equivalents -16,813 16,577 Note 11: Tax Change in trade payables 76,890 -31,651 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Change in other current assets and other liabilities 33,491 56,690 equivalents -16,813 16,577 Note 13: Intangible assets Net cash flows from operational activities -1,952 282,431 Note 14: Leasing agreements Net change in cash and cash equivalents 8,966 15,294 Note 15: Other receivables CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES Holdings of cash and cash equivalents as at 01.01. 190,419 175,125 Note 16: Inventories Payments on acquisition of intangible fixed assets 13 -36,429 -13,209 Holdings of cash and cash equivalents as at 31.12. 17 199,385 190,419 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Proceeds from sale of tangible fixed assets 12.13 1,060 14,701 1. The increase in trade receivables includes NOK 225 million related to the Group's termination of a factoring agreement with SEB in 2016. Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Payments on purchase of tangible fixed assets 12.13 -11,379 -65,719 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Payments on acquisition of business 24 0 -34,583 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Net cash effect from sale of business 24 0 8,284 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Payment of loans to minority interests -810 -305 Note 22: Current liabilities Payments on acquisition of other financial investments 3 0 0 Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Net cash flow from investment activities -47,558 -90,831 Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 50 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of changes in equity Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income Total for owners 01.01.-31.12. Share Share Translation Other retained of the parent Non-controlling Total for Statement of financial position as at 31 December NOK 1,000 capital premium differences earnings company interests the Group Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Equity 31.12.2014 1,000 794 208,028 523,879 733,701 27,301 761,002 Statement of changes in equity Brief history of the Group Profit for the year 2015 0 0 0 64,083 64,083 20,305 84,388 Accounting policies Total other comprehensive income 2015 0 0 57,225 4,673 61,898 1,663 63,561 Notes Total profit for the year 2015 0 0 57,225 68,756 125,981 21,968 147,949 Note 1: Companies in the Group Note 2: Investments in associated companies Transactions with owners 2015 and jointly controlled entities Dividend paid to non-controlling interests 0 0 0 0 0 -25,429 -25,429 Note 3: Other investments in shares Note 4: Management of financial risk Changes in non-controlling interests 0 0 0 -5,912 -5,912 -1,203 -7,115 Note 5: Segment information Transfer of profit for the year from minority to majority* 0 0 0 -8,966 -8,966 8,966 0 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Total transactions with owners 2015 0 0 0 -14,878 -14,878 -17,666 -32,544 Note 7: Other operating expenses Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Equity as at 31.12.2015 1,000 794 265,253 577,757 844,804 31,603 876,407 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Note 10: Financial income and costs Profit for the year 2016 0 0 0 -34,569 -34,569 10,480 -24,089 Note 11: Tax Total other comprehensive income 2016 0 0 -36,465 -959 -37,424 -2,777 -40,201 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Total profit for the year 2016 0 0 -36,465 -35,528 -71,993 7,703 -64,290 Note 13: Intangible assets Note 14: Leasing agreements Transactions with owners 2016 Note 15: Other receivables Share issue 360 769,949 0 0 770,309 0 770,309 Note 16: Inventories Share-based payment 0 0 0 606 606 0 606 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Dividend paid to non-controlling interests 0 0 0 0 0 -21,896 -21,896 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Changes in non-controlling interests 0 0 0 -49,877 -49,877 -8,670 -58,547 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Transfer of profit for the year from minority to majority* 0 0 0 -5,163 -5,163 5,163 0 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Total transactions with owners 2016 360 769,949 0 -54,434 715,875 -25,403 690,472 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Equity as at 31.12.2016 1,360 770,743 228,788 487,796 1,488,687 13,903 1,502,590 Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions * At the end of 2016 the Group owns 90.1 per cent of the subsidiary Excellars AS. In addition, put and call options exist which are associated with the non-controlling interests, although the Group was not considered to have control of the shares as of the close of the financial year. These Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year companies are recognised as though they were wholly owned, but with partial presentation of the non-controlling interests. Partial presentation of non-controlling interests means that the non-controlling interests’ share of the profit for the year is shown in the statement of income, but not in the equity statement. The transfer relates to the non-controlling interests’ share of the profit for the year, adjusted for the dividend distributed for the period. At the end of 2015 this also applied to the subsidiary Vingruppen i Norden AB (subsidiary Group), of which the Group then owned Alternative performance measurements 99.37 per cent. As at 31.12.2015 the direct minority interests in the subsidiaries under Vingruppen i Norden AB are also stated as minority interests in the Group's equity, while the shares in the parent company Vingruppen i Norden AB are booked as though the Group held 100 per cent Auditor’s Report ownership, and this means that no minority interests are related to these in equity. 51 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brief history of the Group Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income Arcus ASA is registered and domiciled in Norway, and located at Destilleriveien 11 in Gjelleråsen in 2013 01.01.-31.12. ­Nittedal Municipality, just north of Oslo. The consolidated financial statements include the parent • In January, acquired all the shares in Arcus Denmark A/S from Pernod Ricard, which included the Statement of financial position as at 31 December ­company and subsidiaries (together referred to as Arcus or the Group , and individually as a Group ­Aalborg Aquavit and Gammel Dansk brands, and all the shares in Arcus Deutschland GmbH, which owns Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. company ) as well as the Group’s holdings in associated companies. The Group’s principal activity is the the Malteserkreutz brand. Statement of changes in equity import, production, marketing, sale and distribution of wine and spirits. 2012 Brief history of the Group Historical development • Completed the new production and distribution facility and head office at Gjelleråsen, and moved the Accounting policies The Group has carried out the following important transactions in recent years: business there. Notes Note 1: Companies in the Group 2016 2011 Note 2: Investments in associated companies • In February, the Group increased its ownership of Excellars AS from 51.0 per cent to 90.1 per cent by • Acquired 28.2 per cent of the shares in Vingruppen i Norden AB, increasing the holding from 62.5 per and jointly controlled entities the subsidiary Vingruppen AS' acquisition of minority shares. cent to 90.7 per cent. Note 3: Other investments in shares • In February, the Group increased its ownership of Wineagency Sweden AB from 80.0 per cent to 90.0 At the same time, entered into an option agreement for the remaining 9.3 per cent. Note 4: Management of financial risk per cent by the subsidiary Vingruppen i Norden AB's acquisition of additional minority shares. • Acquired 51 per cent of the shares in Excellars AS, with an option for the remaining 49 per cent. Note 5: Segment information • In July, the Group increased its ownership of Wineworld Sweden AB from 80.0 per cent to 90.0 per • Swapped 34 per cent of the shares in SAS de L’île Madame for 32.6 per cent of the shares in Tiffon SA. Note 6: Transactions with related parties cent by the subsidiary Vingruppen i Norden AB's acquisition of additional minority shares. Acquired a further 106 shares and increased the holding in Tiffon SA to 34 per cent. Note 7: Other operating expenses • In August, the Group acquired the Dworek vodka brand. Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs • In December, the Group increased its ownership of Vingruppen i Norden AB from 99.37 per cent to 2010 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations 100.0 per cent by the subsidiary VinGruppen Sweden Holding AB's acquisition of the remaining • Implemented an agreement on sale of Gjelleråsen Prosjekt 1 AS. Note 10: Financial income and costs ­minority shares. • Started construction of a new production and distribution facility and head office at Gjelleråsen. Note 11: Tax • Arcus-Gruppen Holding AS was restructured as a public limited liability company and changed its name Note 12: Tangible fixed assets to Arcus ASA, before the company's listing on the Oslo Stock Exchange on 1 December. 2009 Note 13: Intangible assets • Acquired the brands Star Gin, Red Port and Dry Anise from Pernod Ricard. Note 14: Leasing agreements 2015 • Acquired 80 per cent of the company Symposium Wines AS. Note 15: Other receivables • In February, acquired the aquavit brand Snälleröds in Sweden. • In April, acquired the wine activity from Fondberg in Finland. Changed the name of the company to 2008 Note 16: Inventories Social Wines Oy. • Acquired Gjelleråsen Prosjekt 1 AS which included the site of the new operating location at Gjelleråsen Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents • In September, acquired 70 per cent of the shares in a recently-founded Norwegian wine company, in Nittedal Municipality north of Oslo. Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Heyday Wines AS. Note 19: Debt to financial institutions • In Q4, reorganised the ownership of Vingruppen i Norden AB, by selling the shares to a newly-­ 2007 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss established wholly-owned holding company in Sweden called VinGruppen Sweden Holding AB. • Sold Arcus Eiendom AS, Arcus Eiendom Anders Winsvoldsvei AS, Hjemmel Haslevangen AS and Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities • Discontinued production in Aalborg and moved the production and bottling of the Danish brands ­Hjemmel Anders Winsvolds vei AS. Note 22: Current liabilities (Aalborg, Malteserkreutz and Gammel Dansk) to customised facilities at Gjelleråsen. • Sold Tendex OY. Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions 2014 Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year • Established Vingruppen AS as new holding structure for the wine business in Norway. Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting policies Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income The consolidated financial statements for 2016, CHANGES RELEVANT TO THE ARCUS GROUP: includes a model for recognition and measurement ACCOUNTING POLICIES 01.01.-31.12. including comparative information, have been IFRS 9 Financial instruments of the sale of individual non-financial assets. IFRS Consolidation principles Statement of financial position as at 31 December prepared in accordance with IFRS applicable as at In July 2014, the IASB published the final 15 will be implemented using either a fully retroThe consolidated financial statements comprise Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. 31 December 2016, and as described in the note ­subproject of IFRS 9 and the standard has now spective or a modified method. The new standard Arcus ASA and subsidiaries in which Arcus ASA has Statement of changes in equity on the accounting policies. Applicable IFRS have been finalised. IFRS 9 includes changes related to will apply with effect from reporting years control, and present the overall financial results, been applied retrospectively. classification and measurement, hedge accounting ­beginning on 1 January 2018 or later. the overall financial position, and the overall cash Brief history of the Group and impairment IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39 Financial flows, as one financial entity. Control takes place Accounting policies The annual financial statements were adopted by Instruments – Recognition and Measurement. The During 2017 all revenue types will be reviewed and when the Group is entitled to variable returns from Notes the Board on 15 March 2017. The Group’s head parts of IAS 39 that were not changed as part of this assessed in relation to the new standard. As the an investment object, and can also influence Note 1: Companies in the Group office is located at Gjelleråsen in Nittedal project were transferred and included in IFRS 9. Arcus Group largely sells products where the shipping ­relevant activities which affect the returns on the Note 2: Investments in associated companies ­Municipality and the core activities are the and billing times coincide, the new revenue investment object. Normally this will be the and jointly controlled entities ­production, sale and distribution of alcoholic The standard will be implemented retrospectively, ­recognition standard is not expected to have any ­company in which Arcus ASA, either directly, or Note 3: Other investments in shares ­beverages. The Group's domestic market is the with the exception of hedge accounting, although material impact on the Group’s financial reporting. indirectly via subsidiaries, owns more than 50 per Note 4: Management of financial risk Nordic region, but the Group also has sales to other the preparation of comparative figures is not a cent of the shares with voting rights. In the Note 5: Segment information countries, mainly Germany and the USA. requirement. The rules for hedge accounting will IFRS 16 Leases ­consolidated financial statements, this Group is Note 6: Transactions with related parties mainly be implemented prospectively, with a few IFRS 16 Leases replaces the existing IFRS standard referred to as Arcus or the Arcus Group. Note 7: Other operating expenses Arcus ASA was listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange exceptions. The Group has no plans for the early for leases, IAS 17 Leases IFRS 16 sets out Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs on 1 December 2016. The price on 31.12.2016 implementation of the standard. The new standard ­principles for recognition, measurement, See Note 1 for an overview of all the companies Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations was NOK 44.50 per share, compared to the will apply with effect from reporting years ­presentation and disclosure of leasing agreements included in the consolidation. Note 10: Financial income and costs opening price of NOK 43.00. ­beginning on 1 January 2018 or later. for both parties to a leasing agreement, i.e., the Note 11: Tax customer (lessee) and provider (lessor). The new In the consolidated financial statements all ­intraNote 12: Tangible fixed assets NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS The new standard is not expected to have any standard requires the lessee to recognise the Group receivables and internal transactions between Note 13: Intangible assets No changes which have significantly affected the material impact on the Group’s financial reporting, assets and liabilities of most leasing agreements, companies within the Group have been eliminated. Note 14: Leasing agreements Group's financial statements have been made to but may affect the Group’s classification and which is a significant change from current principles. The cost price of shares in subsidiaries is eliminated Note 15: Other receivables the framework conditions from IFRS in the current ­measurement of financial assets and liabilities. The standard comes into force on 1 January 2019 against equity at the time of acquisition. Accounting year. The most important changes to the accounting but has not yet been approved by the EU. The new values including goodwill and excess values associNote 16: Inventories standards that will affect the Group in the future IFRS 15 Revenue recognition standard will apply with effect from reporting ated with foreign subsidiaries are translated from Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents are presented below. IASB has released a new standard for revenue years beginning on 1 January 2019 or later. the functional currency to NOK according to the Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information recognition, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with exchange rate at the close of the financial year. Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Adopted IFRS and IFRIC with future Customers. The standard replaces all existing The new standard for the recognition of leases is Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss effective dates: standards and interpretations for revenue expected to have a significant impact on the Group’s Goodwill is included in the consolidated financial Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities The standards and interpretations adopted up to ­recognition. The core principle of IFRS 15 is that reported balance sheet and results, see Note 14. statements as an intangible asset. Note 22: Current liabilities the date of presentation of the consolidated revenue is recognised in order to reflect the Note 23: Pledges and guarantees ­financial statements, but where the effective date ­transfer of agreed goods or services to customers, Other changes resulting from new standards that Any changes in the Group's ownership of a Note 24: Major individual transactions is in the future, are shown below. The Group’s and at an amount that reflects the consideration have yet to come into effect will not influence or ­subsidiary, without any loss of control, is Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year ­intention is to implement the relevant changes on the company expects to be entitled to in exchange have any significant effect on the consolidated ­recognised as an equity transaction. If the Group Alternative performance measurements the effective date, on the assumption that the EU for these goods or services financial statements. loses control of a subsidiary, underlying assets Auditor’s Report approves the changes before the presentation of (including goodwill), debt, minority interests and the consolidated financial statements. The standard applies, with a few exceptions, to all other equity components are deducted, while gains revenue-generating contracts with customers and and losses are recognised in the income statement. 53 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Any remaining investment is recognised at fair value. As of 31 December 2016, the following exchange rates have been used when translating income and financial position figures from subsidiaries Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. with functional currencies other than NOK: Statement of other comprehensive income Non-controlling interests 01.01.-31.12. Non-controlling interests’ share of profit after tax Statement of financial position as at 31 December Exchange rates 2016 2015 is shown on a separate line after the Group’s profit Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. EUR average rate Income statement items 9.2980 8.9477 for the year. Non-controlling interests’ share of Statement of changes in equity EUR closing rate Financial position items 9.0865 9.6156 equity is shown on a separate line as a part of the Brief history of the Group Group’s equity. SEK average rate Income statement items 0.9830 0.9562 Accounting policies EUR closing rate Financial position items 0.9484 1.0467 Notes In instances where there are put and/or call options DKK average rate Income statement items 1.2488 1.1997 Note 1: Companies in the Group associated with the non-controlling interests, and DKK closing rate Financial position items 1.2223 1.2886 Note 2: Investments in associated companies where the Group has determined that it does not and jointly controlled entities have an existing interest in the shares to which the Note 3: Other investments in shares options apply, the subsidiary is presented as if it Note 4: Management of financial risk were wholly owned, but with partial presentation of The functional currency of subsidiaries is the Excess value analysis has been carried out in Business mergers Note 5: Segment information non-controlling interests. Partial presentation of ­currency in which the subsidiary reports its financial ­regard to associated companies. The share of Business mergers in the Group are treated Note 6: Transactions with related parties non-controlling interests means that for each statements. On consolidation of subsidiaries that profit is based on profit after tax in the company in ­according to the acquisition method and present ­reporting period the non-controlling interests will have a functional currency other than NOK, items which investment has been made with deduction the Group as a single entity. On acquisition, the cost Note 7: Other operating expenses receive their part of the profit for the year, which is of income and expenses are converted to the for depreciation of excess value resulting from the price of the acquired business is allocated so that Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs shown under the profit allocation in the consolidated Group’s presentation currency in accordance with cost price of the shares being higher than the the consolidated opening balance sheet reflects Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations statement of income and in the statement of c­ hanges average conversion rates. This means that at the ­acquired holding of capitalised equity. The share of the estimated fair value of the acquired assets and Note 10: Financial income and costs in equity. At the end of each period, the non-controlling end of each period, items of income and expenses profit is shown in the statement of income on a liabilities. To determine fair value on acquisition, Note 11: Tax minority interests’ share of profit, adjusted for the are translated at the average exchange rate to date separate line before operating profit and the alternative methods of determining fair value must Note 12: Tangible fixed assets distribution of dividend for the period to the in the year. For the statement of financial position, ­investment is shown as a line under financial fixed be used for assets for which there is no active Note 13: Intangible assets non-controlling interests, will be transferred as an including excess value and goodwill, the closing assets. market. Added value in excess of what is attributable Note 14: Leasing agreements equity transaction from the non-controlling exchange rate as of the close of the financial year is to identifiable assets and liabilities is reported as Note 15: Other receivables ­interests’ share of equity to the majority’s equity. used. Currency differences arising on consolidation Jointly controlled companies are investments in goodwill. If the fair value of the equity in the ­acquired Note 16: Inventories The option liabilities will be recognised at the of entities with another functional currency are which the Group has an agreement on joint control company exceeds the consideration, a reassessNote 17: Cash and cash equivalents ­present value of the redemption amount and attributed to equity and presented as other over an entity together with one or more other ment is made of the valuation of observable assets Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information ­presented in the statement of financial position as comprehensive income in the consolidated parties, when none has decisive influence and all and liabilities. If the reassessment ­reveals no Note 19: Debt to financial institutions an obligation at fair value via profit or loss. ­statement of other comprehensive income. On strategic, financial and operational decisions ­discrepancies, the difference is ­recognised as Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss disposal of subsidiaries, accumulated translation ­concerning the entity require unanimity between income as at the acquisition date. The allocation of Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Currency differences associated with the subsidiary are the parties. The share of profit is based on profit the cost price of the business merger must be Note 22: Current liabilities All transactions in foreign currency are translated charged to the statement of income. after tax in the company in which investment has changed if new information is revealed about the to functional currency as of the date of the been made with deduction for depreciation of fair value applicable at the time of acquisition and Note 23: Pledges and guarantees ­transaction. Monetary items in foreign currency Investments in associated companies and jointly excess value resulting from the cost price of the up until the final excess value analysis. This must Note 24: Major individual transactions are translated as of the close of the financial year controlled entities shares being higher than the acquired holding of take place within 12 months of the acquisition date. Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year to functional currency using the exchange rate as Associated companies are companies in which the capitalised equity. The share of profit is shown in Alternative performance measurements of the close of the financial year. Group has significant influence, normally between the statement of income on a separate line before With each business acquisition, the minority interest Auditor’s Report a 20 and a 50 per cent holding. The equity method operating profit and the investment is shown as a will be measured at fair value, and minorities’ share The Group’s presentation currency is NOK, which is is used for associated companies in the line under financial fixed assets. of goodwill is capitalised in the consolidated also the parent company’s functional currency. ­consolidated financial statements. ­statement of financial position. 54 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS On stepwise acquisition of subsidiaries, the basis is detailed specification of what these items include Cash and cash equivalents price with deduction for accumulated depreciation the value of assets and liabilities on the date of the in the notes relating to the individual line items. Cash and cash equivalents include cash, bank and accumulated write-downs in the event of Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. establishment of the Group. Subsequent acquisition See the Alternative Result Measurement appendix. ­deposits, balances in the Group cash pool system non-transitory impairment. Statement of other comprehensive income of ownership of existing subsidiaries in addition to and other means of payment with a due date less 01.01.-31.12. the majority interest will not affect the assessment Inventories than three months from the acquisition date. Intangible assets with limited useful lives are Statement of financial position as at 31 December of assets or liabilities. Inventories are valued at the lower of acquisition ­depreciated by the straight-line method over the Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. cost/production cost and net selling value, where The Group’s cash pool system is connected with expected useful life. Statement of changes in equity Revenue recognition principles net selling value is calculated as the selling price in cash and bank overdrafts within the same cash pool Brief history of the Group Revenues associated with sales of goods and a transaction with market participants on the system and is presented net. The capitalised value of goodwill, brands and other Accounting policies ­services is recognised when the Group has ­measurement date less selling expenses. intangible assets with indeterminate lifetime is Notes ­transferred risk and rights to the purchaser. This is ­Purchased inventories are valued at acquisition The Group cash pool system is managed by the tested for impairment at least once a year, or more Note 1: Companies in the Group normally on delivery of the goods and services. cost according to the principle of weighted average parent company, Arcus ASA. often if there are indications that the value of the Note 2: Investments in associated companies Other revenues is recognised when it is probable with deduction for obsolescence, while inventories asset has decreased. This requires estimates of and jointly controlled entities that transactions will involve future financial gains produced in-house are valued at production cost Tangible fixed assets the amount recoverable by cash-generating units Note 3: Other investments in shares that will accrue to the company and the size of the according to the principle of full costing with Tangible fixed assets are capitalised at cost price to which goodwill and other intangible assets are Note 4: Management of financial risk sum can be estimated reliably. Variable discounts ­deduction for obsolescence. less accumulated depreciation and accumulated attributed Note 5: Segment information and bonuses are ­allocated and accrued in the periloss on non-transitory impairment. Depreciation is Note 6: Transactions with related parties od in which they are expected to occur. Receivables calculated and taken to expenses from the date the To determine the recoverable amount, the Group Accounts receivable and other receivables are fixed asset is taken into use, and is calculated on estimates expected future pre-tax cash flows from Note 7: Other operating expenses Sales revenues are presented net after deduction shown at nominal value after deduction for the basis of expected useful life, taking account of the cash-generating unit and applies suitable Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs of discounts, VAT, alcohol and packaging tax. ­provisions for expected losses. Provision for losses estimated residual value. ­discount rates in order to calculate the present Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations is made on the basis of an individual assessment of value of future cash flows. Cash flows for brands Note 10: Financial income and costs Information on revenue recognition in the each receivable based on identified indicators of Different rates of depreciation are used for a fixed are calculated based on a market-based (FVLCD Note 11: Tax ­Distribution segment impairment. asset’s components if these have different economic fair value less costs of disposal) relief from Note 12: Tangible fixed assets All sales that are distributed and sold through lives. Assets under construction are not depreciated. ­royalty method before tax. Note 13: Intangible assets Vectura AS are invoiced by the company, including Sold accounts receivable that are included in the Depreciation is taken to expenses only when the Note 14: Leasing agreements special duties, cost of goods, handling charges, etc. factoring agreement are presented as reduced asset is ready for use. Profit and loss on sales of Expectations regarding future cash flows will vary Note 15: Other receivables Sales revenues for the services are presented net accounts receivable in the statement of financial fixed assets are set as the difference between the over time. Changes in the market conditions and Note 16: Inventories after deductions for special duties and associated position. At the end of 2016 the Group had entered selling price and the book value at the time of sale. expected cash flows may cause losses in the event Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents goods and handling charges, etc. Vectura AS’ sales into a factoring agreement with SEB concerning Profits on sales of fixed assets are recognised as of impairment in the future. The most important Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information revenues are presented net based on an assessthe sale of trade receivables from Vinmonopolet operating income and losses as operating expenses. assumptions with significance for the present Note 19: Debt to financial institutions ment of the fact that the company’s revenues are with a limit of NOK 225 million, which was fully If there are indications of impairment, the amount value of the cash flows associated with the Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss related to the delivery of services, etc., and that the utilised. This agreement was terminated during recoverable is estimated in order to assess any ­investments are future profits and growth, as well Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities product flow risk is the suppliers’ responsibility. 2016 and at the end of 2016 the Group has no loss through the impairment. If the book value as the discount rate used. Note 22: Current liabilities significant factoring agreements. exceeds the amount recoverable, the asset is ­written Other income and expenses down to recoverable value while the remaining Pensions Note 23: Pledges and guarantees To provide more information in the Group’s consoliPrepayments to suppliers depreciation period is maintained (breakpoint Net pension costs for defined benefit plans Note 24: Major individual transactions dated income statement, significant positive and Prepayments to suppliers apply to financing the solution). Depreciation methods, residual values comprise the period’s service cost, including future Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year negative non-recurring items and restructuring purchase of inventory for individual partners. and estimated life are continuously assessed. growth in salaries and interest rates on the estimaAlternative performance measurements costs are separated out to a separate line in the ­Prepayments are shown at nominal value after ted obligation, less expected returns on the Auditor’s Report statement of income called other income and deduction for provisions for expected losses. Intangible assets ­pension assets. Prepaid pension is shown as a ­expenses. Other income and expenses are presented ­Provisions for losses are made on the basis of Intangible assets comprise brands, software and long-term asset in the statement of financial net on this income statement line. See also the ­identified indicators of impairment. goodwill. Intangible assets are capitalised at cost ­position where it is probable that the over55 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ­ nancing can be used or repaid. Correspondingly, a fi Deferred tax is capitalised on the basis of the Classification principles purposes or financial instruments earmarked at long-term liability is shown in the accounts when temporary differences and any deficit to be carried Other assets included in the operating cycle or falling fair value. A financial instrument is classified in the Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. the pension obligation is greater than the pension forward existing at the end of the financial year and due within 12 months are classified as c­ urrent assets. category held for trading purposes if it is Statement of other comprehensive income assets. Net pension costs are classified as payroll that involves increased or reduced future tax Remaining assets are classified as fixed assets. ­primarily acquired with a view to producing profit 01.01.-31.12. costs in the statement of income. Changes in the ­payable, when these differences are reversed in from short-term price fluctuations. Derivatives are Statement of financial position as at 31 December liability resulting from changes in pension plans are future periods. Temporary differences are Liabilities included in the operating cycle or falling classified as held for trading purposes unless they Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. taken to profit or loss immediately. Changes in the ­differences between accounting and taxable due within 12 months, where there is no unconditional form part of a hedge. Assets and liabilities in this Statement of changes in equity pension liability and the pension assets resulting ­results arising during a period and are reversed right to defer settlement, are classified as current category are classified as current assets or Brief history of the Group from changes in, and deviations from, the estimate during a later period. Deferred tax is calculated on liabilities. Remaining liabilities are classified as ­short-term debt if it is expected that they will be Accounting policies assumptions (estimate deviations), are recognised the basis of nominal tax rates (rates adopted as of long term settled within 12 months; otherwise they are Notes against equity and are presented in the statement the close of the financial year in the individual ­classified as financial assets or long-term debt. Note 1: Companies in the Group of other comprehensive income. country) multiplied by temporary differences and Proposed dividend/Group contributions are Note 2: Investments in associated companies the deficit to be carried forward. Deferred tax ­capitalised in the statement of financial position as Loans and receivables and jointly controlled entities The Group also has defined contribution pension assets are capitalised when the probability exists a liability when the Group has an irrevocable Loans and receivables are financial assets that are Note 3: Other investments in shares plans, schemes whereby the company pays that future taxable income will enable utilisation of ­obligation to make dividend payments/Group not derivatives, that have fixed or determinable Note 4: Management of financial risk ­contributions on an ongoing basis to the employees’ the asset. contribution, normally after adoption by the annual payments and that are not traded in an active Note 5: Segment information individual pension plans. Ongoing premium invoices general meeting. ­market. They are classified as current assets Note 6: Transactions with related parties of this kind are expensed as salaries and other Share-based payment ­unless they fall due more than 12 months after the personnel costs. The Group has a share-based incentive programme Measurement and classification of financial close of the financial year. Loans and receivables Note 7: Other operating expenses for managerial employees under which a specific ­instruments comprise accounts receivable and other receivables, Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Restructuring number of persons will receive a specific number of The Group classifies financial instruments in the as well as cash and cash equivalents in the Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Provisions for restructuring are recognised as shares at a specific future time, provided that they following categories: financial instruments at fair ­statement of financial position. Note 10: Financial income and costs expenses when the programme has been adopted are still employed by the Group at the future time value via profit or loss, loans and receivables, Note 11: Tax and announced and the costs are identifiable and (matching shares). ­financial assets available for sale and financial Loans and receivables are measured at amortised Note 12: Tangible fixed assets quantifiable. Provisions linked to restructuring are liabilities. The classification depends on the purpose cost, and value changes resulting from interest-­ Note 13: Intangible assets included as other provisions for liabilities The costs related to the share-based payment are of the asset or liability. Management classifies rate changes are not recognised. Note 14: Leasing agreements ­calculated at present value. Agreements securing accrued during the vesting period, which is the financial assets and liabilities on acquisition. Note 15: Other receivables future work input are recognised as expenses over period between the allocation date and the date of Financial assets available for sale Note 16: Inventories the period in which the work input is delivered. receipt. The costs which are accrued are the value Financial instruments at fair value via profit or loss Financial assets available for sale are financial Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents of the matching shares as of the allocation date, Financial instruments are recognised in the assets that are not derivatives and that have been Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Taxes and this value is not adjusted during the vesting ­statement of financial position when the Group has placed in this category, or that do not belong to any Note 19: Debt to financial institutions The tax expense comprises both tax payable and period. This cost is booked directly to Group equity. become party to the instrument's contractual other category. They are classified as fixed assets Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss the change in deferred tax. Tax payable is based on provisions, and deducted when the contractual provided that the investment does not fall due or Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities taxable income for the year Taxable income is The related employer tax is accrued during the rights or obligations are fulfilled or cancelled, or the management does not intend to sell the Note 22: Current liabilities different from the pre-tax profit as presented in same period. The costs of the employer tax in each have expired or been transferred. Financial ­investment within 12 months from the close of the the statement of income because of income and period are calculated on the basis of the fair value ­instruments are classified as current assets if the financial year. Note 23: Pledges and guarantees expenditure items that are not taxable/deductible of the matching shares. The costs are booked as expected settlement date is within 12 months of Note 24: Major individual transactions (permanent differences) and the change in debt in the statement of financial position. the close of the financial year, and as fixed assets if Other financial liabilities Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year ­differences in taxable and accounting accruals the settlement date is later than 12 months after Financial liabilities not falling into the category of Alternative performance measurements (temporary differences). Tax payable is calculated The costs related to this programme are the close of the financial year financial instruments at fair value via profit or loss Auditor’s Report based on tax rates that are adopted at the end of ­recognised in accordance with IFRS 2. are classified as other financial liabilities. For the period. Financial instruments at fair value via profit or loss ­measurement of financial liabilities at fair value, see are either financial instruments held for trading measurement of financial instruments in Note 4. 56 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial liabilities through borrowing are as financial expenses. The lease liability, less the The Spirits business area comprises the following Related parties ­recognised at the amount received net of transaction cost of interest, is classified as other current companies: Arcus Norway AS with subsidiaries, The Group’s related parties, in addition to Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. costs. Financial liabilities are recognised at ­liabilities and other long-term liabilities. Property, Arcus Denmark A/S, Arcus Sweden AB, Arcus ­subsidiaries, associated companies and jointly Statement of other comprehensive income ­amortised cost based on an effective interest-rate plant and equipment acquired through a financial ­Finland Oy and Arcus Deutschland GmbH. Supply controlled companies, are defined as the owners, 01.01.-31.12. method. Transaction costs (arrangement charges) lease agreement is depreciated over the expected Chain is also included as a production facility in the all members of the Board of Directors and Group Statement of financial position as at 31 December are capitalised in the statement of financial life or the period of the lease if this is shorter. Spirits business area. Management, and companies in which any of these Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. ­position as part of the book value of the loan, and parties either have controlling interests, Board Statement of changes in equity ­depreciated over the period of the loan. Statement of cash flows The Wine business area comprises the following appointments, or are senior employees. Brief history of the Group The indirect method is used in the preparation of companies: Vingruppen i Norden AB and Accounting policies Borrowing in currencies other than the functional the statement of cash flows. Cash and cash ­subsidiaries, and Vingruppen AS and subsidiaries. All transactions between Group companies and Notes currency is translated at the exchange rate at the ­equivalents in the statement of financial position related parties are made on market terms. Note 1: Companies in the Group close of the financial year. are defined as holdings of cash and cash The Distribution business area comprises the Note 2: Investments in associated companies ­equivalents in the statement of cash flows. ­Vectura AS company. Important accounting estimates and and jointly controlled entities Categorisation of financial assets and debt discretionary assessments Note 3: Other investments in shares The Group’s measurement of financial assets, debt Segment information In addition, there are the remaining Group income Preparation of the annual financial statements Note 4: Management of financial risk and other financial instruments at fair value can be Operating segments are reported in the same way and expenses, as well as financing costs, that requires management to make estimates and Note 5: Segment information divided into three categories: as for internal reporting to Group management. comprise Arcus-Gruppen AS and Arcus ASA. assumptions that affect the value of assets, Note 6: Transactions with related parties Level 1: Listed (unadjusted) prices in active The Group’s business areas comprise Spirits, Wine ­liabilities and conditional liabilities in the statemarkets. and Distribution. The Group presents no segment assets or ment of financial position, and income and Note 7: Other operating expenses Level 2: Direct or indirect inputs other than listed ­liabilities, as this is not done in the Group’s internal ­expenses for the financial year. Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs prices included in Level 1, that are observable for The Group’s activities consist of sales and reporting Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations the asset or the liability. ­marketing of Spirits, sales and marketing of Wine, Future events and changes in the regulatory Note 10: Financial income and costs Level 3: Techniques for calculation of fair value and distribution of spirits and wine. For further information about the Group’s ­framework may mean that estimates and Note 11: Tax based on other than observable market data. ­operating segments, see Note 5. ­assumptions must be changed, while new opinions Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Note 13: Intangible assets Leases Note 14: Leasing agreements Leases where a significant part of the risk and Note 15: Other receivables return associated with ownership continues to lie Note 16: Inventories with the lessor are classified as operational leases. Areas in which estimates have major significance will be: Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Lease payments from operational leases (with Figures in NOK 1,000 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information deduction for any financial incentives from the Note 19: Debt to financial institutions lessor) are charged as expenses using the Accounting item Note Assumptions Book value Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss straight-line method over the period of the lease. Goodwill 13 Present value of future cash flows 1,010,176 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Brands 13 Present value of future cash flows 669,237 Note 22: Current liabilities Leases with regard to property, plant and equipment in which the Group principally holds all risks and Other intangible assets 13 Recoverable amounts and correct useful life 30,651 Note 23: Pledges and guarantees rewards are classified as financial leasing. Financial Tangible fixed assets 12 Recoverable amounts and correct useful life 350,235 Note 24: Major individual transactions leasing is capitalised at the start of the lease Deferred tax assets 11 Assessment of the ability to exploit tax assets in the future 172,120 Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year ­period at the lower of fair value of the leased fixed Pension liabilities 9 Economic and demographic assumptions 34,092 Alternative performance measurements assets and the present value of the total minimum Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 20 Present value of future cash flows 24,135 Auditor’s Report lease amount. Each lease payment is allocated Provisions 21 Correct basis for estimate calculations 12,903 between a repayment element and an interest element. The lease cost is charged to profit or loss 57 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and interpretations of standards may mean that the choice of principles and presentation will be Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. changed. Estimates and underlying assumptions Statement of other comprehensive income are examined and evaluated continuously, and 01.01.-31.12. changes in accounting estimates are recognised in Statement of financial position as at 31 December the period in which the estimates are changed. Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Statement of changes in equity Present value estimates of future cash flows are Brief history of the Group affected by correct assumptions and estimates of Accounting policies future cash flows and estimates of return Notes ­requirements. Return requirements are Note 1: Companies in the Group ­determined using the capital asset pricing model Note 2: Investments in associated companies (CAPM) and assumptions in using the CAPM are: and jointly controlled entities risk-free interest; market risk premium; and beta. Note 3: Other investments in shares Note 4: Management of financial risk The areas with greatest risk of substantial changes Note 5: Segment information are capitalised goodwill, brands, tax assets and Note 6: Transactions with related parties liabilities at fair value via profit/loss, on the basis that the capitalised sums are substantial, and that Note 7: Other operating expenses there may be considerable discretion. The Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs ­estimates are based on assumptions concerning Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations future cash flows that are discounted at a selected Note 10: Financial income and costs discount rate. Note 11: Tax Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Estimates and assumptions are described in the Note 13: Intangible assets various notes. Note 14: Leasing agreements Note 15: Other receivables Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 58 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income NOTE 1 COMPANIES IN THE GROUP Shares owned by Vingruppen AS 01.01.-31.12. Arcus Wine Brands AS Nittedal NOK 100 100% Statement of financial position as at 31 December Vinordia AS Nittedal NOK 968 97% The consolidated financial statements for 2016 cover the following subsidiaries and associated companies: Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Symposium Wines AS Nittedal NOK 500 78% Statement of changes in equity Vinuniq AS Nittedal NOK 100 97% Registered Nominal Group holding Brief history of the Group Excellars AS Nittedal NOK 181 90% Figures in 1,000 (local currency) office Currency share capital and voting share Accounting policies Heyday Wines AS Nittedal NOK 100 70% Company name Notes Arcus ASA (parent company) Nittedal NOK 1,360 Note 1: Companies in the Group Shares owned by Symposium Wines AS Note 2: Investments in associated companies Subsidiaries Hedoni Wines AS Nittedal NOK 30 78% and jointly controlled entities Note 3: Other investments in shares Arcus-Gruppen AS Nittedal NOK 276,552 100% Note 4: Management of financial risk Vectura AS Nittedal NOK 14,014 100% Shares owned by Vingruppen i Norden AB Note 5: Segment information Vinunic AB Stockholm SEK 145 100% Note 6: Transactions with related parties Shares owned by Arcus-Gruppen AS Wineworld Sweden AB Stockholm SEK 500 90% Note 7: Other operating expenses Arcus Norway AS Nittedal NOK 62,100 100% The WineAgency Sweden AB Stockholm SEK 100 90% Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Arcus Denmark AS Copenhagen DKK 10,324 100% Valid Wines Sweden AB Stockholm SEK 1,100 97% Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Vingruppen AS Nittedal NOK 60 100% Social Wines OY Helsinki EUR 8 94% Note 10: Financial income and costs VinGruppen Sweden Holding AB Stockholm SEK 50 100% Wineworld Finland Oy Helsinki EUR 220 76% Note 11: Tax Arcus Deutschland GmbH* Bremen EUR 500 100% Vinum Import Oy Åbo EUR 3 88% Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Note 13: Intangible assets Shares owned by Arcus Norway AS Owned by Vinunic AB Note 14: Leasing agreements Vingaraget AB Stockholm SEK 50 100% Arcus Sweden AB Stockholm SEK 100 100% Note 15: Other receivables Arcus Finland OY Helsinki EUR 311 100% Note 16: Inventories Owned by Wineworld Sweden AB De Lysholmske Brenneriog Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Destillasjonsfabrikker ANS Nittedal NOK 0 100% Quaffable Wines Sweden AB Stockholm SEK 100 72% Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Siemers & Cos Destillasjon ANS Nittedal NOK 0 100% Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Løiten Brænderis Destillation ANS Nittedal NOK 0 100% Owned by The WineAgency Sweden AB and WineWorld Sweden AB Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Oplandske Spritfabrik ANS Nittedal NOK 0 100% Your Wineclub Sweden AB Stockholm SEK 50 90% Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Shares owned by VinGruppen Sweden Holding AB * Arcus Deutschland GmbH's accounting year runs from 1 July to 30 June. As from 1 January 2017, the company's financial year follows the Note 23: Pledges and guarantees calendar year. Impacts on earnings from the company in the consolidated financial statements are based on an estimated annual result Note 24: Major individual transactions Vingruppen i Norden AB Stockholm SEK 4,192 100% for the calendar year, which is the Group’s financial year. Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Associated company Auditor’s Report Tiffon SA Jarnac EUR 1,131 34% Jointly controlled entities Det Danske Spiritus Kompagni A/S Copenhagen DKK 6,500 50% 59 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Profit, dividends and equity attributable to non-controlling interests Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Profits Profits Statement of other comprehensive income attributable to Accumulated Dividend attributable to Accumulated Dividend 01.01.-31.12. non-controlling non-controlling distributed to non-controlling non-controlling distributed to Statement of financial position as at 31 December interests in interests non-controlling interests in interests non-controlling Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 31.12.2016* interests in 2016 Figures in NOK 1,000 2015 31.12.2015** interests in 2015 Statement of changes in equity Symposium Wines AS 1,382 1,975 -1,560 Symposium Wines AS 1,718 2,149 -1,114 Brief history of the Group Excellars AS* 772 0 -4,900 Excellars AS ** 5,248 0 -6,370 Accounting policies Vingruppen i Norden AB 0 0 -375 Vingruppen i Norden AB ** 25 0 -7,227 Notes Wineworld Sweden AB 6,148 4,766 -12,919 Wineworld Sweden AB 8,415 15,919 -7,450 Note 1: Companies in the Group The WineAgency Sweden AB 1,342 4,169 -1,607 The WineAgency Sweden AB 3,510 9,656 -2,980 Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Social Wines OY 140 1,111 0 Social Wines OY 404 2,130 0 Note 3: Other investments in shares Vinum Import Oy 396 933 -359 Vinum Import Oy 981 894 -224 Note 4: Management of financial risk Other companies with minority interests 300 951 -176 Other companies with minority interests 4 855 -64 Note 5: Segment information Total 10,480 13,905 -21,896 Total 20,305 31,603 -25,429 Note 6: Transactions with related parties * At the end of 2016 the Group owns 90.1 per cent of the subsidiary Excellars AS. In addition, put and call options exist which are Note 7: Other operating expenses associated with the non-controlling interests, although the Group was not considered to have control of the shares as of the close of the Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs financial year. These companies are recognised as though they were wholly owned, but with partial presentation of the non-controlling interests. Partial presentation of non-controlling interests means that the non-controlling interests' share of the profit for the year is Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations shown in the statement of income, but not in the equity statement. The transfer relates to the non-controlling interests’ share of the Note 10: Financial income and costs profit for the year, adjusted for the dividend distributed for the period. ** At the end of 2015 the Group owned 99.4 per cent and 51.0 per cent, respectively of the subsidiaries Vingruppen i Norden AB and Note 11: Tax Excellars AS. In addition, put and call options existed which were associated with the non-controlling interests, although the Group was Note 12: Tangible fixed assets not considered to have control of the shares as of the close of the financial year. These companies were recognised as though they were wholly owned, but with partial presentation of the non-controlling interests. Partial presentation of non-controlling interests means that Note 13: Intangible assets the non-controlling interests’ share of the profit for the year is shown in the statement of income, whereas only the direct non-controlling Note 14: Leasing agreements interests in underlying subsidiaries are stated in the equity statement. The transfer relates to the non-controlling interests’ share of the profit for the year, adjusted for the dividend distributed for the period. Note 15: Other receivables Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 60 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key figures for companies with significant non-controlling interests in the Group Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. 2016 Statement of other comprehensive income 01.01.-31.12. Symposium Wineworld The WineAgency Figures in NOK 1,000 Wines AS Excellars AS Sweden AB Sweden AB Social Wines OY Vinum Import Oy Statement of financial position as at 31 December Net sales revenues 95,568 87,612 277,856 191,997 129,352 46,075 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Statement of changes in equity Other operating revenues 0 0 2,901 4,582 6,298 1,054 Brief history of the Group Operating expenses excluding depreciation -86,981 -77,028 -230,422 -179,430 -130,932 -42,974 Accounting policies Depreciation 0 -440 -29 -13 -1,497 0 Notes Operating profit 8,587 10,144 50,306 17,136 3,221 4,155 Note 1: Companies in the Group Net financial profit -266 332 -6 157 -73 -1 Note 2: Investments in associated companies Tax -2,120 -2,679 -11,743 -3,870 -818 -828 and jointly controlled entities Profit for the year 6,201 7,797 38,557 13,424 2,330 3,326 Note 3: Other investments in shares Note 4: Management of financial risk Fixed assets 107 2,973 2,905 386 2,628 418 Note 5: Segment information Current assets 35,608 45,098 122,956 84,281 65,546 26,933 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Total assets 35,715 48,071 125,861 84,667 68,174 27,351 Note 7: Other operating expenses Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Equity 2,863 3,614 50,256 41,522 17,792 7,834 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Liabilities 32,852 44,457 75,605 43,145 50,382 19,517 Note 10: Financial income and costs Equity and liabilities 35,715 48,071 125,861 84,667 68,174 27,351 Note 11: Tax Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Note 13: Intangible assets Note 14: Leasing agreements Note 15: Other receivables Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 61 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Symposium Wineworld The WineAgency Figures in NOK 1,000 Wines AS Excellars AS Sweden AB Sweden AB Social Wines OY Vinum Import Oy Statement of other comprehensive income 01.01.-31.12. Net sales revenues 95,000 77,982 276,290 187,178 101,066 32,509 Statement of financial position as at 31 December Other operating revenues 0 0 1,889 6,868 3,798 684 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Operating expenses excluding depreciation -84,480 -62,694 -226,159 -171,955 -98,655 -30,484 Statement of changes in equity Depreciation 0 -462 -33 -18 -1,318 0 Brief history of the Group Operating profit 10,520 14,826 51,987 22,073 4,891 2,709 Accounting policies Net financial profit 89 -18 -46 -14 14 -13 Notes Tax -2,905 -4,096 -10,900 -4,940 -1,084 -532 Note 1: Companies in the Group Profit for the year 7,704 10,712 41,041 17,119 3,821 2,164 Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Fixed assets 290 3,373 1,270 408 3,226 471 Note 3: Other investments in shares Current assets 45,179 64,495 157,156 92,692 64,166 24,843 Note 4: Management of financial risk Total assets 45,469 67,868 158,426 93,100 67,392 25,314 Note 5: Segment information Note 6: Transactions with related parties Equity 2,635 4,076 79,583 48,279 21,475 8,269 Note 7: Other operating expenses Liabilities 42,834 63,792 78,843 44,821 45,917 17,045 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Equity and liabilities 45,469 67,868 158,426 93,100 67,392 25,314 Note 10: Financial income and costs Note 11: Tax Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Note 13: Intangible assets Note 14: Leasing agreements Note 15: Other receivables Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 62 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 2 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND JOINTLY CONTROLLED ENTITIES Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income 2016 01.01.-31.12. Ownership Book value Buy/sell/ Share of profit Translation Book value Statement of financial position as at 31 December Figures in NOK 1,000 Company type interest 01.01.2016 issue for the year Dividend differences 31.12.2016 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Tiffon SA * TS 34% 46,280 0 1,749 0 0 48,029 Statement of changes in equity Det Danske Spiritus Kompagni A/S ** FKV 50% 8,439 0 4,040 -2,946 -751 8,782 Brief history of the Group Total investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities 54,719 0 5,789 -2,946 -751 56,811 Accounting policies Notes 2015 Note 1: Companies in the Group Ownership Book value Buy/sell/ Share of profit Translation Book value Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Figures in NOK 1,000 Company type interest 01.01.2015 issue for the year Dividend differences 31.12.2015 Note 3: Other investments in shares Tiffon SA * TS 34% 45,510 0 1,400 -630 0 46,280 Note 4: Management of financial risk Vinunic OY TS 0% 1,805 -1,525 0 -396 116 0 Note 5: Segment information Det Danske Spiritus Kompagni A/S ** FKV 50% 8,004 0 3,157 -3,527 805 8,439 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Total investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities 55,319 -1,525 4,557 -4,553 921 54,719 Note 7: Other operating expenses * The Group buys Cognac from Tiffon SA, see detailed information on these transactions with associates in Note 6. Tiffon SA has a financial year from 1 July to 30 June. The share of profit from Tiffon is based on an estimated annual profit for the calendar year that is equivalent to the Group’s Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs financial year. Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations ** Det Danske Spiritus Kompagni A/S was established to handle sales of Arcus' products in Denmark. It is owned jointly with Flemming Karberg Familieholding ApS, which also owns Hans Just, which has been the Arcus Group's distribution partner in the Danish market. Both ownership and voting shares, as well as Board composition, are divided 50/50 between Arcus and Flemming Karberg Familieholding ApS. See detailed information on transactions with related parties in Note 6. Note 10: Financial income and costs Note 11: Tax None of the associated companies or jointly controlled entities has listed share prices. The Group’s share of profit from associated companies, after tax, is presented on a separate line before Group operating profit. Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Note 13: Intangible assets Summarised financial information regarding associated companies and jointly controlled entities, based on 100 per cent: Note 14: Leasing agreements Note 15: Other receivables 2016 Note 16: Inventories Total current Total fixed assets Total current Total long-term Total equity Operating Operating Profit for the year Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Figures in NOK 1,000 assets 31.12.2016 31.12.2016 liabilities 31.12.2016 liabilities 31.12.2016 31.12.2016 revenues 2016 expenses 2016 2016 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Tiffon SA 301,695 16,390 35,031 136,547 146,507 107,964 96,067 5,145 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Det Danske Spiritus Kompagni A/S* 44,883 21 52,950 0 15,886 161,188 150,827 8,081 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities 2015 Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Total current Total fixed assets Total current Total long-term Total equity Operating Operating Profit for the year Figures in NOK 1,000 assets 31.12.2015 31.12.2015 liabilities 31.12.2015 liabilities 31.12.2015 31.12.2015 revenues 2015 expenses 2015 2015 Note 24: Major individual transactions Tiffon SA 317,875 18,598 38,820 147,936 149,717 96,980 86,085 4,114 Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Det Danske Spiritus Kompagni A/S* 68,826 20 53,691 0 15,155 160,858 152,639 6,314 Auditor’s Report * As a consequence of both ownership and voting rights being divided 50/50 between the owners, the Group is not deemed to have control of DDSK A/S. DDSK A/S is therefore not consolidated in the Group accounts. 63 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 3 OTHER INVESTMENTS IN SHARES Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income Ownership Cost price Cost price Book value NOK Book value NOK 01.01.-31.12. Figures in NOK 1,000 Registered office interest Currency currency NOK 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Statement of financial position as at 31 December Atlungstad Brenneri AS Stange 12.1% NOK 200 200 200 200 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Other investments in shares 200 200 200 Statement of changes in equity Brief history of the Group The Atlungstad Brenneri property is a historical distillery at Stange in Hedmark. In 2011, the property was taken over by the company, Atlungstad Brenneri AS, which will run the facility as a museum and national experience Accounting policies centre. The Arcus Group owns 12 per cent of this company. Notes Note 1: Companies in the Group These investments are classified as available for sale in the categorisation of financial assets: see also Note 4. Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Note 3: Other investments in shares NOTE 4 MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL RISK A significant share of the Group’s revenues is associated with the state monopolies in the Nordic region Note 4: Management of financial risk where there is not considered to be any credit risk. The Group’s credit risk is otherwise spread over a Note 5: Segment information large number of small customers within the HORECA market, as well as a small number of distributors Note 6: Transactions with related parties Financial risk outside the home markets. Note 7: Other operating expenses The Group has a Board-adopted financial policy in which strategy and guidelines for financial risk management are defined. Responsibility for the execution of the adopted financial policy lies with Arcus ASA, At the end of 2016 the Group had entered into a factoring agreement with SEB concerning the sale of Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs but it is implemented in cooperation with the individual business areas. The Arcus Group's principal accounts receivable with Vinmonopolet, with a limit of NOK 225 million, which was fully utilised. This Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations ­source of income is the core business, and the Group’s main strategy with regard to risk is not to agreement was terminated during 2016 and at the end of 2016 the Group has no significant factoring Note 10: Financial income and costs ­speculate, but to limit the financial risk that the core business creates. agreements. Note 11: Tax Note 12: Tangible fixed assets The most important financial risks to which the Group is exposed are associated with credit risk, interest­The Group's maximum credit risk is equivalent to the book value of financial assets. See also the table to Note 13: Intangible assets rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk. this Note which categorises financial assets. Note 14: Leasing agreements Note 15: Other receivables For hedging purposes associated with interest-rate and currency risk, the Group to a certain degree uses Overview of bad debts and age analysis of accounts receivable Note 16: Inventories financial derivatives. The Group does not fulfil the accounting requirements for hedge accounting and Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents therefore does not treat these as hedging for accounting purposes. The accounting treatment of financial Figures in NOK 1,000 31.12.16 31.12.15 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information derivatives is described under Accounting policies. Nominal accounts receivable 1,345,199 1,005,000 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Credit risk The provision for bad debt on accounts receivable as at 31.12.2015 was TNOK 1,131 (2015: 1,672). Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Credit risk must be assessed before establishing a customer relationship by examining financial Losses on accounts receivable are classified as other operating expenses in the statement of income. Note 22: Current liabilities ­statements and other relevant and available information. Credit periods and credit limits must then be Note 23: Pledges and guarantees determined. Once a customer relationship is established, credit risk and credit limits are continuously Note 24: Major individual transactions assessed in relation to the client’s financial performance and payment history. Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Outstanding amounts are continuously monitored in cooperation between the finance department and the Alternative performance measurements marketing departments of the individual businesses. Auditor’s Report 64 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The change in provision for losses is as follows: Interest-rate risk The Group is exposed to interest-rate risk via financing activities (debt financing and financial leasing Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. liabilities) and investments (bank deposits). At the end of 2016, the Group’s long-term liabilities were Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Statement of other comprehensive income associated with credit facilities at SEB and financial leasing at Nordea Finans. Group policy is to hedge up 01.01.-31.12. Opening Balance -1,672 -2,310 to 50 per cent of the base interest rate on long-term loans. The Group assesses the policy on an ongoing Statement of financial position as at 31 December Provision for losses for the year -334 -459 basis, and as at 31.12.2016 all interest rates were variable. The margin on credit facilities at SEB is ­related to Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Confirmed losses for the year 181 347 the ratio of net interest-bearing debt in relation to EBITDA, while the margin at Nordea Finance is fixed. Statement of changes in equity Received on previously written-off receivables during the period -13 0 Brief history of the Group Reversal of previous provisions 677 750 Accounting policies Translation differences 30 0 Interest-rate Due Notes Closing Balance -1,131 -1,672 Figures in NOK 1,000 Currency profile date 2016 2015 Note 1: Companies in the Group Current interest-bearing debt Note 2: Investments in associated companies 1st year’s instalment on non-current loans Partly and jointly controlled entities As at 31 December, the Group had the following accounts receivable fallen due but not paid to financial institutions NOK hedged 2016 0 73,723 Note 3: Other investments in shares 1st year’s instalment on non-current loans Partly Note 4: Management of financial risk Due to financial institutions SEK hedged 2016 0 83,126 Note 5: Segment information Due Due More than Current liabilities related to financial Note 6: Transactions with related parties Figures in NOK 1,000 Total Not due 0-60 days 61-365 days 1 year leasing NOK Variable 2016 16,498 15,373 Note 7: Other operating expenses 31.12.161 1,345,199 1,245,439 99,842 -82 0 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs 31.12.15 1,005,000 994,661 12,625 -2,286 0 Non-current interest-bearing debt Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations 1. As at 31.12.2016, the Group had significant accounts receivable that had fallen due. Of this amount, NOK 76 million is related to Non-current loan to financial institutions Partly Note 10: Financial income and costs accounts receivable from Vinmonopolet which fell due during the Christmas period in 2016, and these were paid in early January 2017. NOK hedged 2018 0 455,435 Note 11: Tax Non-current loan to financial institutions Partly Note 12: Tangible fixed assets SEK hedged 2018 0 397,867 Note 13: Intangible assets Non-current loan to financial institutions SEK Variable 2021 711,300 0 Note 14: Leasing agreements Non-current liabilities related to financial Note 15: Other receivables leasing NOK Variable 2017 182,987 200,181 Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Sensitivity analysis 2016 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Increase/reduction in Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Figures in NOK 1,000 basis points Effect on pre-tax profit Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Loans in NOK 50 -4,554 Note 22: Current liabilities Loans in NOK -50 4,554 Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Liquidity risk 2015 Remaining period Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be in a position to service its financial liabilities as they fall Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. More than due. The Arcus Group's capital management is described in a separate section of this note. 0-1 year 1-5 year 5 years Statement of other comprehensive income 01.01.-31.12. Debt to financial institutions – mortgage loans 156,849 853,302 0 The Group's activities are subject to seasonal fluctuations, and alcohol sales normally increase in periods Statement of financial position as at 31 December Debt to financial institutions – leasing* 15,373 200,181 0 with national celebrations and public holidays, especially at Easter and Christmas. The fourth quarter is Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. normally the best quarter for the Group, which is also reflected in cash flows. Liabilities at fair value 48,735 70,264 0 Statement of changes in equity Other provisions 0 1,140 0 Brief history of the Group Cash flows from operations, which are, for example, affected by changes in working capital, are managed Trade payables 551,457 0 0 Accounting policies operationally by the business areas. Via reporting, the finance department monitors cash flows in the Current liabilities** 1,135,869 0 0 Notes short and long term. Interest-bearing debt is followed up and managed together with interest-bearing Interest related to mortgage loans 53,296 56,399 0 Note 1: Companies in the Group receivables at Group level. Interest related to financial leasing debt 5,443 664 0 Note 2: Investments in associated companies Total 1,967,021 1,181,950 0 and jointly controlled entities The following table presents an overview of the maturity structure for the Group’s financial liabilities, Note 3: Other investments in shares based on non-discounted contractual payments. In instances where the counterparty can demand earlier * Read more about the maturity profile of financial leases in Note 14 concerning Leasing agreements. redemption, the sum is recorded in the earliest period in which the payment can be demanded by the ** Current liabilities include collected alcohol taxes. Note 4: Management of financial risk counterparty. Note 5: Segment information Currency risk Note 6: Transactions with related parties The Group is exposed to currency risk as it has operations in several different countries. The Group’s Note 7: Other operating expenses 2016 Remaining period currency exposure can mainly be divided into two groups: cash flow risk and translation risk. The principal Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs More than objective is to limit the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the Group’s cash flow in NOK. Changes in Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations 0-1 year 1-5 years 5 years purchase costs from suppliers in functional currency due to currency changes are continuously offset by Note 10: Financial income and costs Debt to financial institutions – mortgage loans 0 711,300 0 changes of sales prices to customers and through renegotiation of purchase prices from suppliers. The Note 11: Tax Debt to financial institutions – leasing* 16,498 182,987 0 most significant currencies are EUR, USD, SEK and DKK. The risk horizon, i.e., the time it takes to Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Liabilities at fair value 24,135 0 0 compensate for negative exchange rate fluctuations, is to a great extent controlled by price-adjustment Note 13: Intangible assets Other provisions 0 627 0 opportunities in the state monopolies in the Nordic region. In Norway this takes place every four months Note 14: Leasing agreements Trade payables 628,347 0 0 and in Sweden every six months. As a general rule, currency is purchased in the spot market, but also to Note 15: Other receivables Current liabilities** 1,109,643 0 0 some extent in the forward market, to continuously offset net positions in monetary items. Note 16: Inventories Interest related to mortgage loans 12,803 51,214 0 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents All of the Group’s long-term borrowing is undertaken in SEK, as a natural hedging of cash flow in the form Interest related to financial leasing debt 5,713 2,528 0 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information of dividends in SEK. Total 1,797,139 948,656 0 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions For reporting purposes, receivables and debt, as well as monetary items in foreign currency, are Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss ­translated at the closing rate in the companies' functional currencies. Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities The Group’s presentation currency is NOK. The Group is therefore further exposed to currency risk when Note 23: Pledges and guarantees translating foreign subsidiaries from their functional currency to the Group’s presentation currency. This Note 24: Major individual transactions translation risk is not hedged. As at 31 December 2016, the net translation difference associated with Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year the majority’s equity was positive at NOK 229.8 million, corresponding to a negative change in 2016 of Alternative performance measurements NOK 36.5 million (positive by NOK 265.3 million at the end of 2015). Auditor’s Report 66 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below shows the Group’s purchase of non-functional foreign exchange during 2016. 31.12.15 Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Purchase of currency 2016 Value in Forward Statement of other comprehensive income 01.01.-31.12. Proportion Forward contracts Currency NOK end value in Fair value Due hedged via Figures in NOK 1,000 Currency amount of period NOK in NOK date Statement of financial position as at 31 December Figures in 1,000 forward Purchase contracts EUR 3,800 36,539 35,391 1,148 2016 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. (in the currency concerned) Spot Forward Total contracts Statement of changes in equity Purchase contracts GBP 40 522 637 -115 2016 EUR 89,114 23,450 112,564 20.8% Brief history of the Group Purchase contracts USD 75 660 517 143 2016 USD 9,116 780 9,896 7.9% Accounting policies Total 1,176 AUD 1,043 0 1,043 0.0% Notes GBP 830 195 1,025 19.0% All forward contracts are recognised at fair value as of the close of the financial year. Note 1: Companies in the Group SEK 70 0 70 0.0% Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Sensitivity to exchange rate fluctuation: Note 3: Other investments in shares The following table shows the Group’s sensitivity to changes in the most important exchange rates, if all Note 4: Management of financial risk Purchase of currency 2015 other variables remain constant. Note 5: Segment information Proportion hedged via The effect on the Group’s profit before tax is calculated as changes in the fair value of monetary assets and Note 6: Transactions with related parties Figures in 1,000 forward liabilities as at 31 December 2016 in foreign currency (non-functional currency). This includes hedging Note 7: Other operating expenses (in the currency concerned) Spot Forward Total contracts ­derivatives recognised at fair value with value changes via profit or loss. Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations EUR 89,985 23,827 113,812 20.9% The effect on other comprehensive income (OCI) is calculated as the effect of the translation differences Note 10: Financial income and costs USD 10,958 445 11,403 3.9% associated with subsidiaries in foreign currency as at 31 December 2016. Note 11: Tax AUD 950 0 950 0.0% Note 12: Tangible fixed assets GBP 380 186 566 32.9% Change in Effect on Total effect on Note 13: Intangible assets DKK 31,470 0 31,470 0.0% Figures in NOK 1,000 exchange rate pre-tax profit OCI before tax Note 14: Leasing agreements SEK 54,000 0 54,000 0.0% EUR 5% -2,712 1,321 Note 15: Other receivables EUR -5% 2,712 -1,321 Note 16: Inventories At the end of the year, the Group had the following forward contracts (hedging of cash flows) that hedged financial position statement items and orders already entered into (firm commitments), which were SEK 5% -302 -4,868 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents ­recognised at fair value with value changes via profit or loss: SEK -5% 302 4,868 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information DKK 5% 3,099 37,988 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions 31.12.16 DKK -5% -3,099 -37,988 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities The Group’s exposure to other currencies is insignificant as at 31 December 2016. Note 22: Current liabilities Value in Forward Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Forward contracts Currency Currency NOK end value in Fair value Due Note 24: Major individual transactions Figures in NOK 1,000 amount of period NOK in NOK date Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Purchase contracts EUR 3,600 32,711 33,579 -868 2017 Alternative performance measurements Purchase contracts GBP 25 265 270 -5 2017 Auditor’s Report Purchase contracts USD 80 692 664 28 2017 Total -844 67 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Categorisation of financial assets and liabilities: Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Assets Statement of other comprehensive income Financial instruments at fair Total in the statement 01.01.-31.12. value with value changes Assets Total book value of of financial position Statement of financial position as at 31 December Figures in NOK 1,000 through profit or loss Loans and receivables available for sale financial assets, 31.12 Prepaid costs 31.12. Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Assets Statement of changes in equity Other investments in shares 0 0 200 200 0 200 Brief history of the Group Other non-current receivables 0 1235 0 1,235 0 1,235 Accounting policies Trade receivables 0 1,344,067 0 1,344,067 0 1,344,067 Notes Other receivables 0 67,914 0 67,914 14,008 81,922 Note 1: Companies in the Group Bank deposits 0 199,385 0 199,385 0 199,385 Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Total financial assets 31.12.2016 0 1,612,601 200 1,612,801 14,008 1,626,809 Note 3: Other investments in shares Note 4: Management of financial risk Other investments in shares 0 0 200 200 0 200 Note 5: Segment information Other non-current receivables 0 471 0 471 0 471 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Trade receivables 0 1,003,328 0 1,003,328 0 1,003,328 Note 7: Other operating expenses Other receivables 1,153 75,265 0 76,418 15,255 91,673 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Bank deposits 0 190,419 0 190,419 0 190,419 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Total financial assets 31.12.2015 1,153 1,269,483 200 1,270,836 15,255 1,286,091 Note 10: Financial income and costs Note 11: Tax Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Note 13: Intangible assets Note 14: Leasing agreements Note 15: Other receivables Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 68 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Liabilities Financial instruments at fair Total book value Provision for Total in the statement Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. value with value changes Financial of financial liabilities accrued expenses and of financial position Statement of other comprehensive income Figures in NOK 1,000 through profit or loss liability 31.12. statutory liabilities 31.12. 01.01.-31.12. Liabilities Statement of financial position as at 31 December Debt to financial institutions 0 902,753 902,753 0 902,753 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Statement of changes in equity Liabilities at fair value 24,135 0 24,135 0 24,135 Brief history of the Group Other non-current liabilities 0 0 0 0 0 Accounting policies Trade payables 0 628,347 628,347 0 628,347 Notes Other current liabilities 844 7,793 8,637 188,697 197,334 Note 1: Companies in the Group Total financial liabilities 31.12.2016 24,979 1,538,893 1,563,872 188,697 1,752,569 Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Debt to financial institutions 0 1,205,708 1,205,708 0 1,205,708 Note 3: Other investments in shares Liabilities at fair value 118,999 0 118,999 0 118,999 Note 4: Management of financial risk Other non-current liabilities 0 271 271 0 271 Note 5: Segment information Trade payables 0 551,457 551,457 0 551,457 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Other current liabilities 18,145 10,211 28,356 203,797 232,153 Note 7: Other operating expenses Total financial liabilities 31.12.2015 137,144 1,767,647 1,904,791 203,797 2,108,588 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Note 10: Financial income and costs Note 11: Tax Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Note 13: Intangible assets Note 14: Leasing agreements Note 15: Other receivables Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 69 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fair value hierarchy Reconciliation of liabilities (Level 3): The Group uses the following hierarchy to determine and report the fair value of financial instruments: Provision Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Used/ made/ Value Recognised Statement of other comprehensive income Level 1: Listed (unadjusted) prices in active markets Book value exercised issued changes interest Book value 01.01.-31.12. Level 2: Direct or indirect inputs other than listed prices included in Level 1, that are observable for the 31.12.2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 31.12.2016 Statement of financial position as at 31 December asset or the liability. Liabilities at fair Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Level 3: Techniques for calculation of fair value based on other than observable market data. value 118,999 -244,275 1,000 148,155 256 24,135 Statement of changes in equity Total 118,999 -244,275 1,000 148,155 256 24,135 Brief history of the Group As at 31 December 2016, the Arcus Group had the following financial liabilities at fair value in the stateAccounting policies ment of financial position: Notes Provision Note 1: Companies in the Group 31.12.16 Book value Used/ made/ Value Recognised Note 2: Investments in associated companies Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31.12.2016 Book value exercised issued changes interest Book value and jointly controlled entities Currency derivatives 0 0 0 0 31.12.2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 31.12.2015 Note 3: Other investments in shares Total assets 0 0 0 0 Liabilities at fair Note 4: Management of financial risk value 198,375 -64,670 2,000 -17,624 918 118,999 Note 5: Segment information Book value Total 198,375 -64,670 2,000 -17,624 918 118,999 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31.12.2016 Note 7: Other operating expenses Liabilities at fair value 0 0 24,135 24,135 Further information on liabilities measured at fair value via profit or loss is provided in Note 20. Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Currency derivatives 0 844 0 844 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Total liabilities 0 844 24,135 24,979 Note 10: Financial income and costs Note 11: Tax Note 12: Tangible fixed assets 31.12.15 Book value Note 13: Intangible assets Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31.12.2015 Note 14: Leasing agreements Currency derivatives 0 1,153 0 1,153 Note 15: Other receivables Total assets 0 1,153 0 1,153 Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Book value Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31.12.2015 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Liabilities at fair value 0 0 118,999 118,999 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Interest derivatives 0 18,145 0 18,145 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Total liabilities 0 18,145 118,999 137,144 Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees There have been no reclassifications between Level 1 and Level 2 during the period. Neither have there Note 24: Major individual transactions been any transfers out of Level 3 during the period. Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 70 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Capital management The Group's overall objective is that the Group at all times has sufficient liquidity to fulfil its obligations Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. both short and long term. It is also the goal to minimise the Group's excess liquidity. The Group will work Statement of other comprehensive income continuously to develop its financial independence, through close monitoring of income development and 01.01.-31.12. capital binding, and through continuous assessment of alternative sources of finance. Unutilised credit Statement of financial position as at 31 December opportunities are described in Note 17. Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Statement of changes in equity As far as possible, the Group wishes to have flexibility for its liquid assets in relation to day-to-day Brief history of the Group ­operations. The Group achieves this through a Group cash pool system with a drawing facility that as of Accounting policies 31.12.2016 is managed by Arcus ASA. Notes Note 1: Companies in the Group When funds are needed for investment purposes, the Group relies on its own liquidity as far as possible. Note 2: Investments in associated companies However, for larger investments external debt financing from a financial institution is also used. In the fourth and jointly controlled entities quarter of 2016, Arcus refinanced its borrowing from its primary bank, SEB, in conjunction with the Note 3: Other investments in shares listing of the parent company's shares on the Oslo Stock Exchange. At the same time, the requirements of Note 4: Management of financial risk key financial ratios were re-negotiated, and at the end of 2016 the mortgage loan facility agreement Note 5: Segment information includes one clause (covenant), which is the net interest-bearing debt a ratio of adjusted EBITDA. The Note 6: Transactions with related parties Group continuously monitors this clause and reports to the bank on a quarterly basis. As of 31.12.2016 the Group was well within the required ratio. The Group also has financial leasing agreements for major Note 7: Other operating expenses investments in production equipment. Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations NOK million 2016 2015 Note 10: Financial income and costs Note 11: Tax Net interest-bearing debt Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Non-current interest-bearing debt to credit institutions 886,255 1,033,486 Note 13: Intangible assets Current interest-bearing debt to credit institutions 16,498 172,222 Note 14: Leasing agreements Capitalised front-end arrangement fees 8,032 19,997 Note 15: Other receivables Value of interest-rate swap 0 18,145 Note 16: Inventories Cash and cash equivalents -199,385 -190,419 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Net interest-bearing debt 711,400 1,053,431 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income 2016 Eliminations/ 01.01.-31.12. Figures in NOK 1,000 Spirits Wine Distribution Other reclassifications Group Statement of financial position as at 31 December Sales revenues – external 746,230 1,515,379 260,217 0 0 2,521,826 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Sales revenues between the segments 4,877 23,297 -28,174 0 0 0 Statement of changes in equity Other operating revenues – external 28,045 11,478 20,646 403 0 60,571 Brief history of the Group Other operating revenues between the segments 124,731 2,220 10,235 173,011 -310,197 0 Accounting policies Net profit on sale of fixed assets 144 0 0 0 0 144 Notes Total income 904,027 1,552,373 262,924 173,414 -310,197 2,582,541 Note 1: Companies in the Group Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Cost of sales -427,031 -1,165,620 0 0 124,731 -1,467,920 Note 3: Other investments in shares Salaries and other personnel costs -117,244 -93,289 -124,008 -58,004 0 -392,545 Note 4: Management of financial risk Depreciation and amortisation -23,906 -1,014 -13,632 -8,363 -4,710 -51,625 Note 5: Segment information Write-downs 0 0 0 0 0 0 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Other operating expenses -202,954 -99,302 -136,320 -139,405 185,465 -392,516 Note 7: Other operating expenses Share of profit from TS and FKV 5,789 0 0 0 0 5,789 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Operating profit before other income and expenses 138,681 193,148 -11,036 -32,358 -4,711 283,724 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Other income and expenses -3,916 0 -399 -40,559 0 -44,874 Note 10: Financial income and costs Operating profit 134,765 193,148 -11,435 -72,917 -4,711 238,850 Note 11: Tax Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Interest income 118 287 2,248 5,291 0 7,944 Note 13: Intangible assets Interest income between the segments 1,702 0 5,732 929 -8,363 0 Note 14: Leasing agreements Other financial income 0 4,636 422 10,849 -5,488 10,419 Note 15: Other receivables Interest costs -5,983 -22,268 -1,887 -40,020 -256 -70,414 Note 16: Inventories Interest costs between the segments -929 0 0 -7,434 8,363 0 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Other financial costs -3,994 -231 -6,111 -153,000 -21,341 -184,677 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Net financial result -9,086 -17,576 404 -183,385 -27,085 -236,728 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities PRE-TAX PROFIT 125,679 175,572 -11,031 -256,302 -31,796 2,122 Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 72 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 Eliminations/ Figures in NOK 1,000 Spirits Wine Distribution Other reclassifications Group Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Sales revenues – external 709,827 1,403,250 252,165 0 0 2,365,242 Statement of other comprehensive income 01.01.-31.12. Sales revenues between the segments 4,274 25,228 -29,502 0 0 0 Statement of financial position as at 31 December Other operating revenues – external 51,379 36,171 17,846 1 0 105,397 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Other operating revenues between the segments 89,318 1,938 9,541 178,921 -279,718 0 Statement of changes in equity Net gain on sale of fixed assets 223 0 0 0 0 223 Brief history of the Group Total income 855,021 1,466,588 250,050 178,922 -279,718 2,470,862 Accounting policies Notes Cost of sales -412,769 -1,071,461 0 0 89,594 -1,394,637 Note 1: Companies in the Group Salaries and other personnel costs -111,898 -84,017 -129,328 -55,058 0 -380,301 Note 2: Investments in associated companies Depreciation and amortisation -24,421 -1,273 -13,754 -6,966 -4,709 -51,123 and jointly controlled entities Write-downs -2,399 -21 0 -1,960 0 -4,380 Note 3: Other investments in shares Other operating expenses -221,897 -113,597 -136,435 -144,322 190,124 -426,128 Note 4: Management of financial risk Share of profit from TS and FKV 4,557 0 0 0 0 4,557 Note 5: Segment information Operating profit before other income and expenses 86,193 196,218 -29,467 -29,384 -4,709 218,850 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Other income and expenses -797 -367 -3,448 -11,895 0 -16,507 Note 7: Other operating expenses Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Operating profit 85,396 195,851 -32,915 -41,279 -4,709 202,343 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Note 10: Financial income and costs Interest income 318 318 2,780 6,443 0 9,859 Note 11: Tax Interest income between the segments 2,407 0 4,096 3,705 -10,208 0 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Other financial income -631 1,383 2,044 11,365 7,349 21,510 Note 13: Intangible assets Interest costs -5,102 -2,632 -2,276 -66,696 -1,099 -77,805 Note 14: Leasing agreements Interest costs between the segments -2,675 -1,034 0 -6,680 10,389 0 Note 15: Other receivables Other financial costs -7,896 -936 -5,170 -51,289 11,101 -54,190 Note 16: Inventories Net financial result -13,579 -2,900 1,474 -103,152 17,531 -100,626 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information PRE-TAX PROFIT 71,817 192,951 -31,441 -144,431 12,822 101,717 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss The Group does not present the segments’ assets or liabilities as this is not part of the Group’s internal reporting. Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities For information regarding pricing associated with sales between the segments, see Note 6. Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 2015 Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Revenues by market Group: Sales revenues Other operating revenues Total Sales revenues Other operating revenues Total Statement of other comprehensive income Norway 993,760 20,990 1,014,750 969,046 18,313 987,359 01.01.-31.12. Sweden 1,028,103 11,682 1,039,785 946,403 37,809 984,212 Statement of financial position as at 31 December Finland 207,728 0 207,728 167,014 4,588 171,602 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Denmark 133,108 0 133,108 127,868 25,023 152,891 Statement of changes in equity Germany 58,940 0 58,940 56,148 0 56,148 Brief history of the Group USA 5,727 0 5,727 2,574 0 2,574 Accounting policies DFTR 92,954 0 92,954 93,309 0 93,309 Notes Other international 1,506 27,899 29,405 2,880 19,664 22,544 Note 1: Companies in the Group Total operating revenues 2,521,826 60,571 2,582,397 2,365,242 105,397 2,470,639 Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities 2016 2015 Note 3: Other investments in shares Revenues by market Spirits: Sales revenues Other operating revenues Total Sales revenues Other operating revenues Total Note 4: Management of financial risk Norway 308,463 122,955 431,418 301,858 89,748 391,606 Note 5: Segment information Sweden 116,543 1,942 118,485 100,580 6,118 106,698 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Finland 35,267 0 35,267 33,438 107 33,545 Note 7: Other operating expenses Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Denmark 133,108 0 133,108 127,868 25,023 152,891 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Germany 58,940 0 58,940 56,114 0 56,114 Note 10: Financial income and costs USA 5,727 0 5,727 2,574 0 2,574 Note 11: Tax DFTR 91,554 0 91,554 88,825 0 88,825 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Other international 1,505 27,879 29,384 2,844 19,701 22,545 Note 13: Intangible assets Total operating revenues 751,107 152,776 903,883 714,101 140,697 854,798 Note 14: Leasing agreements Note 15: Other receivables 2016 2015 Note 16: Inventories Revenues by market Wine Sales revenues Other operating revenues Total Sales revenues Other operating revenues Total Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Norway 453,255 0 453,255 444,562 0 444,562 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Sweden 911,560 13,697 925,257 845,822 33,625 879,447 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Finland 172,461 0 172,461 133,576 4,484 138,060 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss DFTR 1,400 0 1,400 4,484 0 4,484 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Other international 0 0 0 34 0 34 Note 22: Current liabilities Total operating revenues 1,538,676 13,697 1,552,373 1,428,478 38,109 1,466,587 Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions 2016 2015 Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Revenues by market Distribution: Sales revenues Other operating revenues Total Sales revenues Other operating revenues Total Alternative performance measurements Norway 232,043 30,881 262,924 222,663 27,387 250,050 Auditor’s Report Total operating revenues 232,043 30,881 262,924 222,663 27,387 250,050 74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Significant customer relationships The Group has significant customer relationships with Vinmonopolet in Norway and Systembolaget in Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Sweden, which each represent more than 10 per cent of the Group’s total operating revenues. Statement of other comprehensive income 01.01.-31.12. Total operating revenue from Vinmonopolet was approximately NOK 693 million in 2016, of which NOK Statement of financial position as at 31 December 288 million in Spirits and NOK 405 million in Wine. In 2015 the corresponding total was approximately Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. NOK 694 million, of which NOK 293 million in Spirits and NOK 401 million in Wine. Statement of changes in equity Brief history of the Group Total operating revenue from Systembolaget was approximately NOK 947 million in 2016, of which NOK Accounting policies 108 million in Spirits and NOK 839 million in Wine. In 2015 the corresponding total was approximately Notes NOK 874 million, of which NOK 90 million in Spirits and NOK 784 million in Wine. Note 1: Companies in the Group Note 2: Investments in associated companies Other operating revenues and jointly controlled entities Other operating revenues consist primarily of revenues other than the primary source of income. For the Note 3: Other investments in shares Spirits segment this consists mainly of contract bottling, and for the Wine segment glass sales, while for Note 4: Management of financial risk the Distribution segment this consists mainly of other activity-based revenues, including pallet location Note 5: Segment information hire, export handling, controlled handling and quarter pallet production. Note 6: Transactions with related parties Note 7: Other operating expenses Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Note 10: Financial income and costs Note 11: Tax Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Note 13: Intangible assets Note 14: Leasing agreements Note 15: Other receivables Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 6 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income In addition to subsidiaries and associated companies, the Group’s related parties are defined as the owners, all members of the Board of Directors and Group executive management, as well as companies in which any of 01.01.-31.12. these parties have either controlling interests, Board appointments or managerial positions. Statement of financial position as at 31 December Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. The Group's transactions with related parties: Statement of changes in equity Brief history of the Group Purchase of goods and services: Accounting policies Figures in NOK 1,000 Relationship Delivery 2016 2015 Notes Hoff SA Shareholder Raw materials 22,469 25,173 Note 1: Companies in the Group Tiffon SA Associated company (34%) Finished goods 56,051 65,729 Note 2: Investments in associated companies Det Danske Spiritus Kompagni A/S Jointly controlled entity (50%) Leased offices, licences 3,314 2,727 and jointly controlled entities Gjelleråsen Eiendom AS Owned by shareholder (Canica AS) Rent 77,605 75,817 Note 3: Other investments in shares Total purchase of goods and services 159,439 169,446 Note 4: Management of financial risk Note 5: Segment information Note 6: Transactions with related parties Sales of goods and services: Note 7: Other operating expenses Figures in NOK 1,000 Relationship Delivery 2016 2015 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Tiffon SA Associated company (34%) Market support 3,393 4,071 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Det Danske Spiritus Kompagni A/S Jointly controlled entity (50%) Sales of finished goods 132,184 137,725 Note 10: Financial income and costs Total sales of goods and services 135,577 141,796 Note 11: Tax Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Note 13: Intangible assets Receivables from related parties as at 31.12.: Note 14: Leasing agreements Figures in NOK 1,000 Relationship Nature of receivable 2016 2015 Note 15: Other receivables Det Danske Spiritus Kompagni A/S Jointly controlled entity (50%) Current receivables 21,061 18,869 Note 16: Inventories Total receivables from related parties as at 31.12.: 21,061 18,869 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Liabilities to related parties as at 31.12.: Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Figures in NOK 1,000 Relationship Nature of liability 2016 2015 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Hoff SA Shareholder Current liabilities 549 4,396 Note 22: Current liabilities Tiffon SA Associated company (34%) Current liabilities 11,082 16,756 Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Det Danske Spiritus Kompagni A/S Jointly controlled entity (50%) Current liabilities 113 120 Note 24: Major individual transactions Total liabilities to related parties as at 31.12.: 11,744 21,272 Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements All transactions with related parties are on market terms. Auditor’s Report 76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Transactions between Group companies: Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Agreements have been reached between the companies in the Group on the cost distribution for internal Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Personnel policy and other organisational measures1 -1,029 -18,713 services and joint procurement. This applies chiefly to rent, maintenance and property service functions, Statement of other comprehensive income Expenses related to the IPO2 -41,474 0 as well as shared functions such as finance, IT, payroll, etc. The services are recognised in the various 01.01.-31.12. Other non-recurring items 3 -2,371 2,206 companies’ accounts as other income and other operating expenses, respectively. Statement of financial position as at 31 December Total other income and expenses -44,874 -16,507 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. All buying and selling of goods and services between the companies takes place on market terms and is 1. Personnel policy and other organisational measures: Costs related to organisational and staffing adjustments were required in order Statement of changes in equity eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. to meet restructuring needs, including new work processes and improved profitability. Brief history of the Group 2. Expenses related to the IPO: Expenses concerning the process prior to the listing of Arcus ASA on 1 December 2016. This is to a great extent related to fees for advisers and banks, but also a number of other expenses in direct relation to this process. Accounting policies 3. Other non-recurring items: Other non-recurring items consisted of both positive and negative items. Notes In 2016 this mainly consists of the profit on the sale of the last holiday cabin held by the Group, costs related to the completion of Note 1: Companies in the Group NOTE 7 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES relocating the production of Danish brands from Aalborg to Gjelleråsen, and settlement related to a volume undertaking to a former logistics partner in Denmark on the replacement of the logistics partner in 2016. Note 2: Investments in associated companies In 2015, this was related to the profit on the sale of fixed assets following the closure of the factory in Aalborg, as well the sale of holiday and jointly controlled entities cabins. Negative items were related to external assistance and provisions required when environmental contamination was discovered Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 on the site at Haslevangen which Arcus-Gruppen sold in 2007. Whether or not the Arcus Group will have to cover any of the cost of the Note 3: Other investments in shares above is still uncertain, and the obligation is retained in the statement of financial position at the end of 2016. Sales and advertising costs -121,688 -145,111 Note 4: Management of financial risk Logistics costs -56,071 -52,397 Note 5: Segment information Rent -82,851 -82,763 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Note 7: Other operating expenses Maintenance costs -34,251 -31,248 NOTE 8 SALARIES AND OTHER PERSONNEL COSTS Other costs associated with premises -22,904 -24,703 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Office materials and administrative costs -6,698 -7,733 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Note 10: Financial income and costs Travel expenses -18,814 -16,637 Salaries including holiday pay -266,685 -271,214 Note 11: Tax Insurance -3,610 -3,328 Social security costs -63,732 -59,480 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Consultants and external outsourcing of services -73,820 -61,241 Pension costs including social security costs -28,397 -29,654 Note 13: Intangible assets Other costs -10,630 -15,691 Other personnel costs -40,691 -38,666 Note 14: Leasing agreements Total other operating expenses -431,337 -440,852 Total salaries and other personnel costs -399,505 -399,014 Note 15: Other receivables Of which non-recurring items and restructuring costs, which are included in Other income and expenses in the financial statements 38,821 14,724 Of which non-recurring items and restructuring costs, which are included Note 16: Inventories under Other income and expenses in the statement of income (see Note 7) 6,960 18,713 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Total other operating expenses as presented in the statement of income -392,516 -426,128 Total salary and personnel cost as presented in the statement of income -392,545 -380,301 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Other income and expenses Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Other income and expenses comprises significant positive and negative non-recurring items and restructuring Average number of FTEs employed during the year 411 408 costs. The main purpose of this item is to show these significant non-recurring and non-periodic items, so Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities that the development and comparability of the ordinary items presented in the statement of income are Note 22: Current liabilities more relevant for the activities. Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Remuneration to senior executives Concerning the other executive management members, Sigmund Toth, Erlend Stefansson, Erik Bern, The terms and conditions for the Group CEO are set by the Board of Directors, which also takes decisions Thomas Patay and Lorna Stangeland are subject to six months' notice of termination, while Per Bjørkum Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. in principle concerning the Group's terms and conditions policy and compensation schemes for other and Bjørn Delbæk are subject to three months' notice of termination. Claes Lindquist is subject to 18 Statement of other comprehensive income employees. The Board has a remuneration committee which prepares remuneration proposals for months' notice of termination by the company, and nine months notice of termination by the employee. 01.01.-31.12. ­decision by the Board. The committee comprises two members of the Board elected by the shareholders. Statement of financial position as at 31 December The administration handles cases for the remuneration committee and the Board. Concerning the other executive management members, Erik Bern, Lorna Stangeland, Thomas Patay and Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Claes Lindquist are subject to a 12-month non-competition clause, while Sigmund Toth, Bjørn Delbæk, Statement of changes in equity In 2016, the Group’s executive management was part of the Group's annual bonus scheme and a ­synthetic Per Bjørkum and Erlend Stefansson are subject to a six-month non-competition clause. They all have an Brief history of the Group share and option scheme that was terminated in conjunction with the IPO. The Group CEO has an ordinary agreement concerning severance pay during the period, if the non-competition clause is activated. Accounting policies bonus agreement which, under certain conditions, will release payment of up to five months' salary, while Notes other members of the executive management can receive up to four months' salary. No loans or surety are provided for the Group CEO, other executive management or members of the Note 1: Companies in the Group Board of Directors. Note 2: Investments in associated companies The Group CEO and other members of the executive management have an ordinary occupational pension with and jointly controlled entities Storebrand, which entails 5 per cent pension contributions for salaries of 0 to 7.1G and 11 per cent for salaries The executive management's holdings of ordinary shares in Arcus ASA are stated in Note 18. Note 3: Other investments in shares from 7.1 to 12G. The Group CEO has a supplementary pension agreement that gives pension earnings of 15 Note 4: Management of financial risk per cent of salaries above 12G. This pension entitlement is capitalised annually in the consolidated statement Share-based incentive schemes Note 5: Segment information of financial position and the return is based on the return from the Storebrand Balansert pension fund. Both before and after the IPO the Group has had long-term incentive programmes for managerial e ­ mployees, Note 6: Transactions with related parties which are related to the Group's value added. Prior to the IPO; the Group had a co-investment programme Below, the fixed salary and fees to the executive management, as well as the bonus earned, are presented. with synthetic shares and options. This scheme was discontinued in connection with the IPO; and several Note 7: Other operating expenses members of the executive management achieved gains when this programme was terminated. Concerning Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Bonus earned Benefits in Pension the gains achieved, the Group CEO was required to re-invest 50 per cent in Arcus ASA shares in conjunction Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Figures in NOK 1,000 Currency Salary in 2016 kind 2016 costs with the IPO, while other members of the executive management were subject to a 30 per cent re-investment Note 10: Financial income and costs Kenneth Hamnes NOK 2,444 1,100 220 308 requirement. Note 11: Tax Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Rune Midtgaard1 NOK 1,820 446 150 69 Further details of the terminated synthetic share and option programme for the Group executive Note 13: Intangible assets Sigmund Toth2 NOK 550 614 2 28 ­management and the Board of Directors can be found in Note 20. Note 14: Leasing agreements Erik Bern NOK 1,743 585 217 83 Note 15: Other receivables Bjørn Delbæk3 NOK 249 511 25 14 Matching shares for managerial employees Note 16: Inventories Per Bjørkum NOK 1,437 485 135 83 The Board is working on a new long-term incentive scheme for managerial employees, but until a new Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Erlend Stefansson NOK 1,981 669 147 83 scheme is in place, in connection with the IPO a temporary two-year incentive scheme (interim retention Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Thomas Patay4 NOK 2,264 455 192 83 plan) was adopted, under which 37 managerial employees, including the Group executive management, Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Claes Lindquist SEK 2,141 956 69 983 received matching shares. These matching shares are granted to recipients in 2019 after the publication of Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Lorna Stangeland NOK 1,700 617 194 83 the quarterly report for the fourth quarter of 2018, if the person in question is still employed at this time. Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities 1. Rune Midtgaard was CFO up to 1 September 2016, but was a member of the executive management until he left on 31.10.2016. For the Group executive management, matching shares were granted whereby for each share they acquired in Benefits paid equivalent to ten months' employment. addition to their reinvestment obligations related to the settlement of the completed programme with Note 23: Pledges and guarantees 2. Sigmund Toth took over as CFO as from 1 September 2016. The benefits paid represent the four months in which he was a member of the executive management. synthetic shares and options, they also received one matching share. The members of the executive Note 24: Major individual transactions 3. Bjørn Delbæk was employed on a permanent basis as from 1.11.2016, and the benefits paid represent two months' employment. ­management who did not already hold synthetic shares and options were entitled to receive either one Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year During the period from 1.1.2016 to 31.10.2016, Bjørn was a contractor and invoiced his services from his own company. 4. TNOK 151 of the salary paid is related to payment of services earned in previous years. matching share for each share they purchased in total, or one matching share for every two shares they Alternative performance measurements ­purchased in total. Auditor’s Report On resignation, the CEO is subject to six months’ notice of termination. If notice of t­ ermination is given by the Group, the Group CEO will be entitled to 12 months' severance pay, and during this period will not be able to take employment in competing companies. 78 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other key persons were invited to purchase shares for up to a given amount, with the right to receive one (i) Salaries and other remuneration to executive personnel matching share for every two shares they purchased. Of the 33 key persons who received this offer, 29 Salaries and other remuneration to executive personnel for the preceding financial year are presented on Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. made use of it. page 76. Statement of other comprehensive income 01.01.-31.12. If the listed share price on the redemption date exceeds two times the listed price on the allocation date, (ii) Guidelines for the fixing of salaries and other remuneration to executive personnel Statement of financial position as at 31 December the number of matching shares will be reduced, so that the total value of the matching shares allocated With regard to guidelines for fixing salaries and other remuneration to executive personnel in the coming Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. does not exceed two times the value on the allocated date. financial year, the Board of Directors will present the following guidelines to the General Meeting in 2017 Statement of changes in equity for an advisory vote: Brief history of the Group Below, the number of matching shares as at 31.12.2016 is presented, of which the fair value is based on Accounting policies Arcus’ share price as at 31.12.2016 (NOK 44.50). The purpose of Arcus' terms and conditions policy is to attract personnel with the competence that the Notes Group requires, to further develop and retain employees with key expertise, and to promote a long-term Note 1: Companies in the Group Allocation Fair value Redemption perspective and continuous improvement with a view to achieving Arcus' business goals. In overall terms, Note 2: Investments in associated companies Figures in NOK 1,000 Number date 31.12.2016 date Arcus' policy must be competitive but not market-leading in terms of the total compensation package. and jointly controlled entities Kenneth Hamnes 42,100 01.12.16 1,873 28.02.19 The total compensation may consist of the following elements: Note 3: Other investments in shares Sigmund Toth 19,767 01.12.16 880 28.02.19 Note 4: Management of financial risk (a) Fixed elementsBasic salary, pension, etc. Erik Bern 9,956 01.12.16 443 28.02.19 Note 5: Segment information Arcus uses internationally recognised job assessment systems to find the right level for the job and the Bjørn Delbæk 8,692 01.12.16 387 28.02.19 fixed salary. Jobs are assessed in relation to their local market (country) and a pay range in relation to the Note 6: Transactions with related parties Per Bjørkum 8,256 01.12.16 367 28.02.19 median. The employee’s area of responsibility, results and performance determine where he or she is Note 7: Other operating expenses Erlend Stefansson 27,062 01.12.16 1,204 28.02.19 placed on the salary scale. Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Thomas Patay 68,785 01.12.16 3,061 28.02.19 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Claes Lindquist 46,726 01.12.16 2,079 28.02.19 Arcus has a defined-contribution occupational pension plan in Norway. The contribution rate is 5 per cent Note 10: Financial income and costs Total, Group management 231,344 10,295 for salaries up to 7.1G and 11 per cent for salaries between 7.1G and 12G (as from 1 May 2016 1G is Note 11: Tax Other managerial employees 149,415 01.12.16 6,649 28.02.19 NOK 92,576). The CEO is the only employee who currently has an occupational pension for salaries above Note 12: Tangible fixed assets 12G and the contribution rate is 15 per cent. There are no arrangements or agreements regarding early Note 13: Intangible assets Total number of matching shares 380,759 16,944 retirement age for Group executives other than the AFP arrangement and the national insurance scheme, Note 14: Leasing agreements which allow all employees a flexible retirement age starting at the age of 62. All employees in Norway are Shares at discounted prices for other employees Note 15: Other receivables In conjunction with the IPO in December 2016, all employees were offered the opportunity to buy a limited subject to a statutory age limit of 72, but the age limit in the Group is contractually set at 70, which also Note 16: Inventories number of shares with a total discount of 20 per cent in relation to the listed price, or maximum NOK 1,500. applies to Group executives. Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information At the end of 2016 it had not been determined whether this scheme will continue. In addition to the above, the Group provides benefits such as a company car and company telephone and Note 19: Debt to financial institutions other limited benefits in kind. The CEO of Vectura AS follows the same guidelines as Group executives, Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Concerning the declaration of the Board of Directors regarding the fixing of salaries and other but the current CEO has a bonus arrangement of at the most 5 monthly salaries. The CEO of Vingruppen i Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities ­remuneration to executive personnel. Norden AB follows basically the same guidelines as Group executives, but has a bonus arrangement that Note 22: Current liabilities Pursuant to Section 6-16a of the Norwegian Public Limited Liability Companies Act, the board of directors is only performance-based (EBIT) and may total a maximum of 5 monthly salaries. The annual pension will prepare a separate declaration on the fixing of salaries and other remuneration to executive personnel. provision is 34 per cent of salaries and potential bonus paid, since there are different rules and pension Note 23: Pledges and guarantees opportunities in Sweden compared to Norway. Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Furthermore, under Section 5–6 (3) of the Norwegian Public Limited Liability Companies Act, an advisory vote must be held at the general meeting on the board of directors’ guidelines for fixing remuneration to (b) Variable elements – annual bonus Alternative performance measurements executive personnel for the coming financial year (see (ii) below). In so far as the guidelines concern Arcus has an annual bonus system. The bonus system for executive personnel has consisted of a financial Auditor’s Report ­share-based incentive arrangements, these must also be approved by the general meeting (see (iii)). component (70 per cent) tied to a performance-related target for the Group or company and an individual component (30 per cent) tied to concrete and defined KPIs for the individual. All bonuses are self-financed. The maximum bonus for Group executives is 33 per cent of their annual salary (4 monthly salaries), 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS a­ lthough the Group CEO may receive a maximum annual bonus of 5 monthly salaries. In addition to Group The remuneration of the Board of Directors is as follows, as from 20.10.2016: executives, approximately 70 managers and key staff participate in a bonus programme, but the criteria Chairman of the Board of Directors NOK 500,000 p.a. Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. vary. These staff members may receive a bonus of between 1-3 monthly salaries. Board members elected by the shareholders NOK 225,000 p.a. Statement of other comprehensive income 01.01.-31.12. Board members elected by the employees NOK 150,000 p.a. The bonus programme for 2017 will consist of the same components, and its primary target will be the Statement of financial position as at 31 December Deputy Board members NOK 2,500 per meeting Group’s and/or the company’s earnings (EBITDA). Individual bonuses with a maximum percentage of 30 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. per cent for Group executives are also a key element of the programme. Statement of changes in equity Audit Committee Brief history of the Group (iii) Share-based incentive programmes Chair of the committee NOK 85,000 p.a. Accounting policies In conjunction with the IPO in 2016, Group executives and an additional 35 managers/key staff were Member NOK 40,000 p.a. Notes ­offered investment in shares in exchange for matching shares on conditions specified in the prospectus. Note 1: Companies in the Group In total, 29 people in addition to the Group executives subscribed to the offer. Remuneration Committee Note 2: Investments in associated companies Chair of the committee NOK 40,000 p.a. and jointly controlled entities Arcus will establish an option-based long-term incentive scheme for the Group management, as well as Member NOK 25,000 p.a. Note 3: Other investments in shares the CEO of Vectura and the CEO of Vingruppen i Norden, and for additional managers and key persons. Note 4: Management of financial risk The primary objective of the programme is to provide executive personnel with incentives to generate long-term and continuous success and value creation for shareholders. Note 5: Segment information Actual payments to Board members are as follows Note 6: Transactions with related parties Board fees including Number Arcus has employed key persons who have invested in their own wine companies as minority owners, and Note 7: Other operating expenses Figures in NOK 1,000 committee work of shares this mainly concerns the general manager. This model has been a success for Arcus and created profitable Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Board members elected by the shareholders new business, with well-motivated managers. Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Michael Holm Johansen Newly-elected Board member in 2016 637 146,512 Note 10: Financial income and costs It is appropriate to continue to allow the general manager of a wine company, based on an individual Mikael Norlander1 0 16,077,244 Note 11: Tax ­assessment, to be a minority owner, with an ownership interest limited to 9.9 per cent. Hanne Refsholt Newly-elected Board member in 2016 218 0 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Leena Maria Saarinen Newly-elected Board member in 2016 187 1,860 Note 13: Intangible assets Such a model is intended to encourage an entrepreneurship culture, sound business acumen and internal Trond Berger Newly-elected Board member in 2016 34 17,441 Note 14: Leasing agreements competition between companies which, in turn, can increase the profitability of the company and of the Eilif Due2 140 3,299,325 Note 15: Other receivables employee. Financing must primarily take place as the employee's contribution of equity. Isabelle Ducellier Resigning Board member in 2017 100 1,860 Note 16: Inventories Daniel Repfennig Resigning Board member in 2016 0 0 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents On starting up a new company, greater flexibility must be accepted in terms of how much the employee should/may invest, based on an individual and commercial assessment. Marius Juul Møller Resigning Board member in 2016 0 0 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Leif Johansson Resigning Board member in 2016 0 0 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (iv) Executive salary policy in previous financial years Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities The guidelines for salaries and other remuneration to executive personnel described in item (ii) also Board members elected by the employees Note 22: Current liabilities ­served as guidelines for fixing executive salaries and other remuneration in 2016. Personal bonuses were Erik Hagen See the Table below 244 not paid in 2015, but bonuses will be paid for 2016. Ingrid E. Skistad Newly-elected Board member in 2016 See the Table below 1,046 Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Kjell Arne Greni See the Table below 0 (v) Changes in contractual agreements Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year CFO Rune Midtgaard stepped down from the Group executive team on 1 September 2016 and was 1. Mikael Norlander represents the main shareholder, Ratos AB. Mikael Norlander does not hold shares, and the number shares related to him Alternative performance measurements solely represents Ratos AB's shareholding. ­replaced by Sigmund Toth. Managing Director of Vectura AS Lorna Stangeland has announced her Auditor’s Report 2. Eilif Due represents the shareholder Hoff SA. The stated number of shares related to him also includes Hoff SA's shareholding. ­resignation and will step down on 30 April 2017. She will be replaced by Christian Granlund, who will take over by 1 July 2017 at the latest. Lorna Stangeland will become an external Board member of Vectura AS after 1 May 2017. 80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fixed Board fees including Benefits in Pension defined contribution plans. The Group therefore takes the current invoices from SPK to expenses in the Figures in NOK 1,000 salary committee work kind 2016 costs same way as for the defined contribution plan. Within the pension obligation as at 31 December 2016, a Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. provision of NOK 4.0 million is linked to five individuals in the Storebrand defined benefit plan. This is the Board members elected by the employees Statement of other comprehensive income only pension obligation secured with assets. 01.01.-31.12. Erik Hagen 484 103 6 24 Statement of financial position as at 31 December Ingrid E. Skistad1 97 25 0 5 In addition, two individuals, who are no longer employed by the company, have a defined benefit plan for Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Kjell Arne Greni2 174 83 7 9 salaries above 12G (National Insurance base amount). This plan has been recognised with obligations Statement of changes in equity totalling NOK 4.3 million at the end of 2016. 1. Ingrid Skistad was elected to the Board as from 1.11.2016. The amounts paid represent two months as from her election to the Board. Brief history of the Group 2. Kjell Arne Greni holds a 40 per cent position. Accounting policies On the transition to the defined contribution plan in 2009, there were individual employees who had Notes Auditors' remuneration previously been with SPK who would be disadvantaged in the event of early retirement at 65-67 years of Note 1: Companies in the Group The auditors’ fees are specified below. The fees cover the Group auditor, EY, as well as other auditors of age. To compensate for this, it was agreed that a gift pension would be paid to all employees who were Note 2: Investments in associated companies Group subsidiaries. with SPK before the transition. As at 31 December 2016 this gift pension is linked to 201 employees in and jointly controlled entities the Norwegian operations, while the total obligation has been recognised at NOK 16.6 million. Note 3: Other investments in shares Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Note 4: Management of financial risk The Group CEO has an unfunded pension arrangement in which the pension entitlement earned is 15 per Statutory audit 2,336 2,431 Note 5: Segment information cent of the salary above 12G.. At the end of 2016, this obligation was recognised at NOK 0.3 million. Other financial auditing 215 92 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Other certification services 774 48 Contractual early retirement plan pension (AFP) Note 7: Other operating expenses Other financial audit 239 667 On 1 January 2011, a new contractual early retirement plan (AFP) pension scheme was introduced in Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Other certification services 226 0 Norway Unlike the old scheme, the new AFP plan is not an early retirement plan but a scheme that provides a Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Total remuneration to the auditors 3,790 3,238 lifelong supplement to the ordinary pension. Employees can choose to take out the new AFP pension as Note 10: Financial income and costs from the age of 62, also while continuing to work, and add additional earnings by working up to the age of Note 11: Tax All amounts are exclusive of VAT. 67. This new AFP plan is a defined benefit multi-enterprise pension scheme, and is financed through Note 12: Tangible fixed assets premiums that are set as a percentage of salary. So far no reliable measurement and allocation of obligations Note 13: Intangible assets Total audit fees for the Group include fees to parties other than the Group auditor of TNOK 1,118 for and assets is available for the plan. In accounting terms, the plan is treated as a defined-contribution Note 14: Leasing agreements 2016 and TNOK 1,290 for 2015. pension plan in which premium payments are charged as current costs and no provisions are made in the Note 15: Other receivables financial statements. In 2016, the current premium payments were set at 2.50 per cent of total salary Note 16: Inventories payments between 1 G and 7.1 G to the Group’s employees, while in 2015 this figure was 2.4 per cent. It Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents has been decided not to change the premium payments for 2017. There is no accumulation of funds in the Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information NOTE 9 PENSION COSTS, ASSETS AND OBLIGATIONS plan and it is expected that the premium level will increase over the coming years. Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Defined benefit pension plan There are some seniority requirements associated with the new AFP plan with regard to accumulated length Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Up until 31 December 2008, Arcus ASA and its subsidiaries had a group defined benefit plan for their of employment in the scheme. This means that on reaching the age of 62, the individual employee must Note 22: Current liabilities employees in Statens Pensjonskasse (the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund – SPK) and Storebrand. have been employed for seven of the previous nine years in order to meet the seniority requirements to The SPK pension plan also included a contractual early retirement plan (AFP) with financing from the be able to draw an AFP pension under the new scheme. For the Arcus Group there were 17 individuals Note 23: Pledges and guarantees commencement of employment. From 31 December 2008, the Board of Directors terminated the SPK who did not fulfil this seniority requirement on the introduction of the new AFP plan. In 2011, Arcus Note 24: Major individual transactions group pension plan for the entire Group in order to switch to defined contribution plans. ­applied for these individuals to have their accumulated period of employment in the old AFP plan in SPK Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year included before transition to the LO/NHO (Norwegian Confederation of Trade Unions/ Confederation of Alternative performance measurements With the transition to the new pension plan, all those who were ill or disabled remained in the respective Norwegian Enterprise) plan from 1 January 2009. Fellesordningen (Joint Pension Plan) gave its consent Auditor’s Report defined benefit plans. Statens Pensjonskasse has confirmed that Arcus no longer has any legal obligations to this in return for Arcus paying the entire excess above and beyond the state supplement of 1/3 of the associated with the remaining pension recipients who are linked to the SPK defined benefit plan, but is AFP pension. As at 31 December 2016, this relates to a residual obligation for seven people and the only obliged to pay annual premium contributions specified by SPK, according to the same principle as for obligation is recognised at NOK 5.4 million. 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Defined contribution pension Premium payments associated with the ordinary defined contribution pension and the new AFP pension The Arcus Group's ordinary pension plan for all other Norwegian employees is a defined contribution are the largest disbursement items associated with pensions. The basis for the premium payments to the Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. pension plan with Storebrand. The contribution rate is 5 per cent of salary in the bracket from 0 to 7.1 defined contribution plan is calculated according to the actual salaries and will reflect the salary developStatement of other comprehensive income times the National Insurance basic amount (G), and 11 per cent of salary in the bracket from 7.1 to 12 ment within the company. 01.01.-31.12. times the National Insurance basic amount (G). In addition, there is a private disability plan with a 66 per Statement of financial position as at 31 December cent benefit level, without free policy accumulation. The child and dependent supplement to Arcus' group Premium payments to the new AFP plan are also calculated on the basis of actual salaries, in addition to Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. life plan is a replacement for the previous spouse and child pension. how the premium rate is expected to increase in the years ahead. In 2016, the premium rate was 2.50 per Statement of changes in equity cent and this will remain unchanged in 2017. Brief history of the Group The costs associated with the defined contribution pension are related to the current premium invoices Accounting policies from the insurance company with which Arcus has signed a defined contribution pension agreement. The Notes current defined contribution pensions and disability pensions for employees in the defined contribution Note 1: Companies in the Group plan are adjusted annually on the basis of the pension fund’s surplus. Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Employees in the defined contribution plan who have become disabled are entitled to have their disability Note 3: Other investments in shares obligations regulated by the same adjustment as the basic amount (G) each year and the capitalised Note 4: Management of financial risk ­obligation related to this was NOK 3.5 million at the end of 2016. Note 5: Segment information Note 6: Transactions with related parties Other matters The Group applies a discount rate equivalent to the covered bond interest rate to its pension Note 7: Other operating expenses ­commitments. The pension assumptions made by the Group are consistent with the recommendations of Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs the Accounting Standards Board from September 2016. Due to the lack of significance, the assumptions Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations were not updated as of 31.12.2016. Note 10: Financial income and costs Note 11: Tax Summary of cash flows related to pension plans Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Note 13: Intangible assets Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Note 14: Leasing agreements Premium payments, old AFP plan recognised in the statement of Note 15: Other receivables financial position 0 438 Note 16: Inventories Premium payments, Storebrand defined benefit plan recognised in Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents the statement of financial position 425 604 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Payments from operations, gift pension at 65-67 years of age 566 105 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Payments under unfunded pension to former CEO recognised in the Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss statement of financial position 3,316 0 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Premium payments, new AFP plan not recognised in the statement Note 22: Current liabilities of financial position 4,165 4,191 Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Premium payments, remaining in SPK 66 156 Note 24: Major individual transactions Premium payments, defined contribution pension 25,404 24,136 Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Total 33,942 29,630 Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report All figures include social security costs. 82 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Figures in NOK 1,000 Financial assumptions: 2016 2015 Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Pension costs 2016 2015 Discount rate 2.10% 2.50% Statement of other comprehensive income Present value of pension earnings for the year 1,053 1,419 Expected salary adjustment 2.25% 2.50% 01.01.-31.12. Interest cost of pension obligations 953 1,421 Expected pension increase 1.25% 1.50% Statement of financial position as at 31 December Return on pension assets -252 -265 Expected adjustment of the National Insurance basic amount (G) 2.00% 2.25% Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Administration costs 173 166 Expected return on pension assets 2.10% 2.50% Statement of changes in equity Recognised estimation loss/(profit) -736 0 Brief history of the Group Accrued social security contributions 262 393 Actuarial and demographic assumptions Accounting policies Net pension costs after social security contributions 1,453 3,134 Withdrawal rate at 62 years 50% 50% Notes Withdrawal rate at 67 years 50% 50% Note 1: Companies in the Group Defined contribution pension plan Mortality K2013 K2013 Note 2: Investments in associated companies Recognised contributions excluding social security contributions 26,944 26,520 Disability K1963 K1963 and jointly controlled entities Voluntary retirement (under 50 years) 5% 5% Note 3: Other investments in shares Net pension obligations Voluntary retirement (over 50 years) 0% 0% Note 4: Management of financial risk Estimated accrued obligations, funded pension plans 13,707 13,918 Note 5: Segment information Estimated value of pension assets -9,741 -10,070 The actuarial assumptions are based on commonly used assumptions within the insurance industry with Note 6: Transactions with related parties regard to demographic factors. Note 7: Other operating expenses Net estimated pension obligations (-)/assets (+), funded pension plans 3,966 3,848 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Estimated accrued obligations, non-funded pension plans 30,126 32,054 The Group’s pension plans satisfy the statutory requirements concerning mandatory occupational Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Net pension assets/(obligations) recognised in the statement of ­pension schemes. Note 10: Financial income and costs financial position 34,092 35,902 Note 11: Tax Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Changes in obligations: Note 13: Intangible assets Net pension obligations 01.01 35,902 40,444 Note 14: Leasing agreements Pension costs, continued operations 1,453 3,134 Note 15: Other receivables Paid out via operations -4,071 -105 Note 16: Inventories Premium payments including SSC -471 -1,169 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Estimate deviations recognised directly in equity (IAS19R) 1,279 -6,402 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Net pension obligations 31.12. 34,092 35,902 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Summary of pension assets: Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Shares and other equity instruments 9,741 10,070 Note 22: Current liabilities Total pension assets 31.12. 9,741 10,070 Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Sensitivity analysis of net pension obligations: NOTE 10 FINANCIAL INCOME AND COSTS The table below shows the effects of changes in pension obligations, deferred tax assets and equity in Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. the event of a change in the most important economic assumptions by one percentage point up or down. Statement of other comprehensive income The calculations are otherwise carried out in the same way as the actuarial calculations and are based on Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 01.01.-31.12. all other economic and demographic assumptions remaining unchanged. Financial income Statement of financial position as at 31 December External interest income 7,944 9,859 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Adjustment of NI Total interest income 7,944 9,859 Statement of changes in equity Sensitivity 2016 Discount rate Salary growth basic amount (G) Brief history of the Group Change in percentage points 1% -1% 1% -1% 1% -1% Value adjustment of liabilities at fair value 0 10,120 Accounting policies Change in pension obligations -3,477 4,125 6,716 -5,557 -2,864 2,898 Value adjustment of interest-rate swap agreements at fair value 4,552 3,792 Notes Change in deferred tax assets 835 -990 -1,612 1,334 687 -695 Value adjustment of synthetic share and option programme 0 7,504 Note 1: Companies in the Group Change in equity 2,643 -3,135 -5,104 4,223 2,176 -2,202 Net agio gains 5,848 0 Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Percentage change in obligations -10.2% 12.1% 19.7% -16.3% -8.4% 8.5% Other financial income 19 94 Note 3: Other investments in shares Total other financial income 10,419 21,510 Note 4: Management of financial risk Total financial income 18,363 31,369 Sensitivity 2015 Adjustment of NI Note 5: Segment information Discount rate Salary growth basic amount (G) Note 6: Transactions with related parties Financial costs Change in percentage points 1% -1% 1% -1% 1% -1% Note 7: Other operating expenses Interest costs to financial institutions -70,158 -76,887 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Change in pension obligations -3,980 4,731 7,681 -6,358 -3,279 3,314 Interest costs on liabilities at fair value -256 -918 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Change in deferred tax assets -995 1,183 1,920 -1,590 -820 828 Total interest costs -70,414 -77,805 Note 10: Financial income and costs Change in equity 2,985 -3,549 -5,761 4,769 2,459 -2,485 Note 11: Tax Percentage change in obligations -11.1% 13.2% 21.4% -17.7% -9.1% 9.2% Value adjustment of minority options at fair value -28,180 0 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Value adjustment of foreign exchange forward contracts at fair value -2,021 -3,181 Note 13: Intangible assets Value adjustment of synthetic share and option programme -119,979 0 Note 14: Leasing agreements Net agio loss 0 -22,826 Note 15: Other receivables Amortisation of front-end fee related to credit facilities at SEB -20,636 -9,756 Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Other financial costs -13,861 -18,427 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Total other financial costs -184,677 -54,190 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Total financial costs -255,091 -131,995 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Net financial loss/profit -236,728 -100,626 Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 84 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 11 TAX Tax payable by country in the statement of financial position 2016 2015 Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Tax liability to Norway 1,704 6,672 Statement of other comprehensive income Tax for the year is calculated as follows: Tax liability to Sweden -9,815 -7,658 01.01.-31.12. Tax liability to Denmark 4,862 13,410 Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Statement of financial position as at 31 December Tax liability to Finland -80 397 Tax payable -40,670 -55,641 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Tax liability to Germany 373 683 Change in deferred tax 10,590 36,872 Statement of changes in equity Total tax liabilities payable, see also Note 15 -2,956 13,504 Insufficient provision in previous years 3,869 1,440 Brief history of the Group Tax -26,211 -17,329 Accounting policies Notes Specification of tax effect of temporary differences and deficit carried forward: Note 1: Companies in the Group Tax breakdown by country: 2016 2015 Note 2: Investments in associated companies 2016 2015 Tax Norway 6,498 10,062 and jointly controlled entities Asset Liability Asset Liability Note 3: Other investments in shares Tax Sweden -25,545 -27,091 Tangible fixed assets 37 667 3,953 -954 Note 4: Management of financial risk Tax Denmark -6,094 2,946 Intangible fixed assets -47,905 -93,848 -51,079 98,939 Note 5: Segment information Tax Finland -1,841 -2,020 Financial assets -717 0 -2,612 0 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Tax Germany 771 -1,226 Inventories -8,536 338 -8,327 -278 Note 7: Other operating expenses Total tax -26,211 -17,329 Trade receivables 1,539 215 1,796 0 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Pension obligations 7,833 0 8,631 0 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Provisions 10,437 0 14,506 -1,145 Note 10: Financial income and costs Reconciliation from nominal to actual tax rates: 2016 2015 Profit and loss account -1,127 0 -1,276 0 Note 11: Tax Pre-tax profit 2,122 101,717 Deficit carried forward 210,559 0 196,778 0 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Expected income tax at the nominal tax rate in Norway -531 -27,464 Total deferred tax, gross 172,120 -92,628 162,370 96,562 Note 13: Intangible assets Tax effect of the following items: Unrecognised deferred tax assets 0 0 0 0 Note 14: Leasing agreements Non-deductible costs -26,831 -4,776 Net deferred tax in the statement of Note 15: Other receivables Non-taxable income 0 5,916 financial position 172,120 -92,628 162,370 96,562 Note 16: Inventories Insufficient provision in previous years 2,171 579 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Change in non-capitalised tax assets 0 0 At the end of the year, the Group had NOK 210.6 million in capitalised deferred tax assets associated Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Change in tax rate -5,789 -1,263 with the deficit carried forward. Based on an assessment and analysis of the Group's earnings in Norway Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Differences in tax rates 4,554 8,339 historically, and the future prognosis, the restructuring of Vectura and the restructuring of debt in conNote 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss junction with the IPO, it is assessed that the deficit carried forward can be utilised in full, and on this basis Profit share, associated companies 1,447 1,230 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities it is carried to the statement of financial position. Other -1,232 110 Note 22: Current liabilities Tax -26,211 -17,329 Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Deferred tax positions are calculated on the basis of local tax rates in the respective countries on the Note 24: Major individual transactions reporting date. At the end of 2016, the rates were 24 per cent in Norway, 22 per cent in Sweden, 22 per Effective tax rate 1,235% 17% Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year cent in Denmark and 20 per cent in Finland. Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report At the end of 2016, deferred tax assets were associated with net negative temporary differences for the Tax on items in OCI tax regime in Norway, while deferred tax liabilities were linked to net positive temporary differences for Tax on items in OCI are entirely due to changes in deferred tax associated with pension obligations the tax regimes in Denmark and Sweden. in Norway. 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 12 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income Land, buildings and Machinery and Fixtures and fittings, tools, Assets under Total tangible 01.01.-31.12. Figures in NOK 1,000 other real estate equipment office equipment etc. construction fixed assets Statement of financial position as at 31 December Acquisition cost as at 01.01.2015 27,696 599,008 72,903 21,080 720,687 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Additions 0 6,861 527 58,331 65,719 Statement of changes in equity Transferred from facilities under construction 0 1,973 0 -1,973 0 Brief history of the Group Acquisition of operations 0 0 720 0 720 Accounting policies Reclassifications 0 -43,135 15,100 -10,021 -38,056 Notes Disposal at cost (sale of tangible fixed assets) -27,415 -63,320 -2,965 0 -93,700 Note 1: Companies in the Group Disposal at cost (sale of business) 0 0 -13 0 -13 Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Translation differences -281 -395 92 0 -584 Note 3: Other investments in shares Acquisition cost as at 01.01.2016 0 500,992 86,364 67,417 654,773 Note 4: Management of financial risk Additions 0 7,992 1,445 1,945 11,382 Note 5: Segment information Transferred from facilities under construction 0 62,645 0 -66,630 -3,985 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Reclassifications 0 0 -1,297 0 -1,297 Note 7: Other operating expenses Translation differences 0 -309 -809 0 -1,118 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Acquisition cost 31.12.2015 0 571,320 85,703 2,732 659,755 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Note 10: Financial income and costs Note 11: Tax Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Note 13: Intangible assets Note 14: Leasing agreements Note 15: Other receivables Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 86 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Land, buildings and Machinery and Fixtures and fittings, tools, Assets under Total tangible Figures in NOK 1,000 other real estate equipment office equipment etc. construction fixed assets Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Accumulated depreciation 01.01.2015 -22,127 -284,230 -35,920 0 -342,277 Statement of other comprehensive income 01.01.-31.12. Acquisition of operations 0 0 -360 0 -360 Statement of financial position as at 31 December Ordinary depreciation -301 -29,371 -6,553 0 -36,225 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Write-downs -2,399 0 -181 0 -2,580 Statement of changes in equity Disposal, accumulated depreciation (sale of tangible fixed assets) 24,589 61,825 2,936 0 89,350 Brief history of the Group Reclassifications 0 34,960 -20,645 0 14,315 Accounting policies Translation differences 238 699 -41 0 896 Notes Accumulated depreciation 01.01.2016 0 -216,117 -60,764 0 -276,881 Note 1: Companies in the Group Ordinary depreciation 0 -29,355 -5,529 0 -34,884 Note 2: Investments in associated companies Reclassifications 0 0 1,297 0 1,297 and jointly controlled entities Translation differences 0 201 747 0 948 Note 3: Other investments in shares Accumulated depreciation 31.12.2016 0 -245,271 -64,249 0 -309,520 Note 4: Management of financial risk Note 5: Segment information Book value as at 31.12.16 0 326,049 21,454 2,732 350,235 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Note 7: Other operating expenses Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Of which book value of capitalised leases 0 193,082 0 0 193,082 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Ordinary depreciation for the year – capitalised leases 0 -16,385 0 0 -16,385 Note 10: Financial income and costs Book value of capitalised interest costs 0 3,636 0 0 3,636 Note 11: Tax Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Annual leasing fee for non-capitalised tangible fixed assets 84,511 3,229 715 0 88,455 Note 13: Intangible assets Note 14: Leasing agreements Both the parent company and the Group use straight-line depreciation for all tangible fixed assets. The economic life is estimated as follows: Note 15: Other receivables Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Machinery and equipment 3-15 years Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information * Office machinery and inventory 4-10 years Note 19: Debt to financial institutions * Land, buildings and other real estate 0 years Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss No indications of impairment or a need to adjust the useful lives of assets were identified during the period. Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 13 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income Figures in NOK 1,000 Goodwill Brands Software Total 01.01.-31.12. Acquisition cost 01.01.2015 983,648 675,194 64,916 1,723,758 Statement of financial position as at 31 December Addition of intangible assets 0 4,212 8,997 13,209 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Acquisition of operations 24,692 0 0 24,692 Statement of changes in equity Reclassification 0 0 38,056 38,056 Brief history of the Group Translation differences 33,842 26,851 0 60,693 Accounting policies Acquisition cost 01.01.2016 1,042,182 706,257 111,969 1,860,408 Notes Note 1: Companies in the Group Addition of intangible assets 0 32,647 3,782 36,429 Note 2: Investments in associated companies Transferred from facilities under construction 0 0 3,985 3,985 and jointly controlled entities Translation differences -32,006 -23,572 0 -55,578 Note 3: Other investments in shares Acquisition cost 31.12.2015 1,010,176 715,332 119,736 1,845,244 Note 4: Management of financial risk Note 5: Segment information Accumulated depreciation 01.01.2015 0 -34,995 -52,452 -87,447 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Ordinary depreciation 0 0 -9,360 -9,360 Note 7: Other operating expenses Amortisation 0 -5,536 0 -5,536 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Write-downs 0 0 -1,800 -1,800 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Reclassification 0 0 -14,315 -14,315 Note 10: Financial income and costs Translation differences 0 -37 0 -37 Note 11: Tax Accumulated depreciation 01.01.2016 0 -40,568 -77,927 -118,495 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Ordinary depreciation 0 0 -11,158 -11,158 Note 13: Intangible assets Amortisation 0 -5,583 0 -5,583 Note 14: Leasing agreements Translation differences 0 56 0 56 Note 15: Other receivables Accumulated depreciation 31.12.2016 0 -46,095 -89,085 -135,180 Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Book value 31.12.2016 1,010,176 669,237 30,651 1,710,064 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Of which capitalised value of assets with Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss indefinite useful lives 1,010,176 626,728 0 1,636,904 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Economic life of intangible assets with Note 23: Pledges and guarantees identifiable useful lives 10-19 years 3-10 years Note 24: Major individual transactions Depreciation plan Straight line Straight line Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Impairment testing Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units and is tested for impairment annually, or more often if there are indicators that the values may have been subject to impairment. Testing for impairment involves Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. determining the recoverable amount for the cash-generating unit. The recoverable amount is determined by discounting expected cash flows, based on the cash-generating unit’s Board-approved business plans. The Statement of other comprehensive income cash-generating unit is the lowest level at which it is possible to monitor operations which include the relevant goodwill. At the end of 2016, cash-generating units relating to impairment testing of goodwill are defined both 01.01.-31.12. at the company and business area levels. The same is carried out for brands with indefinite useful lives. The cash-generating unit for impairment testing of brands is the brand itself. Statement of financial position as at 31 December Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. The table below shows the Group’s intangible assets with indefinite useful lives (goodwill and brands) by cash-generating unit. The most important brands are presented individually, while less important brands are Statement of changes in equity ­presented under other brands. Brief history of the Group Accounting policies Figures in NOK 1,000 Category Currency Segment Goodwill Brands Total Notes Cash-generating unit Note 1: Companies in the Group Aalborg Aquavit DKK Spirits 0 268,906 268,906 Note 2: Investments in associated companies Lysholm Linie Aquavit NOK Spirits 0 46,123 46,123 and jointly controlled entities Løiten Linie Aquavit NOK Spirits 0 26,628 26,628 Note 3: Other investments in shares Gammel Opland Aquavit NOK Spirits 0 23,161 23,161 Note 4: Management of financial risk Gilde Aquavit NOK Spirits 0 18,690 18,690 Note 5: Segment information Note 6: Transactions with related parties Gammel Dansk Bitter dram DKK Spirits 0 149,121 149,121 Note 7: Other operating expenses Norwegian vodka (Vikingfjord, Amundsen) Vodka NOK Spirits 0 34,297 34,297 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs International vodka (Kalinka, Dworek) Vodka NOK Spirits 0 42,018 42,018 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Other brands NOK, DKK Spirits 0 17,784 17,784 Note 10: Financial income and costs Spirits segment DKK Spirits 375,945 0 375,945 Note 11: Tax Spirits segment NOK Spirits 380,410 0 380,410 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Vingruppen i Norden AB (sub-Group) SEK Wine 91,331 0 91,331 Note 13: Intangible assets Social Wines OY EUR Wine 24,572 0 24,572 Note 14: Leasing agreements Excellars AS NOK Wine 137,918 0 137,918 Note 15: Other receivables Total 1,010,176 626,728 1,636,904 Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents In Norway, the most important strategic brands are Vikingfjord Vodka, Braastad Cognac, Løiten Linie, Lysholm Linie and Gammel Opland, the last three being aquavits. In Denmark, the most important strategic brands are Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Aalborg Akvavit and Gammel Dansk, which is a bitter. In Sweden, the most important strategic brand is Snälleröds. During 2016 the Group acquired the Polish Dworek brand, which is sold mainly in the Norwegian and Swedish Note 19: Debt to financial institutions markets. Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Recoverable amount in an impairment test of goodwill The recoverable amount for the cash-generating units is calculated on the basis of the present value estimate of the expected cash flows before tax. The cash flows used as the basis for the impairment test are based on Note 22: Current liabilities ­assumptions about future sales volume, sales prices, purchase prices for input factors, salary development and other direct costs set out in Board-approved budgets and long-term plans. The terminal value is based on the Note 23: Pledges and guarantees cash flow in the last forecast year (2020). The terminal value does not include assumptions about real growth but does include assumptions regarding reinvestments corresponding to expected depreciation of the entities’ Note 24: Major individual transactions fixed assets. Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements CGU related to goodwill from the acquisition of the production activity in Denmark is assessed to be the entire Spirits segment since, as from 2015, the business in Denmark was integrated with other spirits operations in Auditor’s Report the Group. 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Recoverable amount in an impairment test of brands Change in Group accounting as a consequence of a new IFRS 16 concerning leases. The recoverable amount for the brands is calculated on the basis of a relief from royalty method before New IFRS 16 concerning leases will entail a significant change to the accounting policy related to leasing Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. taxes, where the brand’s annual royalty is estimated as future revenues of the brand multiplied by a costs. As from financial years commencing in 2019, all significant leases must be capitalised. This will Statement of other comprehensive income ­long-term expected profit level for the relevant brands. give an intangible right on the asset side and an equivalent liability on the debt side. A provisional present 01.01.-31.12. value calculation of the Group's operational leasing agreements gives a capitalised effect just above NOK Statement of financial position as at 31 December Cash flow estimates used are discounted using a discount rate. The discount rate used for the future cash 1,000 million, which in turn has a significant effect on the Group's reported equity ratio. In the income Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. flows is based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC). statement, this will reduce other operating costs, while amortisation and interest costs will be higher. Statement of changes in equity Brief history of the Group Other key assumptions Financial leasing Accounting policies The discount rate used for both brands and goodwill is 8.6 per cent before tax, and reflects estimated As at 31 December 2016, the Group had entered into four contracts to lease equipment used at GjelNotes risk and capital costs for the Group, based on a capital structure considered representative for the leråsen. All of the above agreements took effect on 1 June 2012 and have a duration of 15 years. This Note 1: Companies in the Group ­activities in which the Arcus Group is engaged. equipment was recognised in the Arcus Group's statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016. Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Based on the impairment tests made, no write-downs were made in 2016. Annual Due date Due date Note 3: Other investments in shares leasing within 1 Due date after more Note 4: Management of financial risk Sensitivity Figures in nominal NOK 1,000 cost year 2-5 years than 5 years Total Note 5: Segment information A downward adjustment of the estimated cash flows by 20 per cent or an increase in the discount rate of Machinery and equipment 22,210 22,210 185,516 0 207,726 2 per cent would not have resulted in write-downs, with the exception of goodwill for Excellars AS, which Note 6: Transactions with related parties Total 22,210 22,210 185,516 0 207,726 would have entailed write-downs on a reduction of revenue by approximately 10 per cent. Note 7: Other operating expenses Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs The contract partner for the financial leasing agreements is Nordea, and the agreements are subject to Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations variable interest rates. The average interest rate charged in 2016 was 2.90 per cent. Note 10: Financial income and costs NOTE 14 LEASING AGREEMENTS Note 11: Tax Even though, in principle, the leasing agreements have been entered into with a 15-year repayment and Note 12: Tangible fixed assets interest profile (annuity), the terms of the agreements are for a shorter period of time. Remaining Operational leasing ­capitalised lease liabilities will fall due in the course of the last 12 months of the agreement period. The Note 13: Intangible assets As at 31 December 2016, the Group had the following leasing agreements which are defined and recognised Group and Nordea are in continuous dialogue concerning an extension of the agreements to a total Note 14: Leasing agreements as operational leasing agreements. There were no significant terms and conditions concerning sub-letting, ­maturity profile of 15 years. All changes to the agreements must be formally handled by the landlord. Note 15: Other receivables purchase, escalation or restrictions to the operational leasing agreements as at 31 December 2016. Note 16: Inventories The present value of future lease payments is NOK 196,8 million as at 31 December 2016, based on a Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Annual Due date Due date discount rate equivalent to the effective interest rate on the financing in 2016. Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information leasing within 1 Due date after more Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Arcus-Gruppen AS has pledged a 100 per cent surety guarantee for all liabilities that the subsidiaries Figures in nominal NOK 1,000. cost year 2-5 years than 5 years Total Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss have undertaken or may undertake in connection with the signed leasing agreements. All tangible fixed Leased premises 84,511 83,069 331,937 1,279,976 1,694,982 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Vehicles 3,118 2,672 2,958 0 5,630 assets are included in the pledged assets as security for the Arcus Group's long-term bank financing; see Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23. Machines and office equipment 826 564 740 0 1,304 Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Total 88,455 86,305 335,635 1,279,976 1,701,916 Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year This overview includes the agreement concluded with Gjelleråsen Eiendom AS on the leasing of production, Alternative performance measurements distribution and administration buildings at Gjelleråsen for a term of 25 years starting on 1 January Auditor’s Report 2012. The annual rent under this agreement is TNOK 79,150 as from 2017. 90 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 15 OTHER RECEIVABLES NOTE 16 INVENTORIES Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 01.01.-31.12. Long-term receivables Raw materials 22,891 26,342 Statement of financial position as at 31 December Other long-term receivables 1,235 471 Goods in progress 101,797 98,557 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Total other long-term receivables 1,235 471 Finished goods/goods for resale 273,719 284,824 Statement of changes in equity Obsolescence provision (19,630) (21,506) Brief history of the Group The Group has no receivables with a term of more than five years. Total inventories 378,777 388,217 Accounting policies Notes Cost of inventories in the statement of income comprises input costs for finished goods/goods for resale Note 1: Companies in the Group Figures in NOK 1,000 Note 2016 2015 and production value at cost price for goods produced in-house. The total cost of inventories was NOK Note 2: Investments in associated companies 1,467 million in 2016 (2015: NOK 1,395 million). Current receivables and jointly controlled entities Prepaid costs 11,052 15,254 Note 3: Other investments in shares Prepaid tax 11 2,956 0 See also Note 23 for details of pledges and guarantees. Note 4: Management of financial risk Note 5: Segment information Fair value of forward contracts 0 1,153 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Other current receivables 5,104 9,976 Note 7: Other operating expenses Total other current receivables 19,112 26,383 NOTE 17 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Note 10: Financial income and costs Prepayments to suppliers Cash and cash equivalents in the Group's cash pool system 100,731 28,759 Note 11: Tax Nominal prepayments to suppliers 68,480 71,500 Other bank deposits 98,654 161,660 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Provisions for losses -5,670 -6,210 Total cash and cash equivalents 199,385 190,419 Note 13: Intangible assets Note 14: Leasing agreements Total prepayments to suppliers 62,810 65,290 Note 15: Other receivables Credit facilities 601,897 402,093 Note 16: Inventories Through its distribution business, Vectura purchases goods on behalf of agents and importers. Depending Available liquidity 801,282 592,512 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents on the type of agreement entered into by the agent or importer, there will be instances where Vectura buys in goods on behalf of the agent or importer and where the agent or importer bears most of the risk Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information associated with this inventory. This type of financing of inventory for individual partners is stated at Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions nominal value less provision for expected losses, and is presented as prepayments to suppliers. Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Restricted bank deposits 0 3,005 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Total restricted bank deposits 0 3,005 Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees The Group has a Group cash pool system at Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken (SEB), which includes all Note 24: Major individual transactions ­subsidiaries, with the exception of the companies included in the wine activities in Sweden and Finland. Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year At the end of 2016, this Group cash pool system was managed by the parent company, Arcus ASA. Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The joint overdraft limit in the Group cash pool system is TNOK 600,000. As at 31 December 2016, total 20 largest shareholders as at 31.12.2016: deposits in the cash pool system amounted to TNOK 100,731 (2015: TNOK 28,759). The parent company, Number of Ownership and Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Arcus ASA, has pledged surety on behalf of all of its subsidiaries, linked at all times to outstanding shares voting rights Statement of other comprehensive income ­drawings on this scheme. 01.01.-31.12. Ratos AB 16,077,244 23.6% Statement of financial position as at 31 December Geveran AB 6,700,000 9.8% In addition, the subsidiary group Vingruppen i Norden AB has a separate overdraft arrangement with a Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Canica AS 3,780,000 5.6% maximum credit facility of TSEK 2,000 (TNOK 1,897) at the end of 2016. This facility had not been Statement of changes in equity ­utilised at the end of 2016. Hoff SA 3,297,000 4.8% Brief history of the Group Sundt AS 2,300,000 3.4% Accounting policies The Group’s exposure to interest-rate risk is stated in Note 4. Verdipapirfondet DnB Norge (IV) 2,263,914 3.3% Notes Danske Invest Instit. II. 1,747,900 2.6% Note 1: Companies in the Group Summary of bank guarantees as at 31 December: Folketrygdfondet 1,600,000 2.4% Note 2: Investments in associated companies BNP Paribas Securities Services Nominee 1,490,967 2.2% and jointly controlled entities Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 SEB Invest Europe Small Cap 1,460,633 2.1% Note 3: Other investments in shares Bank guarantees for tax deduction funds 37,732 40,205 Skandinaviska Enskilda Nominee 1,384,757 2.0% Note 4: Management of financial risk Bank guarantees for customs and duty credit facilities 13,899 15,685 DnB Livsforsikring ASA 1,275,123 1.9% Note 5: Segment information Total bank guarantees 51,631 55,890 Verdipapirfondet DnB Norge Selektiv 1,006,665 1.5% Note 6: Transactions with related parties Verdipapirfondet DnB Norden (III) 1,003,865 1.5% Note 7: Other operating expenses Holta Invest AS 1,000,000 1.5% Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations NOTE 18 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Ilmarinen Mutual Pens Ins Company 1,000,000 1.5% Ram One 900,000 1.3% Note 10: Financial income and costs JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. Nominee 860,303 1.3% Note 11: Tax The share capital comprises: Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Danske Invest Norske Aksjer Inst 835,900 1.2% Total number Nominal Book value Note 13: Intangible assets KLP AksjeNorge 750,000 1.1% Date Change of shares value (NOK 1,000) Note 14: Leasing agreements Other shareholders 17,288,984 25.4% 31.12.15 1,000,000 1.00 1,000 Note 15: Other receivables Total 68,023,255 100.0% 20.10.16 Split 1:50 50,000,000 0.02 1,000 Note 16: Inventories 01.12.16 Share issue 68,023,255 0.02 1,360 Shareholdings of the executive management as at 31.12.2016: Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents 31.12.16 68,023,255 0.02 1,360 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Number Ownership and Note 19: Debt to financial institutions of shares voting rights Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Ekelyveien AS (Kenneth Hamnes) 126,499 0.2% Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Sigmund Toth 19,767 0.0% Note 22: Current liabilities Erik Bern 19,911 0.0% Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Bjørn Delbæk 17,383 0.0% Note 24: Major individual transactions Per Bjørkum 16,511 0.0% Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Erlend Stefansson 54,124 0.1% Alternative performance measurements Thomas Patay 110,056 0.2% Auditor’s Report Claes Lindquist 46,726 0.1% Total shareholdings of the Group executive management 410,977 0.6% 92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Dividend The Board of Directors proposed dividend distribution of NOK 1.47 per share for 2016 (2015: no Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. ­distribution). Statement of other comprehensive income 01.01.-31.12. Earnings per share Statement of financial position as at 31 December Earnings per share is calculated on the basis of the profit for the year attributable to the shareholders in Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. the parent company divided by a weighted average of the number of outstanding ordinary shares for the Statement of changes in equity year, reduced for ordinary shares bought by the company and held as own shares. Brief history of the Group Accounting policies The Arcus Group has an interim retention plan for senior executives under which externally owned Notes ­shares can be diluted by issuing matching shares. To take account of this future increase in the number of Note 1: Companies in the Group shares, diluted earnings per share are also calculated, which takes account of a weighted average for the Note 2: Investments in associated companies year of the estimated number of matching shares. and jointly controlled entities Note 3: Other investments in shares Earnings per share: Note 4: Management of financial risk 2016 2015 Note 5: Segment information Profit for the year -24,089 84,388 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 10,480 20,305 Note 7: Other operating expenses Profit for the year to the owners of the parent company -34,569 64,083 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Comprehensive income -64,290 63,561 Note 10: Financial income and costs Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 7,703 20,699 Note 11: Tax Comprehensive income to the owners of the parent company -71,993 42,862 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Note 13: Intangible assets Weighted average of the number of outstanding shares1 51,501,938 50,000,000 Note 14: Leasing agreements Dilution effects from matching shares 31,730 0 Note 15: Other receivables Weighted average of the number of outstanding shares diluted1 51,533,668 50,000,000 Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Earnings per share in NOK -0.67 1.28 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Diluted earnings per share in NOK -0.67 1.28 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Comprehensive income per share in NOK -1.40 0.86 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Diluted comprehensive income per share in NOK -1.40 0.86 Note 22: Current liabilities 1. The weighted average number of shares in 2015 was 1,000,000; in the calculation the number is converted in relation to the 1:50 split Note 23: Pledges and guarantees which took place in October 2016. Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 19 DEBT TO FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income Loan amount in foreign Loan amount in NOK Loan amount in NOK 01.01.-31.12. Figures in NOK 1,000 Type of financing Currency Interest-rate profile currency 31.12.2016 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Statement of financial position as at 31 December SEB Mortgage loan NOK Variable 0 0 327,310 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. SEB Mortgage loan NOK Fixed 0 0 201,848 Statement of changes in equity SEB Mortgage loan SEK Variable 750,000 711,300 260,167 Brief history of the Group SEB Mortgage loan SEK Fixed 0 0 220,826 Accounting policies Nordea Financial leasing liability NOK Variable 199,485 199,485 215,554 Notes Total debt to financial institutions 910,785 1,225,705 Note 1: Companies in the Group Capitalised front-end fees -8,032 -19,997 Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Book value of debt to financial institutions 902,753 1,205,708 Note 3: Other investments in shares Note 4: Management of financial risk Note 5: Segment information Maturity 2020 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Term structure Type of financing Currency Maturity 2017 Maturity 2018 Maturity 2019 or later Total Note 7: Other operating expenses SEB Mortgage loan SEK 0 0 0 711,300 711,300 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Nordea Financial leasing liability NOK 16,498 182,987 0 0 199,485 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Total debt to financial institutions* 16,498 182,987 0 711,300 910,785 Note 10: Financial income and costs Note 11: Tax In 2016, the Group re-financed its long-term loans in SEB. In this connection the entire original mortgage loan, denominated in NOK and SEK, was redeemed, while the entire new loan was denominated in SEK. The new long-term mortgage loans are legally placed in the subsidiary VinGruppen Sweden Holding AB in Stockholm. The new mortgage loan will fall due in its entirety at the end of 2021. Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Note 13: Intangible assets The Group has not hedged the interest rate on the new loan. The previous interest hedging agreement entailed a positive value change of TNOK 4,552 TNOK in 2016, but led to a non-recurring payment of TNOK -12,873 Note 14: Leasing agreements on settlement in December 2016. Note 15: Other receivables Note 16: Inventories On the establishment of the new loan, a front-end fee was paid, which is capitalised in the statement of financial position and written off over the duration of the loan. The remaining book value of the front-end fee related to Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents the previous mortgage loan was written down in 2016, and this is classified under other financial costs. Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions * Maturity in 2017 is presented as current liabilities in the statement of financial position. ** See Note 14 concerning leasing agreements for information on the term structure of annual leasing amounts. Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities The agreement on a mortgage loan facility contains a loan clause (covenant) concerning net interest-bearing debt as a ratio of adjusted EBITDA. The Group continuously monitors this clause and reports to the bank on a Note 22: Current liabilities quarterly basis. As of 31.12.2016 the Group was well within the required ratio. Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 20 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH In addition, at the beginning of the year there were also 10,860 synthetic options in the subsidiary ­Vingruppen AS. These were settled at par value in November 2016. Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. PROFIT OR LOSS Statement of other comprehensive income The synthetic shares and options were issued at the estimated fair value on the issue date. The valuation 01.01.-31.12. Earmarked liabilities, measured at fair value through profit or loss, are related to the two factors: on the issue date was calculated on the basis of external valuations, according to a cash flow model in Statement of financial position as at 31 December which cash flows were discounted to fair value using a discount rate corresponding to the Group’s Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. ­weighted average cost of capital (WACC), adjusted for a liquidity premium, but where the final value was 1) Options for the purchase of non-controlling interests Statement of changes in equity 1a) Estimated liability associated with the deferred purchase consideration for 28.19 per cent of also assessed against the pricing of comparable companies. The development in value in reporting Brief history of the Group the shares in the subsidiary Vingruppen i Norden AB in 2011. This was paid to the minority ­periods between issue and settlement was calculated according to the same principles. Accounting policies shareholders in April 2014. Notes 1b) Estimated liability to buy out minority shareholders (0.63 per cent) in the subsidiary On settlement, the synthetic shares resulted in a payment equivalent to the fair value of the actual shares Note 1: Companies in the Group Vingruppen i Norden AB, based on the management’s best estimate of the expected due date, in the parent company, multiplied by the number of synthetic shares. The fair value of the shares was set Note 2: Investments in associated companies as well as additional compensation for the 8.71 per cent stake that the majority acquired in as the parent company's opening price on the Oslo Stock Exchange. and jointly controlled entities March 2015. The remaining shares were acquired and this was paid to the minority Note 3: Other investments in shares shareholders in December 2016. On settlement, the synthetic options resulted in a payment equivalent to the value per share beyond the Note 4: Management of financial risk 1c) Estimated liability to buy out minority shareholders (49 per cent) in the subsidiary Excellars AS, exercise price, multiplied by the number of synthetic options. Note 5: Segment information based on the management’s best estimate of the expected due date. 41.1 per cent of these Note 6: Transactions with related parties minority shares were acquired and paid for in February 2016. The remaining 9.9 per cent will The table below presents the gains for the individual Group executive management members in relation be settled in 2017. to this settlement in 2016: Note 7: Other operating expenses Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs 2) Issue of synthetic shares and options in a share programme for selected executives in the Group Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations (co-investment programme). Gains on settlement of synthetic shares Note 10: Financial income and costs Options for the purchase of non-controlling interests: Figures in NOK 1,000 and options in 2016 Note 11: Tax The liabilities related to options for the purchase of non-controlling interests are estimated on the basis of the Kenneth Hamnes 4,161 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets pricing mechanisms applied to the purchase agreement (1a) and the shareholder agreements (1b and 1c), Rune Midtgaard1 3,457 Note 13: Intangible assets discounted to the close of the financial year. The most important parameters in the pricing ­mechanisms Note 14: Leasing agreements Erik Bern 1,142 are the development of the share values, measured as EBIT (operating profit) up until the estimated due Note 15: Other receivables Erlend Stefansson 5,172 date, multiplied by a multiple according to the Group's value development. As a basis for EBIT, the Group’s Note 16: Inventories Thomas Patay 7,887 budgets and long-term plans up until the expected due date have been used. The ­discount rate used is NIBOR Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents with duration matched to the expected due date (0.83 per cent as at 31 December 2016). Claes Lindquist 5,741 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information 1. Rune Midtgaard was CFO up to 1 September 2016, and was a member of the executive management until he left on 31.10.2016. Note 19: Debt to financial institutions During 2016 significant value changes associated with these minority options were booked. These value Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss changes are mainly associated with the Group's improved earnings and related changed long-term growth Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities assumptions. Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Co-investment programme for managerial employees Note 24: Major individual transactions With regard to the liabilities related to issued synthetic shares and options, these are associated with a Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year share and option programme for senior executives and Board members of the Arcus Group. At the ­beginning of the year, 23,971 synthetic shares and 102,792 synthetic options associated with the Alternative performance measurements ­parent company, Arcus ASA, had been issued. All of these were derecognised in conjunction with the Auditor’s Report parent company's IPO in December 2016. At the end of 2016, there were no longer any agreements in this co-­investment programme in Arcus ASA. The Group CEO had 5,970 synthetic options in this programme. 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reconciliation of earmarked liabilities, measured at fair value via profit or loss: NOTE 21 OTHER PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Minority Share Liability at fair Statement of other comprehensive income share programme value through Severance pay (long-term) 01.01.-31.12. Provisions for liabilities are associated with severance pay on termination of employment. The plan Figures in 1,000 (stated currency) options profit or loss Statement of financial position as at 31 December ­covered initially 70 employees of the Group who have received severance packages in connection with Currency Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. the restructuring of the companies. The obligations are paid monthly up to 2019 and are presented under Nominal value of liability in SEK on initial recognition 76,900 0 76,900 Statement of changes in equity other long-term provisions for liabilities. The provision is calculated by discounting future payments Nominal value of liability in NOK on initial recognition 83,900 17,180 101,080 including social security contributions at a discount rate which depends on the length of the obligation. Brief history of the Group Nominal value of liability in SEK as at 31 December 0 0 0 As at 31 December 2016, the provision was associated with six remaining individuals. Accounting policies Nominal value of liability in NOK as at 31 December 10,314 13,821 24,135 Notes Severance pay (short-term) Note 1: Companies in the Group Figures in NOK 1,000 Total It has been necessary for the Group to make organisational and staffing adjustments in order to meet Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Book value of liability 31.12.2014 139,209 59,166 198,375 new requirements, including new work processes and improved profitability. During this change process, Note 3: Other investments in shares Fair value on initial recognition 2015 0 2,000 2,000 the Group offered a range of personnel policy initiatives to its employees, in order to fulfil the new ­framework conditions without compulsory downsizing. As at 31 December 2016, the liability associated Note 4: Management of financial risk Paid during the period 2015 -62,170 -2,500 -64,670 with this was recognised at NOK 2.3 million. Note 5: Segment information Changes in value during the period 2015 -10,120 -7,504 -17,624 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Interest during the period 2015 918 0 918 All of the current liabilities are recognised in the statement of financial position under other current Note 7: Other operating expenses Book value of liability 31.12.2015 67,837 51,162 118,999 liabilities. Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Fair value on initial recognition 2016 0 1,000 1,000 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Paid during the period 2016 -85,959 -158,317 -244,276 Long-term liabilities Note 10: Financial income and costs Changes in value during the period 2016 28,180 119,976 148,156 Note 11: Tax Interest during the period 2016 256 0 256 2016 Reversed Recognised Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Book value of liability 31.12.2016 10,314 13,821 24,135 Book value as provision provision Book value as Note 13: Intangible assets Figures in NOK 1,000 at 31.12.2015 2016 2016 at 31.12.2016 Note 14: Leasing agreements Of which due within 12 months, presented as current Severance pay 1,140 -513 0 627 Note 15: Other receivables liabilities 10,314 13,821 24,135 Long-term provisions 1,140 -513 0 627 Note 16: Inventories Of which due after 12 months or later, presented as Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents long-term liabilities 0 0 0 2015 Reversed Recognised Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Book value as provision provision Book value as Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Figures in NOK 1,000 at 31.12.2014 2015 2015 at 31.12.2015 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Severance pay 1,676 -536 0 1,140 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Long-term provisions 1,676 -536 0 1,140 Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 96 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Current liabilities NOTE 23 PLEDGES AND GUARANTEES Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. 2016 Reversed Recognised Statement of other comprehensive income Book value as provision provision Book value as The Group has a Group cash pool system at Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken (SEB), which includes the 01.01.-31.12. subsidiaries with the exception of the companies in the wine business in Sweden and Finland. At the end Figures in NOK 1,000 at 31.12.2015 2016 2016 at 31.12.2016 Statement of financial position as at 31 December of 2016, this Group cash pool system was managed by the parent company, Arcus ASA. The parent Severance pay 7,080 -5,434 630 2,276 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. company has pledged surety on behalf of all of its subsidiaries, which at any time is linked to outstanding Other provisions 10,000 0 0 10,000 Statement of changes in equity drawing on this scheme. Other current liabilities 17,080 -5,434 630 12,276 Brief history of the Group Accounting policies In 2016, the Group re-financed its long-term loans in SEB, see Note 19. In conjunction with this 2015 Reversed Recognised ­refinancing, all previously mortgaged assets were released and no new pledges were established. In Notes Book value as provision provision Book value as ­relation to the old mortgage loan in SEB that was settled in conjunction with the refinancing in 2016, all Note 1: Companies in the Group Figures in NOK 1,000 at 31.12.2014 2015 2015 at 31.12.2015 of the s­ hares in the subsidiaries Arcus-Gruppen AS, Arcus Denmark A/S and Arcus Deutschland GmbH Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Severance pay 6,948 -9,140 9,272 7,080 were pledged. In addition, collateral associated with selected subsidiaries has been pledged for operating Note 3: Other investments in shares Other provisions 0 0 10,000 10,000 equipment, inventories and factoring. The table below states the book value of the pledged assets Note 4: Management of financial risk Other current liabilities 6,948 -9,140 19,272 17,080 ­covered by the mortgage: Note 5: Segment information Note 6: Transactions with related parties Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Pledged assets Note 7: Other operating expenses NOTE 22 CURRENT LIABILITIES Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Pledges in shares 0 1,908,855 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Tangible fixed assets 0 152,644 Note 10: Financial income and costs Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Trade receivables 0 794,670 Note 11: Tax Unpaid public duties Inventories 0 185,082 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Special duties, alcohol 549,231 557,739 Total 0 3,041,251 Note 13: Intangible assets Value added tax 304,407 300,965 Note 14: Leasing agreements Other public duties 58,672 20,395 Surety guarantee Note 15: Other receivables Total unpaid public duties 912,310 879,099 One of the Group’s subsidiaries, Arcus-Gruppen AS, has pledged a surety guarantee for leased assets Note 16: Inventories (financial leasing) with Nordea Finans. At the end of 2016, the surety guarantee amounted to TNOK Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents 207,726 for the Group’s own leased assets. See also Note 14 on leasing agreements. Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Other current liabilities Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Current non-interest-bearing debt 19,088 26,811 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Dividend to non-controlling interests 0 6,370 Note 22: Current liabilities Fair value, interest-rate swap 0 18,145 Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Fair value, foreign exchange forward contracts 844 0 Note 24: Major individual transactions Provision for social security costs related to share-based remuneration 125 0 Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Provision for liabilities, see Note 21 12,276 17,080 Alternative performance measurements Other accrued costs 165,001 163,747 Auditor’s Report Total other current liabilities 197,334 232,153 All current liabilities fall due within 12 months. 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 24 MAJOR INDIVIDUAL TRANSACTIONS Net cash outflow related to the acquisition: Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Figures in NOK 1,000 2017 Statement of other comprehensive income Purchase of the Dworek brand 01.01.-31.12. Cash payment on acquisition 22,753 In August 2016, Arcus Norway AS entered into an agreement to acquire the Dworek brand. Dworek is a Statement of financial position as at 31 December Cash and cash equivalents in the acquired operations -23,933 Polish Vodka that is sold by Vinmonopolet in Norway and Systembolaget in Sweden, with an annual Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. ­volume of more than 1.1 million litres, see also Note 13. Net cash outflow on acquisition -1,180 Statement of changes in equity Brief history of the Group Acquisition of the remaining 50 per cent of Det Danske Spiritus Kompagni A/S in the first quarter of 2017 Accounting policies In January 2017, the Arcus Group entered into an agreement with Flemming Karberg Familieholding ApS NOTE 25 EVENTS AFTER THE CLOSE OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR Notes to acquire the remaining 50 per cent interest in Det Danske Spiritus Kompagni A/S (DDSK). Up to and including 31.12.2016, DDSK was owned on a 50/50 basis by the Arcus Group and Flemming Karberg Note 1: Companies in the Group Familieholding ApS, and was treated as a Joint Venture in the Arcus Group, see also Note 2. This is a Increased ownership of Joint Venture, Det Danske Spiritus Kompagni A/S Note 2: Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities ­strategic acquisition to strengthen our position in the Danish market. The acquisition will be implemented Det Danske Spiritus Kompagni A/S (DDSK) was established after Arcus had acquired the activities of De as from 1.1.2017 and means that in accounting terms, DDSK will be fully consolidated in the Group as Danske Spritfabrikker in 2013. The company was established as a Joint Venture with Flemming Karberg Note 3: Other investments in shares from the same date. Familieholding ApS. In January 2017, Arcus acquired Flemming Karberg Familieholding's interest of 50 Note 4: Management of financial risk per cent and after this transaction has 100 per cent ownership of DDSK. Up to and including 2016, DDSK Note 5: Segment information A provisional acquisition analysis is presented below, based on the company's statement of financial was booked according to the equity method in the Arcus Group's accounts, but as from 1 January 2017 Note 6: Transactions with related parties position as of the acquisition date. will be fully consolidated in the consolidated financial statements. Note 7: Other operating expenses Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Other Recognised Fair value Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Beyond the above mentioned circumstances, no significant events occurred between the close of the value of acquired Observable of acquired Note 10: Financial income and costs financial year and the date on which Arcus’ consolidated financial statements and parent company finanFigures in NOK 1,000 operations excess values business Note 11: Tax cial statements were approved for publication. This applies to events that would have provided knowledTangible fixed assets 21 0 21 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets ge of factors present at the close of the financial year, or events concerning matters that have arisen Receivables 44,883 0 44,883 Note 13: Intangible assets since the close of the financial year. The consolidated financial statements were ­approved for publication Bank deposits 23,933 0 23,933 Note 14: Leasing agreements by resolution of the Board of Directors on 15 March 2017. Unpaid public duties -12,318 0 -12,318 Note 15: Other receivables Note 16: Inventories Other current liabilities -39,915 0 -39,915 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Tax payable -715 0 -715 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Fair value, observable net assets 15,887 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Acquisition value 31,535 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Goodwill 15,647 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities The company is not assessed to have any excess value other than goodwill. On acquisition, goodwill is the part of the net excess value that is not identifiable Estimated goodwill is capitalised in the consolidated Note 23: Pledges and guarantees statement of financial position based on the expectation that synergies with the Group’s existing Note 24: Major individual transactions ­operations will provide opportunities for increased earnings in the future. At the end of 2016, the Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year ­acquisition analysis is not final. Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Alternative performance measurements Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. In the discussion of the reported operational results, statement of financial position and cash flows, the Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Statement of other comprehensive income Group refers to a number of parameters for alternative performance measurement. These are not 01.01.-31.12. Wine ­defined in the general accounting policies, as for IFRS. Statement of financial position as at 31 December Sales revenues 1,538,676 1,428,478 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Other operating revenues 13,697 38,109 The executive management of the Arcus Group frequently uses these parameters of alternative Statement of changes in equity Total operating revenue 1,552,373 1,466,588 ­performance measurement and believes that, in combination with comparable parameters defined in Brief history of the Group Cost of sales -1,165,620 -1,071,461 ­ordinary accounting policies, these are useful to investors wishing to evaluate the Group's performance, Accounting policies ability to fulfil its commitments, and the ability to monitor and pursue new business opportunities. These Gross profit 386,753 395,127 Notes alternative performance measurements should not be seen in isolation, but, as the name indicates, as an Note 1: Companies in the Group alternative to more well-known result measurement parameters as defined in international accounting Note 2: Investments in associated companies standards. Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 and jointly controlled entities Distribution Note 3: Other investments in shares Below, the Group's parameters for alternative performance measurement are defined. Note 4: Management of financial risk Sales revenues 232,043 222,663 Other operating revenues 30,881 27,387 Note 5: Segment information Gross profit Note 6: Transactions with related parties The Arcus Group defines gross profit as total operating revenue less cost of sales. Total operating revenue 262,924 250,050 Note 7: Other operating expenses Cost of sales 0 0 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Gross profit 262,924 250,050 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Group Note 10: Financial income and costs Sales revenues 2,521,826 2,365,242 Note 11: Tax Other operating revenues 60,571 105,397 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Total operating revenue 2,582,397 2,470,639 Note 13: Intangible assets Cost of sales -1,467,920 -1,394,637 Note 14: Leasing agreements Gross profit 1,114,477 1,076,002 Note 15: Other receivables Note 16: Inventories Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Spirits Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Sales revenues 751,107 714,101 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Other operating revenues 152,776 140,697 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Total operating revenue 903,883 854,798 Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Cost of sales -427,031 -412,769 Note 24: Major individual transactions Gross profit 476,851 442,029 Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other income and expenses Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 To improve the information value of the Group’s consolidated income statement, significant positive and Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Wine negative non-recurring items and restructuring costs are separated out to a separate line in the Statement of other comprehensive income Operating profit 193,148 195,851 ­statement of income called other income and expenses. Other income and expenses are presented net on 01.01.-31.12. Depreciation, write-downs and amortisation 1,014 1,294 this income statement line. Statement of financial position as at 31 December EBITDA 194,162 197,145 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA Other income and expenses 0 367 Statement of changes in equity EBITDA is defined as operating profit before depreciation, write-downs and amortisation. Adjusted EBITDA 194,162 197,512 Brief history of the Group Adjusted EBITDA is defined as operating profit before depreciation, write-downs, amortisation and other Accounting policies income and expenses. Notes EBITDA margin = EBITDA/Total operating revenue Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Note 1: Companies in the Group Adjusted EBITDA margin = adjusted EBITDA/Total operating revenue Distribution Note 2: Investments in associated companies Operating profit -11,435 -32,915 and jointly controlled entities Below is a reconciliation of operating profit to adjusted EBITDA: Depreciation, write-downs and amortisation 13,632 13,754 Note 3: Other investments in shares EBITDA 2,197 -19,161 Note 4: Management of financial risk Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Other income and expenses 399 3,448 Note 5: Segment information Group Adjusted EBITDA 2,596 -15,713 Note 6: Transactions with related parties Operating profit 238,850 202,343 Note 7: Other operating expenses Depreciation, write-downs and amortisation 51,625 55,503 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs EBITDA 290,475 257,846 Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Other income and expenses 44,874 16,507 Note 10: Financial income and costs Other Adjusted EBITDA 335,349 274,353 Note 11: Tax Operating profit -72,917 -41,279 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Depreciation, write-downs and amortisation 8,363 8,926 Note 13: Intangible assets EBITDA -64,554 -32,353 Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Note 14: Leasing agreements Other income and expenses 40,559 11,895 Spirits Note 15: Other receivables Adjusted EBITDA -23,995 -20,458 Operating profit 134,765 85,396 Note 16: Inventories Depreciation, write-downs and amortisation 23,906 26,820 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents EBITDA 158,671 112,216 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Other income and expenses 3,916 797 Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Adjusted EBITDA 162,587 113,013 Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER DEFINITIONS OF ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENTS, SHOWN IN KEY FIGURES Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Equity ratio Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Spirits Equity ratio = equity/total equity and debt Statement of other comprehensive income Sales revenues 751,107 714,101 01.01.-31.12. Other operating revenues 152,776 140,697 Net interest-bearing debt Statement of financial position as at 31 December Net interest-bearing debt = Debt to financial institutions + book value of capitalised front-end fee + fair Total operating revenue 903,883 854,798 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. value, interest-rate swap cash and cash equivalents. Currency effects 0 13,554 Statement of changes in equity Structural changes -11,617 -21,943 Brief history of the Group Calculation basis, organic growth 892,266 846,409 Accounting policies NOK million 2016 2015 Notes Net interest-bearing debt Note 1: Companies in the Group Long-term interest-bearing debt to credit institutions 886,255 1,033,486 Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Note 2: Investments in associated companies Short-term interest-bearing debt to credit institutions 16,498 172,222 Wine and jointly controlled entities Book value of capitalised front-end arrangement fee 8,032 19,997 Sales revenues 1,538,676 1,428,478 Note 3: Other investments in shares Fair value of interest-rate swap 0 18,145 Other operating revenues 13,697 38,109 Note 4: Management of financial risk Cash and cash equivalents -199,385 -190,419 Total operating revenue 1,552,373 1,466,588 Note 5: Segment information Note 6: Transactions with related parties Net interest-bearing debt 711,400 1,053,431 Currency effects 0 29,798 Note 7: Other operating expenses Structural changes1 -4,663 -7,930 Note 8: Salaries and other personnel costs Calculation basis, organic growth 1,547,710 1,488,456 Organic growth Note 9: Pension costs, assets and obligations Organic growth in revenues is the Group or segment's total operating revenue, adjusted for translation Note 10: Financial income and costs effects and structural changes. Note 11: Tax Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Note 12: Tangible fixed assets Distribution Note 13: Intangible assets Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Sales revenues 232,043 222,663 Note 14: Leasing agreements Group Other operating revenues 30,881 27,387 Note 15: Other receivables Sales revenues 2,521,826 2,365,242 Total operating revenue 262,924 250,050 Note 16: Inventories Currency effects 0 0 Other operating revenues 60,571 105,397 Note 17: Cash and cash equivalents Structural changes 0 0 Total operating revenue 2,582,397 2,470,639 Note 18: Share capital and shareholder information Calculation basis, organic growth 262,924 250,050 Currency effects 0 43,460 Note 19: Debt to financial institutions Structural changes -13,937 -27,530 1. Includes reclassification of NOK 22.7 million from other operating revenue to reduce sales and advertising costs. Note 20: Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Note 21: Other provisions for liabilities Calculation basis, organic growth 2,568,460 2,486,569 Note 22: Current liabilities Note 23: Pledges and guarantees Note 24: Major individual transactions Note 25: Events after the close of the financial year Alternative performance measurements Auditor’s Report 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of financial position as at 31 December Statement of income 01.01. 31.12. Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Accounting policies Figures in NOK 1,000 Note 2016 2015 Notes OPERATING REVENUE AND EXPENSES Note 1: Payroll costs Payroll costs 1 6,285 0 Note 2: Tax Other operating expenses 37,909 1,758 Note 3: Subsidiaries Total operating expenses 44,194 1,758 Note 4: Share capital and shareholder information Note 5: Equity Operating profit -44,194 -1,758 Note 6: Provisions for liabilities Note 7: Loans, pledges and guarantees etc. FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Note 8: Intragroup receivables and liabilities Interest income from Group companies 707 3,705 Note 9: Cash and cash equivalents Other interest income 3,982 3,763 Note 10: Events after the close of the financial year Auditor’s Report Other financial income 7,698 12,749 Interest costs to Group companies -2,795 0 Other interest costs -42,660 -70,483 Other financial costs -155,372 -53,101 Net financial profit/loss -188,440 -105,125 PROFIT BEFORE TAX -232,634 -105,125 Tax 2 -32,965 -19,835 RESULT FOR THE YEAR -199,669 -85,290 Transferred from/to other equity -199,669 -85,290 Total transfers -199,669 -85,290 102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Statement of financial position as at 31 December Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of financial position as at 31 December Figures in NOK 1,000 Note 2016 2015 Figures in NOK 1,000 Note 2016 2015 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Accounting policies ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Notes Fixed assets Equity Note 1: Payroll costs Intangible assets Paid-in equity Note 2: Tax Deferred tax assets 2 141,248 106,856 Share capital 4, 5 1,360 1,000 Note 3: Subsidiaries Total intangible assets 141,248 106,856 Share premium 5 770,744 794 Note 4: Share capital and shareholder information Total paid-in equity 772,104 1,794 Note 5: Equity Financial assets Note 6: Provisions for liabilities Investment in subsidiary 3 1,438,317 1,438,317 Retained earnings Note 7: Loans, pledges and guarantees etc. Loans to Group companies 0 65,000 Other equity 5 22,664 321,721 Note 8: Intragroup receivables and liabilities Total financial assets 1,438,317 1,503,317 Total retained earnings 22,664 321,721 Note 9: Cash and cash equivalents Note 10: Events after the close of the financial year Total fixed assets 1,579,565 1,610,173 Total equity 794,768 323,515 Auditor’s Report Current assets Liabilities Receivables Provisions Current receivables from Group companies 0 1,125 Other provisions 6 13,821 48,457 Other receivables 445 32 Total provisions 13,821 48,457 Total receivables 445 1,157 Other non-current liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 9 100,731 27,760 Debt to financial institutions 7 -3,835 435,438 Total other non-current liabilities -3,835 435,438 Total current assets 101,176 28,917 Current liabilities TOTAL ASSETS 1,680,741 1,639,090 Debt to financial institutions 7 0 73,723 Trade payables 19,498 374 Trade payables to Group companies 8 19,559 56 Gjelleråsen, 15 March 2017 Other current liabilities 46,571 50 Other current liabilities payable to Group companies 8 1,350 1,468 Allocated dividend 5 99,994 0 Michael Holm Johansen Mikael Norlander Hanne Refsholt Eilif Due Trond Berger Intragroup balance in Group cash pool system 9 689,015 756,009 Chairman of the Board Total current liabilities 875,987 831,680 Total liabilities 885,973 1,315,575 Leena Saarinen Erik Hagen Kjell Arne Greni Ingrid E. Skistad Kenneth Hamnes Group CEO TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,680,741 1,639,090 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Statement of cash flows 01.01. 31.12. Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of financial position as at 31 December Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Accounting policies CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS Notes Pre-tax profit -232,634 -105,125 Note 1: Payroll costs Costs related to share-based remuneration without cash effect 606 0 Note 2: Tax Value changes without cash effect 120,065 -7,207 Note 3: Subsidiaries Financial expenses without cash effect 20,563 26,796 Note 4: Share capital and shareholder information Change in trade payables 38,627 348 Note 5: Equity Change in other current assets and other liabilities 47,115 -4,924 Note 6: Provisions for liabilities Net cash flows from operational activities -5,658 -90,112 Note 7: Loans, pledges and guarantees etc. Note 8: Intragroup receivables and liabilities CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES Note 9: Cash and cash equivalents Paid-in on the issue of synthetic shares and options 0 500 Note 10: Events after the close of the financial year Paid-out on the settlement of synthetic shares and options -154,701 0 Auditor’s Report Net cash flow from investment activities -154,701 500 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Change in loans to subsidiaries 65,000 -51,156 Share issue 768,883 0 Proceeds from debt to financial institutions 100,000 125,214 Redemption of debt to financial institutions -629,159 -116,468 Capitalised loan costs -4,400 -1,603 Change in intragroup balance in Group cash pool system -66,994 134,942 Net cash flow from financing activities 233,330 90,929 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 72,971 1,317 Holding of cash and cash equivalents as at 01.01. 27,760 26,443 Holding of cash and cash equivalents as at 31.12. 100,731 27,760 104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Accounting policies Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of financial position as at 31 December The annual accounts have been prepared in limited economic life are depreciated according to date less than three months from the acquisition Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. ­accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act of a reasonable depreciation plan. date. 1998 and generally accepted accounting policies. Accounting policies Current assets are valued at the lower of cost or BORROWING Notes The company was founded on 5 November 2004, fair value. Current and non-current liabilities are Financial liabilities through borrowing are recognised Note 1: Payroll costs and listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange on 1 December capitalised at the nominal amounts received at the at the amount received net of transaction costs. Note 2: Tax 2016. Prior to the IPO, the company was restructured time of establishment. Borrowing costs are Transaction costs (front-end fees) are capitalised Note 3: Subsidiaries from a private limited liability company to a public ­capitalised together with the loan and amortised in the statement of financial position and depreciated Note 4: Share capital and shareholder information limited liability company, and at the same time over the term of the loan. The first year’s over the term of the loan. Note 5: Equity changed its name from Arcus-Gruppen Holding AS ­instalment is reclassified as a current liability. Note 6: Provisions for liabilities to Arcus ASA. Borrowing in currencies other than the functional Note 7: Loans, pledges and guarantees etc. Certain items are valued according to different currency is translated at the exchange rate at the Note 8: Intragroup receivables and liabilities The purpose of the company is to operate the principles, as explained below. close of the financial year. Note 9: Cash and cash equivalents import, export, production, storage and distribution Note 10: Events after the close of the financial year of alcoholic beverages and other goods, and other SHARES IN SUBSIDIARIES TAXES Auditor’s Report activities related to this business, as well as the Shares in subsidiaries are valued using the cost Tax expenses are matched with profit/loss before ownership of participations in other companies method. The transaction costs are added to the tax. Tax costs comprise tax payable (tax on the that conduct such business. purchase price of shares in subsidiaries. Shares are year’s directly taxable income) and changes in net written down to fair value if this is lower than the deferred tax. Tax costs are allocated to ordinary CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS recognised value. profit/loss and profit/loss from extraordinary Arcus ASA owns 100 per cent of the shares in items in accordance with the taxation basis. Arcus-Gruppen AS and Vectura AS. Up to the IPO Dividends received and other distributions are ­Deferred tax and deferred tax assets are presented on 1 December 2016, the company was consolidated recognised in the statement of income in the same net in the statement of financial position. in the consolidated financial statements of Ratos year as they are allocated in the subsidiary. If AB. The consolidated financial statements are ­dividends/other distributions exceed the share of Tax assets are only capitalised if it can be shown to ­available on request from Ratos AB, Stockholm, or retained profit after the acquisition, the surplus be probable that they can be utilised via future at www.ratos.se. represents repayment of invested capital and the taxable income. distributions are deducted from the value of the GENERAL RULE FOR VALUATION AND CLASSIFIinvestment in the statement of financial position. All figures in the financial statements are presented CATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES in NOK 1,000 unless otherwise indicated. Assets intended for continuing ownership or use RECEIVABLES are classified as fixed assets. Other assets are Trade receivables and other receivables are stated classified as current assets. Receivables due for at nominal value after deduction of provisions for payment within one year are classified as current expected losses. Provisions for losses are made on assets. The classification of current and non-current the basis of an individual assessment of each liabilities is based on similar criteria. ­receivable. Fixed assets are valued at acquisition cost, but CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS written down to fair value if the impairment is not Cash and cash equivalents include cash, bank expected to be temporary. Fixed assets with a ­deposits and other means of payment with a due 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of financial position as at 31 December NOTE 1 PAYROLL COSTS The Group CEO and other members of the executive management have an ordinary occupational pension Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. with Storebrand, which entails 5 per cent pension contributions for salaries of 0 to 7.1G and 11 per cent for salaries from 7.1 to 12G. The Group CEO has a supplementary pension agreement that gives pension Accounting policies Salaries including holiday pay 4,930 0 earnings of 15 per cent of salaries above 12G. This pension entitlement is capitalised annually in the Notes Social security costs 410 0 consolidated statement of financial position and the return is based on the return from the Storebrand Note 1: Payroll costs Pension costs including social security costs 0 0 Balansert pension fund. Note 2: Tax Note 3: Subsidiaries Other personnel costs 945 0 For a detailed specification of payments to the Group CEO and Group executive management, see Note 8 Note 4: Share capital and shareholder information Total salaries and other personnel costs 6,285 0 to the consolidated financial statements. Note 5: Equity During the year there have been no employees in the company, but Board fees have been paid as from Note 6: Provisions for liabilities ­September. In addition, bonuses have been re-invoiced and provisions have been made for bonus payments Note 7: Loans, pledges and guarantees etc. Note 8: Intragroup receivables and liabilities related to the work on the IPO process in 2016. NOTE 2 TAX Note 9: Cash and cash equivalents In 2016, the Group CEO (general manager) was formally employed by and received his salary from the Note 10: Events after the close of the financial year ­subsidiary Arcus-Gruppen AS. In total, he received salary benefits of TNOK 3,337, including a bonus of TNOK Tax for the year is calculated as follows: 2016 2015 Auditor’s Report 1,000 that was earned and allocated in 2015, as well as other benefits of TNOK 220. He has a pension agreeTax payable 0 0 ment that entailed costs of TNOK 307 in 2016. Provisions of TNOK 1,100 have been made for bonus earned Change in deferred tax -32,965 -19,835 in 2016. The Group CEO was also included in the Group's previous incentive programme with synthetic Tax effect of costs related to the IPO, carried to equity 1,427 0 ­options, which was settled and terminated in 2016. As of the settlement date, this entailed a payment of Tax -32,965 -19,835 TNOK 4,161. For further information about this programme, see Note 6. Reconciliation from nominal to actual tax rates: Auditors' fees 2016 2015 Profit before tax -232,634 -105,125 Statutory audit 326 167 Expected income tax at a nominal tax rate of 25 per cent (27 per cent in 2015) -58,159 -28,384 Other certification services 707 0 Tax effect of the following items: Total auditors' fees 1,033 167 Non-deductible costs 17,882 0 The amounts are stated in TNOK and exclude VAT. Other services than auditing are solely related to fees in Change due to a change in tax rate 5,885 8,549 conjunction with the IPO process in 2016. Tax on costs booked directly to equity 1,427 0 Tax -32,965 -19,835 The terms and conditions for the Group CEO are set by the Board of Directors, which also takes decisions in principle concerning the Group's terms and conditions policy and compensation schemes for other Effective tax rate 14.2% 18.9% employees. The Board has a remuneration committee which prepares remuneration proposals for ­decision by the Board. The committee comprises two members of the Board elected by the shareholders. The administration handles cases for the remuneration committee and the Board. In 2016, the Group’s executive management was part of the Group's annual bonus scheme and a synthetic share and option scheme that was terminated in conjunction with the IPO. The Group CEO has an ordinary bonus agreement which, under certain conditions, will release payment of up to five months' salary, while other members of the executive management can receive up to four months' salary. 106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Specification of temporary differences and deficit carried forward: NOTE 4 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2016 2015 Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Asset Liability Asset Liability Statement of financial position as at 31 December The share capital comprises: Non-current debt 0 3,835 0 19,997 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Total number Nominal Book value Liabilities 16,312 0 34,277 0 Accounting policies Date Change of shares value (NOK 1,000) Deficit carried forward 576,057 0 413,145 0 Notes 31.12.15 1,000,000 1.00 1,000 Total 592,369 3,835 447,422 19,997 Note 1: Payroll costs 20.10.16 Split 1:50 50,000,000 0.02 1,000 Note 2: Tax 01.12.16 Share issue 68,023,255 0.02 1,360 Note 3: Subsidiaries Basis for deferred tax asset/liability 588,534 427,425 31.12.16 68,023,255 0.02 1,360 Note 4: Share capital and shareholder information Net deferred tax asset in the statement Note 5: Equity of financial position* 141,248 106,856 Note 6: Provisions for liabilities Number of Ownership and At the end of the year, the company had NOK 138.3 million in capitalised deferred tax assets associated Note 7: Loans, pledges and guarantees etc. 20 largest shareholders as at 31.12.2016: shares voting rights with the deficit to be carried forward. Based on the Group’s strategic plans and current long-term plans Note 8: Intragroup receivables and liabilities Ratos AB 16,077,244 23.6% for companies in the tax group, the Board of Directors and executive management expect that the Note 9: Cash and cash equivalents Geveran AB 6,700,000 9.8% ­deferred tax assets can be utilised. Note 10: Events after the close of the financial year Canica AS 3,780,000 5.6% Auditor’s Report At the end of 2016, deferred tax was calculated at 24 per cent as a result of government tax changes as Hoff SA 3,297,000 4.8% from 2017. At the end of 2015, deferred tax was calculated at 25 per cent. Sundt AS 2,300,000 3.4% Verdipapirfondet DnB Norge (IV) 2,263,914 3.3% NOTE 3 SUBSIDIARIES Danske Invest Instit. II. 1,747,900 2.6% Folketrygdfondet 1,600,000 2.4% BNP Paribas Securities Services Nominee 1,490,967 2.2% Subsidiaries of Arcus ASA SEB Invest Europe Small Cap 1,460,633 2.1% Date of Registered Voting and Currency Nominal share Skandinaviska Enskilda Nominee 1,384,757 2.0% acquisition office ownership capital DnB Livsforsikring ASA 1,275,123 1.9% Arcus-Gruppen AS 10.10.05 Nittedal 100% NOK 276,000 Verdipapirfondet DnB Norge Selektiv 1,006,665 1.5% Vectura AS 30.09.13 Nittedal 100% NOK 14,000 Verdipapirfondet DnB Norden (III) 1,003,865 1.5% Holta Invest AS 1,000,000 1.5% Equity according Ilmarinen Mutual Pens Ins Company 1,000,000 1.5% to last annual Profit for the Ram One 900,000 1.3% Cost price Book value financial stateyear 2016 Company (NOK) as at 31.12 ments (NOK) (NOK) JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. Nominee 860,303 1.3% Arcus-Gruppen AS 1,886,607 1,362,217 1,891,023 89,791 Danske Invest Norske Aksjer Inst 835,900 1.2% Vectura AS 76,100 76,100 20,202 -9,525 KLP AksjeNorge 750,000 1.1% Total subsidiaries 1,962,707 1,438,317 1,911,225 80,266 Other shareholders 17,288,984 25.4% Total 68,023,255 100.0% On the restructuring of the Group in December 2015, a dividend of TNOK 448,304 was issued by the subsidiary Arcus-Gruppen AS to Arcus ASA, which is reported in its entirety against the recognised value Dividend of the shares in Arcus-Gruppen AS. The Board of Directors proposed dividend distribution of NOK 1.47 per share for 2016 (2015: no distribution). 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS NOTE 5 EQUITY Synthetic Synthetic Total provisions for Figures in NOK 1,000 shares options liabilities Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. Recognised value of liability, 1.1. 30,960 17,497 48,457 Statement of financial position as at 31 December Share Share Other Issue of new shares and options during the period 0 0 0 Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. capital premium equity Total Changes in value during the period 41,302 78,763 120,065 Accounting policies Equity as at 01.01 1,000 794 321,721 323,515 Notes Payments during the period -72,262 -82,439 -154,701 Profit for the year 0 0 -199,669 -199,669 Note 1: Payroll costs Book value of liability, 31.12 0 13,821 13,821 Share issue 360 769,950 0 770,310 Note 2: Tax Share-based payment 0 0 606 606 Note 3: Subsidiaries Allocated dividend 0 0 -99,994 -99,994 Note 4: Share capital and shareholder information Equity as at 31.12 1,360 770,744 22,664 794,768 NOTE 7 LOANS, PLEDGES AND GUARANTEES ETC. Note 5: Equity Note 6: Provisions for liabilities Note 7: Loans, pledges and guarantees etc. Debt to financial institutions 2016 2015 Note 8: Intragroup receivables and liabilities NOTE 6 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES Loan amount Note 9: Cash and cash equivalents Interestin foreign Loan amount Loan amount Note 10: Events after the close of the financial year Figures in NOK 1,000 Currency rate profile currency in NOK in NOK At the beginning of the year, 23,971 synthetic shares and 102,270 synthetic options associated with the Auditor’s Report SEB NOK Variable 0 0 327,310 parent company, Arcus ASA, had been issued. All of these were derecognised in conjunction with the parent company's IPO in December 2016. At the end of 2016, there were no longer any agreements in this SEB NOK Fixed 0 0 201,848 co-investment programme in Arcus ASA. The Group CEO had 5,970 synthetic options in this programme. Total debt to financial institutions 0 529,158 Capitalised front-end arrangement fee -3,835 -19,997 The synthetic shares and options were issued at the estimated fair value on the issue date. The valuation Book value as at 31.12 -3,835 509,161 on the issue date was calculated on the basis of external valuations, according to a cash flow model in which cash flows were discounted to fair value using a discount rate corresponding to the Group’s weighted Maturity Maturity Maturity average cost of capital (WACC), adjusted for a liquidity premium, but where the final value was also Term structure 2017 2018-2020 after 2020 Total ­assessed against the pricing of comparable companies. The development in value in reporting periods SEB 0 0 0 0 between issue and settlement was calculated according to the same principles. Total debt to financial institutions 0 0 0 0 On settlement, the synthetic shares resulted in a payment equivalent to the fair value of the actual shares The Group has a Group cash pool system at Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken (SEB), which includes the in the parent company, multiplied by the number of synthetic shares. The fair value of the shares was set subsidiaries with the exception of the companies in the wine business in Sweden and Finland. At the end as the parent company's opening price on the Oslo Stock Exchange. On settlement, the synthetic options of 2016, this Group cash pool system was managed by Arcus ASA. Arcus ASA, has pledged surety on resulted in a payment equivalent to the value per share beyond the exercise price, multiplied by the behalf of all of its subsidiaries, linked at all times to outstanding drawings on this scheme. ­number of synthetic options. In 2016, the Group re-financed its long-term loans in SEB, see Note 19 to the consolidated financial stateValue changes related to this incentive programme are presented under financial items. ments. In conjunction with this refinancing, the long-term loan in Arcus ASA was redeemed in full. The remaining book value of the capitalised front-end fee is related to the front-end fee for the cash pool At the end of 2016, there is still an obligation of NOK 13.8 million, which is primarily related to remaining system. The outstanding value is here amortised over the duration of the loan, until the end of 2021. provisions for social security costs. The changes in 2016 are presented in the table below. Reference is also made to Note 20 in the consolidated financial statements. In conjunction with this refinancing, all previously mortgaged assets were released and no new pledges were established. In relation to the old mortgage loan in SEB that was settled in conjunction with the refinancing in 2016, all of the shares in the subsidiaries Arcus-Gruppen AS, Arcus Denmark A/S and 108 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Arcus ASA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ­ rcus Deutschland GmbH were pledged. In addition, collateral associated with selected subsidiaries has A NOTE 9 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS been pledged for operating equipment, inventories and factoring. The table below states the book value Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. of the pledged assets covered by the mortgage: Statement of financial position as at 31 December The company has no restricted bank deposits, but has a bank guarantee for a tax payment of TNOK Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. The company has no non-recurring debt with terms exceeding five years. 2,500. Accounting policies Notes The agreement on a mortgage loan facility contains a loan clause (covenant) concerning net interest-bearing The company manages the Group cash pool system for the Group, and the companies included in this are Note 1: Payroll costs debt as a ratio of adjusted EBITDA. The Group continuously monitors this clause and reports to the bank on a Arcus-Gruppen AS, Arcus Norway AS, Vingruppen AS, Vinordia AS, Symposium Wines AS, Arcus Wine Note 2: Tax quarterly basis. As of 31.12.2016 the Group was well within the required ratio. Brands AS, Excellars AS, Heyday Wines AS, Vinuniq AS, Arcus Denmark A/S, Arcus Sweden AB, Arcus Finland Oy, Arcus Deutschland GmbH, VinGruppen Sweden Holding AB, Vectura AS, De Lysholmske Note 3: Subsidiaries Book value of pledged assets ­Brenneriog Destillasjonsfabrikker ANS, Oplandske Spritfabrik ANS, Siemers & Cos Destillasjon ANS Note 4: Share capital and shareholder information and Løiten Brænderis Destillation ANS. Note 5: Equity Note 6: Provisions for liabilities Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Net deposits or drawings by the subsidiaries are presented as intragroup balances with Arcus ASA. The Note 7: Loans, pledges and guarantees etc. Pledges in shares 0 1,908,855 joint overdraft limit in the Group cash pool system is TNOK 600,000. At year-end, the Group had total Note 8: Intragroup receivables and liabilities Total 0 1,908,855 deposits of TNOK 100,731 in the scheme, which are presented as bank deposits for Arcus ASA, Note 9: Cash and cash equivalents ­compared with TNOK 28,759 at the end of 2015. Note 10: Events after the close of the financial year Figures in NOK 1,000 2016 2015 Auditor’s Report Tangible fixed assets 0 152,644 As at 31 December 2016, Arcus ASA has drawings of TNOK 588,285 in the Group cash pool system, Trade receivables 0 794,670 compared with drawings of TNOK 728,249 at the end of 2015. Inventories 0 185,082 Total 0 1,132,396 NOTE 10 EVENTS AFTER THE CLOSE OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR NOTE 8 INTRAGROUP RECEIVABLES AND LIABILITIES No significant events occurred between the close of the financial year and the date on which Arcus ASA's consolidated financial statements and parent company financial statements were approved for publication. Receivables 2016 2015 This applies to events that would have provided knowledge of factors present at the close of the financial year, or events concerning matters that have arisen since the close of the financial year. The consolidated Long-term loan to Arcus Norway AS 0 65,000 financial statements were approved for publication by resolution of the Board of Directors on 15 March Other current receivables from Group companies 0 1,125 2017. Total 0 66,125 Liabilities 2016 2015 Trade payables to Group companies 19,559 50 Other current liabilities payable to Group companies 1,350 1,468 Intragroup balance in Group cash pool system 689,015 756,009 Total 709,924 757,527 The company has no consolidated assets or liabilities that will fall due more than five years after the close of the financial year. 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Auditor's report ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES AUDITOR'S REPORT Consolidated Accounts with Notes Statement of income 01.01.–31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of financial position as at Statsautoriserte revisorer Foretaksregisteret: NO 976 389 387 MVA Tlf: +47 24 00 24 00 2 Ernst & Young AS 31 December Fax: +47 24 00 24 01 Dronning Eufemias gate 6, NO-0191 Oslo www.ey.no Postboks 1156 Sentrum, NO-0107 Oslo Medlemmer av den norske revisorforening Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Statement of changes in equity Impairment assessments – brands and goodwill INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT Brief history of the Group As at 31 December 2016, the Arcus Group has considerable brands and goodwill, which represents 39 % of total assets. Due to the extent of judgmental assessments and assumptions applied in Accounting policies To the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Arcus ASA management’s models for the impairment assessments, in addition to the significant value in the balance sheet, the impairment assessments is considered a key audit matter. Notes to the accounts Report on the audit of the financial statements Our audit of the Group’s impairment assessments has included an evaluation of the underlying impairment models and cash-generating units together with an evaluation of the assumptions Alternative performance measurements Opinion management used for the calculations. We have considered management’s assumptions for future cashflow forecasts by evaluating the historical accuracy in management’s prognoses against the Company’s Parent Company Accounts with Notes We have audited the financial statements of Arcus ASA comprising the financial statements of the parent actual results. We assessed the Company’s calculation of the applied discount rate by comparing the company and the Group. The financial statements of the parent company comprise the statement of assumptions for the calculation with external data like expected inflation, specific growth-rates and beta Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. financial position as at 31 December 2016, the statement of income and statements of cash flows for the values for comparable companies. In addition, we have performed sensitivity analyses in order to year then ended and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting evaluate how sensitive the model is for changes in the most important underlying assumptions. Statement of financial position as at 31 December policies. We refer to the Note 13 in the financial statements. The consolidated financial statements comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 December Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. 2016, statement of income, statements of other comprehensive income, statement of cash flows and Other information statement of changes in equity for the year then ended and notes to the financial statements, including a Accounting policies Other information consists of the information included in the Company’s annual report other than the summary of significant accounting policies. financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Notes to the accounts In our opinion, Director (management) is responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information, and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. ► the financial statements are prepared in accordance with the law and regulations; Auditor’s Report In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information, ► the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as at 31 December 2016, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial with the Norwegian Accounting Act and accounting standards and practices generally accepted in Norway; statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, ► the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects the financial position of the Group as based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other at 31 December 2016 and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. Responsibilities of management for the financial statements Basis for opinion Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in We conducted our audit in accordance with laws, regulations, and auditing standards and practices accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act and accounting standards and practices generally accepted in Norway for the financial statements of the parent company and International Financial generally accepted in Norway, including International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU for the financial statements of the Group, and for such under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial internal control as management determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Norway, and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities as required by law and regulations. We have also complied with our other In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to ethical obligations in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. going concern basis of accounting, unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Key audit matters Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an addressed the matter is provided in that context. audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the financial statements section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit basis of these financial statements. included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the financial statements. Independent auditor's report Arcus ASA A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 110 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES | Auditor’s report ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Arcus ASA FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES Consolidated Accounts with Notes Statement of income 01.01.–31.12. Statement of other comprehensive income 01.01.-31.12. Statement of financial position as at 3 4 31 December Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. Statement of changes in equity As part of an audit in accordance with law, regulations and generally accepted auditing principles in Opinion on registration and documentation Norway, including ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism Brief history of the Group throughout the audit. We also: Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, and control procedures we have considered necessary in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, Accounting policies ► 3000, «Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information», it is design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and our opinion that management has fulfilled its duty to ensure that the Company's accounting information appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from Notes to the accounts fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, is properly recorded and documented as required by law and bookkeeping standards and practices accepted in Norway. misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Alternative performance measurements ► obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Parent Company Accounts with Notes Company’s internal control Oslo, 16 March 2017 evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and ERNST & YOUNG AS Statement of income 01.01.-31.12. ► related disclosures made by management. Statement of financial position as at 31 December ► conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material Statement of cash flows 01.01.-31.12. uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Jan Wellum Svensen financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on State Authorised Public Accountant (Norway) Accounting policies the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. Notes to the accounts ► evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, (This translation from Norwegian has been made for information purposes only.) and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that Auditor’s Report achieves fair presentation. ► obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on the Board of Directors’ report and in the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, it is our opinion that the information presented in the Board of Directors’ report concerning the financial statements and in the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility, the going concern assumption and proposal for the allocation of the result is consistent with the financial statements and complies with the law and regulations. Independent auditor's report Arcus ASA Independent auditor's report Arcus ASA A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited Arcus ASA Destilleriveien 11 Postbox 64 NO-1483 Hagan Tel. (+47) 67 06 50 00 post@arcusgruppen.no www.arcusgruppen.no
