Sida 1 av 2 Dokumentnamn Version COP_nov2017_ENG.doc Godkänd: 2017‐10‐20 av Christina Befwe Fastställd av: Magnus Alm Ersätter tidigare version daterad: EXECUTIVE STATEMENT 2017 Idnet is an IT company that creates efficient logistics for retail stores and warehouses. Our goal is to provide clients with modern and future‐proof logistics solutions using improved work practices, with increased profitability and better ergonomics as a result. We deliver WMS solutions and/or integration with existing warehouse / business/ and store data systems that allow the customer to maximize system utilization to significantly increase the efficiency and quality. Customers consist largely of the leading Swedish chain stores as well as e‐commerce, 3pl and production companies. Idnet currently has 45 employees, with headquarters in Gothenburg, Sweden and a local office in Oslo, Norway. During the year we have focused on our own processes from a risk perspective. This has resulted in several activities during the year, some of the more extensive are: • We have determined a CSR‐strategy • We have conducted risk analysis of our processes from a sustainable perspective • We have conducted external audits according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 We have also continued our sponsorship of various CSR projects. For the fourth year in a row, we sponsor Team Rynkeby (Barncancerfonden), Hand‐In‐Hand‐Sweden, Jontefonden (a foundation for children and young people who are waiting for, or has performed, an organ transplant) as well as local football and ice hockey teams. This report describes the steps Idnet has taken in 2017 in our efforts to integrate the principles of the UN Global Compact into corporate strategy, corporate culture and business operations. Gothenburg, October 20, 2017 Magnus Alm CEO, Idnet AB Sida 2 av 2 Dokumentnamn Version COP_nov2017_ENG.doc Godkänd: 2017‐10‐20 av Christina Befwe Fastställd av: Magnus Alm Ersätter tidigare version daterad: 1. Human rights We have participated in the Fair Trade Challenge in order to increase employees' knowledge of Fairtrade and Idnet's own commitment to these issues. In connection to his, all employees participated in a workshop aiming to improve our impact on this matter. 2. Labor & Work Environment We have improved and documented many work processes for the convenience of the employees. A staff guide book that describes our company culture has been launched. It will be a great support reference for both managers and employees in their daily work. Risk assessments of employees' physical and mental health have been conducted through questionnaires. The members of the staff has been offered an ergonomic review of their workplace and several desks and chairs have been converted into ergonomic alternatives. Public staff areas in general have been improved. Idnet supports its employees with financial compensation related to physical training and has signed an agreement with a gym next to the office which gives extra convenience for the staff. 3. Environment During the Fair Trade Challenge workshop we discussed green washing in relation to our environment policy. Idnet participated in the Nordic Global Compact Network meeting in may 2017, a conference focused on two of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals: Partnership for the goals (SDG 17) and Sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11) We have conducted risk analysis of our processes from a sustainable perspective and the person in charge of sustainability has been trained in Life Cycle Assessments. 4. Anti‐Corruption We have conducted background checks on additional suppliers.
