GRI G4 ‘in accordance’ Core option FORTIFYING SUSTAINABLE GROW H Corporate Sustainability Report 2014-15 Sustainable Development Policy SAIL recognizes that its business activities have direct and indirect impact on the environment and society. SAIL is committed to continuously promote Sustainable Development encompassing environmental, societal and economic aspects related to its business activities. Guiding Principles Ÿ Affirm its commitment to contributing towards a clean and sustainable environment and continually enhancing its environment related performance as an integral part of its business philosophy and values. Ÿ Strive to integrate its business values in an ethical and transparent manner to demonstrate its commitment to sustainable development and to meet the interests of its stakeholders. Ÿ Create a positive footprint within the society to make a meaningful difference in the lives of people by continually aligning its initiatives to the goals for sustainable development. Ÿ Regularly interact with stakeholders to assess and achieve sustainability goals associated with its business activities, through constructive dialogue. Ÿ Maintain commitment to business and people for quality, health and safety in every aspect. P K Singh Chairman January 2016 CONTENT Ÿ Ÿ Chairman’s Message About Fifth Annual Corporate Sustainability Report 01 04 Ÿ Performance Highlights of 2014-15 06 Ÿ SAIL – A Maharatna Company 08 Ÿ Our Sustainability Approach 12 Ÿ Governance Mechanism 16 Ÿ Corporate Integrity 19 Ÿ Partnerships, Associations and Memberships 20 Ÿ Awards and Accolades 22 Ÿ Engaging with Stakeholders 24 Ÿ Ensuring Financial Sustainability 30 Ÿ Conserving Energy 34 Ÿ Preserving Our Environment 38 Ÿ Product Stewardship 50 Ÿ Managing the Supply Chain 55 Ÿ Safe Workplace 56 Ÿ Nurturing our Human Resources 64 Ÿ Crafting Professionals 70 Ÿ Giving Back to the Society 74 Ÿ GRI Content Index 83 Ÿ Abbreviations 87 Fortifying Sustainable Growth Chairman’s Message Dear Stakeholders, Marching towards sustainable development has been a tradition in SAIL. Since its inception, the Steel Authority of India Ltd. has been a front-runner in sustainability initiatives and has always been embracing and applying the principles of sustainability in conducting its business activities. Presenting and publishing of Corporate Sustainability Report annually, reaffirms and demonstrates our conscious choice of adopting transparency and disclosing our performance in all the dimensions of sustainability. All previous SAIL reports have been prepared according to the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3 Guidelines, at Application Level A. The Corporate Sustainability Report 2014-15 has been prepared in accordance with the new ‘G4’ guidelines of GRI Sustainability Reporting System. This report aims to highlight key issues and achievements pertaining to sustainable and inclusive development and measures undertaken to deal with these issues. We continue to operate in a challenging and dynamic environment, which is replete with opportunities. The world economy has been experiencing subdued growth and economic slowdown. However, advanced economies are anticipating turnaround in next few years as a result of higher purchasing power due to decline in oil prices. On the domestic front, we are confident of accelerated growth of the economy in the coming future. The thrust of the Union Government on infrastructure development, construction, rapid urbanization and expanding manufacturing capabilities, which are all steel intensive sectors, augurs well for the growth of the domestic steel consumption in the ensuing years. This is also manifested in the Government’s prime campaigns such as ‘Make in India’ and ‘Start Ups’. The Company is trying to overcome the global economic slowdown by augmenting production of value added products, improving capacity utilization and operational efficiency as well through aggressive cost cutting measures. Further, Government interventions such as increase in import duties and imposition of safeguard duty on certain steel products shall help us in retaining margins. During 2014-15, the Company achieved a turnover of ` 50,627 crore and profit after tax of ` 2,093 crore. A contribution of about `11,110 crore was also made to the National Exchequer by way of payment of dividend, taxes and duties to various Government Agencies. SAIL achieved its highest ever Hot Metal production of 15.4 Million Tonne (MT) surpassing its previous best of 15.2 MT achieved in 2007-08. Our Modernization & Expansion Programme (MEP) has started yielding results with additional capacity coming on-stream across the Plants/Units. The new units at Rourkela and Burnpur were dedicated to the nation by the Hon’ble Prime Minister in April 2015 and May 2015 respectively. Besides capacity addition, the adoption of state-of-the-art technologies has paved way for technological up-gradation and enrichment of product mix. All these measures would help us in improving our productivity, cost effectiveness and energy efficiency with attendant benefit of making our operations more environment friendly. The Company incurred a capital expenditure of about ` 6,840 crore during the Financial Year 2014-15 and plans a further capital expenditure of around ` 7,500 crore during the Financial Year 2015-16. To further augment its contribution to the economic development of the nation and to address the future challenges, the Company is working on a long term strategic plan which will steer it towards a target of 50 million tonnes per annum (MTPA) of Hot Metal production capacity. This shall put us amongst the global steel players, besides pledging to be a part of the vision of 300 million tonnes (MT) per annum steel capacity of the Government. In addition to our internal efforts, we are also open to strategic alliances to enhance our value for all the stakeholders and the society at large. A number of strategic interventions in this regard were conceptualized during the course of the year which will help us to unleash our potential in the coming years. Raw material security is another area of SAIL’s strength and a vital source of its sustenance. The shipments, on continuous basis, from its landmark acquisition of a large coking coal mine at Mozambique through the International Coal Ventures Pvt. Ltd. (ICVL) 01 (G4-1) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 have started. Further, the Sitanala Coking Coal Block has been allotted to SAIL by the Government of India and efforts are being made for obtaining further allocation of coal blocks under the Government dispensation route. For fulfillment of its commitment towards innovation, several new products have been developed by the Company during the year. A few notable among them are: grades of Seismic Resistant Rebars in line with international specifications (SAIL being the first developer in Country), Plates for Boilers and Pressure Vessels for elevated temperature applications, Blooms for Transmission Line Tower, HR Coils for Line Pipes and Auto Axle Beams and a special armour grade steel having ample hardness to provide protection from AK-47 from a distance of 10 meters so as to meet the requirements of the Indian Army for manufacturing of bullet proof vehicles. Our R&D investments are helping towards cost reduction, productivity improvements, optimum utilization of raw materials, reduced energy consumption and improved environment management. As a responsible Corporate Citizen, SAIL is committed to improve its environmental footprint. With determined efforts, best ever results were achieved during the year for the important environmental performance indicators like particulate matter (PM) emission load, specific water consumption, specific effluent load, specific CO2 emissions etc. for the Integrated Steel Plants of the Company. Recognizing the significance of plantation in conserving the environment, about 2.64 lakhs saplings were planted in and around SAIL Plants and Mines during the year 2014 15. In addition, efforts for eco-restoration of mined-out areas, greening of warehouses and other environmental projects have yielded positive results. Certifications for ISO 14001 for Environment Management System, ISO 9000 for Quality Management System, SA 8000 for Social Accountability and OHSAS 18001 for Occupational Health and Safety have been accorded to most of our Units. Our credo of making a “meaningful difference in people’s lives” is reflected in our approach towards social responsibility. The key areas of CSR activities include medical and health care, education, livelihood generation, sanitation, roads, drinking water etc. with the focus on uplifting the lives of downtrodden and underprivileged living in and around the SAIL townships. Clarion call of the Hon’ble Prime Minister for improvement in sanitation facilities of schools under “Swachha Vidyalaya Campaign” inspired us to take up in a big way construction of toilets in schools which were not having proper toilets or were having dysfunctional toilets, in the peripheral areas of SAIL Plants & Units. With modified CSR focus, the Company is executing a few large scale CSR projects, having a major impact on the socio-economic development, focusing on areas of education, sanitation, environment conservation, watershed development and skill development. Highest standards of Corporate Governance at SAIL ensure transparency, disclosures and reporting as required under the various laws, regulations and guidelines. Balanced disclosures of our organization’s economic, environmental and social performance are duly made in this report. To conclude, I reaffirm our commitment towards sustainability, aptly described through the quote of Jim MacNeill, Former Secretary General of the World Commission on Environment and Development: “Sustainability is growth based on forms and processes of development that do not undermine the integrity of the environment on which they depend. With best compliments, P K Singh Chairman (G4-1) Fortifying Sustainable Growth SAIL NETWORK SAIL organisational network in India 03 (G4-6, G4-8, G4-12) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 ABOUT FIFTH ANNUAL CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Fortifying Sustainable Growth REPORT PROFILE REPORTING PERIOD SAIL’s sustainability commitments and actions have been transparently disclosed in the form of corporate sustainability reports since 2010-11. The current report for the year 2014-15 is the fifth annual sustainability report by SAIL following the last report published for 2013-14 and covers the financial year from 1st April 2014 to 31st March 2015. REPORTING FRAMEWORK This Report is the first by SAIL to be published as per the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) ‘in accordance’ Core option. The report encompasses the Economic, Environmental and Social aspects of SAIL’s business operations. The intended audience are all the valued stakeholders who are connected directly or indirectly to SAIL’s operations and activities described on page 27. The report has been aligned with reference to Indicator Protocol, Sector Supplements and Technical Protocol while applying the reporting principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness applied in line with the Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. Details on process of defining materiality has been elaborated in Page 28. REPORTING SCOPE The report aims to present a balanced and reasonable representation of SAIL’s sustainability performance. The financial information reported in the economic performance section is presented in agreement with the Annual Report published for the financial year 2014-15 ending on 31st March 2015. The social and environmental performances of the Plants, Units and Mines have been elaborated in the respective sections. The reporting boundary is confined to the products and services of SAIL and covers the Plants, Units and Mining operations of SAIL as defined in Page 09. No Unit has been closed, divested or relocated during the year 2014-15. Efforts have been made to include all significant actions or events and reasonable estimates on the future impacts of past events. Various principles for defining quality like balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability have been considered while preparing the report. REPORTING STANDARDS Financial performance has been reported as per guidelines of the Company Law. SAIL conducts periodic quality, environment, health & safety and social audits as per the requirements of International Standards such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OSHAS 18001 and SA 8000 respectively. Economic and Financial Systems are subjected to statutory audits by a third party and internal auditors. Further, the systems are verified and reviewed by the concerned government authorities. World Steel Association (WSA) guidelines and calculation methodologies have been followed while reporting the Carbon Dioxide (CO2) emissions for Integrated Steel Plants (ISPs). Monitoring, measurement and calibrations are carried out as per relevant Indian Standards within purview of the Quality Management System. Work environment and safety are driven by the requirements of Factories Act and the environmental regulations prescribed by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MOEF&CC). The material issues were prioritized based on their significance on economic, environmental and social performance of the organization and stakeholder engagement process. As per materiality assessment process, material aspects have been determined and described in respective chapter. DISTRIBUTION & FEEDBACK ON THE REPORT The full Report is published in English language. The report is available on request via email and is available on SAIL website (www.sail.co.in). Stakeholder feedback on the report will be communicated to the related department upon its receipt via email. For additional information about SAIL’s efforts on sustainable development, you are welcome to write at sailsustainability@gmail.com ASSURANCE This report for 2014-15 is the first by SAIL as per GRI G4 guidelines. SAIL is submitting the report for GRI Content Index Service to confirm the accuracy of GRI G4 Content Index. External Assurance for the report has not been carried out. 05 (G4-13, G4-23, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31, G4-32, G4-33) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS OF 2014-15 Even with slowing market economy, SAIL has been successful in maintaining its business growth and market share. With increase in production capacity in near future, SAIL shall be in a position to further enhance its contribution towards nation building. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE All values are in `Crore Key Performance Indicators 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Turnover 49,350 51,866 50,627 Net Sales 43,961 46,189 45,208 Pro t Before Tax 3,241 3,225 2,359 EBIDTA 5,621 5,909 5,586 Capital Expenditure 9,731 9,890 6,840 Total Assets 84,218 91,962 99,327 Export Sales 1,158 1,497 1,568 Pro t After Tax 2,170 2,616 2,093 CSR Budget 42 40 78 PRODUCTION PERFORMANCE All values are in MT 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 PLANTS Hot Metal 14.27 14.45 15.41 Crude Steel 13.42 13.58 13.91 Pig Iron 0.21 0.22 0.63 Total Saleable Steel 12.39 12.88 12.84 Semi-Finished Steel 2.42 2.76 3.01 Finished Steel 9.96 10.12 9.84 MINES Iron Ore Production from Mines 21.49 25.31 23.18 Flux Production from Mines 2.21 2.18 2.11 (G4-9) 06 Fortifying Sustainable Growth Kalyani the Largest Blast Furnace of the Country at IISCO Steel Plant Environmental improvement programs have led to reduction in energy consumption & greenhouse gas emissions, increased water reuse & recycling, managing wastes and mitigation of risks pertaining to environmental incidents. For social indicators related to labour productivity, training, CSR expenditure and diversity, SAIL has shown a remarkable achievement. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Key Performance Indicator Unit 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Speci c Energy Consumption Gcal/tcs 6.68 6.59 6.52 Speci c CO2 Emission t/tcs 2.75 2.69 2.65 Particulate Matter Emission Load kg/tcs 0.88 0.86 0.83 Speci c Eﬄuent Load kg/tcs 0.11 0.11 0.10 Speci c Eﬄuent Discharge m3/tss 2.22 2.16 2.16 Speci c Water Consumption m3/tcs 3.73 3.67 3.66 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Key Performance Indicator Unit 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Labour Productivity tcs/man/year 258 278 302 Training Man-hours/employee/year 63.2 105.6 115.2 Spending on CSR `Crore 53.29 62.06 35.04 Female Employees % of total employees 5.77 5.73 5.81 07 (G4-9) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 SAIL A Maharatna Company Fortifying Sustainable Growth THE COMPANY Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), a Government of India undertaking headquartered at New Delhi, is a premier steel manufacturing organization of India. Since independence, the company has been driving the industrial resurgence of modern India. SAIL is among the seven Maharatnas of the country's Central Public Sector Enterprises. It is a fully integrated iron and steel maker, producing iron and steel at five integrated plants and three special steel plants, located principally in the eastern and central regions of India and situated close to its captive iron ore, limestone and dolomite mines which are domestic sources of raw materials. SAIL produces both basic and special steels for domestic construction, engineering, power, railway, automotive and defence industries and for sale in export markets. SAIL manufactures and sells a broad range of steel products, including hot and cold rolled sheets and coils, galvanized sheets, electrical sheets, structurals, railway products, plates, bars and rods, stainless steel and other alloy steels. SCOPE OF THE REPORT The following SAIL Plants, Units and Mines are covered in the Scope of this report. Plants Units Bhilai Steel Plant Central Marketing Organisation Durgapur Steel Plant Research and Development Centre for Iron & Steel Rourkela Steel Plant Bokaro Steel Plant Centre for Engineering and Technology IISCO Steel Plant SAIL Safety Organisation Alloy Steels Plant SAIL Growth Works, Kulti Salem Steel Plant Visvesvaraya Iron and Steel Plant Environment Management Division Chandrapur Ferro Alloy Plant SAIL Refractory Unit RMD Mines BSP Mines Iron Ore Mines Iron Ore Mines Kiriburu Rajhara Meghahatuburu Dalli Gua Jharandalli Manoharpur Dalli Manual Bolani Mahamaya Barsua Flux Mines Kalta Nandini Limestone Mine Flux Mines Hirri Dolomite Mine Kuteshwar Limestone Mine VISL Flux Mines Bhawanathpur Limestone Mine Bhadigund Limestone Mine Tulsidamar Dolomite Mine Kenchapura Dunite Mine All marketing activities at SAIL are handled by the Central Sales Value of Products Marketing Organisation (CMO) which works in Alloy & Secondary collaboration with it’s pan India network constituting of Special Steel Products 37 Branch Sales Offices (BSOs), 27 Customer Contact 6% 4% Offices (CCOs) and 67 Warehouses. The CMO’s massive Flat outreach in the domestic market is ably supported by a Products Long and rapidly growing rural dealers’ network which addresses Products PET all ranges of customers irrespective of size, scale or 38% Products location. 52% 09 (G4-3, G4-5, G4-9, G4-17) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 PRODUCTS PORTFOLIO & APPLICATIONS HOT ROLLED PRODUCTS SAIL is the largest Indian producer of hot rolled coils, sheets and skelp which has several direct industrial and manufacturing applications SEMI-FINISHED PRODUCTS Blooms, billets and slabs are converted to finished products at SAIL units and also sold to re-rollers for conversion PLATES SAIL is currently the largest producer of plates commanding significant market share. Plates by SAIL are used for building infrastructure, ships, pipes, tanks, vessels etc. COLD ROLLED PRODUCTS Cold rolled sheets and coils offer superior finish and properties and preferred for precision tubes, automobile panels and also for further processing such as colour coating, galvanizing and tinning RAILWAY PRODUCTS SAIL produces high quality railway products such as rails, wheels, axles and sleeper plates which are sold to Indian Railways and also exported around the world STRUCTURALS I-beams, channels and angles are long steel products with cross sections of various shapes which are used for structures such as transmission towers, bridges and other infrastructure applications BARS AND RODS Reinforcement steel and wire rods are primarily used in construction industry and SAIL is the prominent player in this sector SPECIALITY PRODUCTS SAIL also produces special products such as electrical sheets, tin plates and pipes which are used by specific industries ALLOY AND STAINLESS PRODUCTS Alloys and stainless steel products offered by SAIL find applications in automobiles, railways, pharmaceutical equipment and household utensils (G4-4, G4-8) 10 Fortifying Sustainable Growth SAIL’s sustainability framework adopts a holistic approach; addressing the Business, Health & Safety, Environment and Community management across its operations. The implementation of this framework is guided by our company’s Sustainable Development Policy and supported by our Operating Model, which has been instituted to promote improved accountability within the system. The key drivers of SAIL’s sustainability achievement are the dedication and commitment of our people. Our employees are encouraged to align with the spirit of our company’s mission and values as part of their business roles and responsibilities, to care for the community and the environment. Our constructive engagement with all customers has aided in establishing a continued success amidst increasing global competition. The collaborative work with our supply chain ecosystem has enabled us to innovate and improve the product portfolio, while limiting the adverse impacts of production. At SAIL, we believe in giving back to our society and this is reflected in our community initiatives. OUR SUSTAINAB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 VISION To be a respected world-class corporation and leader in Indian steel business in quality, productivity, profitability and customer satisfaction. CREDO • We build lasting relationships with customers based on trust and mutual benefit. • We uphold highest ethical standards in conduct of our business. • We create and nurture a culture that supports flexibility, learning and is proactive to change. • We chart a challenging career for employees with opportunities for advancement and rewards • We value the opportunity and responsibility to make a meaningful difference in people's lives. ILITY APPROACH Fortifying Sustainable Growth SUSTAINABILITY CENTRIC PRIORITIES FOR SAIL Ÿ To stick to the knitting of business in steel sector Ÿ To boost our market share through appropriate growth strategies Ÿ To conduct business with high ethical standards with all our stakeholders Ÿ To institutionalize engagement mechanisms for relevant stakeholders such as our employees, customers, suppliers and community to help identify and prioritize our sustainability focus areas. Ÿ To ensure business sustainability by adopting multi-pronged approaches in the area of cost and financial management, technology upgradation, value addition on products and addition of innovative products to our portfolio in alignment with the future demand trends Ÿ To adopt global best practices across the value chain Ÿ To identify state-of the-art technologies in the area of environmental management and incorporate the same to achieve environmental excellence Ÿ To carry out all round interventions towards functional improvements in every conceivable segment of mining, steel making, marketing, human resource management and peripheral services including community development STRENGTHS Ÿ Strong balance sheet with consistent growth Growth Strategies Ÿ Established systems, processes and practices in Consolidation of leadership position the organization through capacity enhancement Ÿ Diverse portfolio with pan-India presence aided by the company’s multi-location production Increasing focus on value units added products Ÿ Energy security through a number of captive Continual betterment of power plants and JV power plants to meet the operational eﬃciencies rising power demand Ÿ Available land bank for future expansions Augmentation of raw material base and improving quality of input Ÿ Largest captive iron ore mining operations in India Strategic alliances for further supporting the growth initiatives Ÿ Skilled pool of manpower support Ÿ Acclaimed in-house research establishment namely RDCIS OPPORTUNITIES Ÿ Growth potential in India to augur well with capacity expansion Ÿ Consolidation of market share by exercising national outreach of the company Ÿ Import substitution through product innovation Ÿ Achieving excellence in the areas of Marketing, Human Resources, Infrastructure & Utilities, Maintenance , Information Technology, Environment and Safety Management etc. 13 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK The sustainability priorities of the company are strategized with support from the relevant stakeholders of the company. The engagement feedback from these stakeholder interactions are used to identify the material aspects based on which sustainability projects, impacting the triple bottom line growth of the company, are identified. SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK OF SAIL Engagement with Materiality Aspects Stakeholders Ÿ Customers Ÿ Shareholders Vision Sustainability Priorities Ÿ Employees Ÿ Suppliers Sustainable Development Policy Sustainability Strategy Ÿ Community Sustainability Strategies (Business, Environment Ÿ NGOs and Social performance) Ÿ Regulators Goal, Objectives & Targets Ÿ Competitors Sustainable Development Projects Sustainability KPIs Ÿ Academic Bodies Ÿ Industry Associations Ÿ Media Monitoring and Review Core and Supporting Functions (Corporate, Plants, Units & Mines) Operations (Steelmaking and Mining), Marketing, Human Resource Management, Infrastructure and Utilities, Maintenance, IT, Projects, Resource Management, Supply Chain, R&D, Risk Management, Knowledge Management, Automation, Environment, Health and Safety Management, Community Development Core and support functions implement, monitor and review various sustainability initiatives leading to enhanced sustainability performance 14 Fortifying Sustainable Growth SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS SAIL’s Sustainable Development Policy was drafted as per the Guidelines for Sustainable Development by the Department of Public Enterprises (DPE), Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, Government of India. The policy encourages the company to adopt Sustainable Development projects across its operational locations. In 2014-15, SAIL worked on the “Biodiversity Conservation & CO₂ Sequestration at Bolani Iron Ore Mine” in collaboration with the Ambedkar University, Delhi. SAIL has also engaged the ‘Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Ecosystem’ (CEMDE), University of Delhi to maintain the restored ecosystem for a five year period to ensure Sustainable Development at Purnapani Limestone & Dolomite Quarry. COMMUNITY SUPPORT BY SAIL Contributing to the socio-economic conditions of the communities we operate in, has always been a core part of the company’s culture. In adherence to the national decrees like ‘DPE Guideline on CSR & Sustainability – 2013’ and ‘The Companies Act – 2013’; SAIL undertakes several Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities that benefit its localities. For details of SAIL’s CSR initiatives, please refer to page 75 to 82. 15 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 OUR STRUCTURE OF GOVERNANCE SAIL recognizes the need for effective corporate governance to facilitate the achievement of its strategic goals. Our corporate governance structure combines controls, policies and guidelines that drive our organization towards its business objectives while also satisfying stakeholders' needs. To support SAIL’s corporate responsibility endeavours, the Company has adopted a governance structure and various management processes which have been refined over the years keeping in focus the future challenges of the business. To maintain the ethical conduct of the business, SAIL strives to ensure transparency through disclosures and reporting while conforming fully to the related regulatory aspects and guidelines. Being a responsible corporate citizen, SAIL endeavours to enhance shareholders value which is considered as a significant part of the governance philosophy of SAIL. Some of SAIL’s robust protocols include internal mechanisms such as oversight of management, independent internal audits, structure of the Board of Directors etc. SAIL recognizes that the Board is accountable to all shareholders and that each member of the Board owes his/her first duty for protecting and furthering the interest of the Company. Corporate governance adheres to Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement. The Board of Directors are guided by the organization’s Vision and Credo. The composition of the Board of Directors is a mix of full time Executive and non-Executive Directors selected through Public Enterprises Selection Board, which has a well-drawn procedure for such selection. The Company’s Board regularly reviews the performance of the organization on economic, environmental and social issues. The Directors present the annual report of the Company together with audited accounts for financial year in the Annual General Meeting (AGM).The minutes are prepared for the proceedings of the AGM, including the suggestions, comments and feedback from the shareholders. Allegiance to corporate governance agenda is ensured by a number of committees of the SAIL Board like Audit Committee, Nomination and Compensation Committee, Shareholder/Investors Grievance Committee and Committee of the Board (COB).There is a Code of Conduct in place which is applicable to Board Members and senior management personnel of SAIL. There were no instances of non-compliance by the Company and no imposition of any penalty or stricture on the Company by the Stock Exchange or SEBI in the matter related to capital, during last three years. Being a Government of India enterprise, the nomination and fixation of terms and conditions for appointment as Director on the Board is made by the Government of India. The Board has constituted a Remuneration Committee comprising of six independent Directors for the purpose of finalization of Performance Related Pay (PRP) for the executives of the Company. The Non-Executive Directors (other than Government Nominee Directors) are paid only sitting fee for each Board/ Board Sub-Committee Meeting attended by them and no other pecuniary benefit was granted to them. The salary and pay scales of the whole time Directors are fixed by the prevailing rules of the Government. GOVERNANCE MECHANISM (G4-14, G4-34, G4-56) Fortifying Sustainable Growth The various divisions of SAIL’s Corporate Office are responsible for monitoring the topics concerning the economic, environmental and social aspects of the business. The relevant data shared by the units are used to prepare status reports for the Board Members’ perusal prior to the meeting. The Board Members review the information shared along with the agenda and provide their feedback, which is then reviewed by the top management and incorporated into their business decisions. To avoid conflict of interest, the Company ensured that there were no material transactions with the Promoters, Directors or the Management, their Subsidiaries, relatives etc. The Government of India owns 75% of SAIL's equity and retains voting control of the company. However, SAIL, by virtue of its 'Maharatna' status enjoys significant operational and financial autonomy. BOARD OF DIRECTORS As on 31st March 2015, the Board of Directors comprised of a full time Chairman, 6 whole time Directors and 4 NonExecutive Directors (including 2 Independent Directors). Number of shareholders complaints received during the period from 01.04.2014 to 31.03.2015 was 51. Out of these, 49 complaints were resolved and two complaints were pending for redressal as on 31.03.2015. 0.48% 0.01% GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 6.00% 3.10% 1.07% FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 3.50% 10.84% BANKS MUTUAL FUNDS FOREIGN INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS 75% GLOBAL DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS COMPANIES INDIVIDUALS Shareholders breakup for SAIL for year 2014-15 (% of Equity) 17 (G4-7, G4-14, G4-34) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 Board of Directors (as on 01/01/2016) Shri P. K. Singh Chairman Ms. Bharathi S. Sihag Shri Sunil Barthwal Shri A. K. Chaudhary Shri S. S. Mohanty Additional Secretary & Financial Advisor, Joint Secretary, Director (Finance) Director (Technical) Ministry of Steel, GoI Ministry of Steel, GoI Shri Kalyan Maity Shri Binod Kumar Dr. N. Mohapatra Shri G. Vishwakarma Director (Raw Materials & Logistics) Director (Commercial) Director (Personnel) Director (Projects & Business Planning) Dr. Atmanand Shri J.M. Mauskar Shri P.K. Dash Prof. Ashok Gupta Shri Parmod Bindal Smt. Anshu Vaish Chief Executive Oﬃcers (Permanent Invitees) Shri Anutosh Maitra Shri S. Chandrasekaran Bokaro Steel Plant Bhilai Steel Plant (G4-34) 18 Fortifying Sustainable Growth CORPORATE INTEGRITY Preventive and proactive vigilance activities at SAIL facilitate an enabling environment for our employees to work with integrity, efficiency and impartiality while upholding the highest ethical standards. SAIL has established vigilance departments in all Plants/Units with Quality Management System (QMS) to receive and investigate complaints including those relating to corruption as per the Central Vigilance Commission guidelines. A total of 3,174 periodic checks including the file scrutiny and joint checks were conducted in the vulnerable areas/ departments of different Plants/Units. For increased awareness amongst employees, sessions and workshops were undertaken on a regular basis on various topics. In the year 2014-15, a total of 158 workshops involving 4006 participants were organized for enhancing Vigilance awareness on Whistle Blower Policy, Lokpal & Lokayukta Act, 2013, Purchase/Contract Procedures, RTI Act, Conduct & Discipline Rules, System and Procedures followed in SAIL. 13 cases were taken up for intensive examination at different Plants and Units. During intensive examination, high value procurement/contracts are scrutinized comprehensively and necessary recommendations are forwarded to the concerned departments for implementing suggestions for improvement. Based on the findings of the complaints, major penalty was advised against 15 employees and minor penalty was advised against 52 employees during the year 2014-15. Further, major penalties were imposed on 25 employees including dismissal of four (4) employees and minor penalties were imposed on 47 employees during the year 2014-15. Apart from the above, various systemic improvements and preventive / administrative actions were suggested in the above cases to prevent recurrence of such incidents. SAIL has not practiced any anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust and monopoly practices and has not initiated any case in this regard. However, the Company has successfully defended anti-competition allegation before the competent authority and order so passed is in favour of SAIL. One case filed in Supreme Court is pending in respect of remedies available in the Competition Act. Second case filed by the party is pending in Supreme Court against the order of the Competition Appellate Tribunal. SAIL does not encourage any kind of political lobbying and political influence in its working pattern. However, the Company respects all national and state-level political representatives. SAIL has not made any monetary or in-kind contribution to any political party during the reporting period. There were no fines or sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations in the reporting period. THRUST AREAS OF SAIL VIGILANCE Ÿ Increase e-auction (Reverse Auction & Forward Auction) in all spheres Ÿ Scrutiny of files pertaining to high value projects in line with the Guidelines of Chief Technical Examiner of CVC Ÿ Scrutiny of the contracts awarded on single tender enquiry Ÿ Increased surveillance in the areas of receipt, sampling & testing of high value raw materials VIGILANCE AWARENESS WEEK CELEBRATION: SEMINAR ON COMBATING CORRUPTION Standing Conference of Public Enterprises (SCOPE) and Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) jointly organized Vigilance Awareness Week on the theme “Combating Corruption – Technology as an Enabler”. 19 (G4-14, G4-56, G4-DMA(Anti-Corruption), G4-SO3) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 PARTNERSHIPS, ASSOCIATIONS AND MEMBERSHIPS WORLD STEEL ASSOCIATION (WSA) SAIL is proud to have a long standing association with the WSA and has been actively involved in sharing knowledge on sustainable steel production and best practices for achieving excellence in business. The Company has subscribed to WSA principles and is committed to: Ÿ Use of co-products to reduce CO₂ emissions Ÿ Introduce best practices Ÿ Use of better operational practices and new technology for enhancing energy efficiency Ÿ Research on radical new technologies MONTREAL PROTOCOL SAIL (in association with UNDP) has successfully showcased its commitment to Montreal Protocol by completely phasing out Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS), viz. Carbon Tetrachloride (CTC) used as cleaning solvent, with tri-chloro ethylene at its six steel plants at Bhilai, Durgapur, Rourkela, Bokaro, Burnpur and Salem. UN GLOBAL COMPACT SAIL has aligned its business policies and actions with the principles of UN Global Compact and is striving towards making a positive contribution across the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. STOCKHOLM CONVENTION ON PERSISTENT ORGANIC POLLUTANTS (POPs) SAIL has actively collaborated with MOEF&CC and UNIDO for ensuring responsible management and disposal of POPs including Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCB) at BSP in line with the recommendations of Stockholm Convention (SC). PCB in electrical transformers will be treated/ destroyed using suitable technology being brought in by UNIDO under this project. CHARTER ON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION (CREP) MOEF&CC launched a charter called Corporate Responsibility for Environmental Protection (CREP) with an objective to steer improvement in environmental performance in industries. Being a responsible corporate citizen, SAIL has voluntarily extended its commitment to this cause and is complying with the action points suggested under the charter while also developing strategies to improve the performance further and beyond statutory compliance. STANDING CONFERENCE ON PUBLIC ENTERPRISES (SCOPE) SCOPE is a prominent body of the Central Government of India and SAIL has been actively involved in its proceedings being amongst India’s largest Public Sector Enterprises (PSE). OTHER ASSOCIATIONS & MEMBERSHIPS Ÿ All India Management Association (AIMA) Ÿ Global Institute for Flexible System Management (GIFT) Ÿ All India Organization of Employers (AIOE) Ÿ Indian Institute of Metals (IIM) Ÿ Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India Ÿ Indian Institute of Plant Engineers (IIPE) (ASSOCHAM) Ÿ Indian Society for Trade and Development (ISTD) Ÿ Centre for Organization Development (COD) Ÿ Indo USSR Chamber of Commerce and Industries (IUCCI) Ÿ Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Ÿ Institute of Public Enterprises (IPE) Ÿ Consultancy Development Centre (CDC) Ÿ Institute of Rail Transport (IRT) Ÿ Delhi Productivity Council (DPC) Ÿ Project Management Associate (PMA) Ÿ Federation of Indian Chambers for Commerce and Industry Ÿ The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) (FICCI) Ÿ The Indian Iran Chamber of Commerce and Industry (IICCI) Ÿ Forum of Women in Public Sector (WIPS) Ÿ World Confederation of Productivity Science (WCPS) (G4-15, G4-16) 20 Fortifying Sustainable Growth KEY JOINT VENTURE COLLABORATIONS Ÿ NTPC SAIL Power Company Pvt. Ltd. Ÿ S&T Mining Co. Pvt Ltd. Ÿ Bokaro Power Supply Co. Pvt. Ltd. Ÿ International Coal Ventures Pvt. Ltd. Ÿ Mjunction Services Ltd. Ÿ SAIL SCL Kerala Ltd. Ÿ SAIL Bansal Service Centre Ltd. Ÿ SAIL RITES Bengal Industry Pvt. Ltd. Ÿ Bhilai Jaypee Cement Ltd. Ÿ Prime Gold SAIL JVC Ltd. ICVL International Coal Ventures Pvt. Ltd. (ICVL) is a joint venture of SAIL, CIL, RINL, NMDC & NTPC. ICVL took over an operating coal mine and coal assets of Rio Tinto Ltd. in Mozambique with a total coal resource of 2.6 billion tonnes. Regular shipments of coal are being received by SAIL from this mine. ULTRA-MEGA STEEL PROJECT IN BASTAR DISTRICT, CHHATTISGARH A concept has been evolved by the Ministry of Steel with an aim to develop large capacity mega steel projects in the Country, which would help India in achieving the capacity of 300 million tonnes of crude steel production by 2025-26. Towards accomplishing this vision, SAIL would be participating in the setting up of an Ultra Mega Steel Plant (UMSP) of approximately 6 million tonnes green-field capacity in Bastar district of Chhattisgarh. “Chhattisgarh Mega Steel Limited” has been incorporated by SAIL as a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for UMSP in Chhattisgarh on 20th January 2015. The SPV will induct NMDC as a Joint Venture partner. In addition, a mining SPV will be created which will undertake mineral exploration, mine development and commercial production of iron ore. DEVELOPMENT OF RAIL CORRIDOR FROM ROWGHAT TO JAGDALPUR IN THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH In a significant move which will bring about socio-economic development of the backward areas of Bastar region predominantly inhabited by tribal population in the Chhattisgarh State and to further the industrial progress and mining activities in the region, Government of India has taken a momentous decision to expand the reach of its railway network in this backward area meeting the long pending demand of the local population. A Memorandum of Understanding has been signed amongst SAIL, State Government of Chhattisgarh, NMDC Ltd. and IRCON International Limited, for construction of 140 kilometer rail corridor from Rowghat to Jagdalpur via Narayanpur, Kondagaon in the State of Chhattisgarh. AUTOMOTIVE STEEL JOINT VENTURE IN INDIA SAIL and Arcelor Mittal are in discussions for exploring the possibility for setting up an automobile grade steel manufacturing facility under a Joint Venture (JV) arrangement in India. The proposed JV will construct a state-of-the-art cold rolling mill and other downstream finishing facilities in India that will offer technologically advanced steel products to India’s rapidly growing automotive sector. SAIL SCL KERALA LTD. Towards the quest for revival of operations of the joint venture company formed between SAIL and Government of Kerala (GoK), a new rolling mill for manufacturing 65,000 tonnes per annum of TMT bars has been installed. RAIL TRANSPORTATION: A Joint Venture company between SAIL and RITES viz. “SAIL RITES Bengal Wagon Industry Pvt. Ltd.” has been formed for fabrication of wagons. SAIL’s Salem Stainless used in Mangalyan (Mars Orbiter Mission – MOM) SAIL has contributed towards the historical achievement of MOM by providing stainless steel for fabricating the fuel and oxidizers tanks of the PSLV-XL which carried the Mangalyan to the red planet, 65 crore kms from earth. The quality of the AISI 304 L grade I stainless steel manufactured in SAIL’s Salem Steel Plant had to be of such high standard that it could withstand the action of highly reactive fuel and oxidizers over a long period of time without developing any leakages. 21 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 AWARDS AND ACCOLADES SAIL Ÿ ‘Excellent’ MoU Rating for the year 2013-14, for the 12th consecutive year. Ÿ 3 out of the 33 Prime Minister’s Shram Awards declared for the year 2013 Ÿ Out of 28, 19 Viswakarma Rashtriya Puraskar involving 105 employees for the performance year 2012. Ÿ NARAKAS Rajbhasha Shield 2013-14 (1st Prize) for the “Best Implementation of Official Language” Ÿ ‘Golden Peacock Award’ for Corporate Social Responsibility’, for the year 2014 Ÿ PHD Chamber Good Corporate Citizen Award 2014 Ÿ 'SCOPE Meritorious Award for Environment Excellence & Sustainable Development’ for the year 2012-13 Ÿ ‘Best in CSR & Sustainability as well as the Most eco-friendly PSU in the Maharatna Category’ at the 1st India Today Group PSU Awards-2014 Ÿ BT Star Award, 2014 for Excellence in HR Management th Ÿ 5 Dalal Street Investment Journal PSU Award 2013 in the category of Highest Asset Creating Maharatna. Ÿ Skoch Renaissance Awards 2014 in the category ‘Sustainable & Balanced Business Performance’. Ÿ ‘Governance Now PSU Award 2014’ under two award categories viz. IT Adoption in HR and Best HR Practices (Training). Bhilai Steel Plant Ÿ IIM National Sustainability Award 2013-14 for performance and achievements accomplished during the Financial Year 2013-14, from IIM, Kolkata Ÿ CII – Exim Bank Award 2014 Commendation Certificate for significant achievement from CII Institute of Quality Ÿ CII Sustainability Award 2014 for performance and achievements accomplished during the Financial Year 2013-14 Ÿ National Energy Conservation Award 2014 in the integrated steel sector on the basis of improvement in its energy performance over the previous year 2012-13. Ÿ Recognized and awarded for the maximum contribution towards ESIC in the State of Chhattisgarh Durgapur Steel Plant Ÿ Indira Gandhi Paryavaran Puraskar 2012 from Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, GoI for the year 2012-13. Ÿ Greentech Environment Award-2015 (Gold) and Greentech CSR Award-2015 (Gold) from Greentech Foundation, Delhi for the performance year 2013-14. Ÿ CII Exim Bank Award for Business Excellence– Commendation Certificate for significant achievement from CII Institute of Quality for the performance year 2014. Ÿ Safety Innovation Award from Institution of Engineers for the year 2013-14. Ÿ Ispat Suraksha Puraskar awarded by JCSSI for the year 2013. Rourkela Steel Plant Ÿ 1st runner-up award for “Best Overall HR Practices” in 4th ZENITH Rewards & Recognition Programme by the National Human Resources Development Network Bhubaneswar (NHRD) Ÿ Commendation for “Strong Commitment to HR Excellence” in 5th CII National HR Excellence Award Ÿ BG Deshmukh Special Award for Excellence in CSR-2014 instituted by Maratha Chamber of Industry and Agriculture, Pune. 22 Fortifying Sustainable Growth Bokaro Steel Plant Ÿ Rajbhasha Karyanvayan Award – Third Prize for outstanding work done in Rajbhasha in Eastern Region for 2013-14 Ÿ CII (Eastern Region) Productivity Award 2014 Ÿ Greentech Award (Gold) in the Metal & Mining Sector from Greentech Foundation, Delhi in 2014 Ÿ CII-ITC Sustainability Award – 2014 for Excellence in Corporate Social Responsibility Ÿ IIM SMS DEMAG Excellence Award from The Indian Institute of Metals for outstanding leadership contribution in Iron & Steel Industries in India for 2014-15 Ÿ CII-Exim Bank Business Excellence Award – Strong Commitment to Excel from CII Institute of Quality for the year 201415 Alloy Steel Plant Ÿ First prize for Best Unit in Implementation of Rajbhasha, given by the Town Official Language Implementation Committee (TOLIC), Durgapur. Salem Steel Plant Ÿ Bagged 17 out of the 91 State Shram Awards (Tamilaga Arasin Uyarntha Uzhaipalar Viruthu) for the year 2010, 2011 & 2012 by the Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health, Government of Tamil Nadu Ÿ 13th Annual Greentech Safety Gold Award in Metal & Mining Sector for outstanding achievements in Safety Management for Performance Year 2013-14, by the Greentech Foundation. Ÿ JCSSI – Ispat Suraksha Puraskar – 2014 for no fatal accident occurred during the years 2012 & 2013. Raw Materials Division Ÿ Kalta Iron Ore Mines bagged the National Safety Awards (Mines) for longest accident free period for the years 2011 & 12 Ÿ 1st Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya Bronze Award 2014 from CSR Times for its extensive contribution to support the students of disturbed areas. SAIL Refractory Unit Ÿ “Running Trophy” and the “Certificate” by the “NARAKAS” Proud Vishwakarma Awardees 23 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS 25 Stakeholder Engagements Stak ehol der E ng agem Ident ify St Asse ak ss & E eholders Prior v & ent M itise aluate Sta Capture t he ke View De n s STRATEGIC STAKEHOLDER PRIORITIES e Sus Identi e holder C Desig taina d Issu once b e rns odel Impl n Action ility Perfo s emen Plan rman t&C ce In omm dicat unica ors te Fortifying Sustainable Growth CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 Stakeholder support has been the cornerstone of SAIL’s continued success for over six decades. We value the importance of our seamless operations across all domains of sustainability, resulting in value creation for all our stakeholders. SAIL has been instilling confidence among its stakeholders through a well-defined stakeholder engagement mechanism. The engagement intends to help in risk mitigation, conflict resolution, sustainability compliance management, market development, innovation and strategy. The initiative has offered manifold benefits in terms of foresight planning, scenario analysis and forging long-term mutually beneficial stakeholder relationships. The comprehensive stakeholder engagement program has been fine-tuned over decades to address all stakeholder groups and their concern areas. This has facilitated a good understanding of the company’s obligations towards its stakeholders consistent with the business commitments. It has provided a platform for promoting transparent communication and an opportunity for the company to identify and address the stakeholder’s interests. This has been premised on the ethical accountability that groups that can affect or are affected by the operational footprint of the business should be given an opportunity to comment and give inputs into the development of decisions that will directly or indirectly affect them. SAIL holds in high esteem all its stakeholders who can influence or are affected by the operations of the company or its business activities. The frequency of such engagement, which is at times proactive in nature, varies with the stakeholder groups ranging from daily interaction with employees to Annual General Meetings (AGM) for shareholders. Completeness Materiality Responsiveness Ÿ Understanding Stakeholders Ÿ Assessing Signi cance to Ÿ Involving & Responding Ÿ Complete & Transparent Stakeholders & Management Ÿ Providing Access to Reporting Ÿ Deciding Domain of Reporting Information Vendor’s Meet (G4-25) 26 Fortifying Sustainable Growth STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT MATRIX Stakeholder Sub-Groups Engagement Mechanism Concerns / Perceptions Accrued Bene ts Groups Shareholders Government Annual General Meetings , Quarterly Company’s Pro tability, Creation of Wealth Institutions and halfyearly reports to Wealth Creation, Stock Value, for shareholders Insurance shareholders, Shareholder relation Grievances and Complaints Companies meets, Investor surveys Individuals Employees Regular Labour Unions, Safe and healthy working Motivated, Satis ed Contractual Bipartite & Tripartite Meetings, conditions, Good and enthused Departmental & Zonal Committee remunerations, workforce Meetings, Various Platforms for Career growth, Good Life Dialogues & Communication, Quality, Welfare measures, CEO Interactions, Employee Training and Satisfaction Surveys, Annual Skill Development Appraisals, Internal newsletters etc. Suppliers Ancillaries Vendor Meetings, Meetings with Partnership with value Satis ed suppliers Bulk Suppliers Suppliers, Ancillary Association creation, Timely payment, Vendors Meetings, Supplier Relationship More Engagement with local Management suppliers, Supplier satisfaction etc. Customers Institutional Customer Meets, Plant visits, Partnership with value Lasting relationship, Retail Director’s conference with customer creation, Good Product Satis ed customer groups, Visits to customers and quality, Delivery compliance, Customer satisfaction surveys Customer satisfaction, Resolution of complaints etc Community Urban Community Meetings, Interaction Good Life Quality, Job Socioeconomic Rural with Municipalities, Town opportunities, Education, development of the Indigenous administrative committee, Welfare measures, Medical region, Partnership in Communities Involvement in local society functions facilities, Sustainable progress livelihood NGO’s Local Visits to Plants, Seminars, Environment quality, Human Safe and healthy National Conferences, Interactions etc. rights, Freedom of workforce, association, Compliance to Environment friendly regulations operations, Ethical operations, Compliance to Standards Regulators Central Meetings with Central & State Economic, Environmental Legal compliance, Government Government/Steel Ministry / Trade and Social Compliance, Beyond compliance State Bodies, Industry Associations, Human Rights, Safety, Government Ministry of Environment, Forest and compliance to ILO Local Bodies Climate Change, Other statutory conventions bodies etc. Competitors Local Knowledge sharing, Partnership with Fair business, Partnership, Knowledge sharing, International value creation, Anti-competitive Public policy advocacy Best practices, Ethical behavior, Consumer privacy business Industry WSA Conferences, Workshops, Seminars Industry Policy, Knowledge sharing, Associations CII Regulations, Technology, Public policy advocacy, FICCI Environment, CSR, Business Best practices IIM etc. Excellence Academic Bodies Institutions Conferences, Workshops, Seminars Knowledge management, Knowledge sharing, Research Labs R&D activities, Partnership New technology for value creation Professionals / Local Visits to Plants, Seminars, Partnership with value Knowledge building, Consultants International Conferences, Interactions creation, Training and Value creation, development Collaboration Media Local Press Meets Economic, Environmental Transparency and National Interactions with Plant and Corporate and Social performance communication Communications Achievements 27 (G4-24, G4-26, G4-27) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 FEEDBACK FROM STAKEHOLDERS SAIL’s stakeholder engagement mechanism gives importance to building ongoing communication with those who are most valuable to the organization. This has enabled a continuous improvement process which has aided the Company to foresee expectations and meet them successfully, thereby positioning the business ahead of the market. As brought out earlier, SAIL has in place various modes of engagement mechanism with its valued stakeholders. The Company has evolved parameters for systematically capturing feedback from stakeholders. Some of the pointers in this matrix are quantification of Customer Satisfaction Index and Employee Satisfaction. The response pattern also appropriates the needs and expectations of the stakeholders which helps in aligning organizational policies. The feedback obtained through such participative modes are duly processed and incorporated in strategizing SAIL’s initiatives. Such inputs at times orient the Company’s strategic planning and consequent objective setting. These also form a strong plank for improvement in the area of product and services which are valuable for retaining and widening customer base, managing customer relationship and a deeper market penetration. MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS Materiality Assessment is a framework which prioritizes the issues related to all the three pillars of sustainability and ranks them according to their perceived importance as well as impact of these issues on the business. The exercise of materiality assessment involves connecting with the stakeholder groups by organizing interactive sessions and zeroing on their responses against questionnaires prepared by the experts. The materiality mapping encompasses all internal & external stakeholders across all the Plants, Units and Mines of SAIL which ensures inclusivity in the approach. SAIL has been conducting structured materiality assessment since past four years of its reporting journey. Stakeholder engagement activities were conducted as part of the reporting process for the current report incorporating the new GRI G4 guidelines. For the current report, the process drew from the perceptions of past years and feedback was sought from esteemed internal and external stakeholders on existing as well as new aspects in G4 guidelines. Effort has been made through this report to communicate on the issues being identified as having importance by stakeholders and those which impact the business. While conducting the materiality assessment workshops at Corporate Office, Plants and Mines, SAIL has engaged with internal as well as external stakeholders and gathered feedback in the form of survey responses from 110 respondents. For the current report, reporting boundary for all aspects has been restricted to the operations of SAIL. Issues Identi ed During Stakeholder Engagement Linkage With GRI Aspects Page in Report Enhancing pro tability & growth Economic Performance 31 Reducing operating cost and cost saving Fair and equal wages Market Presence 65 Resource Management and Mineral Conservation Materials 46 Enhancing energy eﬃciency and adopting renewables Energy 35 Water conservation, recycling and reuse Water 41 Biodiversity and Land rehabilitation Biodiversity 47 Reducing greenhouse gas emissions & carbon footprint Emissions 40 Waste management, recycling, reuse and disposal Eﬄuents & Waste 43-44 Employee satisfaction Labour Management Relations 66 Health and safety of employees, process safety and emergency preparedness Occupational Health & Safety 57 Enhancing employee productivity Training & Education 71-72 Healthcare to Community Local Communities 75 Initiatives to prevent corruption Anti-Corruption 19 Increasing customer satisfaction Product & Service Labeling 52 (G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21) 28 Fortifying Sustainable Growth Materiality Matrix Resource Management and Mineral conservation High Waste management, recycling, reuse and disposal Water conservation, recycling and reuse Enhancing energy eﬃciency and adopting renewables Promoting green procurement, green Enhancing pro tability and growth branding and eco-labeling Reducing operating cost and cost saving Initiatives for employment generation Enhancing employee productivity Employability training to Community Increasing customer satisfaction Code of Conduct/Ethics Health and safety of employees, process Talent retention and professional growth safety and emergency preparedness Gender empowerment amongst employees Employee satisfaction Upholding human rights in operations and supply chain Healthcare to Community Stakeholder Concern Initiatives to prevent corruption Fair and equal wages Reducing greenhouse gas emissions & carbon footprint Biodiversity and Land rehabilitation Research and development in the area of green products Reducing use of ozone depleting substances Security practices Reducing environmental impacts during transportation, packaging and dispatch Reducing emissions, discharges and noise Adopting sustainable sourcing practices Recycling and recycled materials utilisation Collaboration with suppliers for environmental conservation Restricting the use of hazardous chemicals Environmental Grievances Reducing the generation of hazardous waste, mining waste management Investment on new process and products Improving process management Investment on research and development and technological parameters Enhancing supplier satisfaction Eﬀective asset and capacity utilisation Spending of CSR activities On time delivery and quality management Corporate governance and risk management Workforce and community grievances Product related non-compliance Customer data privacy Community initiatives Compliance to legal regulations Employee training and skill development activities Development of value added Providing sustainable livelihood products and enhancing exports Supplier and contractors practices Product labeling and compliance Product Marketing and Communication Low Business Impact High 29 (G4-19) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 ENSURING FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY Fortifying Sustainable Growth ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY India is the third-largest steel producer in the world. In 2015, the country produced 91.46 million tonnes (MT) of finished steel. Total finished steel production in the country increased at a CAGR of 7.45 per cent over FY’11–15. Driven by rising infrastructure development and growing demand for automotive, steel consumption is expected to reach 104 MT by 2017. India’s steel production is expected to increase from 100 MTPA to 112.5 MTPA by FY16 and 300 MTPA by 2025. The Government of India has allowed 100 per cent foreign direct investment (FDI) in the steel sector under the automatic route. Nearly 301 MoUs have been signed with various states for planned capacity of about 486.7 MT. SAIL has emerged as the preferred steel manufacturer delivering world class products and is held in high esteem by its customers across the globe. In order to further consolidate its leadership and extend the outreach while maintaining robust financial growth, the Company has undertaken several measures including cost optimization through productivity improvement, monitoring of high value procurement, optimization of coal blend etc. Economic Performance Key Economic Indicators (in ` crore) 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Gross Turnover (Direct Economic Value Generated) 49,350 51,866 50,627 Net Turnover 43,961 46,189 45,208 Cost of Material Consumed including Bought out Goods 21,202 19,272 18,523 Employee Wages & Salaries 8,637 9,579 9,736 Payments to Providers of Capital Interest (Finance Cost) 748 968 1,454 Interest (Capital-Expenditure During construction) 800 845 638 Dividends 826 834 826 Community Investments (CSR Exp.) 53 62 35 Contribution to Government / Exchequer 12,122 11,560 11,110 Operating Pro t (EBITA) 4,218 3,136 3,813 Pro t After Tax 2,170 2,616 2,093 Income Retained in Business 1,209 1,641 837 SAIL, with its decades of experience, has provided world class products at competitive cost, established itself in a dominant market position and received warm appreciation and patronization of its valued customers. Besides meeting the domestic steel consumption demand, exports to neighboring markets increased at a faster pace of 15% over the previous year. This has been made possible through consistent innovation and adoption of new technologies. SAIL caters to almost the entire gamut of the mild steel business Flat Products in the form of Plates, HR Coils/Sheet, CR Coils/Sheets, Galvanized Plain/Corrugated Sheets and Long Products comprising Rails, Structurals, Wire-rods and Merchant Products. In addition, Electric Resistance Welded Pipes, Spiral Welded Pipes, Electric Tin Plates and Silicon Steel Sheets form part of the Company's rich product-mix. In-spite of the challenging market conditions, the Company achieved a total sales volume of 11.8 million tonnes during the Financial Year 2014-15. With regard to Dealer Sales, the best ever sales of 0.63 million tonnes was achieved during the Financial Year 2014-15, thereby, registering a growth of 2% over previous best of 0.62 million tonnes in Financial Year 2013-14. Similarly, in case of Alloy & Stainless Steel, the best ever sales of 0.25 million tonnes was achieved in 2014-15 which recorded a growth of 18% over previous year. During the Year, 532 new SAIL Dealers were appointed. SAIL is proud to be a part of the Govt. of India’s ‘Make in India’ initiative, wherein the Country's first indigenously built warship named INS Kamorta, an anti-submarine warfare corvette, was built with special grade high-tensile steel produced at SAIL. 31 (G4-DMA (Economic Performance), G4-EC1) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 Some of the key economic risks and barriers encountered by SAIL and their mitigation strategies are briefly described below: ECONOMIC RISKS Ÿ Increasing competition from domestic and international players MITIGATION STRATEGIES Ÿ Regulatory risks with heavy nancial Ÿ Increasing market share by exploring new implications growth segments Ÿ Import of Steel at a low price by the domestic Ÿ Improving product quality and reducing cost consumers from the neighbouring countries through operational eﬃciency Ÿ Uncertainty in the global price trends of steel Ÿ Assessing the customer needs to enhance the and iron ore existing product portfolio Ÿ Economic slowdown and reduced growth in the Ÿ Product innovation to provide cutting-edge infrastructure sector solutions to evolving sectors Ÿ Surplus capacity due to sluggish demand Ÿ Securing long-term contracts with suppliers and Ÿ Diminishing ore and coal reserves in India enhancing vendor relationships Ÿ Developing new mines and identifying domestic and international collaboration opportunities R&D ACTIVITIES SAIL has taken up a comprehensive roadmap for research and development with an objective to maintain market leadership, improve operational efficiencies, nurture process innovations and enhance quality of products to international levels. To enable this, Centre of Excellence (CoE) are being setup in all the Plants which will implement High Impact Projects (HIP) and Technology Missions (TM) to achieve technological eminence. This initiative has taken roots and eight CoE projects, three HIP projects and three TM projects are under different stages of implementation. The efforts of RDCIS engineers and scientists in association with SAIL Plants have culminated in filing of 37 patents and 36 copy rights during 2014-15. As many as 90 technical papers (38 international) were published and 118 papers (45 international) were presented. SAIL MODERNISATION & EXPANSION PROGRAMME NEARS COMPLETION SAIL is in the last leg of implementation of the ongoing Modernisation & Expansion Programme (MEP). The Company has added about 5.5 million tonnes per annum of Hot Metal capacity by 2014-15 and will achieve the envisaged Hot Metal capacity of 23.5 million tonnes per annum after completion of MEP. The Plan envisaged following actions which would lead to improved techno economics including lower energy consumption : Ÿ Development of new iron ore mines with beneficiation facilities Ÿ Installation of 7 m tall batteries with coke dry quenching system Ÿ High capacity stateof-the-art Blast Furnaces Ÿ Top pressure recovery turbine in Blast Furnaces Ÿ Coal Dust Injection System Ÿ Phasing out of small capacity inefficient BFs Ÿ Phasing out of OHF (Open Hearth Furnace)/ THF (Twin Hearth Furnace) with Ingot casting route at BSP & ISP Ÿ Adoption of 100% continuous casting route at all Plants Ÿ Phasing out the primary mills (Blooming/Slabbing Mill) (G4-DMA (Economic Performance)) 32 Fortifying Sustainable Growth At Rourkela Steel Plant, all new facilities under the integrated process route of BF-BOF-Caster-Plate Mill have been made operational and at IISCO Steel Plant, Burnpur, with the completion of India’s largest Blast Furnace, all facilities under the integrated process route have become operational. Both the sites have been dedicated to the nation by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India. Additionally, the following facilities have also become operational at SAIL’s other steel plants: S.No. Unit Major Facilities 1 Bhilai Steel Plant 2nd Sinter Machine in SP-3 and Coke Oven Battery -11 2 Durgapur Steel Plant Coke Oven Battery No. 2, Ladle Furnace, Lime & Dolomite Plant and Bloom cum Round Caster 3 Bokaro Steel Plant New 1.2 MTPA Cold Rolling Mill Hon'ble Prime Minister of India dedicating SAIL’s modernised Rourkela Steel Plant to the nation 33 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 CONSERVING ENERGY Fortifying Sustainable Growth MANAGING ENERGY FOR A BRIGHTER FUTURE The Indian Iron and Steel industry is vital to the nation’s development efforts and to support the required rapid economic growth. Steel finds its application in a wide range of sectors such as automobile, power, machine goods, and infrastructure. Energy efficiency and low carbon growth have emerged as key pathways to reduce the nation’s energy intensity and emissions intensity. The industry has taken several initiatives to conserve energy at each sub process by adopting best technologies and innovative process operations. Iron and steel production involves highly energy intensive processes. SAIL has been making serious efforts on a continual basis to improve the energy efficiency in its operational activities. Every Plant of SAIL has a structured Energy Management Department which analyzes the operations and zeros in on several energy conservation measures. As a result of the collective and committed management approach towards enhancing energy efficiency, SAIL has brought down consistently the energy consumption at its facilities over the years. This is amply borne out by the following table registering the energy consumption trend. Energy Consumption Pattern Power & Fuel Consumption 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Quantity (TJ) Quantity (TJ) Quantity (TJ) Purchased Electricity (M kWh) 7,170 92,185 7,414 95,322 7,536 96,890 Generated Electricity (M kWh)* 636 8,176 592 7,610 806 10,361 Coal Coking Coal (MT)# 11.88 335,016 14.37 405,234 13.54 381,828 # Non Coking Coal (MT) 0.559 10,621 0.601 11,419 0.583 11,077 # Furnace Oil (‘000 KL) 59 2,457 25 953 15.7 654 Total Energy Consumption 448,455 520,538 500,810 * Indirect Energy #Direct Energy Speci c Energy Consumption (GCal/tcs) 6.68 6.59 6.52 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 SAIL has also taken various initiatives for the use of renewable energy like coal bed methane as fuel in re-heating furnaces, bio-diesel in locomotives, agro based fuel in boilers and solar water heating and lighting systems. The Company has initiated proposals for installation of 200 MW capacity Renewable energy projects during the period 2015-19. Out of this, proposal for installation of 15 MW capacity small hydel plant at Mandira Dam, Rourkela is in advanced stage and installation of 1 MW capacity grid interactive Solar PV plant at RSP is also progressing well. At VISL, Solar Water Heater system has been installed at the Industrial Canteen & Bhadra Guest House. At DSP, 15 nos. of solar lights within the plant have been installed. 35 (G4-DMA (Energy), G4-EN3) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 ENERGY CONSERVATION INITIATIVES Bhilai Steel Plant (BSP) Ÿ Commissioning of COB# 11 with CDQ facility for recovery of waste heat. Ÿ Commissioning of BOO based Oxygen Plant in place of old OP-I and one ASU of OP-II Ÿ Commissioning of new sinter machine in SP-III Ÿ Installation of modified BF gas burners in Boilers 2 and 4 of PBS Ÿ Electrical energy conservation through illumination control, installation of VVVF drives, etc. Durgapur Steel Plant (DSP) Ÿ Commissioning of Ammonia absorber plant in Coal Chemical Complex Ÿ Installation of Bell Less Top in BF # 3 along with modified gas cleaning plant Ÿ Installation of CDI system at BF # 2 Ÿ Installation of VVVF drive for gas boosters Ÿ Commissioning of Bloom cum Round Caster reducing production through energy intensive soaking pit route Rourkela Steel Plant (RSP) Ÿ Installation of TRT in Blast Furnace No. 5 Ÿ Commissioning of Pulverized Coal Injection in BF-5 Ÿ Installation of VVVF Drive in the combustion air blowers of BF#4 stove, ladle furnace and wire feeder in SMS-1, coal feeder 6-2 of HP Boiler No.6 & 2 and 1D fans of MP Boiler No.3 of CPP#1 Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) Ÿ Hot repair of COB# 6. Ÿ Commissioning of CHSGP in BF #2 & 3 Ÿ Installation of soft starter in exhausters of two converters. Ÿ Change of recuperator in Re-heating furnace4 at Hot Strip Mill Ÿ Use of BF gas in Boiler #7 & 8 @ 15,000 Nm3/hr IISCO Steel Plant (ISP) Ÿ Introduction of dry quenching of coke in COB # 11 Ÿ Introduction of waste heat recovery unit in new Sinter Plant Ÿ Introduction of top pressure recovery turbine in Blast Furnace # 5 Ÿ Introduction of waste heat recovery system in Blast Furnace # 5 stoves Ÿ Introduction of walking beam reheating furnace in Rolling Mill area Salem Steel Plant (SSP) Ÿ Provision of VFDs for mill lubrication pumps at Z Mill –I in CRM. Other Initiatives: Ÿ 1400 LED Tubes have been installed at ASP in the place of fluorescent tubes Ÿ 300 nos. of 120W LED Road Lights have been installed at SSP in place of 250W HPSV Lamps 36 Fortifying Sustainable Growth PRESERVING OUR CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 ENVIRONMENT Fortifying Sustainable Growth ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT SAIL is dedicated to promote clean, green and a sustainable growth. This affirmation of SAIL is embodied in its Corporate Environmental Policy. Adopting state-of-the-art eco-friendly technologies and sound environmental management practices compounded with training and awareness programmes for its employees are some of the note worthy interventions in this area. Energy conservation, resource optimization, biodiversity protection, eco-restoration and incorporating pollution control facilities are some of the measures taken by SAIL on continual basis towards green management at all its Plants, Units & Mines. This has resulted in significant improvement in waste management, water & energy consumption, noise control, reduction in particulate matter emissions and effluent discharges. All these are in conformance with the National Environmental Policy 2006. SAIL has maintained a proactive approach to safeguard the environment with no stricture on non-compliance. There were no fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Some of the key environmental risks foreseen by SAIL and their mitigation strategies are briefly listed below: ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS Ÿ Enhanced concern on global warming which sets demanding targets by the Government MITIGATION STRATEGIES Ÿ Likely introduction of emission caps, punitive carbon taxes etc. in near future Ÿ Adoption of clean technologies to reduce Ÿ Disposal and management of increased emissions quantity of waste Ÿ Investment in environmental protection Ÿ Deteriorating air and water quality measures consequent upon intense industrialization in Ÿ Development of strategies for proper various clusters handling, recycling and reuse of waste Ÿ Compliance with the norms as well as preparing for beyond compliance scenario The commitment of SAIL towards sustainable development is evident from its conformance to Charter on Corporate Responsibility for Environmental Protection (CREP) requirements. This is a voluntary commitment between SAIL and MoEF&CC, Government of India which helped steel plants reduce their environmental footprint across the operations. Further, as per the Sustainable Development Guidelines issued by Department of Enterprises (DPE), the Company has also put in place a Sustainable Development (SD) Policy and taken up specific SD projects across its Plants, Units and Mines. SAIL has evolved a business model which projects steel at the centre stage of economic growth while ensuring that the operations are environment-friendly and create value for the society. This commitment is visible in the MEP which is currently underway and at various stages of completion across all the plants and units. A focus area during this MEP is to increase the production capacity, while phasing out old technologies and equipment and installing efficient & environment friendly technologies. Out of the total outlay of about ` 72,000 crores for the ongoing modernization/ expansion programme, about ` 5,000 crores is being spent on pollution control schemes. The remaining schemes will also contribute towards energy efficiency/ resource conservation/ emission reduction. To monitor and mitigate the environmental impact of its operational activities, SAIL has established a dedicated ensemble, Environment Management Division (EMD) catering to the diverse environmental implications arising from its multifarious operations ranging from mineral extraction to rolling out finished steel. Besides EMD, each Plant and Mine has its own department manned by qualified officers for implementation of environmental protection measures. SAIL's commitment to comply with applicable (environmental) regulations and striving to go beyond , results from concerted efforts by SAIL’s fraternity towards environmental stewardship and protection of the environment in and around its operating units. 39 (G4-14, G4-DMA (Emissions)) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 To guide the efforts of the Company towards environmental matters, SAIL has constituted a Board Sub Committee (BSC) on Health, Safety and Environment. A thorough review of the Corporate Environmental Policy of the Company is being carried out by the BSC. Limiting the stack emissions from chimneys has been one of the focus areas of action for SAIL. The emissions from stacks affect not only the health and safety of employees, but also the health of communities residing in and around the vicinity of the Plants. In order to provide a clean and green ecosystem, several steps have been taken which have led to Particulate Matter being limited to 0.83 kg/tcs for the year 2014-15. Emissions of SO2 are reduced by the use of low sulphur coal and desulphurization of coke oven gas. For controlling Nox emissions, special burners have been installed with the implementation of some process related changes. Particulate Matter Emission Load (kg/tcs) 0.88 0.86 0.83 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 REDUCTION IN CARBON FOOTPRINT Various functional units of SAIL which mainly contribute to the emission of CO₂ are Coke Ovens, Sinter Plant, Blast Furnaces, Steel Melting Shop, and Power Plant. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions are due to transportation of raw materials and finished products and commuting of employees to work place and back. Due to various steps taken by SAIL, the CO₂ intensity for SAIL has been brought down to 2.65 t/tcs during the year 2014-15 from 2.81 t/tcs for 2011-12. As the figures testify, SAIL has been able to curb CO₂ emissions consistently over the years. CO₂ Intensity (t/tcs) 2.75 2.69 2.65 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 (G4-DMA (Emissions), G4-EN18) 40 Fortifying Sustainable Growth WATER CONSERVATION The importance of conserving our stressed water resources is becoming more relevant with every passing day. India has 18% of the world’s population and 4% of the globe’s water resources. According to a study, India might be the most waterstressed among the Group of 20 nations by 2025. Water scarcity and water quality are predicted to be one of the largest economic and health concerns in the coming decade, meaning that businesses will need to take into account an area’s water resources as an area of critical concern. As with most industrial processes, steel production requires billions of gallons of water. Several regulatory requirements also mandate industries to ensure conservation of water resources. Initiatives by SAIL towards this end include setting up of Water Treatment Plants, identifying sources of leakage and arresting them, assessing the quantum of discharged water from various units and its analysis by specialists to work towards reduced consumption of fresh make-up water. Water sources for various SAIL Plants & Units Plants/Units Water Source BSP River Mahanadi DSP River Damodar RSP River Brahmni BSL River Damodar ISP River Damodar ASP River Damodar SSP River Kaveri VISL River Bhadra CFP Groundwater (borewells) SGW River Barakar Pond at Kiriburu Iron Ore Mine 41 (G4-DMA (Water)) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 Various initiatives taken to reduce the fresh water consumption include: Ÿ At DSP, recirculation of furnace cooling water at Merchant Mill, rerouting of process water line from Old Water Treatment Plant to Old Power Plant, reuse of Old GCP blow down water to Coke Oven Battery # 1, 2 & 3 quenching pond, diversion of drinking water line at Coke Oven Battery # 5 etc. have been taken up. Ÿ At RSP, Rain Water Harvesting systems installed at four places. Ÿ At SSP, water conservation measures like, CRM water recycling, usage of treated effluent in ASTP for floor washings etc. have been implemented. Ÿ At CFP, treated effluent is used in GCP, quenching of hot metal, water spraying on roads. Pond at Chiria Mine Ÿ At Kiriburu Iron Ore Mine, system for recovery & recycling of clear water from the Tailing Pond has been installed. Clear water from the Tailing Pond is reclaimed and pumped back to Ore Processing Plant, which not only resulted in reduction in fresh water consumption but also reduced discharge of overflow from the tailing pond. Re-circulation of over flow water at BSP Mine Dalli (Mech.) Mines of BSP has successfully carried out re-circulation of overflow water to the tune of 42.682 lakhs m3 from Hitkasa Tailing pond. This will go a long way in conserving the water as well as reduce the water pollution by preventing discharge into local water bodies. Speci c Water Consumption for SAIL Plants (m3/tcs) 3.73 3.67 3.66 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 All Plants and Mines of SAIL are strategically located to ensure availability of surface water. The water withdrawal for the operations of SAIL has not significantly affected any of these surface water sources. (G4-EN9) 42 Fortifying Sustainable Growth EFFLUENT MANAGEMENT In an effort to preserve the water quality, Plants and Units are meticulously operating effluent treatment plants for maintaining quality of effluent discharged as the same can have detrimental effect on the ecology of the local biosphere as well as on the natural resources and water bodies. SAIL has always shown its commitment to strictly monitor the water discharged from its operations and treat the water adequately so that the quality of water conforms to the various standards. This goes a long way in conserving the local environment and natural resources. Eﬄuent discharged by ISPs during three years 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Quantity of Eﬄuent discharged (Mm ) 31.74 30.26 30.31 Quality of effluent discharged from all the Plants were well within the norms, for all the parameters, during the year. Eﬄuent Quality of ve ISPs during the year Unit : (mg/L except pH) Parameters pH SS BOD COD Phenol Cyanide Oil & Grease NH3-N Norm 5.5-9.0 100 30 250 1 0.2 10 50 BSP 7.4–8.1 38–62 9–23 47–76 BDL– 0.21 BDL– 0.11 1.2–2.8 1.2–11.0 DSP 7.3–8.4 6–27 10–25 118–144 0.15–0.46 0.03–0.19 1.0–3.5 4.0–37.0 RSP 7.3–7.8 16–54 7–10 14–53 0.06–0.25 0.070.09 2.0–3.0 8.6–23.1 BSL 6.0–8.2 18–44 5–14 32–92 0.005–0.196 0.005–0.029 0.16– 0.93 0.34–3.42 ISP 7.7–8.3 10–32 1–13 9-35 BDL 0.005-0.031 1 0.004–4.1 Eﬄuent Quality of SSPs during the year Unit : (mg/L except pH) Parameters Norm ASP SSP VISL CFP pH 5.5-9.0 7.4–8.7 7.3–8.7 7–8.0 7.5–8.2 Suspended Solids 100 8–69 4-40 15–52 44–68 BOD 30 5-9 2-3 3-4.2 12.7–18 COD 250 5-42 8-112 3-5 128-161 Fluoride 2 < 0.2 0.15-0.5 < 0.02 -Iron 3 < 0.3 0.01-1.66 0.4–1.1 0.4-1.05 Oil & Grease 10 < 1-6.8 1 BDL-0.3 <4 30 MLD STP at BSP 43 (G4-DMA (Effluents & Waste)) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 WASTE MANAGEMENT With growing demand as well as scarcity of energy and raw materials and to keep pace with environmental legislation and regulations in the present scenario, solid waste should be treated as one of the potential resources in the steel industry. A zero waste approach should be considered so as to conserve raw materials. The extent of solid waste reduction, reuse, recycling and restoration to approach a zero waste operation is really a challenge to the steel industry today. SAIL is committed to the policy of 4Rs (reduce , recover, recycle and reuse) across its operations. In the iron and steel making process, a large quantity of wastes and by-products are generated. These by-products include slag, dust, sludge, used firebricks etc. Slag which accounts for the majority of by-products, is almost entirely utilized. Blast Furnace slag is used for cement making while BOF slag is recycled as raw material for sinter making and also used as material for road base, civil engineering work, soil improvement, fertilizer, etc. With persistent efforts, the Plants of SAIL have achieved around 85% solid waste utilisation, with around 32% internal recycling of solid waste during the year 2014-15. Moreover, by-product gases like Coke Oven gas, BF gas and LD gas are used as fuels at the different shops of the Plants. Used oil is sold to the registered recyclers. The Company does not transport any type of waste, whether hazardous or non-hazardous outside India. There were no significant spills during the reporting period. With an approach towards reuse and recycle, SAIL Plants have taken several initiatives for maximizing the utilization of solid waste generated at various operations. A few of these initiatives are listed below: “Laboratory Scale Study for Development of Jointly with SAIL and the South Eastern Railways Technology for Dry Granulation of LD/BOF Slag for utilization of weathered LD Slag as rail track (Hydro-mechanical study)” A project taken up ballast -A project taken up at BSL under R&D Master Plan of SAIL The physical properties of weathered LD slag meet the In this approach, molten LD slag is atomised under requirement for use as ballast in the railway track. Bokaro Steel Plant is in the process of conducting field centrifugal forces on a spinning disc and the droplets trial at the Bokaro Rail Yard with the South Eastern generated are quenched and quickly solidified using air. This process is under research stage all over the Railway, for establishing the same. It is believed that world. SAIL and IIT Kharagpur, are conducting lab scale success of the initiative may open a new horizon for study and synergising their efforts for achieving gainful utilisation of LD slag. success in this field. Solid Waste Generation and Utilisation for ISPs (T) Type of Waste Generation % Utilization BF slag 5,783,724 87.59 LD BOF slag 1,541,990 83.92 THF slag 145,701 0.00 BF Flue dust 137,517 73.10 BF Sludge 93,499 3.35 LD /BOF Sludge 111,347 65.72 Mill scale 259,108 98.80 Lime/Dolo Fines 249,781 95.60 Refractory Wastes 35,735 91.93 TOTAL 8,358,402 84.52 (G4-DMA (Effluents & Waste), G4-EN23) 44 Fortifying Sustainable Growth Solid Waste Generation and Utilisation from Units for 2014-15 (in tonnes) CFP Generation Utilization VISL Generation Utilization BF Slag (Granulated) 25,194 6,344 Fe Mn Slag 0 84,920* Coke Breeze 4,111 1369 Si Mn Slag 64,769 2,235 BF Flue Dust 1,371 0 Mn Ore Fines 9,952 19,390* BF Sludge 680 0 Coke Fines 7,257 4,912 BOF Slag 6,881 0 Quartz Fines 645 0 BOF Sludge 615 0 Flux Fines 66 0 Iron Ore Fines 740 0 Iron Ore Fines 34,875 20,902 GCP Sludge 7,812 1,740 Refractory Waste 562 287 TOTAL 91,241 113,197 TOTAL 74,289 28,902 SSP Generation Utilization ASP Generation Utilization ASTP Sludge 1,062 0 EAF/AOD Dust 270 347* Diatomaceous Earth 32 0 EAF Slag 2,761 0 ARS Metal Oxide Powder 421 0 Grinding Dust 510 324 SGL Swarf 38 125* Mill Scale 1,804 7,792* Boiler Ash 1,549 0 Refractory Bricks 605 433 Steel Shot Dust 66 860* TOTAL 5,950 8,896 Mill Scale 4,747 125 Solid Waste Generation from Mines SMS Slag 45,166 3,356 2014-15 EAF Dust 2,939 0 BSP Mines AOD Dust 3,085 0 Overburden & Subgrade Ore 6,715,171 Tailings 757,158 Grinding Swarf & Dust 230 0 RMD Mines Bag house Dust 55 0 Overburden & Subgrade Ore 11,019,000 Caster Scale Pit 89 0 Tailings 342,000 VISL Mines Waste Scrap 7,090 0 Overburden & Subgrade Ore NIL TOTAL 66,570 4,466 Total 1,88,33,329 * utilization from stored quantity Hazardous Waste Generated at ISPs (T) for 2014-15 Plants/Units Generation At SAIL plants, inventorisation and quantification of the hazardous wastes have been done and the identified wastes BSP 5,252 are being handled and disposed as per the Hazardous Waste DSP 4,917 (Management, Handling and Transboundary Movement) RSP 1,600 Rules, 2008. SAIL believes that proper collection as well as BSL 4,699 disposal of hazardous waste is highly desirable as its misISP 82 managemant can be detrimental to the environment severely. Total 16,550 45 (G4-EN23) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 MATERIAL MANAGEMENT SAIL is focused on optimal utilization of raw materials. It has accordingly aligned its policies with due initiatives in this respect. This has resulted in reduced material consumption and enhanced recycling of waste. The following two tables furnish a consumption pattern of raw materials at SAIL’s various plants, recycling of steel scrap and use of other wastes generated within the operational units Raw Material Consumption (MT) in SAIL for 2014-15 Iron Ore (Lumps + Fines) Coal Dolomite Limestone 24.21 15.03 3.14 3.81 Explosive Consumption (T) in SAIL Mines 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 4,972 5,539 5,586 The Company believes that the preparedness of the industry to recycle the steel scrap shall shape the future of business and has hence taken effective steps to ensure maximum recycling of internal scrap. The scrap generated within the operational units is completely recycled, and some other wastes are reused in the Sinter Plants, Blast Furnaces and Steel Melting Shops. Scrap Utilization (T) in SAIL ISPs for 2014-15 Scrap Utilization BSP DSP RSP BSL ISP Scrap Used at BF 55829 108975 NIL 81002 NIL Scrap Used at SMS 772863 193210 243448 428970 9938 High Capacity Dumpers at Meghahatuburu Mine (G4-EN1, G4-DMA (Materials)) 46 Fortifying Sustainable Growth LEAVING NO TRACE – ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION SAIL promotes localized efforts to limit the beheading effects of deforestation on our ecological balance. To reiterate the importance of green cover at all our operational sites, the Company instituted extensive afforestation programmes in all the Plants and Mines over the years. Adequate care is taken to choose the appropriate species of plant suitable to the local geographical conditions on the basis of availability and prevalence of local species, soil characteristics, water availability and prevailing meteorological patterns. In additional to improving the aesthetics of the facilities this programme also improves watershed management, soil protection, erosion control, landslide stabilization and develops windbreaks. None of the operations of SAIL are in the vicinity of protected areas. There are no IUCN red list of national conservation species with habitats in the areas of operation. SAIL Plants and Units have taken up massive plantation programmes using scientific methods to develop green belts, parks, clean and green surroundings, tree lined avenues and townships. During the year 2014-15, 2.64 lakh saplings were planted in and around the plants and mines. Over 186 lakh trees have been planted since inception. SAIL is also focusing on carbon sequestration through its afforestation programmes. A project has been taken up at the Rourkela Steel Plant in collaboration with the Tropical Forest Research Institute (TFRI), Jabalpur. The project will span over a period of more than 5 years. Till now a vegetation survey has been conducted and 12 indigenous tree species have been identified for the pilot study. Soil samples have been collected from different locations for analysis and monitoring of atmospheric CO2 has been introduced at several locations across the site. Cumulative Plantation in SAIL Plants & Mines (Nos in lakhs) 186.5 183.9 181.8 179.5 176.7 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 SAIL is executing a Sustainable Development Project on “Biodiversity Conservation & CO2 Sequestration at Bolani Ores Mines” over and above the stipulated legal requirements. This ecological restoration project, planned for three years, has been initiated with the central objective of restoring ecosystem functions and services in the selected area, with a larger view of enhancing the sustainable livelihood of the local people. In 2014-15, over 1.36 lakhs of saplings of different native tree species have been introduced in the experimental sites. In order to maintain the restored ecosystem, SAIL has engaged the ‘Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Eco-system’ (CEMDE) for a period of five years to achieve the objective of Sustainable Development at Purnapani. Land Area of Mines (In Ha) Lease Area Land for mining Waste Dump Area Waste dump rehabilitated RMD Mines 15,038.14 3,807.76 238.93 143.70 BSP Mines 6,608.01 1,192.50 268.80 156.00 VISL Mines 44.57 22.05 3.75 4.35 47 (G4-DMA (Biodiversity), G4-EN11) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (EMS) Implementation of EMS, which is essentially a voluntary initiative, has become an effective tool in SAIL towards protection of the environment. It has helped the Plants and Mines to ensure that their performance remains within the regulatory requirements, and also to keep ahead of more stringent regulations which might be introduced in the future. Apart from this, ISO 14001 accredited units have been able to minimise environmental liabilities, maximize the efficient use of resources, reduce wastes, build awareness of environmental concern among employees, improve environmental performance through more efficient operations and demonstrate a good corporate image. In addition to the Plants and Mines, the Warehouses under CMO have also been accredited to EMS-ISO:14001 Standard. SAIL Units accredited to EMS -ISO 14001 Plants/Units Certi cation Status BSP Entire Plant & Township DSP Entire Plant RSP Silicon Steel Mill, Sinter Plant-II, Hot Strip Mill, Plate Mill, ERW Pipe Plant, SW Pipe Plant, Special Plate Plant & RSP Township and Environment Engineering Department BSL Entire Plant SSP Entire Plant & Township VISL Entire Plant CFP Entire Plant CMO Faridabad, Dankuni, Kalamboli, Chennai, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Ghaziabad Delhi & Vizag Warehouses T&S Organization BTSO Vizag MINES Dalli Iron Ore Mine Entire Mine Kiruburu Iron Ore Mine Entire Mine Megatuburu Iron Ore Mine Entire Mine Bolani Ores Mines Entire Mine Kuteshwar Limestone Mine Entire Mine Barsua Iron Ore Mine Entire Mine Meghahatuburu Iron Ore Mine 48 Fortifying Sustainable Growth PRODUCT CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 STEWARDSHIP Fortifying Sustainable Growth PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Keeping in line with increasing customer demands, SAIL has continuously re-engineered its products and services to meet the evolving expectations. In addition to its existing varied product portfolio, the Company also initiated the development of special grades with new features such as earthquake resistant, light weight, corrosion resistant TMT rebars etc. These innovations have helped several industries in India while facilitating safe and reliable infrastructure development. The strategic product stewardship initiatives at SAIL are led by the Research and Development Centre for Iron and Steel (RDCIS) by providing inputs for technology innovation, product development, cost reduction, quality improvement, energy conservation and automation to all Plants/Units of SAIL. Increasingly, businesses and society at large are focusing attention on the origins of the materials and products they specify and use and are seeking assurances that sustainability principles and responsible sourcing have been involved in the supply chain. SAIL has Quality and Environment policies which ensure production of safe and sustainable products. The product complies with the quality norms of the Bureau of Indian Standards or with the specific customer requirement depending upon the application. SAIL also has well-established systems and procedures to ensure compliance with requirements related to product labeling, marketing, communications and customer privacy. PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT/PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The Company has embarked upon a ‘Master Plan for Research & Development’ in order to facilitate acquisition and development of appropriate technologies for sustainable growth. In alignment with the plan, Centres of Excellence (COEs) are being created at the individual plant level to focus on various product development and improvements in collaboration with key customers and technology suppliers. The plan identifies ‘demanding markets‘ for steel, such as steels for supercritical thermal and nuclear power generation, defense, renewable energy, high strength profiles for high rise buildings with seismic and fire resistance, as focus areas for product development. SAIL‘s corporate R&D set-up is an umbrella organization, overseeing both centralized R&D and the plant-level COEs. SAIL developed 24 new products required by the various sectors crucial for growth and development of the Indian economy like, construction, railways, defense, etc. Steel is also used for manufacturing of products such as vehicles wherein there are many opportunities available for reducing the weight. Recognizing this, the Company has channeled its research capabilities to come up with higher strength steel products which are light in nature, thus facilitating significant reduction in environmental impacts during their usage phase. SAIL also continuously interacts with its customers through customer feedback systems as inputs for product development with a view to improve customer satisfaction. Development of High Strength Naval Vessel Grade Steel For the first time in India an attempt was made for industrial scale production of DMR 249BK, at Alloy Steels Plant, Durgapur for application in naval warship vessels. This specialized grade of steel finds application in bulbar which are asymmetric cross-sections for use as stiffeners in warship construction. DMR 249BK is an indigenous steel grade, a modified version of DMR 249B developed by DMRL, DRDO for higher than 30mm thickness steel products application in naval warship vessels. The steel is characterized by combination of high strength and low temperature impact toughness. In order to achieve these properties, the steel has been designed with high alloy content mainly consisting of Ni, Cu, Mo & Mn and the properties have been achieved on laboratory scale at DRDO. 51 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING Quality and transparency are the two key tenets in the success story of SAIL. The SAIL website provides detailed technical product information containing details on grade, size and application for public access. All the specifications for physical dimensions, chemical composition and technical delivery conditions for the associated specifications are strictly adhered to during production and dispatch of various products manufactured by SAIL. Test certificates are also issued along with the deliveries to the customers for ease of identification of material and quality assurance. There was no reported incidence of non-compliance with respect to regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. BRAND MANAGEMENT Managing brands in today’s inter-connected and complex business environment is challenging. Brands are affected by heightened competition, regulations, supply chain issues and manufacturing costs, while requiring constant advocacy and reputation management. For companies to manage this plethora of internal and external factors across multiple geographies, brand management practices need to be resilient, responsive, growth-oriented and future proof. The Corporate Affairs Division of SAIL is engaged in the corporate brand management for SAIL along with support from the Central Marketing Organization for product and service branding. The SAIL dealers are crucial points of dissemination of branding initiatives due to the mass outreach and the large volume of sales at their outlets. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION In the competitive landscape of the Indian Steel industry, it is imperative for companies to focus their efforts on customer satisfaction, which is directly linked to the company’s profits. The Company highly values its customers whose patronage has earned SAIL its commanding position in the market. The responsibility for reaching out to the customers has also been entrusted to the Central Marketing Organization (CMO), which conducts a market survey annually and makes forecasts with respect to customer groups and market segments to be served by SAIL and communicates the same to the Plants. Key Account Management (KAM) is SAIL’s customer relationship management which captures the specific requirements of key clientele and these requirements along with the customer feedback are reviewed monthly in the Plant-CMO meetings. The production schedule is finalized based on the output of the Plant-CMO meetings and the customer orders are released by CMO accordingly. Customer satisfaction is assessed continuously through the measurement of Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) which is collected half yearly from all key accounts through personally administered feedback forms which include various parameters related to quality, supply and service. Average CSI Index for both LP & FP Group as regards to five integrated SAIL Plants is around 96 % on a scale of 100%. In addition, direct Customer contacts are held by CMO's field set up as well as executives of different levels. Long Rails at BSP (G4-DMA (Product & Service Labeling), G4-PR5) 52 Fortifying Sustainable Growth CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY In line with its commitment to offer the highest level of service to its customer, the Company develops and uses best practices and procedures to achieve and maintain high standards of customer health and safety. There are no identified health risks associated with the products, however, material handling is a safety concern for the customer and use of safety appliances is mandated in the warehouses. All of SAIL’s products conform to applicable regulations and standards as prescribed by the Bureau of Indian Standards. There has been no incidence of noncompliance with respect to regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their lifecycle. COMMUNICATION The focus of the Corporate Communications activities has been proactive and is on structured image building exercises of SAIL. Dissemination of information to the desired target audience through effective means of communications to stakeholders such as press releases, press meets, one on one interaction with media personnel etc. has strengthened the company's image amongst key stakeholders. SAIL has continued to emphasize on reaching out to its target audience, both in rural and urban areas through its radio campaign, advertisements in print media and through specialized product brochures. SAIL received an enthusiastic response from retail investors in the stake sale of SAIL, which was oversubscribed 2.5 times and is a record for retail participation in any OFS. SAIL has also been recognized as an important player in nation building and is poised to play an important role in Hon’ble PM’s – “Make in India” initiative. The prestigious events “Dedication to the Nation of the modernized & expanded Rourkela Steel Plant and the IISCO Steel Plant by Hon’ble Prime Minister – Shri Narendra Modi” have further strengthened brand image of SAIL. These events have featured in all forms of media in India and abroad such as print, electronic, online and social media (viz. twitter and Facebook). These high visibility events have enhanced brand reputation of SAIL. A ‘Swachch SAIL, Sundar SAIL’ campaign was launched in support of the ‘Swachch Bharat Abhiyan’ programme initiated by our Hon’ble PM. The company has developed collaterals for circulation like diary, calendar, flyers, posters etc. to sensitize the employees to the objectives of the initiative. SAIL at India International Trade Fair The multidimensional approach followed by the company has ensured that information relating to the company reaches the target audience in a cost effective manner. SAIL selectively identified and participated in specialized exhibitions & events throughout the year. These include the India International Trade Fair–IITF, Vibrant Gujarat, and Indian Conference of Mining & Metallurgy among others. The Company has also undertaken sponsorship of important events and promising sports persons. SAIL sponsored Wrestlers Yogeshwar Dutt & Sushil Kumar, who won gold medals for our country at the Commonwealth Games held in 2014. Yogeshwar Dutt also won a gold medal at the Asian Games in 2014. 53 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 The SAIL website with its new look, user friendly set up & regular updations, is a credible source of information for our stakeholders. Additionally, important events are featured on the website via live feed. The company’s corporate newsletter – eSAIL News plays a key role in building relationships between employees and management and has a great impact on employee motivation and engagement. The redesigned eSAIL News, carrying important activities of the Company, is brought out on the first of each month. Continuous efforts have been taken by the Company to further engage and interact with employees through written collaterals by the management, face to face interactions, video conferences, in house television, newsletters, web alerts, portal & intranet alerts etc. This has helped the Company leverage on its position as a brand of trust, leadership and quality. MEDIA RELATIONS In today’s era of enhanced accountability, the interrelationship between efficient media relations, top rated corporate reputation and sales performance has become very prominent. The Chief of Corporate Affairs, the official spokesperson of the Company, regularly liaisons’ with key media houses to build a rapport to communicate the organization’s goals, ideas, intent and newsworthy events. All the key stakeholders of SAIL are continuously apprised of the company’s communication through different channels of engagement such as press releases, press meets and personalized interactions with the regional, national and international media. Key highlights of SAIL’s annual achievements such as, milestones for Company’s MEP, production and sales records, development of value added products, engaging our customers, etc. were some of the news items that generated positive coverage for the Company. ON – LINE PUBLICATION AND DATA PRIVACY SAIL honours its responsibility to protect the information collected in the course of its business, from customers, employees, contractors, shareholders and other individuals, and strives to maintain the confidentiality of such sensitive information. SAIL’s corporate policies around data privacy, confidentiality and security are designed to maintain the trust of the individuals and organizations who share the information. The digital version of all PR publications has been initiated at all the units of SAIL. No incidents have been reported regarding noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. No complaints have been received regarding breaches of customer privacy and loss of customer data. SAIL has not been imposed with any fine for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services during the year 2014-15. 54 Fortifying Sustainable Growth MANAGING THE SUPPLY CHAIN Organizations alone cannot achieve sustainability and are dependent upon their relationships with their suppliers to improve their environmental, social and economic performance. Stewardship is a principle that calls on all those involved in the product lifecycle to share responsibility for maximising the value and minimizing any negative impacts across commercial, social and environmental attributes that result from the production, use and disposal of the product. Stewardship needs to be an integrated program of actions aimed at ensuring that all materials, processes, goods and services are managed throughout the life cycle in a socially and environmentally responsible manner. SAIL has always been conscious of its responsibility towards environmental conservation even outside its operational boundaries. Considering the enormous amount of raw materials and finished products being handled as a result of its activities, SAIL has always given preference to transportation through rail over roads. While on one hand this has improved operational efficiency resulting out of meticulous planning, on the other hand, rail transportation being environmental friendlier option has helped minimise the impact on environment. Bulk of raw materials arriving at the Steel Plants is received by rail while the finished products are dispatched from the Steel Plants of SAIL, mainly by rail, either directly to customers or to respective Warehouses for stocking and sales to the final Customer(s). Small quantities of road movements also take place from Steel Plants directly to Customers, to supplement rail dispatches. In addition, dispatches from warehouses are also organized for Customers who require deliveries at their site through road dispatches. A number of dealers are also delivered materials at their door step through road transportation from the warehouses. There has been no incidence of non-compliance with respect to regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle during the year 2014-15. STRIVING TOWARDS “ZERO EFFECT” SAIL is driven to ensure that its products do not have any adverse effect on the environment. Steel, as a product does not have impact during its use. However, SAIL has assessed both its product as well as associated services in this regard. In order to mitigate environmental impacts of services, certain measures have been taken and till now 9 no. of warehouses have been accredited with ISO 14001. Such measures include maintenance of proper road and hardstands, adequate plantations, conversion of vacant plots into flower gardens, use of CFL Bulbs, hygienic toilets, rain water harvesting mechanism, DG Sets with acoustic covers etc. All handling equipment are periodically checked and maintained to ensure a healthy & safe environment within warehouses. Packaging materials are usually dispatched to customers along with consignments in packed condition. However, packing materials retrieved from finished products dispatched in loose conditions, are disposed-off sustainably from warehouses from time to time. No significant negative environmental impact is noticeable in supply chain except for pollution resulting from deployment of vehicular traffic like trucks & trailers in the warehouses. All vehicles are duly checked for compliance with respect to pollution control. 55 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 SAFE WORKPLACE Fortifying Sustainable Growth CREATING A SAFE & HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT SAIL, as a part of its philosophy, gives due importance to maintaining a healthy & safe working environment and prioritises the safety of its stakeholders. Safety is monitored at the highest level of management i.e. Board/Board Sub-committee level and all relevant issues are discussed as first item in all appropriate forums. SAIL has a well-defined approach towards Occupational Health & Safety (OH&S). In alignment with this approach, individual SAIL Plants are having their own OH&S policy. All efforts are directed in line with company’s Safety Policy and the objectives are pursued in a consistent manner through well-established OH&S management programmes. Due care is taken to ensure safety of people and processes by using state-of-the art technology. Specific thrust is given to the Safety issues involved during execution & commissioning of the projects; which yields significant end results in terms of safety performance. Uniformly concerted efforts through participative approach are undertaken in controlling the OH&S risks involved in the steel making process, be it a regular or contractual employee across the hierarchy, visitors & vendors to the premises as well as the society at large. Strategic initiatives and periodic drives are jointly undertaken to sensitise the employees on the need for implementation of safe and healthy work practices. Responsible involvement of top management, trade union representatives & employees are demonstrated through active involvement in the bi-partite forums like Central/ Apex Safety Committees, Departmental Safety Committees etc. These committees meet regularly to discuss & deliberate all issues pertaining to safety, health & welfare of the employees in a collaborative manner for consistent enhancement of the OH&S standards. The committees help in monitoring & review of promotional activities undertaken and are associated in the effective deployment of occupational health and safety programmes. Joint Committee on Safety, Health & Environment in Steel Industry (JCSSI) is a unique National level bipartite forum consisting of members from national trade unions and from Steel Plants & Units, management representatives as well as experts from related areas like NSC, RLI etc. It consists of representations from Central Trade Unions and management of 21 major steel producers including consultants. Set up in 1973, this apex bipartite forum plays a key role in improving the standards of safety, health & work environment. Some of the functions of JCSSI include: Ÿ Study causes of accidents and exchange views on remedial measures. Ÿ Monitor major issues on Safety, Occupational Health & Environmental pollution. Ÿ Spread awareness among members through sharing of best practices in Safety, Health and Environment by organising seminars, meetings, workshops etc. Ÿ Encourage and promote workers participation in Safety, Health & Environment. Ÿ Print and publish material like booklets, manuals, films etc. on safety, health & environment. Significant improvements have been made in the standards of safety and occupational health at workplace by establishing systems, procedures & improved work practices in place. Wholehearted involvement of management as well as workers is ensured for effective health & safety drives / campaigns. The views of bi-partite forums are considered while revising the Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment (HIRA) documents and Occupational Health and Safety Policy of the organisation. To ensure safe & healthy work environment, both management and workers' representatives reiterate their commitment to develop, promote and enforce the best standards for safety, occupational health and environment protection and maintain specified standards of OHSAS 18001, ISO 9001 & ISO 14001. The company has signed an MoU with National Safety Council, Mumbai for collaboration in the area of Safety audits, training etc. Due emphasis is laid upon the preparation and adherence to safe commissioning procedures for new and upcoming facilities, identification of all types of hazards and evaluation & control of work related risks for adoption of proactive strategies, strict adherence to properly developed protocols and SOPs/ SMPs/ SWPs, organising training on Fatality Risk Control and Behavioral Based Study for minimizing risk. 57 (G4-DMA (Occupational Health & Safety)) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 By Safety By external Engineering Three Tier agencies Dept. of Plants, Safety Units and Mines Audit Structure at SAIL By SAIL Safety Organization in association with representatives of other Plants/Units/Mines SAFETY / SURVEILLANCE AUDITS CONDUCTED DURING 2014-15 Ÿ Safety Audits by SSO in BSP (Coal Chemicals Deptt., Acetylene & Propane Plant, EMD & Project Construction area), DSP (Traffic Department, Oxygen Plant, EMD & BF), BSL (EMD, By-Product Plant, CRM Complex, Foundry, Oxygen Plant & BF Complex), RSP (SMS-II & New Plate Mill), ISP (Pre-commissioning audits in BOF & CCP and BF), ASP (SMS & CCS), RMD (Kuteshwar Mine), Collieries (Ramnagore). Comprehensive Safety Audit carried out by external agencies by National Safety Council at BSP, DSP, RSP, BSL, ISP, ASP, CFP, RMD (Gua Ore Mines) by RLI, Chennai at SSP, VISL by M/s Kratin Solutions at all Mines under RMD Surveillance / re-certification audits under OHSAS by M/s TUV and M/s DNV. SAFETY SETUP IN SAIL SAIL Safety Organisation (SSO) coordinates and monitors the operational and fire safety activities at Corporate level. In each Plant/ Unit of SAIL, full-fledged Safety Engineering Department (SED) with infrastructural resources functions to ensure operational safety & fire prevention related aspects. SEDs periodically undertake awareness generation drives and campaigns in respective Plant/Unit. Departmental Safety Officer & Safety steward / captain in each department / shop ensures adherence to laid down standards & safe working procedures. MANAGEMENT COMMITMENT The Company is committed towards preventing occurrence of accident in Plants/Units/Mines. Safety performance is being monitored at the highest level of management i.e. Board, Chairman and Directors’ level as well as by the Chief Executives of respective Plants & Units. (G4-DMA (Occupational Health & Safety)) 58 Fortifying Sustainable Growth SYSTEMS AND PROCEDURES Statutory rules and regulations are duly adhered to and SOPs, SMPs & WIs are formulated which serve as vital guidance document. These documents are reviewed and updated in accordance with changing requirements. For hazardous & critical jobs involving multiple agencies, systems like Permit to Work and Protocol incorporating safety provisions exist which are monitored for strict adherence. During all major capital repairs/ shut down jobs, extra precaution is taken through safety surveillance & intensive monitoring for ensuring safe completion. WORKERS PARTICIPATION IN SAFETY MANAGEMENT Health and safety committees with joint representation of management & workers facilitate a positive health and safety culture. 100% employees are covered by the formal joint management-worker health and safety committees at Plant/Units and are consulted and communicated on Health & Safety issues. These committees are generally called for meeting once a month in all departments. All issues related to health & safety, such as the organisational commitment, maintenance of good health, safe work environment, welfare of employees, security of plant, etc. are discussed thoroughly. All the contractual workers are imparted safety and work environment related training before deployment. TRAINING & EDUCATION Awareness and capacity building are critical components of an effective safety strategy. Continuous education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programmes are organised for workforce members, their families and other communities to equip them with required knowledge & skills. Various types of training/ workshops are organised for educating all concerned regarding first aid, occupational hygiene and health, stress management, preventive care for occupational diseases, awareness on HIV/ AIDS etc. Area specific workshops are conducted and job specific safety training is imparted to the workers. Safety related information is also broadcast through local TV network at Plant townships. Training on safety is also imparted to the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) deployed for ensuring security in and around the Plants. In addition to the training on security practices, occupational health and safety related training is also provided to the other security staff. All CISF personnel are trained on Human Rights aspects at their individual training camps as per standard training procedure of Government of India (GoI) for security personnel. As a result of these efforts, SAIL has developed safe & healthy working environment for all its employees and those living in the neighborhood of its installations. Periodic review of safety performance is made at top management level of respective plants/ units as well as centrally at Organisation level through scheduled meetings by the Heads of Safety and Heads of Fire Services of all SAIL Plants & Units. Mock Drill at VISL 59 (G4-DMA (Occupational Health & Safety), G4-LA5) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 SALIENT GOOD SAFETY PRACTICES : Ÿ SSO Information Portal (accessible through SAILNet by all Plants/ Units of SAIL) launched and updated on regular basis covering salient areas like education & training, job protocols, technical specifications of PPEs, useful publications etc. Ÿ Emphasis given on updating existing standards and developing new standards under IPSS 1:11 to enhance safety at workplace. Ÿ Coordinated comprehensive safety audits at plants/ units through National Safety Council, RLI etc. Ÿ Specialized Training programmes conducted on HAZOP Safety, Chemical Safety and Project Safety Management at MTI & HRDC, BSP. Ÿ Gas safety awareness programme for senior executives followed by SAMEEKSHA on Gas Safety hazards Ÿ Special gas safety training module with practical demo and hands-on developed Ÿ Special drive taken up to stop plying of heavy vehicles during shift change hours Ÿ Special ‘On-the-job’ training programmes are being conducted for contractual workmen at site before starting of jobs and necessary Do’s & Don’ts explained. Ÿ Zero accident recognition scheme, Annual Housekeeping competition & Safety Championship Scheme implemented to improve safety and housekeeping Ÿ Cleanliness competition organized in connection with ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’. Ÿ Increased frequency of mock drills for different type of emergencies. Ÿ Organised a mock drill on chemical industrial disaster with BSP, CISF & NDRF Ÿ Disaster Management Institute, Bhopal engaged for updation of Disaster Management Plan and also for conducting HAZOP study of GCPs, Coal Chemicals Plant, EMD etc. Ÿ Professionals from reputed institutions conducted extensive safety training for Line Managers & ATTs. Ÿ Daily Safety Talk for Regular & Contractors’ workers by DSO & Personnel department in the morning / start of the job. Ÿ Leaflets on Gas Safety, Road Safety & Electrical Safety published and distributed. Ÿ HAZOP study of Gas Network carried out by team of executives. Ÿ Maintained wipers, AV alarms, horns, fog lights & sunglasses in dumpers during monsoons Ÿ Use of CCTV cameras Ÿ Radium tape fixed on trees/ pillars on both sides of haul road as well as approach road Ÿ Emphasis on 100 % usage of PPEs at all locations. Ÿ Fire-fighting training programme with the help of fire brigade. Ÿ Video shows on ‘Safe Material Handling’ and ‘Safe Driving’ to spread safety awareness. Ÿ Monthly meeting with handling contractors and supervisors for 100 % usage of PPEs at all major warehouses. 60 Fortifying Sustainable Growth OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT SAIL has set benchmarks in the area of OHS and has established full-fledged OHS Centres with modern healthcare equipment at its all plants & mines. OHS centres work towards improving workers’ health by covering 100% employees under OHS programmes. The multi-disciplinary, multi-dimensional OHS centre of the Bhilai Steel Plant has emerged as the National OHS Centre for SAIL and functions as a Central Nodal Agency to monitor occupational health activities in different SAIL units. Health Information System (HIS) is effectively utilized as an important tool which includes organized collection, compilation, analysis, retrieval and dissemination of information. To provide comprehensive health care; preventive, curative, promotive and rehabilitative health services are being rendered through an integrated approach. A conducive work environment is provided through compliance to the requirements of OHSAS 18001& SA 8000 certifications. AVAILABLE INFRASTRUCTURE Preventive: Occupational Medicine Clinic, Periodical Medical Examination, Industrial Hygiene Survey setup, Computerized Health Information System (HIS). Promotive: Awareness programmes, Training on Industrial Hygiene and First Aid, Stress Management, AIDS Control, Life Style Diseases, Special programmes for working women, Celebration of Special Days. Curative: General OPD, Pharmacy, Plant casualty services with Disaster Management facility. Round the clock Ambulance services, Eye wash Fountains, Minor OT. Rehabilitative: Disability assessment following any work injury through Disability Medical Board (DMB). Redressal of complaint cases from work places / departments, Job rotation based on deviation found in medical examination & recommendations of DMB being implemented by redeployment committee, follow up & feedback documented. Facilities: Lung Function Test, Biochemical investigation, Clinical Pathology, Digital X-Ray, Vision Test, Health Education & Training, OHS Library, ECG, Psychology, Health Information System, Audiometry etc. Special Days like World Health Day, Occupational Health Day, AIDS Awareness Day, World TB Day, Doctors’ Day are celebrated to promote awareness on health issues up to the grass root level including contractual workforce. Specialised programmes are also organized for regular and contracted female employees. SALIENT ACTIVITIES UNDERTAKEN BY THE OHS CENTRES Ÿ Upgraded NOHSC website is used to inform the employees about related OHS activities Ÿ OHS personnel took part in First Aid demonstration, Mock Drill, Gas Safety, Stress Management, Medical Boards for Preemployment, Rehabilitative, Disability, Job Rotation, Emergency, long unfit, Job Assessment review etc. Ÿ Periodical Medical Examination, Pre-Employment Medical Examination, Pre-Retirement Medical Examination, Employee Wellness Programme & Vision Conservation Programmes, Tests on Audiometry, Pulmonary function, ECG, Chest X-ray for all employees Ÿ Occupational Hygiene Surveys for Dust, Noise, Heat, Radiation, Illumination etc. Ÿ Urine phenol estimation & pathological tests for the employees of Benzol Rectification & Recovery Plant. Ÿ Work Physiology Activities covering Pulmonary Function Test, ECG, Energy Expenditure Study, Maximum Oxygen uptake Ÿ Industrial Psychology covering test for Personality, Stress Assessment, Identification & counseling of Stressed persons and follow up etc. Ÿ OHS centre equipped with multi-channel oxygen facility for oxygen therapy to combat gas exposure Ÿ Health education Programmes/ workshop on Modular First Aid, Work place hazards & prevention, Stress Management, Diabetes Mellitus, Hypertension, Cancer, AIDS Awareness, Occupational Health Hazard Disease & prevention, Safe 61 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 physical work environment, Hygiene, Life Style Diseases, Women’s Health, Chemical Burn and other Burn injury management, Food & Personal Hygiene, Aging gracefully etc. conducted in most of the OHS centres. Ÿ Heath awareness programme for Food Handlers & Health counseling to risk groups Ÿ Peripheral activities like AIDS awareness Programmes Occupational Hygiene aspects are taken care through work place monitoring, personal sampling, area sampling for dust, noise, heat stress, gas / chemical, radiation, illumination. Based on various surveys conducted, data analysis, hazard quantification, reporting to respective department with recommendations for control measures and follow up is made for its compliance. Safety Statistics (Plants and Mines) Injury Rate (per 200,000 hours worked) Mandays Lost 2012 0.106 2012 4,978 2013 0.086 2013 4,057 2014 0.091 2014 5,403 *Excluding Mandays lost on account of Fatal accidents Accidents by Category (Nos.) Accidents by Type (Nos.) Year Regular employees Contractor worker Total Year Fatal Reportable NonReportable 2012 136 75 211 2012 27 78 106 2013 111 71 182 2013 28 75 79 2014 105 84 189 2014 26 89 74 Total Nos. of Safety Training Imparted Year Total nos. trained 2012 225,315 2013 256,739 2014 205,629 Medical Tests in Progress 62 Fortifying Sustainable Growth NURTUR CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 ING HUMAN RESOURCE OUR Fortifying Sustainable Growth HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SAIL’s growth is reliant on its workforce and the organization’s human resources strategy focuses on nurturing the potential of its human capital. Skilled workmen are a key component of SAIL’s success story and strengthening the capabilities of this workforce contributes to the overall development of the organisation. To provide livelihood to the local communities, SAIL advertises for job vacancies through its website and local/national newspapers. Employment opportunities at SAIL focus on inclusivity and refrain from any bias based on gender. Rewards and recognition are given where it is due and career growth is strictly based on merit. Entry level wage is uniform in SAIL across all categories, genders and locations. However, as minimum wage is notified separately by each state govt., the ratio is different for each steel Plant. The ratio of entry level wage to minimum wage for BSP is 3.34, for BSL the figure is 2.07, for RSP it is 3.40, DSP it is 2.04 and for ISP the ratio is 2.71. SAIL doesn’t give employment on part time/ temporary basis. All Plants, Mines and other operations of SAIL of which employee break-up is reported are located in India. The total number of employees in all the Plants, Units and Mines across India in 2014-15 was 93,352. The ratio of employees in the gender category (female/male) is 6/94. The percentage of employees in minority groups is around 8.6%. (in Nos.) Total Employees 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2014-15 SAIL 101,878 97,897 93,352 Recruitment Plant/Unit Male Female Attrition Employees Breakup by Type 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 BSP 488 65 110 Executive 15,232 14,780 14,648 DSP 247 24 27 Non-Executive 86,646 83,117 78,704 RSP 299 49 63 BSL 461 44 48 Employees Breakup by Gender 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 ISP 599 31 232 Male 95,996 92,285 87,931 ASP 17 1 2 Female 5,882 5,612 5,421 SSP 6 0 13 Employees Breakup by Age (yrs) 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 VISL 0 0 4 <30 7,053 8,710 9,657 CFP 6 0 1 30-50 50,195 46,992 43,709 SRU 28 3 2 >50 44,630 42,195 39,986 RMD 158 10 15 Collieries 7 0 5 Contractual Workers 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 RDCIS 40 6 0 SAIL 84,320 95,829 69,961 CET 37 1 1 EMD 0 0 1 Minority Representation Male Female Minority Employees 7,183 837 CMO 14 0 10 Total Employees 87,931 5,421 Corporate Oﬃce 0 0 1 % 8.20 15.40 SAIL 2407 234 535 SC ST OBC 12-13 13-14 14-15 12-13 13-14 14-15 12-13 13-14 14-15 TOTAL 16,281 15,615 14,356 13,814 13,484 12,089 10,085 10,656 10,447 65 (G4-9, G4-10, G4-DMA (Market Presence), G4-EC5) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 The percentage of employees by age group Age Group (yrs) % Under 30 10 3050 47 Over 50 43 DSP re certified for social accountability standards SA 8000 is an international standard based on Universal Declaration of Human Rights, United Nations Conventions on the Rights of the Child and 13 Conventions of the International Labour Organization. While auditing Durgapur Steel Plant on various aspects of the SA 8000, the experts from M/s TUV expressed their satisfaction on the efforts of DSP in upholding the standards in its functioning and DSP has been re-certified to SA 8000. CRAFTING A REWARDING CAREER Major thrust for innovation, involvement and creative work environment for all employees is embedded in the HR policy of the Company. Ample and equal growth opportunities are provided to all employees regardless of gender, caste, religion or marital status. Whenever there is any requisite to alter the working hours, the management informs representatives of employees and the contractual workers well in advance. 3 month notice period by an employee is required prior to release on resignation. The employee is required to serve the Company during this period. SAIL’s Human Capital The Company believes that collective bargaining is a part of an overall governance framework that contributes to responsible management. All employees of SAIL are covered by collective bargaining agreements. For carrying out collective bargaining for non-executive employees, National Joint Committee for Steel Industry (NJCS) is a unique bipartite forum which consists of representatives from major Central Trade Union Organizations and representatives from recognized unions of main Plants and management of major steels producers. All Plants/Units have recognized unions for non-executive employees. The Steel Executives’ Federation of India (SEFI) the apex body representing the executives in SAIL, carry out the collective bargaining in case of Executives. The healthy practice of sorting out and settling issues (G4-DMA (Labour Management Relations), G4-LA4) 66 Fortifying Sustainable Growth Satisfied Workforce through participative discussions with trade unions/workers’ representatives enabled the Company in ensuring a peaceful industrial relation ambience. Bipartite forums like National Joint Committee for Steel Industry (NJCS), Joint Committee on Safety, Health & Environment in Steel Industry (JCSSI) etc. with representation from major central trade unions as well as representative Unions of Plants/Units meet periodically and jointly evolve recommendations/ action plans for ensuring a safe & harmonious work culture. The Company understands the importance of work-life balance and has appropriate leave policies for its employees. All regular employees enjoy the Benefits like Health care, Disability/ invalidity coverage, Maternity Leave, Retirement Benefits etc. The Company provides parental leaves to all its employees and maternity leave up to 180 days and 730 days child care leave is provided to women employees. Workman engaged by the Contractors in establishments of SAIL, are covered under the ESI Benefits. SAIL has been a pioneer in providing various social benefits to its employees in the form of housing, education, civic amenities, sports & recreation and social welfare. The Company has developed full-fledged townships over the years at all its Plant locations with the modern infrastructural facilities along with premier schools, super speciality hospitals, shopping malls, multiplexes, parks, gymnasium, stadiums etc. WORKMEN COMPENSATION Workers' participation at different levels, right from National level up to shop-floor level, is ensured through an established system at SAIL. National Joint Committee for the Steel Industry (NJCS), which is a bipartite forum comprising of members representing both the employers as well as employees, decides wages and benefits of non-executive employees. All regular non-executive employees are covered under the purview of this collective bargaining body. Fair dealings on labour issues are ensured by the designated Labour Welfare Officers of the respective Plant/Unit/Mines. No discrimination towards any section/category of employees is ensured by the Personnel department which regularly monitors fairness in activities and services. Freedom of Association, as enshrined under the Constitution of India and envisaged in the Trade Union Act, is also ensured. Right to exercise the Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining is ensured in all operations in SAIL. The Company strongly believes in protection of Fundamental Rights described in the Constitution of India. There was no recorded case during the reporting year on any violation of human rights. Regular performance and career development reviews are done for all the employees. 67 (G4-11) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 Communication with employees on a wide range of issues impacting the Company’s performance as well as those related to employees’ welfare is done in a structured manner across the Company. Mass communication campaigns are undertaken at CEO / Senior Officers’ level involving structured discussion with large group of employees. These sessions help employees to align their working with the goals and objective of the Company leading to enhanced productivity and sense of belonging to the Company. SAIL has implemented SA 8000 in its Plants & Units that takes care of various aspects related to human rights. Thus, through implementation of SA 8000, the Company communicates aspects of human rights to all its vendors & suppliers. Employees are provided training & awareness workshops on different aspects of SA 8000 pertaining to child labour, forced labour, non-discrimination, freedom of association, safe work environment and health & safety. The SA 8000 clause on child labour that includes employment of persons of age 18 and above as a precondition to partnering with SAIL, and that, in the event of any kind of violation by vendors within or outside the Company premises, liabilities for the education of the child until the completion of high school will accrue to the defaulting party. This aspect is communicated to all the vendors and suppliers during engagement with them. Effective internal grievance redressal machinery is well established in SAIL which also addresses the issues related with human rights. Joint grievance committees have been set up at Plant/Unit level for effective redressal of grievances. Majority of grievances are redressed informally in view of the participative nature of environment existing in the Company. There are no known cases of discrimination as well as any violations of human rights in SAIL. The Company avails the inclusive support and services of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) for ensuring security in and around its Plants and Mines. Training on aspects of safety and human rights is duly provided to CISF personnel. TAKING CARE SAIL employees have always demonstrated sincere commitment towards the organization and remained true partners in its success. The Company has also considered its employees as part of one extended family and has supported them during service as well as after superannuation. Retirement plans of SAIL are based on both defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans. SAIL Pension Scheme is currently being formulated. All retirement plans currently followed are mandatory for all regular employees. PROVIDENT FUND, GRATUITY & EMPLOYEE PENSION SCHEME The total contribution made by the Company to SAIL Gratuity Trust upto 31.03.2015 was ` 3,349.09 crores. The fund size has grown to ` 5,061.04 crores as on 31.03.2015, net of settlement done towards payment of Gratuity. The gratuity liabilities of the employees are valued by a professional Actuary at the end of each Financial Year and based on the actuarial valuation, the contribution to the Gratuity Trust is made. SAIL has been receiving subsidy from Government of India in the form of reliefs and concessions. For the year 2014-15, this figure was ` 25.57 crores compared to ` 16.51 crores in 2013-14. 68 Fortifying Sustainable Growth MEDICAL FACILITIES TO SERVING EMPLOYEES The Company provides comprehensive Medical and Health care facilities to its employees and their dependants. The main objective of the SAIL Health Policy is “To promote and maintain a healthy work-force right from Induction to Post Retirement”. SAIL is maintaining a huge medical setup comprising of 53 Primary Health Centres, 23 Hospitals, 7 Reproductive & Child Health Centres and 7 Speciality Hospitals. For treatment not available at SAIL hospitals, the employees (& their dependants) are referred to hospitals located pan-India as per rules and requirement. For the city based employees and their dependents where SAIL does not have its own hospital, employees are provided comprehensive medical facilities in empanelled hospitals and they are also reimbursed medical expenditure. Total medical expenditure on employees and their dependents was around ` 586 crores during the reporting period. MEDICAL FACILITIES TO RETIRED EMPLOYEES SAIL also extends medical and health-care facilities to its superannuated employees and their spouses. The Company has also been operating a Mediclaim Scheme for its retired employees and their spouses since 1991. The premium applicable to the said scheme is highly subsidized by the Company. SAIL Mediclaim Scheme is amongst the largest group Mediclaim Schemes in India and at present it covers around 1.1 lakh members located pan-India. LIFE COVER SCHEME Under the NJCS Agreement, SAIL is operating a Life Cover Scheme (LCS) in lieu of statutory scheme called Employees Deposit Linked Insurance (EDLI) Scheme, 1976. The monetary benefits under LCS/ EDLI are given to the nominee of the PF member in case of death of PF member while in service. EMPLOYEE FAMILY BENEFIT SCHEME According to this scheme, in cases of death of an employee while in service or on account of Permanent Total Disability or termination of the services of an employee on Permanent Medical Unfitness, an amount equal to his last drawn Basic Pay + DA is paid to his/her nominee or the employee (as the case maybe), on monthly basis till his notional date of superannuation. Benefits are extended if the nominee/employee deposits an amount equivalent to his/her PF and Gratuity amount with the company. This amount is returned after attainment of notional date of superannuation. SAIL EMPLOYEES SUPERANNUATION BENEFIT FUND (SESBF) SAIL employees are contributing @ 2% of their basic pay plus DA towards SAIL Employees Superannuation Benefit Fund (SESBF). The SESBF Fund is managed by a Trust representing Unions, SEFI and Management. Specialised Medical Facility 69 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 CRAFTING PROFESSIONALS Fortifying Sustainable Growth TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT SAIL takes great pride in its human resource capital which has constantly challenged the limits and strived for excellence. The growth and development of employees is directly linked to Company’s performance. SAIL believes that training facilitates the development of employee knowledge and skills so that the resultant growth of competence contributes to attainment of organization’s goals and objectives. A systematic and thorough analysis across the organization is made with regard to current level of skill and competence of the employees in various positions vis-à-vis the required skills for higher performance. The work profiles of all the roles are analysed and gap between the job requirements and employee skills are identified for development of training programmes. Customized programs that target specific workgroups and skill sets have helped deliver effective training to all SAIL employees. Training is oriented towards strengthening the organisation’s capabilities to excel in every field and to achieve and maintain market leadership. The HR Policy of the Company is based on the business thrust areas in tune with the Vision Statement of SAIL. The Company’s policy is to provide training to cover every employee at least once in three years. Based on this, percentage of total number of employees to be trained during the financial year is determined by entering into MoU with the Ministry of Steel every year. Accordingly, Annual Training Plan is formulated for each Plant/Unit under the following five major categories: Ÿ Fresh Entrants, Ÿ Competence Enhancement, Ÿ Specific Areas, Ÿ Foreign & External Training, and Ÿ Other Areas. Training Need Assessment (TNA) in the case of executives is carried out annually through on line Executive Performance Management System (EPMS). In the EPMS, the executive based on his/her job profile, fills up the required technical and managerial training required to fulfill his/her KPAs. These needs are reviewed by the management and training need of each executive is identified. All these needs from multiple sources are compiled and analysed. This analysis is used for preparing Annual Training Plan (ATP) and earmarking executives for different training programmes. Based on the training needs assessed, the ATP is prepared. Every shop has its own training coordinator who is responsible for imparting training in various areas along with the identified trainers. The training needs of non-executive employees are ascertained by line managers at the shop floor with the help of Training Engineers. Training hours breakup for the year 2014-15 Executive Non-Executive Total External Training (including MTI/CPTI) 82,576 25,904 108,480 Foreign Training 8,464 2,648 11,112 Speci c Areas 15,768 168,104 183,872 Managerial Competence Enhancement 84,784 244,984 329,768 Technical Competence Enhancement 197,816 571,640 769,456 Fresh Entrants 1,894,480 6,713,952 8,608,432 Other Areas 31,728 1,257,944 1,289,672 Training in progress 71 (G4-DMA (Training & Education), G4-LA10) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 This assessment is done through: Ÿ Measurement of Competency Gaps Ÿ Requirement for Multi-skill training, and Ÿ Skill-Gap Analysis Based on the training needs, appropriate training programmes are conducted to bridge competence gap of these employees. System of Mentoring is being maintained to train the Management Trainees (MTs). The prime objective of this system is to achieve the individual growth necessary for MTs to deliver managerial excellence in their field of operations. Performance Improvement Workshops (PIWs) are planned every year, for gap analysis, brain storming and building an action plan regarding issues like production and productivity, cost reduction, maintenance, housekeeping and safety. The workshops involve mostly the non-executive employees of the respective shops. As per the policy in vogue, at least one-third employees are trained every year at various locations. SAIL also publishes various technical and managerial journals which are accessible to every employee. The training programs are designed in such a manner that they provide for lifelong learnings and skill development and support the employees during and after their services. Apart from these, specialized technical training and vocational training programme for college students are also organized every year. On-site Training Performance Indicator 2014-15 Percentage of employee trained 46.1% Training man-hours per employee 115.2 No of employees trained 45124 (G4-DMA (Training & Education), G4-LA10) 72 Fortifying Sustainable Growth GIVING CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 BACK THE SOCIETY TO Fortifying Sustainable Growth SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At SAIL, commitment towards society ideates from its credo “to make a meaningful difference in people’s lives”. SAIL’s social responsibility principles guide the company to conduct business in ways that create social, environmental and economic benefits to the communities in which it operates. The company’s CSR programmes have a large scale outreach and have enabled several small rural communities transform into large industrial centres today. All Plants/Units of SAIL are carrying out CSR Activities, and thus 100% involvement is there regarding Local Community Engagement and Development Programmes. The Company is committed to continuously improving its social responsibilities, environment and economic practices to make positive impact on the society. The CSR activities are undertaken by the Company as per its stated CSR Policy which is in accordance with the directives of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Govt. of India. The Company’s CSR activities are carried out in and around steel townships, mines and far flung locations across the country in the areas of Education, Medical and Health Care facilities, Village Development, Access to Drinking Water and Sanitation facilities, Infrastructural development in peripheral rural areas, Environment Conservation, Women Empowerment, Assistance to people with Disabilities, Sustainable Income Generation through Self Help Groups, Promotion of Sports, Art, Culture & Heritage Conservation etc. The social challenges associated with the operations of SAIL were mapped and the appropriate mitigation strategies were adopted by the company. SOCIAL CHALLENGES Ÿ Ensuring mutually bene cial co-existence of the SAIL units in their operating communities MITIGATION STRATEGIES Ÿ Upholding ethical integrity across the value Ÿ Development of cooperative partnerships chain with the local communities Ÿ Reach and relevance of development Ÿ Strong focus on observance of ethical programmes in rural areas business practices Ÿ Identi cation of community engagement opportunities centred on structured need assessments CSR INITIATIVES Various CSR initiatives taken up by the Company to meet the local Community needs are as under: Healthcare SAIL’s extensive & specialised Healthcare Infrastructure has provided specialized and basic healthcare for people living in the vicinity of its plants and units. In order to deliver quality healthcare at the doorstep of the needy, regular health camps in various villages on fixed days of the month are being organized for the people living in the periphery of Plants/Units, mines & far-flung areas. During the last five years (upto 2014-15), over 13,200 Health Camps have been organised benefitting more than 9.08 Lakh people. Seven Health Centres are in operation at Plants exclusively for providing free medical care including medicines to poor and needy families. On an average 100,000 beneficiaries avail of healthcare facilities in these Health Centres every year. To cater the poor and downtrodden residing in extremely remote areas, over 90 Mobile Medical Units /Ambulances have been provided to various NGOs since 2007-08. Education To develop the society through education, SAIL is running over 129 schools in the steel townships to provide modern education to about 60,000 children and is providing assistance to over 629 schools with about 95,000 students. Seven Special Schools (Kalyan Vidyalaya) for Below Poverty Line category children are running at integrated steel plant locations providing free education, mid-day meals, uniforms including shoes, text books, stationery items, school bags, water bottles and also transportation in some cases. The Company, in association with Akshya Patra Foundation is providing MidDay Meals to students of Govt. schools in and around Bhilai and Rourkela. Under this scheme, healthy & nutritious meal is being provided to around 63,000 students of around 570 Govt. schools every day. 75 (G4-DMA (Local Communities), G4-SO1) CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 SAIL’s CSR Initiatives Sustainable Income Generation Vocational and specialized Skill Development Training targeted towa rd s s u s t a i n a b l e i n co m e generation is provided in areas such as Nursing, Physiotherapy, LMV Driving, Computers, Mobile r e p a i r i n g , W e l d e r, F i t t e r & Electrician Training, Improved agriculture, Mushroom cultivation, Goatery, Poultry, Fishery, Piggery, Achar / Pappad / Agarbati making, Screen printing, Handicraf ts, Sericulture, Yarn Weaving, Tailoring, Sewing & Embroidery, Smokeless Chullah making, etc. Also, 800 youth have been sponsored for ITI training at Industrial Training Centres at Bolani, Bargaon and Bokaro. The following Vocational Training Centres for rural and unemployed youths are benefitting them by way of training for income generation and then empowering them to be a part of the main stream: Ÿ “Bhilai Ispat Kaushal Kutir” & “Swayamsiddha” at Bhilai, Ÿ Skill Development and Self Employment Training Institute (SDSETI) at Durgapur Ÿ Garment Technician Training at Salem Ÿ JHARCRAFT centre at Bokaro; and Ÿ Self-employment centre “KIRAN” at Kiriburu Ore Mines Infrastructural development in rural areas The Company has provided connectivity to over 80 Lakh people across 450 remote villages since inception by constructing and repairing of roads/pathways. The Company has provided access to water infrastructure to people living in far-flung areas by installing over 10,100 water sources during last five years, thereby providing drinking water access to over 43.5 lakh people living in far-flung areas. Sports, Art & Culture and Heritage Conservation 76 Fortifying Sustainable Growth The Company has built modern sports facilities in its own townships. SAIL is having residential sports academies at Bokaro (Football), Rourkela (Hockey) with world class astro-turf ground, Bhilai (Athletics for Boys), Durgapur (Athletics for Girls) and Kiriburu, Jharkhand (Archery). Besides, regularly organising inter-village sports activities, SAIL extends support to major national sports events & tournaments. For promoting the local art & culture, the Company supports various cultural societies in and around its townships and organises events like Chhattisgarh Lok Kala Mahotsav and Gramin Lokotsav on regular basis. SAIL also contributes towards conservation of National Heritages and looking after maintenance & restoration of national monuments. Yogeshwar Dutt in action 77 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 RMD efforts light up peripheral villages Bolani Ores Mines of RMD provided electricity supply line to two villages in its periphery, namely Munda Basti and Bolani Basti. This has benefitted over 1200 people and brought about a perceptible change in the lives of the inhabitants. Munda Basti has been provided with a new 63kVA Sub-station recently, while the capacity of Bolani Basti Sub-station has been enhanced to 63kVA from 25 kVA. Disaster Relief SAIL, as a responsible Corporate Citizen, has always supported the rehabilitation initiatives for the people affected by Natural Calamities like flood in Jammu & Kashmir, cyclone Phylin in Odisha, flash floods in Uttarakhand, etc. Support to Differently Abled & Senior Citizens Differently-abled children/people are being supported through provision of equipment like Tricycle, Motorized Vehicles, Calipers, Hearing Aids, Artificial Limbs, etc. SAIL supports various schemes and centres support to differently abled & senior citizens at its plant locations, viz. Ÿ “Sneh Sampada” at Bhilai Ÿ Schools for blind, deaf & mentally challenged children at Rourkela Ÿ “Ashalata Viklang Kendra” at Bokaro Ÿ Various programs like “Hope”, “Bharosa”, “Sahas” at Durgapur Ÿ Support to NGOs working in this field like TAMANNA, Deepalaya etc. Ÿ Supporting Old age homes at different Plant townships like “Siyan Sadan” at Bhilai. Salem Steel Plant supports the differently abled Salem has been helping differently abled people by enabling them to earn a living and integrate with the main stream. Recently, SSP placed an order for stitching of 84 pairs of uniform for SSP apprentice trainees on a differently abled trainee named A Maheswari. “Sneh Sampada” at BSP supporting differently abled 78 Fortifying Sustainable Growth CSR SPECIAL INITIATIVES I) Swachh Bharat Abhiyan: SAIL is actively participating in the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan initiated by the Hon'ble Prime Minister in August 2014. As per the allocations made by Ministry of HRD in this regard, the Company has achieved 100% compliance by constructing around 690 toilets in the schools falling within the periphery of its Plants & Mines in the States of Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu. Apart from toilet construction, cleanliness campaign has been undertaken all across the Organisation. Cleanliness drive is going on at various locations including the works premises. Awareness campaigns are being run and proper housekeeping is being practised on company wide basis. ii) Saranda Development Plan: In an effort to bring the marginalized masses of the remote forest areas of Saranda to the mainstream of development, the Company (in association with Govt. of Jharkhand and Ministry of Rural Development, Govt. of India) actively participated in the development drive of Saranda Forest, Jharkhand. SAIL provided Ambulances, Bicycles, Transistors, Solar Lanterns and set up an Integrated Development Centre (IDC) at Digha village in Saranda forest. IDC comprises of facilities like Bank, Panchayat Office, Ration Shop, Telecom Office, Anganwadi Centre, Meeting Room etc. for the local populace. The Company is running residential schools at Saranda Suwan Chhatrawas for 24 tribal students and at Manoharpur for 110 tribal students in order to provide them holistic education. Facilities such as hostel, meals, school bags, uniform and winter clothes, shoes, teaching aids, sports equipment in schools and study materials, etc are provided to them free of cost. iii) Gyan Jyoti Yojana: Bokaro Steel Plant has introduced this scheme for providing education and holistic development for the children of Birhor tribe, which is at the verge of extinction. 15 Birhor children were adopted and provided free Education along with Boarding, Lodging, Nourishing and wholesome Food, Clothing, free Medical Treatment, Sports and Cultural opportunities in a conducive atmosphere. They are the first Matriculates and 12th pass from their community. Inspired from their achievements, another batch of 15 new Birhor children have been adopted, who are all set to begin their life in new surroundings. Cleanliness drive at SAIL 79 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 For Skill Development and better employability, 9 matriculate Birhor Boys adopted under GyanJyoti Yojana have been sponsored for ITI training in ”Welder trade” along with stipend of ` 2500/each, accommodation and food facility at Bokaro Pvt ITI. iv) Gyanodaya: 36 Tribal Children have been adopted and enrolled in class VI in Schools at Bhilai Steel Plant. These students are being provided free lodging, boarding, and education up to XII. Every year 20 tribal children from Kanker and Narayanpur districts (Rowghat area) are adopted. Currently, more than 140 students are getting benefit of this scheme. Scholarships of Rs 2000/per month is awarded to each XII pass-out who pursue higher education. v) Honhaar Scheme for Poor students: “Honhaar” aims at imparting quality education to meritorious SC /ST/ OBC students belonging to Below Poverty Line who score more than 80% marks in matriculation. They are admitted in Class-XI in schools at Bhilai and put up in Gyanodaya Hostel with all facilities at par with Tribal Students. In addition, they are also provided coaching in premiere coaching institute for preparation of entrance examinations like IIT-JEE. vi) Comprehensive Water & Sanitation Project at Rourkela Steel Plant: In an effort to align the marginalized masses, the Company has initiated a project at Rourkela to promote comprehensive Water Supply and Sanitation in its peripheral villages. Each of the 621 households in 5 peripheral villages, viz. Chutiatola, Dumerjore, Ushra Colony, Baniguni & Jagdishpur is getting round the clock potable water through a ground water source, storage tank and supply network with 3 tap points to each household, Sanitation unit comprising of a bathroom and a toilet with RCC roof, on partnership model. The villagers have been mobilized and empowered for their active participation in the project. Village level committees have been formed for long-term sustenance of the project. On similar lines, 12 Model Steel Villages of Rourkela Steel Plant have been identified for developing water & sanitation facilities. Work is in progress in Bankibahal, Chikatmati, Laing Colony and Kapatmunda villages, benefitting 669 households. Students Hostel at Kiriburu Mine 80 Fortifying Sustainable Growth vii) Kiran Self Employment Centre, Kiriburu, Jharkhand: The project aims at formation of independent Self Help Groups of uneducated, unemployed ladies and providing them support in terms of skill training, finance, logistics, marketing etc. as per following details: Ÿ 48 girls hailing from Kiriburu Iron Ore Mines were trained by expert weavers from Nadia (West Bengal) on the weaving machines setup for making Sarees, Gamchaa (Cotton Towel), Salwar Suits, Bed sheets, etc. Ÿ 10 girls have been trained by Birsa Agriculture University, Ranchi at Mushroom Cultivation unit. Ÿ 20 girls were trained at the Agarbatti and Designer Candle-Making units. Ÿ 42 women have been trained and working at the Stitching and Sewing workshop. Self employment Training MONITORING MECHANISM A well-structured organizational mechanism is in place for planning, monitoring and reporting of CSR activities in consultation with local authorities like Panchayats, District & State Authorities etc. in SAIL plants/units. Each SAIL plant/unit has a separate CSR Group/Cell. The CSR department is headed by a senior level officer and is supported by field staff as well as officers from Finance discipline. Each Plant/unit has a High Level Committee / Apex Committee which recommends the projects to be taken up by the respective plant / unit and allocate fund against each of the activities every year. The approval of the competent authority is taken. The same Committee monitors the progress and execution of these projects. REPORTING ON CSR The Annual Report of SAIL for 2014-15 includes reporting on CSR as per the format prescribed under the CSR Rules of the Govt. India. The Annual Report is also available on the Company’s Website. IMPACT ASSESSMENT The CSR quality in SAIL is measured both by Professional Agencies and by Internal evaluation on a regular basis. SAIL has undertaken the Impact Assessment of its CSR activities at various Plant and Units. 81 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 CSR SCORECARD Ÿ No. of Model Steel Villages developed 79 Ÿ No. of rural people given specialized and basic healthcare > 39.11 million through Ÿ Primary Health Centers 53 Ÿ Hospitals 23 Ÿ Reproductive and Child Health Centers 07 Ÿ Speciality Hospitals 07 Ÿ No. of Health Camps during 2014-15 2500 Ÿ No. of Water Resources Installed during past five years 10100 Ÿ No. of Beneficiaries provided with access to drinking water >4.3 million Ÿ No. of Villages connected by construction and repair of roads 450 Ÿ No. of Schools owned by the Company 129 (with 60,000 Students) Ÿ No. of Schools being provided assistance 629 (with 95,000 Students) Ÿ No. of Special Schools (Kalyan Vidyalaya) exclusively for BPL families 07 (with 1,600 Students) Ÿ No. of Birhore tribal children adopted in extremist affected areas 152 Ÿ No. of Scholarships to deserving engineering students 1,670 Ÿ No. of Govt. Schools for provision of mid day meal (Akshay Patra) 570 (with 63,000 Students) Ÿ No. of Youths provided with specialised skill development training 3,000 Ÿ No. of Women provided with specialised skill development training 7,000 Ÿ No. of youths sponsored for ITI training >800 82 Fortifying Sustainable Growth GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures Page no. External Assurance Description Strategy and Analysis G4-1 1-2 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. Organisational Profile G4-3 9 Name of the organization. G4-4 10 Primary brands, products, and/or services. G4-5 9 Location of organization's headquarters. G4-6 3 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. G4-7 17 Nature of ownership and legal form. G4-8 3, 10 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers /beneficiaries). G4-9 6, 7, 9, 65 Scale of the reporting organization. G4-10 65 The total number of employees by employment contract and gender G4-11 67 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 3 The organization’s supply chain G4-13 5 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. G4-14 16-17, 19, 39 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization G4-15 20 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 20 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 9 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents G4-18 28 The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries G4-19 28, 29 All the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content G4-20 28 For each material aspect, whether the Aspect is material within the organization G4-21 28 For each material aspect, whether the Aspect is material outside the organization 83 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures Page no. External Assurance Description G4-22 No Restatements The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 5 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 27 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization G4-25 26 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 27 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group G4-27 27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Report Profile G4-28 5 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided G4-29 5 Date of most recent previous report (if any) G4-30 5 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) G4-31 5 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents G4-32 5 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen, the GRI Content Index for the chosen option, the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured G4-33 5 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 16, 17, 18 The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body Ethics & Integrity G4-56 16, 19 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 84 Fortifying Sustainable Growth Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Indicators Page No. Omissions External Assurance Description Category: Economic Material Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA 31, 32 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-EC1 31 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Material Aspect: Market Presence G4-DMA 65 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-EC5 65 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. Category: Environmental Material Aspect: Materials G4-DMA 46 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-EN1 46 Materials used by weight or volume. Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA 35 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-EN3 35 Energy consumption within the organisation Material Aspect: Water G4-DMA 41 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-EN9 42 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Material Aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA 47 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-EN11 47 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA 39, 40 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-EN18 40 GHG emissions intensity Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA 43, 44 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-EN23 44, 45 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Category: Social Labour Practices and Decent Work Material Aspect: Labour Management Relations G4-DMA 66 Disclosure on Management Approach 85 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Indicators Page No. Omissions External Assurance Description G4-LA4 66 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA 5759 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-LA5 59 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Material Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA 71, 72 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-LA10 71, 72 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Society Material Aspect: Local Communities G4-DMA 75 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-SO1 75 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. Material Aspect: Anti-Corruption G4-DMA 19 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-SO3 19 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified Product Responsibility Material Aspect: Product and Service Labelling G4-DMA 52 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-PR5 52 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 86 Fortifying Sustainable Growth Abbreviations AGM Annual General Meeting DRDO Defence Research & Development Organisation AIDS Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome DSO Departmental Safety Officer AIMA All India Management Association DSP Durgapur Steel Plant AIOE All India Organisation of Employers EAF Electric Arc Furnace AOD Argon Oxygen Decarburization EBIDTA Earnings Before Interest, Depreciation, Taxes, and ARS Alizarin Red S Amortization ASP Alloy Steels Plant ECG Electrocardiography ASSOCHAM Associated Chamber of Commerce and Industry of India ED Executive Director ASTP Acid Sludge Treatment Plant EMD Environment Management Division ASU Air Separation Unit EMS Environment Management System ATTs Attendant cum Technical Trainees EPMS Executive Performance Management System BDL Below Detectable Level ESI Employee State Insurance BF Blast Furnace ESP Electro Static Precipitator BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand ETP Effluent Treatment Plant BOF Basic Oxygen Furnace FDI Foreign Direct Investment BOO Build Own Operate FeMn Ferro Manganese BPL Below Poverty Line FICCI Federation of Indian Chambers for Commerce and BSL Bokaro Steel Plant Industry BSO Branch Sales Offices FP Flat Product BSP Bhilai Steel Plant FY Financial Year BTSO Branch Transport & Shipping Office GCal Giga Calorie CAGR Compounded Annual Growth Rate GCP Gas Cleaning Plant CCO Customer Contact Offices GD Growth Division CCP Continuous Casting Plant GHG Green House Gas CCS Continuous Casting Shop GIFT Global Institute of Flexible System Management CCTV Close Circuit Television GoI Government of India CDC Consultancy Development Centre GRI Global Reporting Initiative CDI Coal Dust Injection GRI G4 Global Reporting Initiative Fourth Generation CDQ Coke Dry Quenching HAZOP Hazard & Operability CEO Chief Executive Officer HIP High Impact Projects CET Centre for Engineering and Technology HIRA Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment CFL Compact Fluorescent Lamp HIS Health Information System CFP Chandrapur Ferro Alloy Plant HP High Pressure CHSGP Cast House Slag Granulation Plant HPSV High Pressure Sodium Vapour CII Confederation of Indian Industries HR Human Resource CISF Central Industrial Security Force HRD Human Resource Development CMO Central Marketing Organisation HRDC Human Resource Development Centre CO Coke Oven HRM Hot Rolling Mill CO2 Carbon Dioxide IDC Integrated Development Centre COB Committee of the Board IICCI The Indian Iran Chamber of Commerce and Industry CoD Centre for Organisational Development IIM Indian Institute of Metals COD Chemical Oxygen Demand IIPE Indian Institute of Plant Engineers COE Centre of Excellence IITF India International Trade Fair CPP Captive Power Plant ILO International Labour Organization CPSE Central Public Sector Enterprises IPE Institute of Public Enterprises CPTI Central Power Training Institute IPSS Inter Plant Standard Steel CREP Corporate Responsibility for Environment Protection IRT Institute of Rail Transport CRM Cold Rolling Mill ISO International Organization for Standardization Crore Ten Millions ISP lISCO Steel Plant CSI Customer Satisfaction Index ISPs Integrated Steel Plants CSR Corporate Social Responsibility ISTD Indian Society for Trade and Development CTC Carbon Tetra Chloride IUCCI Indo USSR Chamber of Commerce and Industries CVC Central Vigilance Commission IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature DA Dearness Allowance JCSSI Joint Committee on Safety, Health and Environment in the DG Diesel Generator Steel Industry DMRL Defence Metallurgical Research Laboratory JVC Joint Venture Company DNB Disability Medical Board KAM Key Account Management DNV Det Norske Veritas KPA Key Performance Area Dolo Dolomite kWh Kilo Watt Hour DPC Delhi Productivity Council Lakh Hundred Thousand DPE Department of Public Enterprises LCS Life Cover Scheme 87 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 LD Linz Donawitz RLI Regional Labour Institute LED Light Emitting Diode RMD Raw Materials Division lISCO Indian Iron & Steel Company RMP Refractory Material Plant LP Long Product RSP Rourkela Steel Plant LP & FP Learning Perspective & Financial Perspective RTI Right to Information LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate S&T SAIL & Tata 3 m Cubic Meter SA Social Accountability Mech Mechanical SAIL Steel Authority of India Limited MEP Modernization and Expansion Plan SC Scheduled Caste MLD Million liter Per Day SCL Steel Complex Limited MnO Manganese Oxide SCOPE Standing Conference of Public Enterprises MoEF& CC Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change SD Sustainable Development MOM Mars Orbiter Mission SDSETI Skill Development and Self Employment Training MoS Ministry of Steel Institute MoU Memorandum of Understanding SEBI Securities & Exchange Board of India MP Medium Pressure SED Safety Engineering Department MT Millions Tonnes SEFI Steel Executives Federation of India MTI Management Training Institute SESBF SAIL Employees Superannuation Benefit Fund MTPA Million Tonnes Per Annum SGL Shot Grinding Line MTs Management Trainees SGW SAIL Growth Works, Kulti NARAKAS Nagar Rajbhasha Karyanavayan Samiti SMPs Standard Maintenance Practices (Town Official Language Implementation Committee) SMS Steel Melting Shop NDRF National Disaster Response Force SOP Standard Operating Practices NGO Non-Governmental Organization SP Sinter Plant NH3-N Ammonical Nitrogen SPV Special Purpose Vehicle NJCS National Joint Committee for the Steel Industry SRU SAIL Refractory Unit NMDC National Mineral Development Corporation SS Suspended Solids NOHSC National Occupational Health Service Centre SSO SAIL Safety Organization NSC National Safety Council SSP Salem Steel Plant NTPC National Thermal Power Corporation ST Scheduled Tribe O&G Oil & Grease SWP Safe Work Procedure OBC Other Backward Class T&S Transport & Shipping ODS Ozone Depleting Substances TAB Training Advisory Board OFS Offer for Sale TAC Training Advisory Committee OH&S Occupational Health & Safety TB Tuberculosis OHF Open Hearth Furnace TC Technical Certificates OHS Occupational Health Service tcs tonnes of crude steel OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Management System TERI The Energy and Resource Institute OP Oxygen Plant TFRI Tropical Forest Research Institute OPD Out Patient Department tfs tonnes of finished steel OT Operation Theatre THF Twin Hearth Furnace PAT Profit After Tax thm tonnes of hot metal PBS Power & Blowing Station TJ Tera Joule PCB Polychlorinated BiPhenyls TM Technology Missions PET Pipe/ Electrical Sheet/Tin Plate TMT Thermo Mechanically Treated PF Provident Fund TRT Top Pressure Recovery Turbine PHD Chamber Progress Harmony Development Chamber tss Tonnes of Saleable Steel PM Particulate Matter TUV Technical Inspection Association PMA Project Management Association UMSP Ultra Mega Steel Plant PPEs Personal Protective Equipments UNDP United Nations Development Programme PRP Performance Related Pay UNGC United Nations Global Compact PSE Public Sector Enterprise UNIDO United Nations Industrial Development Organisation PSU Public Sector Undertaking VFD Variable Frequency Drive PV Photo Voltaic VISL Visvesvaraya Iron and Steel Plant QMS Quality Management System VVVF Variable Voltage Variable Frequency R&D Research & Development WCPS World Confederation of Productivity Science RDCIS Research & Development Centre for Iron & Steel WIPS Forum of Women in Public Sector RINL Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd. WSA World Steel Association RITES Rail India Technical and Economic Service 88
