COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 www.parco.com.pk Pak-Arab Refinery Limited (PARCO) PAKARAB REFINERY LTD (PARCO) is a Joint Venture between the Government of Pakistan and the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, incorporated as a public limited company in 1974. As an integrated energy company, PARCO is the leading player in Pakistan`s petroleum industry with major operations in refining, transportation, storage, marketing, oil supply and logistics. PARCO has the most modern refinery in Pakistan having a capacity of 100,000 BPD (representing about 25% of the country`s refining capacity), over 2000 kms of cross country pipeline network (including its JV subsidiary Pak-Arab Pipeline Company Limited (PAPCO) with a strategic storage of over one million tons, and a rapidly expanding retail network of TOTAL PARCO (TPPL) – a joint venture with TOTAL of France. With the acquisition of Chevron’s fuel business in Pakistan, TPPL is now the third largest Oil Marketing Company in the Country. PARCO is also marketing nationwide LPG under the brands of Super Gas, Pearl Gas, Super Gas Bulk and fuel oil under the Pearl brand. High quality asphalt is also being marketed as Biturox. PARCO Pearl Gas (Pvt) Ltd (PPG), formerly known as the SHV Energy Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd is a 100% owned subsidiary of PARCO, having the largest LPG marketing and distribution network. PPGL manages storage, processing, filling and distribution of LPG. The performance of the company can be judged by the fact that it has maintained its AAA and A1+ long and short term credit rating by Pakistan Credit Rating Agency (PACRA) for nineteen consecutive years. The company set another first in Pakistan when it obtained three simultaneous international certifications: ISO 9001:2008 (Quality Management System), ISO 14001:2004 (Environmental Management System) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System). PARCO has also received the Environment Excellence Awards for the last eleven consecutive years and is rated among the top 10 organizations in Pakistan for outstanding achievement in Environment Management. As a good corporate citizen, the company focuses on meeting the expectations of its internal and external stakeholders in a professional and strategic manner. PARCO not only invests in its employees, makes efforts for customer satisfaction and operates ethically, but also undertakes a wide range of projects to benefit society in areas of education, health, environment, sports, culture, community development, road safety, and natural calamities. Processing and handling hydrocarbons is our business and it comes with its share of hazards. PARCO proactively identifies, minimizes and mitigates situations that have the potential to cause harm to the health and safety of its employees, customers, service providers, communities, public and the environment. The focus and diversity of technical, social and environmental projects of PARCO speak for themselves. Our cross-country pipeline network makes us next-door neighbor to many remote and underprivileged communities. PARCO’s Schools & Clinics Support Program is aimed at providing basic education and health facilities. The program is an ongoing initiative in which new schools and clinics are identified and existing ones are improved by providing basic infrastructure and other necessities that are beneficial for the surrounding communities. Communities are happy that PARCO is there for help, when they need the most. PARCO has always responded passionately to the nation’s distress calls during natural calamities, such as the earthquake or floods. PARCO also supports culture and heritage by patronizing indigenous music, poetry and the arts. As a member of WWF, PARCO helps in the conservation of nature, with several initiatives to its credit. In keeping with the values of the company and our traditions, PARCO makes philanthropic contributions to institutions that are making significant efforts to help the underprivileged. From producing environment friendly products to efficient, world class engineering facilities and infrastructure, building a highly competent human capital, and major social initiatives, PARCO is doing its utmost in Providing Energy with Responsibility. CORPORATE RECOGNITION DURING 2016 PACRA Maintains “AAA” Entity Ratings of Pak-Arab Refinery Limited for 19 Consecutive Years The Pakistan Credit Rating Agency (PACRA) has maintained long term and short term entity ratings of Pak-Arab Refinery Limited at AAA (Triple A) and A1+ (A One Plus) respectively for the past 19 years. The ratings denote the lowest expectation of credit risk emanating from an exceptionally strong capacity, for timely payment of financial commitments. President of Pakistan Award 2016 At the FPCCI 40th Awards Ceremony held on December 14, 2016, PARCO was honored with the prestigious President of Pakistan Award in recognition of its outstanding performance in Refining, Transportation and Marketing of Petroleum Products. PARCO was selected by the Jury of FPCCI for this highest annual corporate recognition. This is the fifth consecutive time that PARCO has received this national Mr. Mian Muhammad Nawaz Sharif, Prime award from FPCCI. The Honorable Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mr. Mian Minister of Pakistan presenting the trophy to Muhammad Nawaz Sharif presented the Award to Mr. Tariq Rizavi, Mr. Tariq Rizavi, Managing Director, PARCO. Managing Director PARCO. The event was attended by ministers, senior government officials, leading businessmen, foreign diplomats, and the management of FPCCI. PARCO wins Employers’ Federation of Pakistan (EFP) Awards 2016 For the fourth time in a row, PARCO has won the Best CEO Award and the Best Organization Award in the category of Large National Companies. This year EFP introduced another award titled “Best HRM Practices Award”. The jury of this award included foreign members as well. The Best HRM Practices Award was given on the basis of an organization’s activities and achievements in five areas namely HR Management & Employment Practices, Industrial Relations Practices, Mr. Tariq Rizavi, MD-PARCO receiving Best CEO of the Year Award Health, Safety and Working Environment, Corporate Social Responsibility and Vocational Training Initiatives. The Best CEO Award was received by Managing Director PARCO, Mr. Tariq Rizavi, the Best Organization Award was received by Mr. Shahid Mahmood Khan, Deputy managing Director – Finance & Corporate Affairs and the Best HR Practices Award was received by Mr. Amjad Mr. Shahid Mahmood Khan, DMD Finance & Hafeez, General Manager Pipeline. Corporate Affairs at PARCO receiving Best Organization Award Mr. Shahid Mahmood Khan, DMD Finance & Corporate Affairs, PARCO receiving Best Organization Award. FPCCI Achievement Award 2016 The Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FPCCI) is the apex body representing Pakistan`s Trade, Industry and Service Sectors. The Federation held its 4th FPCCI Achievement Awards Ceremony to recognize the services of organizations in different sectors contributing towards the progress of Pakistan. PARCO was selected by the Jury of FPCCI in the Energy Sector for the Gold Medal. The Company has always been in the forefront fueling the wheels of economy through its uninterrupted supply of environment Honorable President of Pakistan, Mr. Mamnoon friendly fuels, technology transfer, employment generation, foreign Hussain presenting the achievement trophy to Mr. exchange savings and Corporate Social Responsibility programs. This Syed Zawar Haider, General Manager-Marketing & recognition reaffirms the fact that PARCO is the Energy Lifeline of the Commercial, PARCO. Nation. In a prestigious awards ceremony, the Honorable President of Pakistan, Mr. Mamnoon Hussain presented the Gold Medal to Mr. Syed Zawar Haider, General Manager-Marketing & Commercial, PARCO. This is the fourth consecutive award received by PARCO. First Prize for PARCO’s Corporate Garden PARCO has been winning prizes for its Corporate Garden for the past several years. During the 65th Flower Show, PARCO secured First position for its Corporate Garden in 2016 competition held by the Horticulture Society of Pakistan. PARCO has been winning first position for several years in this competition. For securing First position for the last four consecutive years, PARCO has also been awarded a Gold Medal this year, which is an unprecedented achievement in this category. UNGC Business Excellence Award 2014-15 awarded to PARCO by Pakistan Local Network PARCO, an active member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), has been awarded the UN Global Compact Business Excellence Award 2014-15 in Public-Private Partnership Sector, by an International Jury comprising of panel members from Europe, East Asia and Oceania. The UN Global Compact Award not only acknowledges PARCO’s commitment towards strategic and sustainable CSR, but also appreciates our efforts in adopting UNGC’s universal Ten Principles. The Award acknowledges organizations demonstrating the UNGC Principles in action through Best Management Practices. Reputable Pakistani Companies and institutions are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact and have committed themselves to adopting its Ten Principles. Head of Local Networks-Asia and Oceania, United Nations Global Compact, Ms. Meng Liu visited Pakistan and was part of the award distribution ceremony. The Award nominees underwent a rigorous and documented process of successive stages of short-listing by multidisciplinary local and foreign experts, who assessed the performance of companies in each of the four areas of the UN Global Compact, namely Human Rights, Environment, Labor and Transparency. Ms. Sharon Dias, Deputy General Manager-Human Resource, PARCO receiving the award The International Jury appreciated PARCO’s efforts in making important and substantial investments in Sustainability, especially the initiatives pertaining to Community Engagement and Employee Care. Environment Excellence Award 2016 PARCO has been awarded the 11th consecutive Annual Environment Excellence Award by the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH). PARCO for the eighth consecutive time has been placed amongst the 10 best organizations of Pakistan in Environment Management. A Special Recognition Certificate for outstanding achievement in Environment Management was also awarded to PARCO by NFEH. The panel of judges voted unanimously to award the excellence certificate to PARCO for the company’s vision, environment protection policies and practices, and its Corporate Social Responsibility Mr. Amjad Hafeez, General Manager-Pipeline program. These awards reflect our good management practices, the PARCO receiving Environment Excellence Award efforts of our team and our concern for the environment. CSR Leadership Excellence Award 2016 PARCO was awarded the CSR Leadership Award 2016 in the category of Business Ethics and Community Development which recognizes its contributions and positive impact on the communities as well as its high standards of compliance and integrity. PARCO has won the CSR Leadership Award in this category for the fourth consecutive year. The Jury, comprising of international CSR experts and prominent personalities from the corporate and social sector, selected companies that stand out in their contributions for society. Mr. Jehandur Durrani, Section HeadAdministration, PARCO Islamabad Office at the left receiving the CSR Leadership Excellence Award Fire and Safety Award 2016 As the leading energy provider in the country, PARCO has always been mindful of its responsibilities towards its customers, employees, the community and the environment it operates in. Due to the nature of our business, protecting our employees and installations from fire and safety hazards is inevitable. In this context, the role of HSE is crucial towards developing procedures and processes for eliminating the hazards, as well as training the staff for unforeseen events. Recognizing our HSE initiatives, procedures, safety measures and business processes throughout our installations, the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH) and Fire Protection Association of Pakistan (FPAP) bestowed upon PARCO the Fire and Safety Award 2016. This is the fourth consecutive award achieved by PARCO. Occupational Safety, Health, and Environment Award 2015 PARCO was recognized by the Employers’ Federation of Pakistan at a ceremony held to announce 11th EFP Best Practices Awards in the area of Occupational Safety, Health and Environment for the year 2015. The event was planned around celebrating the International Day on Safety & Health at Work, which included presentations, keynote addresses and panel discussions by eminent professionals to share their knowledge and expertise. The awards were conferred after a thorough and transparent evaluation of nomination papers submitted by participating companies. The evaluation was done by an independent jury consisting of experts in the field of OSHE. Mr. Amjad Hafeez, General Manager-Pipeline, PARCO receiving OSHE Award 2015 PARCO was recognized for its excellent workplace environment and was awarded 1st prize –the trophy for the year 2015. Mr. Amjad Hafeez, General Manager (Pipeline), received the award. Such corporate recognition reaffirms PARCO’s commitment to promoting safety culture and best OSHE practices. This is the third time that PARCO has received the award from EFP. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration HR Management, HSE, Security Communities Actions Education Health Work Safety Stakeholder Involvement & Community Investment Results Employee Development Employee Care  The PARCO management expects from all employees to Increasing Stakeholders’ Involvement and Developing Communities is one of the key areas where  PARCO has been continuously endeavoring to enrich its human capital by  PARCO provides 100% free medical cover to its employees, their spouses, and strictly follow safety and housekeeping instructions as PARCO management and its employees take keen interest. Our involvement can be gauged by the adopting new techniques and methods for developing its people. PARCO children (Sons up to 21 years of age, Daughters till they get married) and better housekeeping and being part of safety not only initiatives that we have taken to uplift these communities in terms of basic necessities and self helps and guides its employees, through appropriate training, to make the reimbursement of 60% medical costs for employees’ parents. For employees results in better living conditions but also protects reliance. Following initiatives were undertaken in the year 2016. best use of their talents. who are offered Monetized Compensation Package, PARCO offers a fixed employees from unexpected accidents. monthly medical allowance as well as Hospitalization coverage through Access to Education and Health  Training Needs Analysis, Personal Development Plan and Career Planning are insurance.  To this end, PARCO has instituted an annual ‘Safety and  Our cross-country pipeline network makes us next-door neighbor to many remote and formalized processes for all employees. Housekeeping Award’ which is awarded to the one underprivileged communities. Since 2007, PARCO has been running an extensive Schools &  All female employees including trainees are eligible for maternity leave of 12  PARCO provides its employees with developmental opportunities to acquire station which has maintained the best safety standards Clinics Support Program which aims at improving the education and health infrastructure in weeks. knowledge and build up skills through training and self-development, to the and immaculate housekeeping during the year. adjoining communities by supporting Rural Health Clinics, Primary, Middle and Secondary mutual advantage of the employees and the Company. The ‘Educational  PARCO helps its employees and their families with economic protection  PARCO ensures that Personal Protective Equipment Schools, being run by Government of Pakistan. Refund Plan’ is one such initiative intended to provide financial assistance to against loss of earnings in the event of an employee’s death or disability (PPEs) are provided to all employees. Service Providers  Till 2016, PARCO has provided assistance to more than 96 institutions along its pipeline and eligible employees who wish to undertake studies or training not directly occurring as a result of illness, accident or otherwise under the ‘Death & are also required to provide PPEs to their staff. refinery across Pakistan. More than 40,000 children are receiving education in PARCO covered by Company initiated programs or plans. Disability Benefit Plan’. supported schools. PARCO`s assistance to these institutions has raised communities` interest  The PARCO`s Pipeline Division has successfully  In order to encourage employees to enhance their professional competence,  Under the Company’s Wellness Program, employees in the age of 45-50 years to enroll their children in these refurbished and well-maintained schools diverting them from completed more than 7.5 million man-hours without Lost PARCO provides membership of reputable professional bodies and are required to undergo medical check-up every two years and employees child labor to primary education, raising the literacy rate. Time Accident (LTA) in December 2016. organizations which impart technical, professional and managerial knowledge above 50 years are required to undergo medical examination annually to  A standard operating procedure, communication and  During 2016, PARCO has supported different institutions for mentally challenged and deaf to the employees through the ‘Organizational Membership’ policy. determine the quality and level of their health and fitness. command level is established to report security children. These institutes are managed by professional NGOs and rely mostly on philanthropic  PARCO provides 1-2 years Traineeship program for Engineers, Technologists  To provide full medical cover to its employees and dependents, PARCO has incidents, accidents, natural calamities and other risk contributions. They help these children in developing skills to manage their lives in less and Business Graduates. Under this program a sizeable number of graduates on its panel, a large number of hospitals, consultants, laboratories, situations. challenging manner. PARCO’s contributions have helped these institutes sustain their are inducted who go through a rigorous classroom and field training. pharmacies across the country. operations.  Before mobilization, Service Providers staff undertakes  PARCO has been organizing Teachers Training program for government schools which are  We have an extensive Management Development Program (MDP) for our Employee Family Orientation & Training covering Occupational, Health, supported by PARCO near its Corporate Headquarter, Mid-Country Refinery and various employees. All trainings are planned and coordinated in a systematic manner  Ibn-e-Sina Hospital at Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) ensures timely medical Safety & Environment procedures and practices. Stations and Terminals since several years. This year’s training focused on “Active Learning to by the Company in terms of the needs and the talents required. The training assistance to the employees and their families residing at the Refinery in Critical Thinking”. The main idea behind these workshops is to introduce teachers to new  Toxic Gas areas are marked with toxic gas signs and no teaching methods and concepts being practiced at successful schools. The teachers were able efforts are not confined to a few formal classroom courses but extend in all Housing Colony in Qasba Gujrat which is a remote area. one is allowed to enter the area without proper gas to understand the learning process, and more importantly, how to deliver lessons to students directions to remove employees’ weaknesses and accentuate their strengths.  The Company also covers medical/traveling expenses of employees and their masks. in a more efficient manner. The teachers actively participated during the sessions which Last eight years of Training Man-Hours data is given below. dependents if the patient is suffering from such a disease which requires a  The drinking water is checked on a monthly basis to showed their interest in learning. At the end of the trainings, certificates were distributed vital organ transplantation that cannot be done locally. eliminate any bacterial contamination. amongst the participants. The teachers highly praised PARCO’s contribution in the overall development of their schools through various CSR initiatives and for organizing such trainings. Healthy Working Environment  All PARCO drivers are provided training annually to  PARCO is an OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety comply with Road Safety Rules and Pakistan Traffic Code. Management System) certified Company since the year 2005. The Company has been receiving National Environment Excellence Awards for the past  There are proper road markings and road safety signs eleven years in a row. installed within all PARCO facilities and locations for strict compliance. Wearing seat belts is compulsory for  PARCO’s annual Inter-Station Competition for the Best Housekeeping at all drivers. Pipeline Stations and Terminals continued this year where all the Stations and Terminals were scrutinized. During 2016, WOTS-3 at Mahmood Kot was awarded the Best Station Trophy.  PARCO continues to provide a healthy and green working environment to its employees. During 2016, the Company secured a Gold Medal with First Position in the Best Corporate Garden Category in a competition held by the Horticultural Society of Pakistan. PARCO has been winning prizes for its Corporate Garden for the past several years.  Since the last few years, the summers have extended for a longer time period with extreme  PARCO provides international quality facilities for sports including Cricket heat wave that claimed lives of hundreds throughout the Country. In order to save children (Floodlit ground), Hockey, Football, Volleyball, Swimming, Tennis, etc. Indoor from heat stroke, the Company distributed caps to students at PARCO supported government sports facilities are also provided in a Club Complex which include Bowling schools. About 3,000 caps were distributed to make sure that children, while commuting to Alley, Gymnasium, Badminton, Table Tennis, Snooker, Squash, etc. at its Midschool and their homes do not become victims of heat stroke. The initiative was much Country Refinery as well as Stations and Terminals. appreciated by the school management, children and their parents. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2017 (Page 2 of 17) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Contd. BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration Communities Actions Work-Life Balance Education Stakeholder Involvement & Community Investment Results  PARCO ensures a very balanced work environment for all employees for Employee Family  This year, PARCO distributed 1,000 school bags along with stationary items and note books to rest and relaxation, recuperation after sickness and for attending personal  The School at PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery the children at PARCO supported government schools in Ibrahim Hyderi near PARCO affairs. (MCR) Housing Complex provides subsidized Corporate Headquarters. These institutions have been provided various forms of materials education to the employees` children till preand civil works to operate in a hygienic condition. One of these institutions was the Karachi  An employee proceeding on Annual Leave may request for advance salary university level. The School also has a board which School for Deaf, which caters to the needs of the deaf children by providing schooling along payment for approved leave period. In addition, employees are also includes PARCO management and parents of the with speech therapy and much more. The happiness of receiving a new bag was evident on the entitled to ‘Leave Fare Assistance’. children. faces of all the children and they communicated their thanks using the sign language.  The Company provides opportunities for employees to socialize with  PARCO has also been supporting the educational  Under the umbrella of Schools and Clinics Support Program, PARCO has supported several Basic and Rural Health Centers based in small villages near PARCO cross-country pipeline and professional colleagues from other organizations and other walks of life. endeavors of its employees and their children. Stations and Terminals. The clinics are providing basic healthcare to the local communities within their villages. As a result, community members are no longer required to travel for long To facilitate this inter-relation, the Company ensures that the employees ‘Scholarship for Children of Employees’ is hours to the cities for basic treatment. have the facility and use of a reputable club in the city where they are intended to support the employees by providing posted. This is called the ‘Club Membership’ policy. financial assistance to help defray the cost of their  PARCO’s Mid-Country Refinery at Qasba Gujrat is surrounded by many underprivileged communities, which are deprived of the basic education and health facilities. PARCO operates a children’s professional education on the basis of a Community Welfare Clinic in order to provide basic health facilities to the domestic workers working at the Mid-Country Refinery, their families and other people from nearby areas. The  Employees posted at outstations work on ROTA System, where they work formal procedure that recognizes academic merit. clinic is being run at a cost of Rs 1.5 million a year and treats approximately 3,000 patients annually. In order to ensure sustainability of its operations, the clinic is supervised by the for 20 days and then enjoy 8 days paid leaves with their families. Company doctor and provision for its operation is kept in yearly CSR budget.  Educational Awards which include a certificate  During 2016, PARCO sponsored 5 Non-Management Staff and 2 and cash rewards are given to school going  In Pakistan, there are various hospitals that serve the underprivileged who cannot afford medication, hospitalization etc. Hospitals that are selected are run by NGOs with transparent Management Staff to perform “Hajj” (Holy Pilgrimage). This is done on children of the employees, based on good operations, supervised by a proper Board of Directors and regular external audits. PARCO has helped several such hospitals through philanthropic contributions in capacity building. annual basis. performance in their Secondary Education. This Supporting Internal Stakeholders recognition helps motivate children to further  In the event of an employee’s or a spouse’s death, the Company provides  PARCO provides education assistance to employees’ children by providing scholarships to deserving students, seeking professional education. enhance their educational performance. During transportation of the deceased and ‘Funeral Assistance’ to the family.  PARCO cares for its internal and external stakeholders. The Company supports its non-management and service providers’ staff in all manners that it can help. PARCO provides funeral 2016, 79 children of PARCO employees were  PARCO has a cafeteria for employees where nutritious meals are served provided Educational Awards. assistance, assistance for daughter’s marriage, medical support on case to case basis, educational awards for non-management and service providers’ staff’s children in recognition of at more than 70% subsidy. PARCO employs 2 cooks at each Station and their performance in Secondary Education and for further education as well. The Company also supports the staff in many ways on case to case basis, whenever they need financial, Terminal for cooking meals for staff. medical or other support. All in all, PARCO acts as a Socially Responsible Corporate Citizen in all possible ways to help its internal and external stakeholders. Support for Sports  PARCO provides financial assistance to support the non-management staff  PARCO has a decade long history of promoting sports within and outside the for their daughter’s marriage and education assistance for their children. Company. Sports’ events like Cricket, Squash, Hockey, Volley Ball, Swimming, Water  In February 2016, PARCO organized the Annual Family Day for all Polo, Badminton, Table Tennis and Lawn Tennis and other tournaments are employees and their families where they enjoyed fun rides, puppet show, supported by PARCO. Since the last four years, PARCO has been a major sponsor of magic show, games, food, etc. More than 2,600 PARCONIANS and their the Squash tournaments that has helped in promoting young talent. The Company family members visited the Annual Family Day where they all spent has been holding a cricket tournament for the Pakistan’s petroleum industry for the quality time together. The event helps employees to unwind from their past many years and various sports events inside the company. busy schedules and enjoy the whole day with their families and socialize  The Company has also undertaken various inter-station tournaments of Squash, with their fellow PARCONIANS. Cricket, Volley Ball, Table Tennis and Lawn Tennis, etc. Increasing Self-Reliance through Vocational Training  One of the areas PARCO has been heavily investing in is fostering the culture of vocational training and entrepreneurship. During the Phase I, PARCO started operational support to government vocational training centers in Sindh and Punjab. Currently, there are 22 centers being aided by PARCO according to their infrastructural needs and equipment requirements. This support has resulted in students getting better training on modern equipment and increasing their chances of employment.  As a way forward, under Phase II PARCO has successfully setup a Sewing and Display Center for Women at Qasba Gujrat near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. The aim of this Center is to provide advance sewing and embroidery skills to the underprivileged women who have already done basic courses in sewing. Moreover, the Center is providing six months training, to the ladies, which will include additional courses on personal development and building entrepreneurial skills. These courses will educate them using technology to get better access to markets, advertise their products to reach a wider customer base and remain updated on modern design trends. This will help them in developing profitable business models rewarding them financially and uplifting them economically. During the year 2016, a total of 60 students have passed out in two batches.  The 22 vocational training centers as mentioned above are performing well. They offer different courses for women to help them improve their standard of living by utilizing their learned skill set. This year, PARCO distributed sewing machines to women who had completed their Dress Making & Embroidery courses from Mahmood Kot Vocational Training Institute, near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. Senior PARCO officials distributed sewing machines among these women so that they can be financially independent and lead a better life. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2017 (Page 3 of 17) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESSES SHOULD MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment PARCO makes all possible efforts to avoid complicity in Human Rights Abuses and abides by the laws of the country. Management Systems HR Management, Operations, Contract Management, Communities, etc. Actions Ethical Standards and Fair Dealings with Shareholders, Staff, Equal Opportunity Employer Women Empowerment Customers, Suppliers, Service Providers and Other External Partners Results  During the joining process, every employee of PARCO signs a declaration agreeing to PARCO`s Guiding  All appointments in PARCO are based on merit for filling approved vacant  Being an equal opportunity employer, PARCO makes efforts in taking initiatives to empower women among its internal Principles which include a complete set of guidelines on fair and ethical dealings with customers, internal and positions. Our recruitment process ensures fair and competitive matching of and external stakeholders. Some of these initiatives are given below. external stakeholders and communities. Violations of these principles are viewed seriously, have resulted in candidates with job specifications. Non-job factors e.g. gender, origin, religion,  The Government of Pakistan promulgated Protection Against Harassment of Women at the Workplace Act, 2010 with disciplinary action, and in some cases have led to termination of service. Following are some highlights of and external influence are not considered. Underage employment is strictly an objective to create a safe working environment for women which is free of harassment, abuse and intimidation so PARCO`s Guiding Principles: forbidden. that they can work with dignity. PARCO enforces this Act throughout the company and has placed it on its intranet portal and notice boards to educate women at workplace about their rights. PARCO has a committee to deal with  We practice a merit-based equal-opportunity policy for recruitment and reject any influence of gender,  PARCO Job Advertisements clearly state that use of any extraneous influence will harassment complaints, take suggestions and give recommendations to the Management. Employees, including head color, caste, faith, ethnic origin or recommendations by influential persons. disqualify the candidate. of departments, are advised to report any acts of harassment by any gender, as harassment is considered misconduct, liable to disciplinary action. Since the last 42 years of existence of PARCO, no case of harassment against women has  PARCO believes in tempering its policies with human values that can raise the human capital of the  PARCO provides equal career growth opportunity to both male and female been registered. Company and the Nation. employees, some of whom are also heading key departments and sections in the Company. The company has females working in Engineering, Finance, Projects, IT,  PARCO has built and supported three schools with The Citizens Foundation – a reputable NGO working in the area of  PARCO believes that valid profits are made by good businesses through efficient services, productivity of Telecom, Marketing, HR, and Medical functions. Our target is zero discrimination imparting quality education – at Karachi and Qasba Gujrat, near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. These schools employ all operations, value addition, innovative financing and strategic management of PARCO assets, talent and female staff belonging to the nearby communities. The existence of these campuses has generated employment for these in a male dominated society and industry. skills, while contributing to the wellbeing of the Society. local women to earn a decent living. There are 939 children receiving quality education at PARCO TCF schools.  Management and Engineering Trainees, upon successful completion of their  As a professionally managed organization, PARCO ensures that all the stakeholders are provided equal  PARCO’s Schools and Clinics Support Program supports 96 institutions compared to 89 last year, with 77 schools and 19 training, are considered on merit against vacant positions, as permanent opportunities. Be it customers, employees, communities, etc. we ensure equal treatment at all levels. clinics. Out of these 77 schools, majority are situated in the rural areas, with maximum female staff. employees without discrimination, in case if there is vacant position.  PARCO believes in the value of transparency, openness and self-examination, and consider them as  The Community Welfare Clinic at the PARCO Mid-Country Refinery caters to approximately 3,000 patients a year of safeguards against potential faults.  During 2016, 4 Trainee Engineers, 4 Management Trainees. 51 Trainee which majority patients treated are women and children. Technologists and 1 Trainee Chemist were inducted.  At the PARCO Mid-Country Refinery, the female spouses of the Company employees have formed a Ladies Club which is  We consider our Suppliers and Service Providers as our business partners and deal with them with the same financially supported by PARCO. The club undertakes several social activities and events organized by the women  Benefits, facilities and allowances, as specified in the Company`s policies are fairness that we reserve for our employees and customers. residing at the Refinery Housing Complex. provided to all employees and their dependents without discrimination.  As a Company we are acknowledged as a responsible corporate citizen in the community of business and  At PARCO Mid-Country Refinery Housing Complex, the Company has separate housing for women. There are separate industry of Pakistan and have received multiple awards from various external stakeholder bodies as sections and timing for facilities and club sports for women. mentioned in the COP.  During 2016, PARCO continued its support to many wellknown vocational training institutions. The basic aim of the  project was to facilitate these institutions in building capacity for incorporating latest techniques in building  We strive for minimal impact on the environment and contribute significantly to reducing the damage done competencies amongst Pakistani youth. PARCO supported Vocational Training Institutes in areas near PARCO facilities to nature by man. and assisted 22 centers at Machike, Faisalabad, Kot Addu, Mahmood Kot, Qasba Gujrat, Muzaffargarh, DG Khan,  We do not tolerate unsafe and hazardous-to-health work practices in transit or at the work place. Multan, Fazilpur, Shikarpur, Bubak and Karachi.  The institutes were provided help through setting up state-of-the-art computer labs for conducting various professional courses and vocational trainings pertaining to sewing and embroidery by providing electrical embroidery sewing machines and furniture. Most of the students enrolled are women. The learned skill has helped the women in these communities, take care of their own economics after trainings from these well-equipped Vocational Training Institutes. STAKEHOLDER FEEDBACK Ali Mansoor Shahid Mohammad Asif Marketing & Commercial Department-PARCO A Student at the Karachi School for Deaf “On a personal level, I found the bag distribution activity extremely fulfilling since “Being a deaf child, Mohammad Asif’s parents chose Karachi School for Deaf for his it gave me a chance to experience the resilience of students/teachers belonging to schooling. Asif is enrolled in class 1 and belongs to a poor family. He has three siblings lesser privileged communities trying their best to impart and acquire education in and due to poverty, his parents are unable to afford his uniform and other school tough conditions. Moreover, I felt proud of the fact that PARCO was actively formalities like school bags, stationeries, hearing aid, etc. Realizing this need, PARCO contributing towards the betterment of its surrounding communities. And to provided the school children school bags with required stationeries. The children were anyone who might feel that such activities are an insignificant contribution, just very happy upon receiving these articles. Mohammad Asif was particularly happy look at the happiness on the faces of those children when they receive these gifts, because he used to bring his school items in a polythene bag which was quite difficult you will realize the positive impact it has on the community.” to carry. He is now happy that he too will carry a bag to school. ” www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2017 (Page 4 of 17) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment PARCO believes in addressing Employee issues practically and providing the right of collective bargaining to all its workers by complete compliance to all Industrial Relations Ordinances and Laws. Management Systems HR Management, Industrial Relations, Operations, CSR Actions Freedom of Association Collective Bargaining Negotiations and Proactive Focus and Redressed Employee Grievances to Maintain a Good Organizational Climate Union Charter Signing partners Results  PARCO workers are free to form or join a trade union of  PARCO has a history of good management – employee  Employees are encouraged to voice their suggestions for improving the Company’s performance and efficiency through an ‘Employee Suggestion Program’, which is an ongoing program. The their choice without fear of intimidation or reprisal. relations. There has never been a labor strike since objective of this initiative is to provide employees an opportunity to come up with innovative and creative ideas for process improvement, cost savings, operations effectiveness, safety and PARCO`s inception, and all CBA agreements have been efficiency. Under this program, employee suggestions towards improving organizational efficiency are recognized and rewarded. Suggestions made by the employees are reviewed by the Managing  The Company complies with Industrial Relations negotiated in a friendly atmosphere. Director and the Executive Committee Members which includes Company’s top management. Ordinance 2012. PARCO has one registered trade union  Free and fair elections of CBA were held during May 2015.  In order to obtain feedback from exiting employees on the problem areas in the Company and on the employee’s concerns, complaints and suggestions, an exit interview of all exiting employees comprising of all non-management employees Next elections will be held in May 2017. are also conducted and remedial actions are taken accordingly. represented by 10 Collective Bargaining Agents (CBA).  Management and CBA work together on many Employee  For answering queries and listening to suggestions/complaints of employees, the PARCO HR Department has a dedicated Help Desk. Development and Welfare Programs.  The Human Resource Department at PARCO regularly conducts visits of PARCO installations at remote locations, to gather employee feedback, complaints and suggestions. The HR department also conducts Focus Group sessions amongst the employees where employees are randomly selected from each department at all locations irrespective of their grade or level. The objective of these discussions is to gather information pertaining to issues faced by the employees at all areas. Stations visits and Focus Group sessions for the financial year 2016-17 have been planned for February – March, 2017. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment PARCO completely disallows any form of forced or compulsory labour in all its functions. Management Systems Business Partners, Operations Human Resource Management Actions Maintaining Industry-competitive Compensation and Benefits The Terms of Employment at PARCO Provide Maximum Freedom to Compliance by checking of Employees to Voluntarily Enter or Leave the Organization on Free Will Vendors/Suppliers/Service Providers Results partners  PARCO’s policy is to pay employees at all levels with salaries commensurate with responsibility. Salaries and wages are compared with prevailing  PARCO`s employment contracts do not violate human rights or labor laws. PARCO does not have a  Vendors/Suppliers/Contractors are checked by PARCO, salaries for similar work in comparable organizations. For this purpose, salary surveys are regularly conducted and salary adjustments, benefits and practice of service bonds. ensuring no forced labor is utilized for PARCO`s jobs. During revisions are accordingly granted, targeting 75th percentile of the industry. prequalification, PARCO employees visit suppliers and  Separation process, payment of outstanding dues, post-retirement benefits, etc. are done  All employment contracts can be terminated by giving notice of 30 days by either party. vendors to visually observe and report if any children are  PARCO benefits its employees with economic protection against loss of earnings in the event of separation from service through ‘Gratuity Fund’. expeditiously. employed or if forced labor is practiced. Besides this, PARCO also benefits its retired employees with ‘Pension Funds’. The widow/children of a deceased employee are also entitled to  Upon induction, all employees are provided an employee handbook which includes Human Resource receive pension. policies and procedures about hiring, training and development, compensation, benefits, leaves,  PARCO conducts open competitive bidding for services and  PARCO also has a ‘Transfer of Ownership of Company Assets’ policy aimed at increasing employee satisfaction and retention. Under this scheme, medical benefits and much more. Furthermore, an electronic version of the book is also placed on materials procurement to provide equal opportunity to all employees are allowed to purchase Company vehicles and household appliances at a nominal cost. PARCO’s Intranet Portal for instant access by the employees. The electronic version is updated as qualified vendors/suppliers. soon as amendments are made in the policies.  To assist employees in solving their transportation, housing problems and in acquiring hard furnishings for their homes, PARCO grants Car, Housing and Furniture Loans to its employees.  Employees who are availing the residence facility at the Mid-Country Refinery site benefit from allotment of Company–owned residential housing, hard and soft furnishings, household appliances, world class sports, club facilities, schooling, mosque, shopping centers, etc.  PARCO places utmost importance to the continuous services of its employees as being a factor to be recognized in terms of granting reward and recognition. The Company recognizes long and dedicated services rendered by employees and in recognition thereof has instituted suitable awards commensurate with the length of service. The table besides shows the distribution of 224 awards which have been given to employees in November 2016 on completing different periods of service: www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2017 (Page 6 of 17) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment PARCO forbids engagement of any form of child labour in its operations or by any of its business partners. Management Systems Human Resource Management, Operations Business Partners Corporate Social Responsibility Actions Documented Procedures Prohibit Employment Third Party Audit of Labour Conditions Inclusion of Labor Laws (that Disallows Child PARCO Assists in Enhancing Primary and Secondary Schooling to Reduce Child of Child Labour Labour) in Contracts with Business Partners Labour in its Adjoining Communities Results  No child labor has ever been employed by PARCO. Despite the fact  Regular third party audits are conducted by the Labor  By asking Suppliers and Service Providers to adhere to the laws  PARCO’s has been conducting a comprehensive Schools and Clinics Support Program since 2007. The program is that under the labor laws of Pakistan the minimum age of hiring is 14 Directorate’s labor department and health and hygiene of the country, they are required to comply with all labor laws, focused on supporting schools and clinics at rural communities located near PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery and years, PARCO`s minimum age limit for induction is 18 years, which is department, Employees Old Age Benefit Institution meet security and human rights requirements as well as its Stations & Terminals in the Sindh and Punjab provinces of Pakistan. thoroughly checked by birth certificates, educational transcripts, (EOBI), Social Services Department, Workers Children eliminate employment of underage workers.  Till 2016, 96 Schools and Clinics have been supported by developing their much needed infrastructure, national identity card issued by NADRA (National Database and Education, Sindh Employers Social Security Institution procurement of necessary equipment, etc. This helps them sustain their operations for providing basic facilities to Registration Authority) and other age verification documents; thus and other authorities who ensure elimination of Child Labor and compliance of other requirements of Labor the communities. Out of these 96 institutions, 77 are schools where more than 38,000 children are receiving ensuring that there is no child labor across the company. Laws. education. PARCO`s assistance to these institutions has raised the communities interest to enroll their children in these refurbished and well-maintained schools diverting them from child labor to primary education, raising the literacy rate. PARCO and TCF (The Citizens Foundation) – A Partnership Making Differences PARCO in partnership with the TCF (The Citizens Foundation) – a reputed NGO in Pakistan has developed three campuses i.e. two primary and one secondary school at Qasba Gujrat and Karachi. These campuses are built in under-privileged communities and impart quality education to around 939 children. These schools are making a great difference in the lives of the underprivileged in many ways. These TCF schools ensure that children remain interested at their schools and keep their maximum attendance to achieve tangible future results. In this area, TCF schools including PARCO campuses undertook following initiatives during the past one year:  Teacher training workshops are conducted during the summer holidays. They focus on refining the techniques and skills of the teaching staff.  Staff development days during the academic year are meant for teachers and principal to review their class and school plans and discuss their curriculum priorities.  Formal parent-teacher meetings are held thrice a year. However, parents and teachers maintain an open dialogue and meet informally as well to discuss their concerns.  Regular physical education classes and sports are held during Students Week. These co-curricular activities encourage team PARCO supported Schools and Clinics since 2007 till date work, group participation and enhance the students' learning progress.  TCF celebrates Independence Day in its schools nationwide. The objective is to inculcate the spirit of patriotism and a sense of Sana Sharief national pride in our younger generation. Finance Department-PARCO  International awareness days are also observed during the school year. The purpose is to develop an understanding of students on various humanitarian, cultural and social issues around the world. “Distributing school bags, caps or any other article for that matter to support underprivileged children is a very noble cause. We provide basic facilities of life like Perks of PARCO’s Investment in Education education, contributing as a major part in building our future generation. No matter if  As education is a key foundation for developing a country, PARCO has always taken initiatives to improve the quality of education in they are underprivileged but these kids have underprivileged areas across Pakistan. The Company has been supporting the government schools near its facilities with much needed every right to be treated equally, as they are infrastructure and material support. Not only this, but we have been undertaking various projects from time to time to create a happy the future of our nation and their proper learning environment. upbringing will definitely have an impact on  Our Teachers Training program since the past 5 years has made phenomenal progress in terms of changing the classroom culture in the the success and prosperity of our country. government schools. Teachers have now learned easy ways to engage these energetic youngsters. This has helped children in increased Being a part of PARCO-the most socially and interest in the school and above all, improvement in the attendance culture. environmentally conscious company in  The bags and caps distributions being made since the last three years have played an instrumental role in maintaining children’s interest PakistanI feel honored and fortunate to in the school. At Ibrahim Hydri, Karachi, school managements have indicated that the PARCO supported schools have high number of serve this purpose and would like to enrollment in the area, mainly due to the changing positive culture at the school and the support that PARCO lends. With increased contribute in its future endeavors.” enrollments, children of these areas are now able to choose school over employment in early age. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2017 (Page 7 of 17) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment PARCO provides equal employment opportunity and supports diversity of human capital in all its functions. Management Systems Human Resource Management Corporate Social Responsibility Actions Ensuring Equal Employment Enforcing Code of Workforce Diversity Merit-driven Appointments Expand PARCO`s Interaction with Technology Transfer Opportunities for All Ethics and Promotions Educational Institutions Results  PARCO offers equal opportunity to all  PARCO ensures that employees  PARCO employees come from all  PARCO discourages nepotism and  PARCO undertakes regular summer and winter internships for  PARCO possesses competent specialists in many areas and in order to utilize their qualified applicants, men and women, abide by the Company`s Code over the country, irrespective of every form of favoritism. The way up students belonging to business and engineering disciplines where expertise, these internal training resources develop and deliver training belonging to all faiths and religion, of Ethics. Every employee has domicile/origin, ethnicity, religion, the PARCO ladder is open to the selection of internees is done on merit. During 2016, PARCO programs. origin, ethnicity, color, caste or creed. to sign, at the time of gender, or any other non-job everybody. The policy of the Company inducted 82 interns and provided on-the-job training with is to develop and promote employees challenging projects.  PARCO offers Traineeship Program in the fields of management and engineering. induction, a declaration dimension. Thus there are workers The training ranges from 1 to 2 years and provides the candidate learning and  PARCO ensures that no discrimination is agreeing to PARCO`s Principles of all ages, from all provinces; from within the organization through from the northern most cities to career and succession planning.  PARCO also supports research, conferences, trade fairs, exposure to different aspects of a real life working environment. Upon made amongst employees and to date, which include a complete workshops and other events of educational institutions. The demonstrating satisfactory performance during the traineeship, the Trainee is all male and female employees guideline on avoiding the southernmost areas.  Hiring and promotions are done on company provides technical equipment for labs of engineering inducted as an employee if a suitable vacancy exists. belonging to different religions are discrimination, ensuring fair  PARCO is a national employer, merit, performance and the ultimate institutions. PARCO has donated 4 Gas Turbines to the employed at all levels including senior and ethical dealings with all potential of each employee through  Since 1975, PARCO has trained 1159 Engineering and Management Trainees. This employing people without Mechanical Engineering Departments of four engineering management positions. internal and external number is ever increasing and shows that PARCO has not stopped inducting fresh discrimination and strictly on professional and transparent HR universities of Pakistan i.e. NED University-Karachi, University of stakeholders including talent even at a time when the Country was facing an economic downturn. processes. If any employee exerts  Employees are given holidays in communities, customers, merit, from all parts of the Engineering and Technology-Lahore, Mehran UniversityCountry. external pressure of any sort s/he is Jamshoro, Bahauddin Zakariya University-Multan. These turbines accordance with their religious suppliers and vendors.  To address the issue of scarcity of trained manpower in the country, an automatically disqualified and faces are now being utilized by the universities to provide hands-on customs. ‘Apprenticeship Program’ has also been introduced. The objective of this six Despite being a petroleum disciplinary action. training to the engineering students. month’ program is to provide technical training to fresh graduates and develop  PARCO provides employment engineering organization, PARCO  Universities show keen interest in visiting PARCO’s facilities and their skills. opportunity to handicapped applicants encourages women for the company organizes plant visits for petroleum, chemical, civil,  PARCO has a huge reservoir of highly skilled and experienced human capital. and has currently employed 5 such employment in all business areas electrical, electronics, telecommunication, and other engineering Please refer to the graph below, showing our Talent Inventory in different areas. people. including the Mid-Country and business students belonging to different universities. Refinery, which is located in a  See Women Empowerment in Principle 2. remote area. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2017 (Page 8 of 17) ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment PARCO is committed to comply with the National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and ensures minimal impact on the environment. Management Systems HSE, Operations and Administration Actions Environment Friendly Efficient Effluent Management Environmental Auditing, Certification and Awards Solid Waste Management Supply-Chain Results  Crude Oil is the basic raw material in any  Effluent monitoring is carried out at all Stations and Terminals and the  PARCO is a fully IMS Certified Energy Company and amongst the first in Pakistan to simultaneously achieve  Waste disposal is an elaborate activity at PARCO. Our Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) oil refining firm. Environmental three international certifications, that is, ISO 9001:2008 (Quality Management System), ISO 14001:2004 Mid-Country Refinery (MCR). Reports are sent to Environment Protection at Qasba Gujrat is the collection point for all hazardous waste from the Refinery, stewardship is a prime motivation as we Agency (EPA) against SMART Program. (Environmental Management System) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety Stations and Terminals. The waste is stored at a hazardous waste yard. The manage transportation of crude from the Management System). procedure we have developed clearly defines the methodology for the Keamari Port in Karachi to our Mid Impact on the environment from the refining process is controlled by management and disposal of solid waste at MCR in a manner that protects human treating and managing emissions. Low NOx (Nitrous Oxide) burners and  Corporate Headquarters (CHQ) has successfully achieved IMS Recertification of the ISO 18001 (OSHAS), Country Refinery (MCR) in Mahmood health and the environment. It takes an inclusive approach that endeavors to Sulfur removal from fuel gases are examples. ISO 14001 (EMS) and ISO 9001 (QMS) Standards for another two years following an external reKot, through 864 km long pipeline which protect surface/ ground-water, air, flora and fauna. It also presents best practices certification audit conducted by a third party certification body in July 2016. Surveillance Audit was is approximately 400 ft above sea level.  Effluents are treated in a state-of-the-art Effluent Treatment Plant having conducted in June 2016. that make up an effective Waste Management System. capacity of 340m3/hr involving extensive chemical and biological The pipeline ensures that each drop of  A surveillance audit of PARCO Pipeline Division was conducted by a third party certification body in  PARCO’s Mid Country Refinery and Stations and Terminals have designated treatment. The waste water from the refinery is collected and through crude oil is transported to MCR without September 2016. procedures and areas for effective system of waste collection and segregation. skimming, neutralization, dissolved air floatation, aeration, clarification, affecting the environment. Two drums (yellow and green) are placed in each area i.e. plant, maintenance filtration and drying operations the effluent water is brought within  PARCO Mid-Country Refinery had its surveillance audit conducted by a third party certification body in building, truck loading and laboratory etc. Yellow drum is designated for dumping  We have Leak Detection System, NEQS limits before being discharged. The treated water is reused for November 2016. plants after compliance with NEQS (National Environmental Quality the hazardous waste and the green drum is for non-hazardous waste. Emergency Shutdown System, intelligent  During IMS Certification Audit, risk assessments were conducted in which high risk areas/activities were Standards) is ensured. All effluents are checked and verified regularly pigging, corrosion protection, and before discharging by third party EPA (Environment Protection Agency) identified and objectives were established to eliminate, reduce and minimize the risks. The process is now  The Solid Waste Management yard is the storage point for waste at MCR. It is a microwave towers for communication, continued through IMS objectives. well-organized area catering for everything from spent catalyst and chemical approved Labs to comply with NEQS. drums to used batteries. A third party of international repute is contracted for SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data  Audits of housekeeping, gas masks, noise, work permits, closed sampling box etc. have been periodically disposing the waste. All types of solid wastes are collected in the waste yard and Acquisition) system to avoid leakages,  All contractors’ equipments are checked for compliance to NEQS. conducted. Bi-annually third party stack emissions and liquid effluent monitoring, third party ground water separated according to their nature. There are five separate yards according to the thefts and intermediate storage tanks at  Various chemicals in use are stored in a well-ventilated warehouse and it monitoring within the refinery and neighboring areas, third party ambient air monitoring around the nature of waste. 5 different pumping stations. is ensured that a minimum level of inventory is kept to minimize the PARCO installation within 2 kms of radius, are conducted. hazard. The chemical warehouse is equipped with deluge valve system to  Scrap Yard is situated near the south side boundary wall of the refinery in front of  During the year 2016, approximately 4.38  Audits of housekeeping, gas masks, noise, work permits, closed sampling box, yearly third party vehicle suppress any kind of contamination. Plastic trays and HDPE sheets have Solid Waste Management Yard. All the waste generated at the Mid-Country Million Metric Tons of crude oil was emissions monitoring, bi-annually third party stack emissions and liquid effluent monitoring, ground water been placed under the chemical drums to meet the required level of Refinery is stored in the Solid Waste Management and Scrap yard. Environment transported from Karachi to PARCO`s monitoring within the refinery and neighboring areas are done. Bi-annually third party ambient air protection. section keeps the record of Solid Waste Management Yard. The non-hazardous monitoring around the PARCO installation within 2 kms of radius, are all ongoing and routine Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) at Mahmood waste is stored in green drums and shifted to the non-hazardous waste yard. environmental projects. Kot through an 870 km long pipeline  In compliance of Integrated Management System (IMS) at Corporate Administration Department keeps the record of all the municipal waste and submits network, ensuring safe and secure Headquarters (CHQ), environmental sampling and testing of liquid  Regular HSE Audits of operational areas and office buildings are carried out to ensure safe environment in the record to the Environment Engineer on monthly basis for proper monitoring, effluent (sewerage and car wash area) and gaseous emissions the office areas. Any discrepancies found during the audit are analyzed for their risks on safety and treatment and/or disposal. transportation. This efficient supply chain (generators of CHQ and Commercial buildings) are carried out against appropriate recommendations are provided as key performance indicators. Uptill now 107 Plant Safety and eliminates the movement of oil tankers NEQS on yearly basis through an EPA certified laboratory. Liquid effluent Housekeeping Audits of MCR have been conducted. significantly contributing in reduction of parameters include temperature, pH, chemical oxygen demand, air pollution.  Annual Pipeline HSE and Housekeeping Audits ensure the same commitment towards housekeeping and biological oxygen demand, total dissolved solids, total suspended solids, clean environment both in operational areas and office buildings at all stations and terminals. Senior oil & grease, phenolic compounds and chlorides while gaseous emissions  In 2016, the 362 km Mahmood KotManagement Audit is carried out on monthly basis in which the Senior Management visits the plant and are tested for Co, NOx, SOx, H2S, smoke and noise. The results of the Faisalabad-Machhike (MFM) pipeline past 8 years from are within the permissible limits specified in NEQS, conducts its audits by utilizing their expertise and also interacts with employees to gain insights. transported approximately 3.43 Million conducted by reputable laboratories.  The refinery has been divided into 12 major units and 12 audit teams conducts Senior Management audits Metric Tons of refined fuel from PARCO  EMS (Environment Management System) Impact Assessment registers  on monthly basis. Action points are identified and sent to concerned departments for implementation. Mid-Country Refinery at Mahmood Kot to Overall performance in 2016 remained 91.56 %. This objective shows a high management commitment and Machhike via Faisalabad where gantry are available at every Station, and EMS impact is assessed on regular  In 2016, approximately 113.83 tons of hazardous waste was disposed of through an basis to ensure IMS conformance with ISO and EMS requirements. communication with employees. facility is available for product off-take. EPA approved facility. During hazardous waste management, around 1030 empty This has also reduced quite a number of metal and plastic drums, 25 batteries and 7020 liters of used oil were sold with tank lorries off the road and has improved safe recycling/ disposal guarantees. The payback of recycled drums contributed in road safety. disposal of hazardous waste. This is an annual recurring activity.  PARCO has been awarded the 11th  PARCO was recognized by the Employers  Similarly, during 2016, the 786 km WOP PARCO’s Guidelines for Disposal of Hazardous Waste consecutive Annual Environment Excellence Federation of Pakistan at a ceremony held (White Oil Pipeline) transported The hazardous waste is disposed through Environment Protection Agency (EPA) Award by the National Forum for at its 11th EFP Best Practices Awards approximately 4.46 Million Metric Tons of approved third party on an annual basis through open bidding and stringent evaluation Environment and Health (NFEH). PARCO for Ceremony in the area of Occupational HSD (High Speed Diesel) from Karachi to criteria to comply with all the legal requirements i.e. the eighth consecutive time has been placed Safety, Health and Environment for the Mahmood Kot.  EPA’s No Objection Certificate (NOC) for disposal of hazardous waste. amongst the 10 best organizations of Pakistan year 2015. The event was planned around in Environment Management. A Special  Safe handling and transportation of hazardous waste methods and statements. celebrating the International Day on Safety Recognition Certificate for outstanding  Incineration through EPA approved facility. & Health at Work. PARCO was recognized achievement in Environment Management  Recycling of used lubricant oils through government approved reclamation plant. for its excellent workplace environment was also awarded to PARCO by NFEH.  Safety of workers for handling of hazardous waste. and won the 1st prize trophy award for the  Necessary packaging and labeling requirements. year 2015.  Provision of waste disposal/recycling certification and undertakings. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2017 (Page 10 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 (Contd.) BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 11 of 17) Our Commitment PARCO is committed to comply with the National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and ensures minimal impact on the environment. Management Systems HSE, Operations and Administration Actions Efficient Effluent Management Environmental Auditing, Certification and Awards Air Emissions Monitoring Environment Friendly Products Results  Regular third party monitoring is done diligently, and the results are well below  Regular HSE Audits of operational areas and office buildings are carried out to ensure safe  Air emissions monitoring is being carried out on monthly basis through  PARCO proactively works to ensure that its products permissible NEQS limits. Results of some key parameters are shown below. environment in the office areas. Any discrepancies found during the audit are analyzed for their PARCO’s laboratory and bi-annually through EPA approved third party for and fuels are environment friendly. Lead free risks on safety and appropriate recommendations are provided as key performance indicator. Carbon Monoxide, NOx, SOx, and Particulate Matter etc. The result of all Gasoline complies with the standard having sulfur Two HSEQ Internal Audits were conducted at CHQ during May and December 2016 by PARCO’s environmental parameters remains within NEQS limits throughout the content less than 150 ppm. certified auditors. year. Results of some key parameters are shown below.  With the investment of 132 million USD on a Diesel Hydro Desulfurization unit, Diesel produced by Perfect Record Award 2015 for PARCO by National Safety Council, USA PARCO is on Euro II specifications i.e. less than 500  NSC runs many safety award programs including Lost-Time Accident Free man-hours on yearly ppm. This positions PARCO at the top in Pakistan basis or on the count of million man-hours basis. PARCO won ‘Perfect Record Award 2015’ on where the running standard is 5,000 ppm of sulfur in the basis of accident free 1.192 million man-hours in the year 2015. This is the second diesel. The extracted sulfur is solidified and sold as a consecutive award. Other than that, PARCO (MCR) has been awarded with a plaque on byproduct. achieving accident free 5,000,000 man-hours. The plaque was received by HSE department MMT High Octane Booster Facility recently in November, 2016.  Tighter emissions standards and lower aromatics specifications are focusing attention on new blending agents and MMT (methylcyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl) is one of the viable options for refiners to replace lost octane quality.  In this regard, PARCO has installed this facility in October 2016, in order to provide high octane gasoline with relatively less emissions. It has been proven in the world as a good additive to reduce emissions of NOx and CO by having good combustion of fuel in the engine.  Recognizing our HSE initiatives, procedures, safety measures and business processes throughout PARCO installations, the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH) and Fire Protection Association of Pakistan (FPAP) bestowed upon PARCO the Fire and Safety Award 2016. This is the fourth consecutive award given to PARCO. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2017 (Page 11 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment PARCO and its employees show responsibility in operations and in adjoining communities. Management Systems HSE, IMS, Operations, CSR Actions Environmental Stewardship Increasing Health and Safety Reduction in Pollution and Initiatives Promoting Greater Environmental Responsibility Awareness and Performance Community Environment Monitoring Results  PARCO takes into account all it can to  Fire, rescue and emergency drills are Community Environment Monitoring National Safety Council, USA Membership and Programs reduce emissions far below NEQS limits, conducted regularly at all PARCO locations  The surrounding areas of PARCO’s facilities have a lot of independent Service Stations Over the 16 years of refinery operation, PARCO has developed and implemented Safety systems for safe operation and safety of to ensure preparedness for emergencies. for trucks, tankers and other vehicles which are potential contaminants for ground personnel working in refinery environment. During this period these systems have been recognized within the country with develop products on Euro II standards and Four batches of Emergency Response Team Water. Realizing this environmental aspect we developed a comprehensive ground and “Environmental” and “Fire and Safety” awards. PARCO has endeavored upon to have its systems internationally recognized by preserve natural habitat by diverting its oil soil monitoring plan to ensure that no contamination in soil and water is done, and are being trained every year to ensure enrolling with the National Safety Council (NSC), USA as a member organization. pipeline. availability of trained manpower at all have developed a base line data for continuous monitoring. It includes: times. First Aid staff is trained by Safety Scouts & Guides Program at PARCO  The 2000 km of oil pipelines traversing the professional Fire and Rescue personnel and 1. Ambient Air Quality monitoring for SOx, NOx and CO at 1 and 2 kms outside Refinery  In order to guarantee and propel safety behavior amongst the residents of PARCO Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) – Housing Complex, country, save thousands of gallons of fuel is conducted twice a year. refresher courses are ensured periodically. a Safety Scouts & Guides Program is in place at PARCO. The Safety Scouts & Guides are selected from the pool of school-going 2. Ambient Particulate Matter monitoring is also conducted twice a year. and reduce pollution that would otherwise students who are best at expressing themselves and are brimming with confidence. Gender equality is ensured while selecting the have been caused by tank lorries traffic.  To create a general awareness amongst the 3. Offsite Ground Water monitoring is also conducted twice a year at 10 different Scouts and Guides, whose job is to ensure and enhance behavioral, kitchen, road and living-place safety in the Housing Complex. employees regarding the importance of locations. The Safety Scouts & Guides, who are twelve in number, are given a healthy stipend as a token for their services. The Safety Scouts & maintaining good health; health and safety 4. Noise Level monitoring at boundary wall are done periodically.  PARCO is planning to have maximum Guides are provided with check-lists to ensure that proper housekeeping is done in the housing complex and basic safety brochures were launched on subjects like procedures are being followed. utilization of its Mahmood Kot-FaisalabadCommunity’s Ground Water Monitoring importance of seat belts, safety guidelines Machhike (MFM) pipeline from its installed for visitors, thalassaemia, polio, ebola,  As a CSR Initiative for the local communities, we PARCO – Family Safety Awareness Program capacity of 4 million tons per annum to 5 benefits of dietary fiber, etc. perform 3rd party (EPA certified) ground water monitoring of the surroundings of our refinery  In order to propel safety behavior amongst the residents of PARCO Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) – Housing Complex, HSE successfully million tons per annum. The pipeline will be organized a Safety Awareness Session in the Auditorium on 10th February, 2016. Its objective was to provide awareness to the used for pumping MOGAS along with HSD  PARCO encourages employee participation, twice a year just to ensure that the community nearby is using a safe underground water. There children and families about the safety hazards in the housing complex. The one hour session was structured on six brief in batches after necessary addition and maintained in the planning and presentations on matters pertaining to open electrical boxes, over speeding, storing Mogas containers in houses, fire extinguishers, are 15 different parameters i.e. pH, Color, TDS, modifications in the current MFM system. implementation of OHSE-MS activities like: car scratching and cleanliness in housing. Taste and Odor, Total Hardness, Faecall Coliform, After commissioning of the project, PARCO o Job Safety Analysis for all new and Coliform Organisms, Arsenic, Chloride, Sulfate, HSE Newsletters and Bulletins will be able to enhance the utilization of its critical jobs Iron, Cyanide, Lead, Selenium and Manganese  The company magazine “Pulse” has a section dedicated to HSE highlighting the promotional activities, HSE performance and new pipeline system to its maximum capacity. In o Risk Assessment for Occupational Health from different locations nearby PARCO Midinitiatives. Monthly newsletters and company magazines are used to propagate the clean environmental practice. Environmental addition, heavy traffic load on the trunk Safety and Environment Country Refinery. standards and our activities are also shared in the articles being published in these publications. During turnaround, 3 daily roads will be further alleviated as o Departmental Safety committee newsletters were printed and displayed at prominent locations of MCR for employee’s awareness and updated information Community’s Ambient Air Monitoring hydrocarbons will be transported safely meetings regarding Occupational Health, Safety and Environment.  Ambient air monitoring at 1 Km and 2 Km distance around our refinery is also done through pipeline system which is most o Incident Reporting and Investigation twice a year by EPA certified third party. The parameters being monitored are NOx, Safety Walk 2016 efficient and safe system for transportation o Training and implementation of SOx, CO and Particulate matter.  Safety Walk 2016 was celebrated in June, 2016 at MCR and will continue to be a yearly event for increasing awareness of all staff of flammable liquids. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and their families. The theme of this walk was “Safety starts at home and is everyone’s responsibility”. Children from school within o Tool Box/ Safety Talks Community’s Soil Analysis PARCO Housing Complex, as well as the families of employees actively participated in the event with approximate participation of  The refining complex at PARCO’s Mid A total of 8 samples of soil are being collected to check oil and grease level in the above 700 people. The Safety walk was followed by award distribution ceremony in which awards were given to winners and Contractor Safety Management soil from 1-4 feet depth. A certified third party collects these samples from various runner-ups of Plant Safety and Housekeeping Audit 2015-16 and Safety Quiz 2016 contest. Prizes were also given to the Country Refinery is equipped with a stateContractors adhere to relevant health safety locations within MCR and service stations around MCR. housekeeping coordinators and monthly best safety slogan contest winners. of-the-art effluent treatment plant, low NOx (Nitrous Oxide) and SOx (Sulfur Oxide) and environment and quality standard at Noise Survey Appreciation Program for Best Environmental Practices burners and a Sulfur Recovery Unit. PARCO facility through contractor  Comprehensive noise surveys are also carried out within all operational areas, PARCO has always been at the forefront in minimizing the impact of its business operations on employees, environment, customers, management program. Stations & Terminals and Refinery. Equipment and locations are identified where a shareholders and communities. From environment-friendly products to immaculate plant facilities and infrastructure, everything o Pre-qualification with HSEQ detrimental noise level may be present. Ear muffs and ear plugs are made points towards the vision of PARCO “Preserving Mother Nature and Making the Environment Purer”. In support of appreciation for the requirements mandatory accordingly. Generator/ turbine housings, fired heaters, compressors and commitment of employees towards environmental initiatives and best practices, PARCO has a very sound awarding system: o Contractor safety method statement similar potentially high noise equipment are monitored periodically. Even at the  Gardening competition among the employees residing in the housing complex to promote green environment in housing complex. o HSE requirements are made part of the boundaries, a noise survey is carried out in order to make sure that communities Approximately more than 20 awards are given in 6 different categories. all types of services’ contract surrounding our facilities are not affected by any noise generated due to operations.  Tree plantation activities by employees and children. Approximately 2,000 trees planted at housing complex and refinery. o HSE orientation for the contractor ‘s  Appreciation Letter is given to the employees for an environmental initiative which is verified through an approved criterion. workforce  Environmental quizzes on yearly basis o HSE training for the contractor’s staff  Appreciation letter to the employees on preventing spills and fires. o Provision of personal protective  Regular lectures on various health topics (e.g., hypertension, obesity, diabetes mellitus, equipments Polio, etc.) are conducted by Company Doctors. Similarly Medical Bulletins are also issued o On site monitoring of contractors on the Company’s intranet portal as well as emailed to all employees to increase health o Contractor safety audits awareness on various topics among the employees. o Contractor performance review meetings  To enhance health and safety awareness among employees, trainings like Road Safety, Fire Fighting, Emergency Response Planning, Anti-Terrorist Attack, Risk Assessment and Procedures of Waste Management, Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene Management, First Aid, etc. are organized from time to time. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2017 (Page 12 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 (Contd.) COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment PARCO and its employees show responsibility in operations and in adjoining communities. Management Systems HSE, Operations, CSR Actions Environmental Stewardship Health Safety Environment (HSE) Training Programs Results  Occupational Health and Safety Management and HSE Training Overview at PARCO Mid-Country Refinery Environment Management systems in PARCO are fully Providing HSE training helps us to ensure employees are trained on environmental challenges, NEQS and other legal requirements, and not injured or made ill by their work, it develop a positive health and safety culture, where safe, healthy and working on complied with the National as well as International, standards environmental friendly condition becomes second nature to the individual, it finds out how an individual could manage health and safety better and it meets the legal duty to protect environment and the health and safety of our employees. Effective training such as ISO, OSHA, NEQS, NFPA, Pak EPA, API and ASTM. will contribute towards making employees competent in HSE, which can help to avoid the distress that accidents and ill health cause and can help avoid the financial cost of accidents and occupational ill health. Our objectives are to take into account the capabilities, training, knowledge and experience of our staff; and to ensure that the demands of the job do not exceed their ability to carry out their work without risk to themselves, others and environment.  PARCO has a very comprehensive occupational health monitoring program to manage health of employees exposed  Trainings are carried out twice a week for all PARCO employees. to occupational health related risks, for example:  Trainings are based on the training need analysis, audits and incident reports. o Noise control program (covering area noise level  A three day refresher training session for Senior Management was conducted on ‘Safety Management System and its Importance’. monitoring, noise reduction and controls, sign posting,  A comprehensive two week HSE training plan is in place for all new employees and trainees. personal exposure assessment, audiometry). Even at the boundaries, a noise survey is carried out in order to make  Emergency Response Team (ERT) was provided ERT training along with various refresher courses. These sessions were planned for over 20 days. sure that communities surrounding our facilities are not  All contractors before mobilization on site go through detailed Orientation & Training covering both aspects of Occupational Health, Safety & Environment. affected by any noise generated due to operations  The contractual staff including labor also attends in house HSE training program once a week. On-site safety talks are carried out each morning before o Equipment modification to control noise from recourse commencement of work. This serves as a refresher for the contractor labor. by engineering means  HSE trainings were also provided to other refineries of Pakistan such as EnarPetrotech’s refining facility, Fauji Fertilizer Company, etc. o Dust monitoring program  Mutual Aid Partners were provided trainings on Emergency drills. o Volatile organic compound monitoring  HSE trainings to the internees and students of different institutions. o Audiometric testing for noise  A three days ‘IMS Awareness Session’ on revised standards of ISO 9001 & ISO-14001 – 2015 was conducted through an external trainer for all 35 PARCO auditors and IMS team members. o Employees health management program Emergency Response Team (ERT) Training  PARCO has recently started VOC Monitoring considering its PARCO HSE conducts in-house ERT training on quarterly basis to train its employees from different engineering/technical disciplines. The aim of ERT training is to have an Emergency Crew in shape of PARCO Employees and thus increase additional vigilance and impact on environment and personal health. response to mitigate any emergency at the very initial level. There have been remarkable achievements at many occasions when our ERT members have proved useful by using their training skills, extinguishing a fire that had a potential of developing into a huge fire, if the response is delayed. These trainings were initiated in the year 2001 and till now 414 participants from MCR, 213 participants from Pipeline Division and 19 PPGL employees, as well as 2 contractor’s staff members have been trained in the form  HAZMAT document has been prepared by MCR HSE for all the of batches; thus creating a huge number of ERT members which is still increasing. The participants were provided with comprehensive two weeks ERT training followed by field trainings pertaining to Fire Management System, different types of Fire Equipments chemicals used in the plant and lab. In this regard, a one page installed at PARCO, use of Emergency Equipment, Personal Protective Equipments (PPEs), Life Saving Emergency Equipment, Work Permit Systems implementation, classification of Hazardous Area, operation of Fire Water Suppression System, Crisis MSDS document is prepared for each chemical being used Management, Emergency Response Plan, practical Fire Fighting Training and Fire Tender Operation. along with the factsheet of all chemicals. This provides a great ease for employees in considering the first aid requirements, HSE Trainings for New Employees handling and storage procedures, environmental aspects, etc. New talent management is one of the key areas for PARCO’s strategic growth and development process. In this regard, the HSE department organized a one month comprehensive training program for the new batch of trainees at MCR. The training program was divided in five days of class room sessions and four days of practical field training. As a result, the new inductees are now fully trained in HSE systems and procedures and able to identify potential hazards. For analyzing the effectiveness of training, a post White Oil Pipeline Optimal Utilization Study training evaluation test was also arranged by HSE which shows their interest in training elements and promotion of safe working culture. During 2016, a total of 83 HSE training sessions were conducted in which 509 participants were present. • The White Oil Pipeline was designed for transportation of Crude First Aid Trainings Oil and HSD. Presently, it is only being used for the  At PARCO, our aim is safety of our employees, and providing ample amount of training to our staff to tackle transportation of HSD and it is operating below its design any unforeseen event, it is imperative due to the hazardous nature of our business. To keep employees and capacity. PAPCO initiated this study to optimize the use of the service provider staff abreast of First Aid concepts and providing them necessary first aid training, in-house WOP by using spare capacity for the batched transportation of training sessions were organized. MOGAS and Jet Fuel in addition to HSD, from South to North region.  A first aid training was held for the PARCO Pearl Gas Limited (PPGL) employees at a Lahore Filling Station. Approximately 20 employees participated in the training. The aim of the training was to prepare an • The HAZOP is in progress. After completion of the project, emergency response team which will provide immediate first aid and prepare the injured for further medical utilization of pipeline system will be enhanced to its maximum treatment. capacity. In addition, heavy wheelers’ & bowsers’ traffic load on  The course structure comprised of First Aid measures in case of closed and open wounds, closed and open the trunk roads will be alleviated as hydrocarbons will be fractures, burns, Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) for both adults and infants in case of a catastrophe or transported safely through pipeline system which is the most a minor incident. efficient, economical and safe mode for transportation of flammable liquids. Mutual Aid Partners Combined Drill  A combined drill of PARCO’s Mutual-Aid Partners was held at MCR on 24th March, 2016. The purpose of this drill was to check and ensure the compatibility of equipment in case of a catastrophic incident, resources required versus available, mutual aid team response time etc. The combined fire drill was conducted in the Fire-Training area on the west side of the plant. The participants included the Fire Crew and management’s members from KAPCO, AES-Lalpir and TPS Muzaffagarh. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2017 (Page 13 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 (Contd.) COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment PARCO and its employees show responsibility in operations and in adjoining communities. Management Systems HSE, Operations, CSR Actions Health Safety Environment (HSE) Training Programs Results Basic Life Support Training  Basic Life Support is the assistance given to any person suffering a sudden injury or illness; with care provided to preserve life, prevent the condition from worsening, and/or promote recovery. It includes initial intervention in a serious condition prior to professional medical help being available, such as performing CPR while awaiting an ambulance; as well as the complete treatment of minor conditions. Basic Life Support promotes adequate blood circulation in addition to breathing through a clear airway.  A two day session on Basic Life Support (BLS) and providing First Aid in case of emergencies was held at TS-3/PS-7 Faisalabad dated 25-26 July, 2016.  This training was organized by Station Management & HSE Engineer in collaboration with Rescue 1122 Faisalabad. Mr Muzammil and his team from Rescue 1122 conducted the training. Participants took keen interest in the training, which would be very helpful in promoting safe working environment. Root Cause Analysis Workshop by HSE  Incorrectly analyzed root cause leads to recurrence of pattern with a potential of possible accident. At PARCO, we have three very important online systems in place i.e. IRS, QRI & IMS (CPA). HSE being the custodian of IRS & IMS felt a need to arrange a full day training session with our team of engineers/internal auditors representing various departments who are actively involved in RCA process so as to improve the quality of root cause identification.  During our review of CPAs and IRS, HSE figured out that there is a tendency to intermix root cause with causal factors and usually a causal factor is identified as a root cause, leading to recurrence of a problem.  This full day workshop was conducted on August 18, 2016. Mr Rehan Siraj, Chief Engineer Utilities assisted by HSE Engineer Mr Mubashir Hasan and Mr Ali Waheed IMS Coordinator led this session with practical sessions and syndicate exercises. A very positive feedback was obtained from the participants. Practical Training on Use of Fire Extinguishers for Contractors  To further strengthen Emergency Response system at MCR, HSE department organized a practical training on Fire Extinguishers for contractors. The objective was to train the contractors directly involved at site to handle fire emergencies with portable fire extinguishers.  The session was conducted on August 10, 2016. A total number of 29 participants attended the two hours training session. The session began with a brief presentation on fire extinguisher and later on a practical demonstration and training. All the participants enthusiastically participated in live firefighting.  PARCO HSE has always remained at the forefront in training their employees and contractor staff on use of portable fire extinguishers, with an aim to protect precious lives and valuable assets. Training Statistics  During the year 2016, 83 HSE training sessions were conducted attended by 509 participants.  Since 2011, 2755 participants have attended training sessions on Environment.  More than 15 IMS training sessions on EMS14001:2004 were conducted during the last one year. Environmental Training Topics  Environmental protection act 1997 to understand legal requirement and fulfill company’s obligation for companywide legal compliance  EMS 14001 requirements and implementation across the company  National Environmental Quality Standard (NEQS) for front line workforce to fulfill legal compliance regarding air emissions, effluent disposal, noise monitoring, vehicle emission and ground water monitoring  Solid waste management and importance of waste segregation at source point and to find out ways and means for waste recycling, reduction and reuse  Environmental aspects and impacts assessments to find out environmental risk and its control measures  Global warming and Greenhouse gases monitoring and control  Hazards of chemicals and control measures to save human health and environment  Awareness session for contractor work force to understand environmental requirements during new and modified projects  Environmental and safety promotion walks in community and housing complex to spread awareness to the general public on environmental challenges  Environmental and safety quiz among employees to enhance general knowledge regarding environment and safety  Awareness sessions on reduction of electricity consumption to save energy and protect environment  Gardening competition in plant and housing complex  Environmental awareness session and posters’ competition in PARCO School to educate new generation www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2017 (Page 14 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 9 COMPANIES SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment PARCO makes all efforts to minimize the impact of its operations on environment by utilizing technologies that are environment friendly. Management Systems HSE, Operations Actions Environmentally Friendly Technologies Automated Incident Reporting System Energy Conservation Program Results Effluent Treatment Plant  The Online Incident Reporting System (IRS) was successfully  Heaters and Boilers are the major sources of energy utilization at a refinery plant. PARCO has taken following steps for Energy Conservation and Energy Efficiency:  PARCO has Effluent treatment plant having a capacity of 340m3/hr. Here the launched in January 2012. The purpose of the online system was to Heaters waste water from all over the refinery is collected and through Skimming, combine the IRS system of Mid Country Refinery and Pipeline 1. Efficient heaters are being operated at above 85% efficiency Neutralization, Dissolved Air Floatation, Aeration, Clarification, Filtration and Division. Furthermore, vision of paperless environment was also 2. Regular heater efficiency monitoring program is in place Drying operations the effluent water is brought within NEQS limits before is driving force to develop this system. Now, Incident Reporting 3. Access air monitoring is done on daily basis discharge into local Saim Nala. The laboratory tests for effluent water are done System from “raising an incident report” till completion of “incident 4. Heater efficiency monitoring is done on monthly basis on daily basis and ensured that parameters are within the NEQS limits it is investigation” and “implementation of recommendations” is all 5. To save energy and environment we have dual fire system allowed to discharge. If any parameter is not within NEQS limits then the whole heaters operated on furnace oil and fuel gas carried out online with zero paper use. For the investigation of Boilers batch of effluent water is diverted back to diversion tank of capacity 25,400m3, online reported near misses, accidents or injuries we have a 1. Boilers are operated at highest efficiency above 90% and processed again. standard operating procedure for incident investigation. 2. Boilers are annually inspected and certified by  During the year 2016, effluent water treated was 1,514,992 m3 at a rate of government agencies  All the incidents occurring in PARCO are reported / recorded and 172.94 m3/hr. then investigated appropriately according to a procedure through Heat Exchangers Effluent Monitoring Plan an online IRS system company wide. Key features of the IRS System 1. All heat exchangers are monitored for their efficiency and Daily monitoring for PH, COD, temperature, sulfates, suspended solids, total energy consumption on daily basis and corrective actions are: are taken to maintain the highest level of efficiency dissolved solids, BOD monthly monitoring, third party environmental monitoring 2. Proper schedule for equipment inspection and maintenance (all parameters) twice a year. Prior permission is obtained from the concerned o Online reporting system – a companywide program 3. Dismantling and overhauling of all equipment in turnaround to maintain efficiency authority before disposal of liquid waste after treatment into Ghazi Ghat Saim o Incident reporting criteria for major and minor incident Naala. o Information to the senior management within 24 hours Motors  Standard specification power driven motors are used to achieve; o Investigation by cross functional teams Tree Plantation/ Horticulture 1. Highest levels of efficiency o Root cause analysis and recommendations PARCO always takes keen 2. Low energy losses o Implementation verification through safety audits interest when it comes to o Sharing of incident learning with employees Solomon Benchmarking preserving and improving the Eco o All major international accident investigations collected are  PARCO Mid-Country Refinery has presented its systems for international benchmarking by Solomon Associates, USA in March 2013, for key performance system. As tree plantation plays shared with employees during training sessions and key indicators: an important role in the 1. Manpower utilization findings are considered during incident investigation process. improvement of Eco system, 2. Energy Index PARCO Mid Country Refinery  Updated reports of IRS showing outstanding/unclosed incidents are 3. Operation efficiency keeps massive budget for Tree Plantation/Horticulture annually. In the year 2015reported to the Managing Director and Senior Management so that 16, plantation of approximately 2000 trees had been carried out. such incidents can be closed in a timely manner and for taking Carbon Dioxide Emission Monitoring suitable countermeasures to avoid recurrence.  CO2 emission monitoring is carried out on monthly basis and Carbon Emissions Index (CEI™) is calculated as per Solomon guidelines.  Although our organization CEI is very good as compared to many refineries of our region, we always strive towards the benchmark. The feasibility study for flare Weather Station Weather Hawk gas recovery system and vapor gas recovery system in this regard has already been carried out. The PARCO Mid-Country Refinery has installed its own weather station to keep itself updated on daily weather conditions and keep the record of historical data. It measures wind speed, wind direction, temperature, relative humidity, barometric pressure, solar radiation, and rain, etc. Hazardous Waste Sludge Pit PARCO has developed a sludge pit having the capacity to accommodate 500 tons of hazardous waste sludge. HDPE sheet was used during its construction so that leaching of sludge and ground water contamination is avoided. Diesel Hydro Desulfurization Plant Producing Euro II High Speed Diesel  With the commissioning of the DHDS plant at the Mid-Country Refinery in 2010, Energy Savings at Stations and Terminals PARCO has the capability of producing High Speed Diesel conforming EURO II Company ensures saving of energy resources and reduce pollution by adopting suitable economical pumping configurations, gravity transfer and load management. Energy saving on account of electricity is about 1,950,000 KWH in 2015-16. standards and is the only refinery in Pakistan to have achieved this capability. This product is helping EURO II compliant automobiles to perform better through fuel Drag Reducing Agent (DRA) Treatment efficiency and low emissions. Drag Reducing Agents (DRA) are indigenous solution for enhancing the pumping capacity of hydrocarbon pipelines with lesser input energy. PARCO is utilizing DRA for this purpose and is successfully achieving the desired throughput of Crude Oil to meet the Mid-Country Refinery demand positively.DRA is a slurry type product which has chronically higher rejection rates and ends up in wastage. In order to address this issue, in-house R&D was carried out to recycle the  During 2016, the DHDS plant at PARCO has processed more than 1.15 million hardened/unusable product. This value addition job has resulted in massive saving for the company and also addressed the environmental issues regarding disposal of wastage and rejection/wastage has been reduced to zero. In addition, metric tons of High Speed Diesel on EURO II specifications. foreign currency required to import the product is also considerably decreased. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2017 (Page 15 of 17) ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment PARCO does not allow any form of corruption and monitors its business transactions with internal and external stakeholders to eliminate this malpractice. Management Systems All Corporate Functions Actions Corporate Governance Transactions with Suppliers, Contractors, Service Providers Elimination of Discrimination Results  Compliance with Statement of Ethics and Business Practices is pursued at all levels and locations.  Since the commencement of PARCO`s operations in 1974, there has been no instance of extortion  Elimination of discrimination during selection of Vendors/Contactors/Service Providers by check and or bribery. balances against introduction of discriminatory conditions.  All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly recorded in the Books of the Company.  Compliance with the Company’s Financial Authority Manual specifying fiscal limits for transactions  Pre-qualified Vendors/Contractors list is periodically updated through advertisements placed in at various levels and positions.  Compliance with regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan. newspapers and evaluations based on predetermined criteria.  Company Procurement Policy is approved by Board of Directors.  No discrimination is made on basis of gender, religion, caste, origin, etc., while hiring an employee.  PARCO employees, if found involved in corruption in any form or contravening with any Company Policy on Ethics, Finance, Procurement, HR, Operations or any other function, face disciplinary action. Such deviations HR policies are transparent and merit based where there are no influences or pressures as mentioned  Any form of extortion and bribery, given or taken, is a very serious misconduct according to the HR in Principle 6. can lead to termination of service and are reflected in the employee’s performance appraisal. Policy of the company and the concerned employee is liable to be terminated for such misconduct.  PARCO has IMS, HSE, Environment, CSR, Financial, HR and other audits done to ensure compliance with best practices and ethical standards.  PARCO has an Internal Audit Department which conducts periodical audits for procedural  PARCO has NEVER been involved in any court case related to corporate malpractices or corruption or bribery, compliance and reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. etc.  Separate committees are constituted for transparent and merit-based prequalification, quotations opening, tender opening, etc.  We adhere strictly to the internationally accepted Accounting Principles, SECP (Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan); the Country’s Financial/Tax/Labor/Environment and other national and provincial  Development of Annual Procurement Plan and plans for contractual work and services by external legislations. Service Providers which are pre-approved by the Company and subsequently monitored in monthly and quarterly management review meetings.  PARCO developed and implemented a comprehensive Business Continuity Management Plan (BCP). The scope of the document is to have risk assessment of core business areas, identification of contingencies that can lead  All contracts, business activities, operations, procurement, etc., are subject to Internal and to loss of business reputation, credibility, a companywide or a national crisis and resources that need to be External Audit. mobilized for business continuity while establishing the structure, responsibilities and communication necessary for crisis management. Business Continuity Management is a holistic process that a framework for  To ensure transparency, sealed bids are invited against request for quotations, except for building organizational resilience with the capability for an effective response. It safeguards the interests of proprietary items. key stakeholders, reputation, brand and value-creating activities.  Purchase Orders are issued to technically compliant commercially lowest bidders for procurement.  BCP is a documented collection of procedures and information that is developed, compiled and maintained in readiness for use in an incident and enables PARCO to continue to deliver its critical products and services.  Centralized Procurement with due diligence.  At PARCO, transparency in all our operations and management systems is considered top priority and ensured  PARCO is not allowed to commit any terms and conditions with any Supplier/Service Provider at all levels. against any law of Pakistan.  Payment to any Supplier/Service Provider/Contractor is made after proper inspection by the concerned Department and confirmation of acceptance.  The IMS department at PARCO takes periodical feedbacks from different vendors on PARCO’s performance and their treatment. Vendor’s grievances are heard and dealt with due care.  To maintain the transparency of the process, end users are not permitted to have a direct contact with the vendors and contact is only through materials function, prior to award of procurement.  In exceptional cases, where it’s deemed necessary, price negotiations are carried out by a Committee approved by Managing Director. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2017 (Page 17 of 17) Corporate Headquarters Korangi Creek Road, P.O. Box 12243, Karachi-75190, Pakistan UAN: (021) 111-392-567 Tel: 021-35090100-25 Fax: 021-35090625 Email: info@parco.com.pk Designed and Developed by PARCO Corporate Communications Team Web: www.parco.com.pk For further information/queries, please email at salmanzakir@parco.com.pk
