UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 ® Great at Control Version 3.0 2017 COP 2017 Contents Statement of Continued Support 3-4 Human Rights Principles 5-6 Labour Rights Principles 7-8 Environmental Protection Principles 9-10 Anti-Corruption Principles 11-12 ® Great at Control Statement of 3-4 Continued Support March 7, 2017 Mita-Teknik develops, produces and distributes advanced In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our electronic control automation technology for use in the wind actions to continually improve the integration of the UN Global industry. Mita-Teknik has a proven track record in the wind Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture industry with more than 30 years of experience, and more than and daily operations. 48,000 control systems in operation worldwide. We also commit to share this information with our customers, I am pleased to confirm that Mita-Teknik reaffirms its support employees, suppliers and other stakeholders using our primary of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in channels of communication. the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. Sincerely yours, Our collected CSR Policy, which includes our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, has been approved by the Mita-Teknik Management Team and the Board of Directors. Our CSR Policy is based on the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. We have identified our prioritized sustainability issues, and have Jesper Andersen initiated the process of optimizing these. We will follow up on CEO, Mita-Teknik our progress on a yearly basis. This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. ® Great at Control Human Rights 5-6 Principles Commitment Performance Evaluation Mita-Teknik respects cultural differences and does not do We have added an appendix to our existing partnership business with a supplier if the supplier practices discrimination contracts with large volume suppliers that include article 24 at work based on race, religion, gender, age, nationality or ‘Code of Conduct’. sexual orientation. We have updated the Danish version of the Employee No employee should ever be exposed to any physical Handbook. This was released in January 2017. Herein, we punishment, threats of violence or physical, sexual, clearly state that we do not tolerate any discrimination in the psychological or verbal harassment or maltreatment in the workplace based on gender, race, religion or sexuality. work place or in work related situations. Along with the new Employee Handbook, we have also Mita-Teknik actively supports the Universal Declaration of introduced a global whistleblower scheme. Human Rights. We respect Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and We have been approved by Datatilsynet to manage personnel trustworthy way. administration. Mita-Teknik has a dedicated Health and Safety Committee in We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global place to regularly assess and evaluate the working environment divisions in order to ensure compliance. in Mita-Teknik. In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any Mita-Teknik sees no significant risks that the company or its investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 1-2. violations. No incidents or violations of the Human Rights principles have been reported to the Management Team. Implementation We monitor the overall sickness absence in Mita-Teknik on a monthly basis in order to detect employee health issues, and assess if follow-up actions are required. In accordance with the Danish Working Environment Act, MitaTeknik conducts APV (Workplace Assessment Surveys) every three years, and continually carries out follow-up actions. We continuously collect information from our global divisions in order to ensure complete compliance to international minimum standards in regards to ‘Hours, Wages & Leave’. We will update the Ukrainian and Chinese Employee Handbook to include guidelines in regards to the Human Rights principles. ® Great at Control Labour Rights 7-8 Principles Commitment Performance Evaluation Mita-Teknik commits to provide a competitive salary package, We have added an appendix to our existing partnership a safe and comfortable working environment, openly contracts with large volume suppliers that include article 24 communicated career paths and well established performance ‘Code of Conduct’. and development evaluation tools. We have updated the Danish version of the Employee Mita-Teknik respects the right of workers and operates our Handbook. This was released in January 2017. business with safe and attractive working conditions. We respect the freedom of association and collective bargaining We currently employ more than 260 people from 10 different and have zero tolerance for forced labour, child labour or nationalities on 7 global locations. discrimination. In August 2016, we passed the OHSAS18001 certification in our Mita-Teknik sees no significant risks that the company or its Ningbo division. suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 3-6. With the move to our new facility in Ningbo, we are able to focus even more on the LEAN production philosophy, and Implementation effectively optimize the working conditions for our employees. Mita-Teknik’s Management System is audited annually to In February 2017, we passed the external ISO9001 reensure continued compliance with the ISO9001 standard. certification audit by TÜV Nord in Rødkærsbro. Mita-Teknik (Ningbo) is audited annually to ensure compliance Annual performance reviews has been carried out with all with the OHSAS18001 standard. employees globally. All Mita-Teknik employees undergo annual performance We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global reviews to set individual plans and targets for advancement. divisions in order to ensure compliance. In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Labour Rights violations. No incidents or violations of the Labour Rights principles have been reported to the Management Team. ® Great at Control Environmental 9-10 Protection Principles Commitment Performance Evaluation Mita-Teknik supports a precautionary approach to We have added an appendix to our existing partnership environmental challenges, and undertakes initiatives to contracts with large volume suppliers that include article 24 promote greater environmental responsibility. Also, we ‘Code of Conduct’. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We actively support a sustainable Global travel policies has been introduced to ensure that we environmental progress through the development and reduce our travel activity as much as possible. In regards to distribution of intelligent control solutions for the wind continuously deliver high quality service to our main market industry, which improves the performance of wind turbines, (China), we have educated and hired more highly skilled and the overall competitiveness of ‘clean’ wind generated engineers to work locally in China, reducing the need for long energy. distance travels. Overall, we consider our production process to have a relatively In August 2016, we passed the ISO14001 certification for our low impact on the environment, however we do recognize that Ningbo division. parts of our production and transports have a negative impact on the environment, and we constantly work to minimize With the move to our new facility in Ningbo, we are able to these effects. focus even more on the LEAN production philosophy, continue to prioritize local production and reduce the need for long distance transport and shipping hereby reducing our impact Implementation to the environment significantly. Measures to reduce travel activity are continuously We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global implemented and optimized. divisions in order to ensure compliance. Mita-Teknik is annually audited to ensure compliance to the In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any ISO14001 standard. investigations, legal cases or incidents involving violations to the Environmental Protection principles. No incidents or Our waste management is in compliance with all applicable violations of the Environmental Protection principles have national laws and regulations, and we continually educate our been reported to the Management Team. employees in this area. ® Great at Control Anti-Corruption 11-12 Principles Commitment Performance Evaluation Corruption and bribery are recognized as barriers to sustainable We have added an appendix to our existing partnership development and free trade, and Mita-Teknik supports the contracts with large volume suppliers that include article 24 work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and ‘Code of Conduct’. bribery. We have updated the Danish version of the Employee Gifts and Entertainment Handbook. This was released in January 2017. Herein, we stress Mita-Teknik acknowledges that minor business gifts and that our employees are obliged to follow the guidelines of the moderate entertainment, including meals, are accepted ways UN Global Compact and Mita-Teknik’s own Business Ethics to build relationships and generate goodwill between business Policy. partners. This practice must however always be conducted in a transparent way, and only to an extent appropriate to our We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global integrity guidelines and business ethics. divisions in order to ensure compliance. In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any Implementation investigations, legal cases or incidents involving AntiCorruption violations. No incidents or violations of the AntiGuidelines for handling issues of Corruption, Hospitality (Gifts Corruption principles have been reported to the Management and Entertainment) and Donations are provided to employees Team. through our Business Ethics document, CSR Policy and Code of Conduct. ® Great at Control ® Great at Control © 2017 Mita-Teknik. All rights reserved. Content may not be reproduced in any form without written permission from Mita-Teknik Denmark
