DESIGNING THE FACTORIES OF THE FUTURE, TODAY ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2017#2016 financial year PROFILE FIVES AND THE INDUSTRY OF THE FUTURE Looking ahead to navigate a complex environment. As an industrial engineering group, In 2016, the global economic conditions In this constantly evolving environment, the remained difficult and volatile for capital deck is being reshuffled and there is only Fives and the industry of the future ................ 1 Fives designs and supplies machines, goods suppliers. Although this environment one solution for Fives and its subsidiaries: process equipment and production lines had an impact on Fives' overall performance, to be proactive, to achieve a successful MILESTONES the first signs of improvement were discernible transformation. More than ever, it is essential for the world’s largest industrial players by the end of 2016, and were confirmed to look ahead, in order to start building Our expertise ........................................................................... 8 Summary of financial information ............... 10 in the aerospace, aluminium, in the first quarter of 2017. Beyond these tomorrow, today. The rules have changed, temporary circumstances, a structural trend the drivers for growth are no longer the Summary of non-financial information ....... 12 automotive, cement and minerals, has also been at work: today's manufacturers ones we are familiar with, therefore, we Highlights Events ............................................................ 14 energy, glass, logistics and steel sectors. must come to terms with the emergence of must adapt to these new paradigms, and Highlights Territories .................................................. 16 new players, riding the wave of the digital update our strategies and organizational revolution. Where the threat to traditional systems accordingly. TABLE OF CONTENTS Corporate governance bodies ........................... 18 industrial sectors was overall in the emergence Operational performance ...................................... 20 of new giants from developing countries, Our Group's transformation, which began Human Resources ............................................................. 22 it now comes from direct competition with fifteen years ago, has enable Fives to smaller entities that are unencumbered, agile position itsef as a leader in developing the OUR BUSINESS and fiercely innovative. The usual reference factory of the future. But it is not enough Innovation ..................................................................................... 26 points have been turned upside down. There to rely on this achievement. Not only by will be no shortage of opportunities to be continuing to innovate at full throttle will Service ........................................................................................... 28 found in the upheaval. we keep our lead, but also by continuing Aerospace and industry ............................................ 30 to prioritize a decentralized, and therefore Aluminium ................................................................................. 32 agile, organizational model will we be able Automotive ................................................................................ 34 to meet the challenge thrown down by this Cement and minerals ..................................................... 36 newly emerging world. Energy ........................................................................................... 38 Glass ............................................................................................... 44 Logistics ....................................................................................... 46 Steel ................................................................................................. 48 THE FACTORY OF THE FUTURE IN A GLOBAL MARKET Frontiers have been erased to create a global playing OUR COMMITMENTS field. A responsible group ....................................................... 52 Economic actors, including manufacturers, now must face global competition, where they must differentiate Ethics and governance ............................................... 54 themselves by optimizing their performance. The Fives and the industry of the future 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives Human resources .............................................................. 56 manufacturer must be ready to come to terms with Health & Safety .................................................................. 58 changing market conditions, particularly with regard to Energy and environmental the availability of the resources needed for production. performance .......................................................................... 60 At the same time, the field of action is expanding: the consumer now has access, everywhere and in realtime, to an unlimited offer that will satisfy specific and INDICATORS immediate needs. These are also new opportunities Financial indicators ........................................................ 64 for a producer. Non-financial indicators ........................................... 66 UN Global Compact ........................................................ 74 1 Organizational innovation, 2016, in China, we significantly strengthened for greater agility our position in high growth sectors such as Since its foundation, our Group has never intralogistics and a erospace. In this market, stopped evolving, reinventing itself and moving Fives is an actor recognized for its ability to forward, thanks to talented women and men offer high performance technologies. This who have been able to seize the opportunities recognition has led to the Group being chosen for growth on offer. Today we continue to as a representative and ambassador for the nurture this pioneering spirit, venturing into industry of the future, in that specific country new geographical and technological territory, with the mission for convergence between looking to anticipate the profound changes Chinese (Made in China 2025) and French affecting our undoubtedly international and (Industry of the Future Alliance) initiatives. ever more competitive environment. Our organizational model is also built upon the diversity of our activities and locations. Our business portfolio is unique: we are active in THE FACTORY OF THE FUTURE: HUMAN-CENTRIC several sectors, organized around in-depth The factory of the future will not exclude human beings, knowledge of industrial processes. The wealth instead making them once again central to production and complementarity of our expertise mean activity. New technologies, such as digital (mobile devices, that communal, cross-sector projects can be 3D tools, augmented reality, etc.) and cobotics (human developed, on the basis of shared objectives. and robot working together), will make work less onerous while men and women retain the creative prerogative and Our geographic and cultural diversity is final control of product quality. another asset: with more than 100 locations These technologies also contribute to making factories in 30 countries, and nearly 8,400 people more agreeable to work in, and to encouraging the with 60 different nationalities, we have a real emergence of more qualified trades. local experience, which guarantees a better understanding of our customers' needs. This is the very essence of our Group: to explore Cultivating a pioneering spirit all openings, to seize opportunities as soon as An ability to innovate is another asset. We have they arise, and to move quickly into innovative always looked to develop sustainable and projects. Our agility has been developed competitive solutions: pioneering technologies with the adoption of a highly decentralized and global service solutions that improve the Frédéric Sanchez, organizational model. Over a few years, Fives has reinvented itself, organizing around environmental and operational performance of the manufacturers we serve. Chairman of the Executive Board AGILE, strategic sectors of activity, supported by a light-weight, expert central structure, thereby To fulfill this ambitious promise, we continue to both empowering all parties while establishing apply two drivers: FORWARD-FOCUSED a network to include all skills and drives. Our ‒O ur talented people: the main source of subsidiaries are attuned to manufacturers and creation in our Group, so long as we succeed in their concerns, and are quickly able to mobilize maintaining and strengthening the pioneering AND DIGITAL… resources according to their needs something of which our customers are particularly aware of. ‒O spirit that has characterized the Group from the start.  ur Research & Development effort: in This agility also means that Fives is quickly able 2016 our investment increased again to grasp opportunities for external growth. In (+1.5% to €36.7 M); figures to which can be Fives and the industry of the future 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2016 we acquired Daisho Seiki Corporation, a added expenditure on developing additive leading Japanese supplier of grinding machines manufacturing technologies, as part of our for the automotive industry in particular, its partnership with Michelin. activity presenting powerful synergies and complementarity with the expertise Fives has These efforts are especially reflected in a developed in this field. This acquisition has consistently high rate of patent registration (45 in consolidated our presence in Japan and Korea. 2016). Fives was placed 32nd for patent deposition in France, a ranking that places the Group far Agility also enables the Group to adapt quickly higher than the scale of its activity would suggest. to changes in its markets. For example, in Since its foundation, Fives has been a frontrunner 2 3 Fives’ international network is based on operational units which include commercial, industrial, in industrial breakthroughs. In 2007, when developing our service and aftermarket activities as a result R&D and service structures. our motto became “Designing today the of digital technology, with real-time monitoring of equipment In addition, eleven regional offices* and four operational subsidiaries located in Brazil, China, plants of the future”, we accelerated our performance throughout its lifecycle. actions to meet this ambition. India and Russia help the Group companies in local markets by providing country expertise such as knowledge of the industrial structure, regulatory watch, relations with institutions, sourcing, local supply, etc. * Fives Brazil, Fives China, Fives India, Fives Indonesia, Fives Japan, Fives Mexico, Fives Middle East, Fives Russia & CIS, The macro-economic context in which we are operating Fives Southern Africa, Fives Thailand, Fives Turkey THE FACTORY OF THE FUTURE: today is an invitation to manufacturers to reassess how NEW MATERIALS AND MANUFACTURING they organize to transform themselves, to become more PROCESSES responsive, more agile, to develop new technologies in short, to be constantly reinventing, so as to be able to Manufacturers seek to develop systems that continue to respond to new contextual challenges and Europe are more flexible, while considering the market trends, and maintain their position in this everimpact on workers and the environment, accelerating global economy. Sales 32% > € 570 M as well as remaining competitive and flexible as markets and needs change. Fives began this transformation several years ago. New technologies are emerging, Today, more than ever, our Group is well positioned to revolutionizing production, such as 3D seize the opportunities offered by this new, frontier-less printing, enabling parts to be designed with world, and so become a part of this new economic, social unique geometries, at the same time removing and environmental dynamic, building the factories of the future. the constraints of traditional The Americas Africa/The Middle East Asia/Oceania machining. Materials such as composites, which perform Sales 32% > € 567 M Sales 14% > € 257 M Sales 22% > € 385 M better than traditional materials and alloys (weight, strength, etc.) have seen an uptick in use for structural elements. TODAY, Today we continue to change technological direction in ways that make Fives an traidblazer in the Industry of the Future. FIVES IS… In 2016, AddUp, a joint venture by Fives and Michelin in metal additive printing, has continued to develop, working in particular on designing 3D printing machines and solutions adapted to the a erospace and medical industries. Throughout all our activities, we are inventing even more flexible global solutions, combining our in depth knowledge of processes with other expertise: robotics, helping optimize THE FACTORY OF THE FUTURE: FLEXIBILITY existing technologies and develop AND SIMPLICITY THROUGH DIGITAL complementary applications, in the field of Digital technologies and built-in sensors are optimizing composite fabrication for example; digital production from the design phase to factory operation. SALES CLOSE TO 1, 779 M 8,400 technology, facilitating management and Factories are becoming “smart”, with connections to: Fives and the industry of the future 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives maintenance of industrial production the supply chain, so production is constantly kept up to € equipment. date; other factories, to optimize consumption and maintenance; and of course, operatives, contributing to continuous employees The digital transformation of the Group's offer is ongoing! improvement of processes. ORDER INTAKE A NETWORK OF OVER €1,465 M 100 With digital technology, production system performance Innovation is not the sole prerogative of can be optimized, including on the environmental level: our technical offices. Our ambition is to data provided means energy and resource consumption be the go-to supplier for our customers all over the world, while also significantly can be optimized in real-time. locations 4 in about 30 countries MILESTONES 8 Our expertise 10 Summary of financial information 12 Summary of non-financial information 14 Highlights Events 16 Highlights Territories 18 Corporate governance 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives bodies 20 Operational performance 22 Human resources Milestones Milestones 6 7 Our expertise TOTAL EXPERTISE IN INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING From design to commissioning, Fives has the resources and means to offer customers high-performance solutions and services based on innovative and sustainable proprietary technologies, on multisector and international expertise, and on recognized know-how. A COMPLETE SERVICE OFFER Fives provides full support to its customers throughout the entire lifecycle of the equipment installed. Three ranges of service: ‒ service for start-up and operational phases, aiming to maintain the equipment's initial performance levels (“Operation” service range); ‒ support for customers to maximize the efficiency of production processes (“Optimization” service range); ‒ a response to the need to align Design and integrate we have devoted a significant portion of our equipment and production processes Fives designs and supplies equipment, machines, investments to developing technologies with high with new uses, through retrofitting systems and services that are integrated into energy and environmental performances. and rebuilding offers (“Evolution” operational industrial production lines. service range). Fives also supplies lines and complete plants Managing production and assembly including key process equipment. The key elements of the Fives offer, as well as its Fives' structure enables each of its proprietary technologies, are produced and subsidiaries to provide a dedicated service Develop high added-value proprietary assembled at the Group's own manufacturing sites, organization for each market and to work technologies which consist of more than a third of their facilities closely with its customers. Fives owns a wide portfolio of proprietary around the world. technologies. For the last three years Fives has been in the top 50 for registering patents in France, Fives uses subcontracting for the rest of its 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives with 45 new patented inventions and a portfolio of manufacturing activity, with an international 2,032 patents in force covering all of its areas of network of highly qualified and experienced activity. machining and assembly workshops in Europe, the Americas and Asia. The Group also includes www.fivesgroup.com Since its creation, Fives has been a trailblazer in a operational subsidiaries that handle its production long list of industrial sectors. Today, the Group is activity in Brazil, China, India and Russia. continuing with its exploration of the factory of the Milestones future, to identify and offer technologies that herald the next development, particularly for additive + MORE DETAILS OUR BUSINESS p. 24 Milestones manufacturing and composites. For several years, OUR COMMITMENTS p. 50 8 INDICATORS p. 62 9 Summary FINANCIAL INFORMATION Suresh Abye, Group Chief Financial Officer A SOLID 2016 FOR THE GROUP WITH A PROMISING START TO 2017 SALES SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY €1,779 M €456 M ORDER INTAKE CASH POSITION €1,465 M €120 M ORDER INTAKE AND SALES AND EBITDA CLOSING ORDER BOOK 1,465 2016 1,779 116 2016 1,247 1,708 A DIFFICULT ECONOMIC 1,718 ENVIRONMENT 116 1,556 2015 2015 1,865 2014 1,560 135 2014 1,494 Group order intake in 2016 totaled €1,465M, down on 2015 (€1,708M), in an environment marked by the virtual absence of major projects, with the key 1,227 industrial order-makers putting back their investment decisions because of a 1,626 133 1,125 2013 2013 particularly volatile economic, political and institutional context. Commercial 1,324 activity held up in Europe and North America, thanks to the favorable trend 1,508 115 1,379 in the equipment sector for the automotive and logistics industries, which 2012 2012 was able to balance the low performance from energy and general industry; € million € million whereas Asia, the Middle East and Africa, with more exposure to major Sales Order intake projects and the metals and cement sectors, saw a slow down. EBITDA Closing order book With order intake of smalland medium-sized orders holding up well through BREAKDOWN OF SALES BREAKDOWN OF SALES the year, alongside a high opening backlog (more than €1.5 billion), the BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA BY END MARKET Group was nevertheless able to post turnover of €1,779M, slightly up (+2%) at constant scope and exchange rate. EBITDA at €116M is also up at constant 16% 18% 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives scope and exchange rate (+3 %) . After two complicated years, marked by the fall in oil prices (and raw 32% 16% materials generally), as well as historically low levels of industrial investment 22% 13% www.fivesgroup.com worldwide, 2017 is looking much more promising. A very good first quarter order intake performance (more than €600M) has bolstered the order book, 32% 14% which should increase from €1,247M at end-December 2016 to around 16% €1,450M at end-March 2017, thereby ensuring that 2017 will see activity Milestones 21% + MORE DETAILS OUR BUSINESS p. 24 levels at least comparable to 2016. At the same time, the Group's initiatives around optimizing costs undertaken over the last two years should lead to Milestones  erospace and industry A Energy Africa / The Middle East Asia / Oceania Automotive Logistics OUR COMMITMENTS p. 50 improvements in EBITDA and cash-flow in 2017. 10 The Americas Europe Cement Metals INDICATORS p. 62 11 Summary SAFETY/ NONENVIRONMENT FINANCIAL WORK ACCIDENTS The Group overall frequency rate has been reduced by a factor of three in six years. HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION The frequency rate target set in 2013 was achieved in 2016, at constant scope, but there BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS has been a set-back this year. New measures At end 2016, Fives numbered nearly 8,400 employees, a workforce that remained stable across all have been implemented to return to past geographical areas. positive progress. 89 2012* 7.49 66% 72 2013 5.86 0.182 77 22% 2014 5.36 12% 0.207 55 INNOVATION 2015 3.91 0.135 64 2016 4.26 Africa / The Middle East / Asia / Oceania RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT 0.166 The Americas Fives continues to invest in R&D, with a 1.5% increase in the budget assigned Employees + temporary employees lost-time accidents Europe to research and innovation. Particular emphasis is placed on developing new Employees + temporary employees accident frequency rate products and processes. Fives has continued to develop partnerships and has Employees + temporary employees accident severity rate joined forces with major industrial groups within institutions and research * Employees + temporary employees severity rate unrecorded at that date EMPLOYEE INTEGRATION programs (CEA, IRT Jules Verne, SOFIA, etc.). Fives is continuing its support for new hires, with the Starter meeting: a review meeting organized after ENVIRONMENTAL 6 to 18 months in post. € 36.7 M spent on R&D in 2016 Career management committees (CEDRE) have helped develop the careers of more than half CERTIFICATION the Group's employees. 454 In 2016, two additional industrial sites 611 patent families achieved ISO 14001 certification. employees have had a Starter meeting 2,032 current patents 73 % of Fives' industrial 56 % of employees have been seen by CEDRE career management committees sites are ISO 14001 certified Fives has accumulated a portfolio of 611 patented inventions, covering all areas of their market and activities. They are protected by 2,032 patents in force in numerous countries. For the last three years, Fives has been in QUALIFICATION AND TRAINING the top 50 for registering patents in France. (Source: INPI the French Group personnel profiles are more and more qualified. For two years the proportion of engineers, National Institute of Industrial Property). managers and technicians has grown by 2% a year. Training remains at a high level, with extra emphasis in 2016 on management training and the launch 10 of the Group's first worldwide training program, the Fives Leadership Factory. products have been awarded the Engineered Sustainability® in 6 business lines* 69 % of headcount are engineers, managers or technicians 73 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives In 2016, the Engineered Sustainability® brand was awarded to three new % of employees attended at least one training course products, selected for their strategic character in their market: the Lineos pitch fumes treatment system (Aluminium); CTD Flex +, a coal tar distillation (Chemtec); and the FCB Horomill® grinding mill for its cement application www.fivesgroup.com (Cement | Minerals). Significant results were obtained in terms of reducing their environmental impact. Milestones * Aluminium, Cement | Minerals, Chemtec, Combustion, Intralogistics, Steel + MORE DETAILS OUR BUSINESS p. 24 Milestones OUR COMMITMENTS p. 50 12 INDICATORS p. 62 13 Highlights EVENTS August April AUTOMOTIVE ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING GMCH paid tribute to the performance of the first grinding machines supplied by Fives for its Grand Rapids (Michigan) site in RESEARCH AND AddUp, a joint venture by Fives the United States. Designed and developed by the Group following the acquisition of the Bryant patents, these grinding machines have DEVELOPMENT and Michelin, was created to offer global industrial solutions in 3D delivered better performance than any others on the site. For three consecutive years, Fives has been metal printing, from designing and in the top 50 for patent registration in supplying machines to producing France (ranked by the INPI French National parts, supporting each Institute for Industrial Property). In 2016 the manufacturer in the search for Group moved up the rank of 32. Fives December the best technological and financial continued to push patent registration, solution. ACQUISITION: with 45 new inventions registered making DAISHO SEIKI CORPORATION a total of 611 (protected by families of patents). These patents cover all areas of November Fives has added to its grinding technology offer activity and are protected by a total of RESEARCH PARTNERSHIP and consolidated its presence in the Japanese 2,032 patents current in the countries June and Korean markets with the acquisition of the where it operates. ENERGY RECOVERY Through AddUp, Fives has teamed up with Daisho Seiki Corporation, a company specializing manufacturers and academic institutions to launch in designing and building disc grinding and bar Fives has published a White Paper on waste heat recovery in the steel, SOFIA, an applied research program in the field of peeling machines for the automotive and other aluminium, cement and glass industries, showing its customers the metal additive manufacturing. The goal is to continue industries. possibilities for reducing the environmental impact of their installations. to contribute in the development of this technology As well as designing production equipment and systems that are by promoting convergence of skills between the energy efficient, Fives offers industrial waste heat recovery solutions. various partners. July AEROSPACE FIVES In the US, Fives delivered two Liné Machines Powermill V systems INNOVATION AWARDS to Boeing, for profiling and drilling wing components of the new Boeing 777X at the Everett (Washington) plant. In Japan the Group LOGISTICS: also installed several composite laying systems for the Boeing 787 New technologies serving program for Fuji Heavy Industries and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries. Since the introduction of the Fives customer performance innovation competition in 2012, the The Group has developed UltiView™, a proprietary number of ideas submitted has doubled: 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives oversight system for automated handling from 252 to 528 ideas entered in 2016. installations. A breakthrough innovation, the system This annual internal event bears witness is based on a network of cameras with overlapping to the enthusiasm and commitment of fields and the attribution of a unique reference to employees for proposing ideas to improve every object, even the smallest; this takes it beyond products, processes and methods. www.fivesgroup.com standard tracking and provides complete traceability for the objects monitored, as well as Milestones + MORE DETAILS OUR BUSINESS p. 24 problem anticipation and high-performance management for installations. Milestones OUR COMMITMENTS p. 50 14 INDICATORS p. 62 15 Highlights TERRITORIES ASIA AND OCEANIA North Europe China Logistics: a long-term partnership Flat steel: new stainless steel production line PostNord selected Fives to automate Foshan Chendge Stainless Steel Co., Ltd. the Herning and Aarhus postal terminals selected Fives to build its new cold annealing in Denmark, and to supply a sorting system and pickling line, with an annual capacity of in Trondheim (Norway) for parcels and large 500,000 tons. letters. PostNord also chose the Group to upgrade the sorting systems during the Automated production systems: Fives supplies renovation in its postal centers in Göteborg a new plant in Liuzhou, Guangxi province and Malmö (Sweden) whose lifespans will be Shanghai Automobile Gear Works (SAGW, extended by five to ten years. THE AMERICAS a SAIC group subsidiary) chose Fives for the supply of a complete CVT transmission The United Kingdom Mexico assembly line, including testing equipment Gas and fume treatment Tubes and profiled products and washers. Fives has been selected for the supply of Perfiles y Herrajes, L.M. S.A. de C.V. and three Enhanced All Dry systems (EADTM) in Productos Laminados De Monterrey, S.A. Aerospace: Hongdu Aviation renews the United Kingdom. These systems will reduce de C.V. (aka Prolamsa) selected Fives for its confidence in Fives particle emissions from the gasifiers, designed the design and supply of production lines, Hongdu Aviation has once again chosen to process waste wood and recycled solid respectively for mechanical and structural tubes the Group for the supply of a Liné Machines combustibles. as well as carbon steel tubing and component Flexitool universal holding fixture, which will be for the automotive industry. installed on a Forest-Liné V-Star2. It will be Logistics: two decades of partnership the largest universal holding fixture ever TNT chose Fives with a new contract for the The United States installed in China. automation for its new site in Dartford, England. Automated production systems The solution includes a cross-belt sorter to sort General Motors awarded Fives a new order South Korea parcels weighing up to 50 kg to 79 destinations. for the supply of an assembly line for different Logistics: LG CNS renews its confidence EUROPE The system will enable TNT to sort up to sub-assemblies as part of its 10-speed AB1V LG CNS chose Fives to build an entirely new 11,000 packages per hour. automatic transmission program. The giant logistics terminal in Gwanju for CJ Korea France installation, with an annual production capacity Express. The solution, which features Nuclear sector: new contract with EDF of over 250,000 transmissions, will be the cross-belt sorting system is designed to For the fourth time running, Fives and its piping delivered in November 2017. handle packages weighing up to 50 kg and will design consortium partners Endel, Boccard, and offer the customer sorting throughput of SOM, won the design framework contract from Aerospace 150,000 to 200,000 packages per hour. This EDF (for DIDPE division). This five-year contract, The Group will deliver two Liné Machines installation will start up in June 2018. which includes an optional one-year renewal, Powermill V high rail multi-axis profilers covers dimensioning studies and piping capable of machining large-scale parts: production for the entire French nuclear fleet. one for profiling and drilling wing components of the new Boeing 777X at the Everett Sugar sector: new partnership with Tereos (Washington) plant, and the other for special Fives designed a new “100% stainless steel” tooling to machine the ribs of the 737 and 747 version of its Cail & Fletcher ZUKA® batch at the Frederickson (Washington) plant. The centrifugal for Tereos. The client first order machines will add up to the ten machines for its Chevrières site in the Oise region, was so THE MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA previously delivered to these two sites. satisfactory that it was followed by five more for its plant in Escaudoeuvres in the North of Egypt Iron ore pelletizing project France. Tereos also worked with Fives Sugar Cement production burners Cliffs Natural Resources (Minnesota) chose Fives Consulting to improve its production approach CDI, a subsidiary of Chinese engineering firm to supply and install a new combustion system. and optimize its northern site’s performance. Sinoma, selected Fives to supply complete Once the project is commissioned, the pellets combustion systems for the six clinker burning produced will supply one of the largest blast Germany lines it is building for the Egyptian government. furnaces in the USA. Filling sector This order includes, in particular, some thirty Daimler chose Fives to replace its multi-fluid Pillard NOVAFLAM® and Pillard PRECAFLAMTM 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives The United States and Mexico filling systems on its Düsseldorf production site. burners. Grinding: a 3-year contract with General Motors This is the first site where Daimler has In 2016, Fives started the supply of the implemented its new “Intégra” automation Oman 24 machines ordered as part of the framework standards, which suppliers will have to master Cryogenics contract for the supply of all of the crankshaft to continue working with this client in the future. Fives successfully entered the market for cold grinders for its new motor programs, boxes over 300 tons when it was selected www.fivesgroup.com particularly the CSS and V8 that signed for an order related to the Liwa gas treatment Milestones Milestones with General Motors in 2015. The delivery project through South Korean engineering + MORE DETAILS is scheduled until 2018. firm GS. 16 OUR BUSINESS p. 24 17 Corporate governance bodies FIVES' GOVERNANCE Fives is headed by an Executive Board overseen by the Supervisory ‒A  s the body responsible for consultation, recommendation and Board. The Executive Board has two members and it has the most implementation, the Executive Committee examines the extensive powers to act on behalf of Fives under all circumstances, proposals put forward by the Country Coordination and limited only by the company purpose and powers expressly Steering Committees as well as the Functional Departments, vested by the Supervisory Board and shareholder meetings. The considers issues submitted to it and supports the Executive Supervisory Board exercises permanent control over the Board in reaching those decisions that fall within its scope of management of the company by the Executive Board. It has competence. seven members: Philippe Reichstul, Jacques Lefèvre, Dominique Its members include the members of the Executive Board and Gaillard, Lise Fauconnier, Antonio Marcegaglia, Jean-Georges the Group’s key operational and functional directors as well as Malcor and Laurence Parisot. the Country Directors. To support it in its decision-making, the Executive Board has ‒ The Country Coordination and Steering Committees are introduced an Executive Committee and five Country Coordination responsible for conducting a broad dialog on the strategies to and Steering Committees: implement within the Group, as well as the operational priorities and cross-cutting policies to focus on, for each geographic zone. They define the methods for implementing these topics in the various subsidiaries. In addition to the members of the Executive Committee, they are made up of Chief Executive Officers (or equivalent positions), functional directors for Fives or Country Directors. The Country Coordination and Steering Committees are chaired by the Country Directors for North America, China, India and Italy, and the Chairman of the Executive Board for France. THE EXECUTIVE THE EXECUTIVE BOARD COMMITTEE 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives (From left to right, top to bottom) Daniel Brunelli-Brondex Country Director India Suresh Abye Group Chief Financial Officer Frédéric Sanchez Chairman of the Executive Board Martin Duverne Member of the Executive Board Sylvain Dulude Country Director North America Xavier Becquey Head of Group Operational Performance Frédéric Renaud Country Director Italy Jean-Marie Caroff Head of Group International Development Michelle XY Shan Country Director China Arnaud Lecœur Group General Counsel Yannick Leprêtre Head of Group Innovation and Digital Bruno Carbonaro Head of the Automotive Business Line Paule Viallon Head of Group Human Resources Alain Cordonnier Head of the Cement Business Line Milestones Milestones Guillaume Mehlman Head of the Steel and Glass Business Lines Terry Moody Head of the Aerospace Business Line Luigi Russo Head of the Combustion and Intralogistics Business Lines Hugues Vincent Head of the Aluminium Business Line 18 19 Operational performance OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE AS A DIFFERENTIATOR IN SERVING THE CUSTOMER IT SYSTEM SERVING PERFORMANCE In 2016, Fives implemented numerous projects and initiatives aimed at Fives is investing heavily in optimizing supporting the subsidiaries more effectively. their information systems: ‒ SAPHIR, the project to reshape the Group ERP. Xavier Becquey, ‒ A new system to virtualize HR processes, Head of Group Operational Performance deploying a new Group HR Information System. FIVES IS CONTINUING ITS POSITIVE TRANSFORMATION: ‒ A project to virtualize supplier invoicing. IT SYSTEM CONVERSIONS, ROLLING OUT LEAN AND ‒ Creating a common Group reference-base REDESIGN TO COST, STRENGTHENING PROJECT AND of customers/suppliers. PURCHASE MANAGEMENT, ETC. OUR ROLE IS TO PROVIDE ‒ Extending the Group CRM to share commercial information between RESOURCES AND KNOW-HOW TO BETTER SUPPORT subsidiaries and business lines. THE CHANGES AT EACH OF THE SUBSIDIARIES. ‒ Deploying a flexible and effective Document Process Management solution for the Group. ‒ Support for the subsidiaries in updating their PLM systems and CAD tools. A common reference This program aims to act on all growth drivers for ‒ Major enhancement of collaboration tools In 2016, Fives increased its efforts to build a joint the Group: People, Customer, Innovation and shared by the whole Group, rolling out reference-base for improved sharing by all of the Operational Excellence. global messaging, flexible videoGroup's entities around challenges, best practice conferencing tools and the full set of and expertise. modern exchange tools, from instant Expertise serving subsidiaries' messaging to an enterprise social The Group: performance network. ‒ launched the SAPHIR project, a Group ERP based With the aim of sharing best practice, crosson the most recent technology from SAP: S4/HANA. disciplinary teams support the subsidiaries by Fives' IT Management also reviewed its With SAPHIR, all of the subsidiaries will benefit from proposing methodologies to accelerate the roll out organization to better serve the subsidiaries, the most advanced solutions in production-data of lean (lean manufacturing and lean engineering), appointing contacts for major geographic management, project management, purchasing to implement proven methods for redesign to cost areas, while strengthening its efforts on and finance, and to establish advanced project management infrastructure, IT security and web development. 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives ‒ formalized a common project management procedures. reference-base for the whole Group, Launched in 2015 in North America, a customized ‒ created an operational performance referenceproject management support plan for subsidiaries base (maturity assessment), which the subsidiaries is ongoing in the region, and in 2016 was rolled out www.fivesgroup.com can use to evaluate the quality of their operational to Europe for complex projects. performance approach with respect to known Particular attention has also been paid to best practice, and so define their improvement plans, strengthening purchasing performance, with training cycles introduced in France and Italy, as + MORE DETAILS Milestones Milestones OUR BUSINESS p. 24 ‒ helped the subsidiaries to define and/or deploy well as support for subsidiaries in setting up the OUR COMMITMENTS p. 50 transformation initiatives and plans, implemented supplier and negotiations plan for complex projects. INDICATORS p. 62 as part of the FivesWAY global enterprise project. 20 21 Human resources SUPPORTING THE COMPANY'S STRATEGY Fives has deployed a human resources organization tailored to the RESOURCES Group's growth and its new geographic and operational dynamics. POOLING In 2016, Fives strengthened its resources and skills pooling program. Created nearly ten years ago, this process shares Paule Viallon, resources between the subsidiaries and Head of Group Human Resources the divisions by offering temporary mobility to address economic OUR MISSION IS TO SUPPORT ALL OUR SUBSIDIARIES TO uncertainties in the divisions and retain DEVELOP THEIR ACTIVITY, BY WORKING UPSTREAM TO talents. This program addresses all of MOBILIZE SKILLS AND TALENTS. Fives' professions, including engineers in design offices, R&D, projects, sales, etc. 2016, Helping organizations to grow Implementing the strategic plans requires work in Fives has also integrated the new digital challenges into its HR practices and has digitized its HR RESOURCES each company to align the organization, the processes and the resources. In 2016, Fives processes by introducing a global management system: Fives&Me. This system, which considers POOLING continued to deploy its strategic workforce planning which addresses this need. Every steering committee regional specificities, is a facilitator and open to all (employees, managers, HR), should make it easier IN FIGURES works collectively to identify key skills and establish to share and use information. The advantage of the a target organization. Then, they work in close collaboration with the human resources teams to tool due to updated information and its interactivity, foster the identification of new career development 164 staff loans formulate individual and collective development plans, for the immediate and medium-term, which opportunities. 19 “source” subsidiaries in France, Spain, Italy and the United Kingdom will amend and strengthen the existing structure. Supporting the development of talents Fives has continued to deploy the training 29 “recipient” companies in the Group Establishing new resources and program designed for its managers and directors: in France and China structuring the organizations the Fives Leadership Factory. Building on the 4 external “recipient” (partners/ To support the increasing internationalization and three modules that make up the program, the customers) remain as close as possible to the operations, the Group aims to develop a managerial culture with human resources organization has changed, common values for directors worldwide, which 6.7 months is the average duration streamlining the corporate functions by delegating takes into account local specificities. The ramp up of a staff loan 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives certain aspects to the HR teams in the various of the Manager@Fives program in the Group's countries and divisions. Country HR Directors now main zones, i.e. North America, China, Italy, India exist in North America, China, France, India and and the United Kingdom has also contributed to the Italy. They promote the Group's HR policy within development of the teams, by their managers, and their geographical zone and ensure that the related even the organizations. In 2016, we also deployed www.fivesgroup.com processes are properly deployed, coordinate the first session of the BusinessManagement@Fives actions to facilitate synergies between the various module, in partnership with INSEAD, focused on Milestones + MORE DETAILS Milestones entities in the country and develop career paths. Strategy and Leadership skills. They also support each division's HR Directors with their assignments in these countries. OUR COMMITMENTS p. 50 22 INDICATORS p. 62 23 OUR BUSINESS 26 Innovation 28 Service 30 Aerospace and industry 32 Aluminium 34 Automotive 36 Cement and minerals 38 Energy 44 Glass 46 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives Logistics 48 Steel Our business Our business 24 25 Innovation INNOVATE: TO CREATE THE ROBOT MACHINING TECHNOLOGIES, SOLUTION PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Fives Machining (Capdenac, France) has developed an innovative solution for OF THE FUTURE specific machining tasks on composite aircraft wings at an Airbus site in Illescas (Spain): the “Manhole Rebates Station”. A robot positions a portable milling machine Innovation is a tactical development strategy for the Group. Fives promotes creativity at various locations on a large wing, so within the teams and invests strongly in Research & Development; resulting in high that openings can be precision machined. performance technologies that meet manufacturers' current and future needs. As well as expertise in automation and robotics, complex calculations were required to compensate for the wing's changes in shape under its own weight. This solution helped improve the quality of machined parts and the productivity of the workshop. Cutting-edge technologies Making Fives ever more innovative for the factory of the future Fives' innovation ambition is supported by a proFives continues to invest in cutting-edge technologies active internal policy that aims to strengthen the that help meet current requirements for reliability, culture of innovation in the Group with various performance and flexibility in production systems. initiatives. The innovation competition organized Digital tools are used to manage industrial installations each year, works as a catalyst for all the Group's with precision, as a result of real-time feedback of employees; in 2016 the number of ideas submitted production data; Fives' engineers and technicians, to the competition went up again (+8%). Skills who are process experts, are able to analyze this data groups meet regularly, to strengthen synergies and to improve production performance and, ultimately, product quality. The Group also concentrates on share best practice between the different activity subsidiaries on a particular topic (combustion, RESEARCH AND implementing new materials (composites) and new manufacturing processes (3D printing); April 2016 refractory materials, etc.). Finally, the Group works with other partners on pilot projects, such as the DEVELOPMENT saw the founding of AddUp, the joint venture FFLOR (Future Factory @Lorraine) platform, which established by Fives and Michelin in this field, to implements key production technologies for the serve the rapidly expanding market in metal factory of the future, such as collaborative robotics, € 36.7 M invested in R&D additive manufacturing. cobotics, virtual reality, smart logistics, etc. Fives contributes its expertise in designing and supplying 2,032 current patents Improving energy efficiency for processes fully automated and integrated systems. Fives is also introducing practical solutions to make 3 new products branded Engineered industrial processes more energy efficient, by These efforts translate today as a portfolio of over Sustainability® (making 10 in total) developing eco-designed technologies. With its 2,000 patents, with a growing portion of the 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives Engineered Sustainability® program, the Group Research & Development budget dedicated to recognizes products that combine operational developing new products and processes. excellence with high environmental performance; in 2016 three new pieces of equipment were www.fivesgroup.com awarded the brand. Fives has also produced a White Paper on industrial waste heat recovery, Our business Our business which puts forward practical solutions that are both technically and economically viable, improving the energy efficiency of energy-intensive processes + MORE DETAILS MILESTONES p. 6 (cement, steel, glass and aluminium). OUR COMMITMENTS p. 50 26 INDICATORS p. 62 27 Service SERVING INDUSTRIAL PERFORMANCE A FULL MODERNIZATION As well as designing innovative and reliable technologies, Fives provides a meaningful SOLUTION support for manufacturers, with a complete range of services, from spare parts to In 2016, Fives OTO S.p.a., which revamping, and including connected services, to guarantee top performance for the specializes in production lines for steel lifetime of the equipment. tubes, perfected a full modernization solution for cut-off equipment. This new modernizing kit adapts to the existing machine, increasing its productivity by an average of 20%, while limiting the necessary investment. It incorporates all the latest blade technologies, with double the lifespan of earlier technologies, which means the machine's cutting applications can be extended to other materials. This service can be installed in three days, significantly reducing down-time for the machine in comparison to a traditional solution. An expert Group with a local presence An expanding service offer Fives commits to providing support to manufacturers, In 2016, Fives continued to expand the services to ensure the availability of equipment and to help offer in order to meet the needs of manufacturers achieve the performance levels they seek. throughout the lifecycle of the equipment, from technical support and spare parts to revamping. In The Group has two primary assets that help fulfill particular, the Group is developing in the field of this commitment. First, the Fives engineers and connected services; digital technology can meet the technicians, system and process experts who have current requirements of complex production, which precise understanding of the manufacturing must remain flexible while providing the highest challenge. They play a specific role in identifying product quality. the most suitable solution, which optimizes production performance throughout the The opportunities offered by digital technology equipment's lifecycle. include real-time or retrospective production controls, as well as predictive maintenance. As a result of the 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives Second, the Group has facilities in 30 countries, expertise in industrial processes, Fives is well comprising a responsive and agile local network. In positioned to utilize this data to improve production 2016, Fives continued to increase its presence to system performance and competitiveness. These meet manufacturers' needs, and now has nearly connected services represent a major development www.fivesgroup.com 2,000 service-dedicated personnel worldwide. opportunity for Fives, which the Group has already Three working groups (in Europe, Asia and the begun to employ by creating offers (sugar, steel, + MORE DETAILS Our business Our business United States) meet regularly to share their best maintenance, etc.) that have been well received by practices and develop synergies. manufacturers in these sectors. MILESTONES p. 6 OUR COMMITMENTS p. 50 INDICATORS p. 62 28 29 Our business In the a erospace sector, the sustained fall in oil prices has made current A EROSPACE fleets sufficiently profitable deferring investment in more fuel-efficient models, thus, contributing to a slow-down in the subcontractor chain. However, the effects of this phenomenon have been balanced by activity in China, which is acting as a supplier to the large manufacturers, and preparing to produce its own aircraft. Defense markets also saw a clear recovery at the end of the year. In industry in general, low energy and raw material prices have continued to affect activities linked to oil, gas, mining and construction machinery. Industrial maintenance has continued to develop at a sustained pace, particularly in the a erospace and rail sectors. LINÉ MACHINES ROBOTICS A ROBOT PLATFORM SPECIALLY DESIGNED TO MAXIMIZE AND INDUSTRY PRODUCTION EFFICIENCY FOR Innovative technologies in the global aerospace THE CUSTOMER market In the USA, the Group delivered two Liné Machines The launch of the Liné Machines Robotics systems for profiling and drilling wing components of platform signals an extension of the Fives the new Boeing 777X in Everett, Washington. In Japan, product range. Robot options will Fives installed several composite laying systems as complement conventional machine-tool part of the Boeing 787 program for Fuji Heavy Industries solutions already supplied to the and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries. In China, Hongdu aerospace, rail and heavy equipment Aviation (AVIC) renewed its confidence in Fives for the industries. supply of a universal holding fixture the Liné Machines The Group intends to supply high Flexitool installed on a Forest-Liné V-Star2 machine. added-value equipment offering greater It is the largest universal holding fixture in China. reliability, increased productivity and The Group also designed and implemented various better health and safety conditions. Liné machining machines, such as Forest-Liné P2M, the first Machines Robotics will offer solutions five-axis robotic portable machining machine, designed around seven main processes: for finishing operations on composite wings, which was — Milling, trimming and drilling delivered to Airbus in Spain, the first Forest-Liné — Deburring and polishing Modumill MT double-gear chamfering/turning — Cleaning and surfacing OFFER machine, designed to machine titanium motor parts, — Forming Metal cutting and machining the first machining center for hard materials, Forest— Inspection and scanning solutions for large complex parts, Liné Flexiax, and the new T-Bed Giddings&Lewis HBM — Automation, tooling and part storage as well as composite processing (Horizontal Boring Mill) boring/chamfering product — Peripheral equipment for machine machine tools, designed for the range. In order to fulfill the specific needs of the MAIN CUSTOMERS tools aerospace and heavy defense industry, Fives also designed a six-axis Robotic solutions will be explored in laser, manufacturing industries machining machine, the Cincinnati Wing/AutoDrill, ADDUP AIRBUS AIRCELLE ALSTOM AMADA ARCONIC waterjet, shot-peening, scanning, vision AREVA AUDI AVIC BAE SYSTEMS BEAM BELL HELICOPTER – ‒ High-precision machines and which can handle large, complex parts that are and other technologies BOEING BOMBARDIER – CAMERON CATERPILLAR COMAC high-performance composite extremely long and wide, for the JSF program. DAIMLER DASSAULT DCNS – FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES FIAT GM processing systems: large vertical POWERTRAIN FIGEAC AERO FORD GE GENERAL MOTORS gantry mills, high-speed machining Group excellence in the industrial equipment, GETRAG FORD GKN AEROSPACE GROUPE PSA HONEYWELL centers, profilers, stack routing machines, fiber mining and oil industries HONGDU AVIATION JOHN DEERE LOCKHEED MARTIN MAGELLAN AEROSPACE MICHELIN MITSUBISHI HEAVY placement and tape laying systems, boring mills Fives is still a major partner based on its advanced INDUSTRY PRATT & WHITNEY PREMIUM AEROTEC ROLLS and vertical turning lathes, grinders, extrusion technology and expertise in the field. John Deere gave ROYCE SAAB AERO SAFRAN SAGW SEAT SKODA SNCF machining cells, broaching machines, automated the Group the John Deere Achieving Excellence award SONACA SPIRIT AEROSYSTEMS STELIA TAI TRIUMPH drilling units and portable milling machines. for the exceptional quality of its products and services 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives AEROSTRUCTURES VALEO VOLKSWAGEN WANGXIANG… ‒ Services: evolution of new production lines, rebuild/ and the company’s commitment to its ongoing retrofit of machine tools and other services such improvement process. as: upgrading, repair, machine health checks, industrial transfer, production support, after-sales, Industrial maintenance teams with recognized made of carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP). This technical assistance and customer support. expertise initial contract with Airbus is one of a series of In the industrial maintenance sector, Airbus chose commercial achievements with other a erospace www.fivesgroup.com Our business Our business Maintenance Fives to maintain its production, logistical and industry players like Ratier Figeac this year, and the Corrective and preventive maintenance solutions with lubrication resources on its Nantes sites (France), which Safran group over the past decade. contracts with performance objectives and maintenance engineering support services. specializes in manufacturing the center wing boxes of airplane wings, nacelle air inlets, and structural parts + MORE DETAILS — Metal Cutting | Composites 30 — Maintenance 31 Our business In the aluminium sector, the significant drop in the cost of energy enabled the majority of ALUMINIUM producers to remain profitable by maintaining production using smelters at lower costs. The increase in global demand, associated with the increase in the price of aluminium, has changed producers' outlook. In this new context, they have begun to free-up funds to maintain their industrial systems (replacing equipment, servicing) and are also considering new capacity projects. XELIOS 2.0 AN ANODE FORMING SOLUTION WITH ENVIRONMENTAL Fives, partnering aluminium producers Pioneering proprietary equipment CREDENTIALS After modernization projects on two Pot Tending In the United Arab Emirates, Fives successfully Machines at the Trimet aluminium smelter in Saintachieved performance testing of its latest generation Xelios 2.0, the latest generation of Fives Jean-de-Maurienne (France), Fives won two new Xelios 2.0 vibrocompacting machine, supplied to vibrocompactor, has been designed to contracts from this customer at the same plant. The Emirates Global Aluminium (EGA) as part of the meet the new requirements of high first involves supplying two tapping assemblies and revamping line 2 of their Green Anode Plant in Dubai. amperage electrolysis pots and various accessories, a transfer gantry and retractable The launch of the installation and these performance compensate for the fall in coke quality. bumpers. The machines will be delivered and tests were completed in record time (six weeks) and It brings increased flexibility and improved assembled on-site in 2017, and will be installed in met all the customer's expectations, in terms of the process stability, producing high density, line G of the AP30 potlines, where an extension is installation's reliability, its availability and its defect-free anodes, for better pot ongoing to add a transfer and maintenance hall. The performance levels alike. behavior. second involves the retrofit of four Pot Tending In the United Kingdom, the Group carried out The Xelios 2.0 includes numerous Machines in line G, which is a complete electrical refit a first casting with the new Genios system, the innovations, such as the double wall and some mechanical equipment replacement. Onelectromagnetic stirring/moving technology that mould and cover, and the DynpacRT site installation will start in September 2017 and should obtained the Fives Engineered Sustainability® brand real-time compaction controller, and is fed take approximately a year. for its eco-design approach, and which offers real by a mobile transfer hopper with top benefits to the customer in terms of capacity, energy cover and fume collector for optimized performance and operator safety. fume capture and noise reduction. It was first installed at Emirates Global Fives, local support and expertise OFFER For service, the Group has teams based near customer Aluminium in Dubai in 2016. Fives designs key manufacturing processes and sites, which are able to manage projects that include supplies equipment and integrated solutions design, manufacturing, control and installation. In the for the carbon, reduction and casthouse sectors United Arab Emirates, Ma'aden Aluminium chose Fives of aluminium smelters. to provide a year-long technical assistance, including the provision of ten technicians to maintain all Raw materials overhead cranes in Reduction and Carbon sectors. Liquid pitch marine terminal Aluminium Bahrain (Alba) contracted the Group for anode size enlargement at Green Anode Plants 2 and Reduction 3, as part of a global creeping project to increase Gas Treatment Centers (GTC) Pot Tending Machines production from 960,000 tons to more than a million (PTM) Pot equipment Potroom cranes and transfer tons of aluminium at end 2017. systems To consolidate service quality in South Africa, the MAIN CUSTOMERS Group has merged its two service companies, in Carbon Johannesburg and Richards Bay, into a single entity, ALBA ALCOA ALRO ANGANG STEEL ANYANG BAOSHUO TAR Bath processing units Green Anode Plants Firing with a single team split between the two sites. This CHEMICAL BHP BILLITON CENTURY ALUMINIUM CHALCO – EMIRATES GLOBAL ALUMINIUM (EGA) HINDALCO HYDRO and Control Systems (FCS) for anode baking furnaces unified organization will enable the teams to offer an 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives MA’ADEN ALUMINIUM RIO TINTO RUSAL SHANXI COKING Fume Treatment Centers (FTC) for anode baking overall expertise, as well as a service offer and local GROUP SOHAR ALUMINIUM VEDANTA… furnaces Carbon butts recycling units Furnace fabrication activity for spare-parts and simple subTending Assembly (FTA) machines Anode rodding assemblies for Solios and ECLTM products. shops Anode stacking cranes and anode handling systems www.fivesgroup.com Our business Our business Casthouse + MORE DETAILS Holding and melting furnaces Heat treatment furnaces Casthouse water cooling systems Global casthouse solutions — Aluminium 32 33 Our business In the automotive sector, investment was driven mainly by the dynamic North American AUTOMOTIVE market (USA and Mexico), with the overhaul of motors and transmissions for existing models, as well as preparations to launch new models in the coming years. More recently in China, the increase in demand generated a wave of capacity-building programs, by both foreign (mainly German, American and Japanese) and domestic producers. In Western Europe, renovation and modernization programs continued, particularly in the SUV segments and at premium brands car production sites. Only the Russian, Brazilian and Indian markets remained unaffected by this trend. LANDIS-BRYANT GRINDERS ACCLAIMED BY MANUFACTURERS! The 2015 acquisition of Bryant Grinder technologies extended Fives' expertise in the field of high-precision industrial grinders for internal and external diameters. It has enabled Fives to expand Internationally recognized expertise in Fives, the leader in high precision grinding its Grinding | Ultra Precision offer portfolio automation In 2016, Fives took an order for 24 machines, as part in the bearings, transmissions, distribution, In Belgium, Audi chose Fives to modify the final line in of a three-yearly contract signed with General Motors fuel system and medical sectors. In its electric vehicle assembly shop at its Brussels site. in 2015, for the design and supply of all crankshaft buying this technology, the Group also Due to Fives equipment, production increased to a grinders for the manufacturer's new motor programs, acquired a whole range of after-sales speed of one car per minute. in particular the fifth generation CSS and V8 for trucks. services dedicated to existing Bryant In the United States, General Motors reasserted its trust The Group also booked the two first orders in China for Grinder customers. In the United States, in the Group, for the November 2017 supply of an the new Giustina RVD double disc vertical grinder, the Fives took an order for several highassembly line comprising different sub-assemblies as product of a collaboration between two subsidiaries in performance Landis-Bryant UL2 internal part of its 10-speed AB1V automatic transmission Italy and Japan. These orders came from Jiangsu grinders; the customer, GMCH at Grand program. This installation will enable annual production Advanced Engineering Ltd. and NBTM, tier 1 suppliers Rapids in Michigan, praised the capacity of over 250,000 transmissions. of automotive components. The machines will produce performance of the machines delivered, Fives also achieved a breakthrough in China where, at key parts for reducing emissions from internal which exceeded all expectations. the end of the year, Shanghai Automobile Gear Works combustion engines. (an SAIC group subsidiary) ordered the supply of a In 2016, Fives continued to extend its complete CVT transmission assembly line, including Pioneering fluid filling and test equipment range of grinding technologies with the testing equipment and washers, for a new plant located Fives was able to meet Daimler's new “Integra”standards acquisition of Daisho Seiki Corporation, in Liuzhou, Guangxi province. for its suppliers and was chosen by the manufacturer in Japan. to upgrade all the fluid filling installations at its Düsseldorf production site in Germany. The Fives teams will upgrade the equipment design using specific 3D CAD software for the mechanical elements, as well as other tools for designing the control cabinets and MAIN CUSTOMERS software. It will be an opportunity for Fives to demonstrate its responsiveness and adaptability. ALFING KESSLER ALSTOM ARCONIC ATLANTIC AUDI – BAJAJ Also in 2016, Fives delivered filling lines for HFO MOTORS BAOSTEEL BMW BOSCH BOMBARDIER CATERPILLAR CHANG’AN CHRYSLER CLAAS COPELAND refrigerants to several Renault sites in Europe. 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives OFFER COSKUNOZ CUMMINS DAIMLER DALIAN DIESEL DELPHI EMERSON FIAT POWERTRAIN FAW FORD FOURNIER Fives designs, manufactures and installs equipment, HABITAT FUDA GENERAL MOTORS GOODRICH HONDA machining systems, automated production systems INGERSOLL RAND JAGUAR LAND ROVER JOHN DEERE LEXMARKand fluid filling systems primarily for the automotive MAHLE MERCEDES-BENZ MERCEDES-BENZ TECHNOLOGY www.fivesgroup.com MITSUBISHI OPEL PACCAR POLYNORM GROUPE PSA industry, and related services. RENAULT-NISSAN RKS ROLLVIS SAAB GROUPE SCHMIDT SANDEN SATEBA SAULNIER DUVAL SCANIA SEAT SGM + MORE DETAILS Our business Our business Equipment and automated systems with high SIEBENWURST SKODA SVW TATA THALES THYSENKRUPP — Automation production rates for foundry, machining, TOYOTA VALLOUREC VOLKSWAGEN VOLVO WHB ZENHDER… — Filling | Sealing automation, assembly, integration of industrial — Grinding | Ultra Precision processes and production of wooden panels. — Cutting Tools | Abrasives 34 — Maintenance 35 Our business In the cement sector, there was slight increase in demand; existing capacity CEMENT AND utilization rates remained low in many areas worldwide. On the producer side, those subject to a trend market concentration posted rationalization and reduced investment targets. Regional participants that have developed over the past few years in the strongest emerging markets (Central and South America, Southeast Asia, North and Sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East), FCB faced financing issues due to the fall in commodities prices, especially oil prices. Only a few countries in Africa, the Philippines, Indonesia, Mexico and HOROMILL® Colombia continued with capacity investment. GRINDING PLANT AWARDED THE ENGINEERED SUSTAINABILITY® BRAND FOR ITS CEMENT APPLICATION MINERALS The Engineered Sustainability® brand celebrates Fives technologies that demonstrate the best combination of environmental and operational Expertise in production line supply of the FCB Horomill® cement grinding plant with a performance. By combining several items In 2016, the Fives teams focused on 850,000-ton annual capacity at the Norzagaray site. of proprietary equipment such as the FCB delivering key contracts in several In the United States, Fives obtained the acceptance Horomill®, the FCB TSVTM Classifier and an countries. certificate on the Buzzi Unicem raw grinding plant at its FCB Flash dryer or FCB Aerodecantor, the For Qatar National Cement Co., Maryneal (Texas) site, which includes an FCB Horomill® FCB Horomill® cement grinding plant Fives installed the two new cement grinding mill producing 270 tph of raw meal. offers unique performances with grinding units in the Umm Bab fifth In Brazil, performance tests for the FCB Horomill® environmental advantages (high energy production line, with a daily capacity 4400 grinding plant to produce 420 tph of raw efficiency, no need of water addition, of 5,000 tons. meal were conducted with a system total specific additives drying, high flexibility and easy In Mexico, Fives started up the first power consumption below 11 kWh/t, to the complete maintenance) for the best final product FCB Horomill® in the cement grinding satisfaction of Holcim Brasil SA. These tests followed the quality. plant of the new 3,300 tpd production commissioning of the kiln No.2 and the inauguration of The Fives eco-design process involves an line for Cementos Fortaleza SA de CV, the new production line at the Barroso site. in-depth analysis to guarantee the FCB which is under construction at their Horomill® grinding plant's performance in Tula site. Proprietary technologies with international terms of energy, water consumption and In the Philippines, Republic Cement, recognition cement quality, and its positioning part of the CRH-ABOITIZ Group The Group boasts an offer of high added-value compared to other grinding technologies (formerly Lafarge Republic Inc.) proprietary equipment, which the teams are constantly available on the market. completed industrial production tests upgrading. Fives installed an FCB Rhodax® 4D hematite grinding system at a foundry, replacing several machines as a result of its high reduction coefficient. This equipment helps improve the efficiency of the crushing plant, reduce fine generation and limit dust OFFER emissions and the number of maintenance actions. The Fives offer covers from design, to turnkey supply The completion of this project also demonstrates the MAIN CUSTOMERS and installation of process equipment, grinding Group's ability to reduce the environmental impact of plants (cement and minerals) and complete cement its customers' installations, on account of innovative ARMSTRONG CEMENT ARGOS BUZZI-UNICEM CDM-CLEAN HARBOR CEMENTIR CEMENTOS MOCTEZUMA CEMEX plants, and associated services. technologies. CIMPOR CONCH CRH DANGOTE ELEMENTIA GICA Belgian company LHOIST, one of the world's leading HEIDELBERG CEMENT IMERYS ITALCEMENTI LAFARGEHOLCIM Process equipment for the cement industry and producers of lime, renewed its confidence in Fives NGHE AN CEMENT CO OCP QATAR NATIONAL CEMENT mineral grinding (FCB Kiln, FCB Zero-NOx Preca, FCB with an order for an FCB TSVTM Classifier, to increase COMPANY SACCI SAINT GOBAIN BRYANT TITAN VICAT Preheater, FCB By-pass system, FCB Horomill®, FCB production at its limestone grinding plant in Poland. VINACONEX VINAINCON VOTORANTIM… 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives B-mill, FCB Rhodax® 4D, FCB VIFTM Crusher, FCB TSVTM Installation of this equipment will increase the capacity Classifier, FCB Flash dryer, FCB Aerodecantor). of the grinding line, while also improving the quality of finished products. Engineering and clean combustion systems As part of its project for six clinker burning lines for for rotary kilns, calcination and drying processes the Egyptian government, CDI, a subsidiary of Chinese Fives, optimizing production lines The contract includes the supply of parts for the kiln (Pillard NOVAFLAM®, Pillard ROTAFLAM®, Pillard engineering company Sinoma, chose Fives to supply Recognized for its expertise and ability to support its mechanical refurbishment, as well as an erection www.fivesgroup.com Our business Our business HeatGen SystemTM, etc.). complete combustion systems, including six ecocustomers in upgrading their installations, Fives signed engineering and supervision. Revamping and upgrading designed Pillard NOVAFLAM® kiln burners and 24 a contract with Vatutinsky Kombinat Vognetryviv, the kiln No.1 are part of a productivity improvement Gas treament equipment (TGT®, Sonair™ filters and EADTM dry-scrubbers) for kilns, coolers and mills. Pillard PRECAFLAMTM precalcination burners, as well as the hot gas generators, gantries and pump systems. an Imerys plant producing refractory chamotte, to revamp its kiln located at the Cherkassy site in Ukraine. project for the installation. + MORE DETAILS — Cement | Minerals 36 — Combustion 37 Our business COMBUSTION The market remains greatly affected by low oil prices, reducing the number of new ENERGY projects in industries exposed to oil exploration and petrochemicals. In Europe, upgrade and compliance activity for boilers has also been reduced to critical investment. High performance technologies and internationally recognized expertise Following the excellent results obtained with the Pillard LONOxFLAM® burners installed on boilers at several sites owned by Paris metropolitan heating operator CPCU (Bercy, Grenelle, Vaugirard and Ivry-sur-Seine) in France, the Bercy site was selected as a pilot for using biofuels. Two of its four boilers have been running with Pillard LONOxFLAM® burners fed with biofuels since May 2016. The excellent emissions results obtained rewarded the Group's efforts on developing eco-friendly solutions. The satisfied OFFER customer has decided to switch the burners on two of Fives designs and manufactures a variety of its Grenelle site boilers to biofuels. industrial equipment for the energy sector, primarily In the US, Cliffs Natural Resources, located in northern in high-performance industrial combustion systems, Minnesota, chose the Group to supply a new tube and production finishing equipment, cryogenics combustion system for its Mustang Pellet project. equipment for hydrocarbon processing and air Once the project is commissioned, the ore pellets separation and bioenergy and sugar industries. produced will feed the largest ArcelorMittal furnace in Plus, on the piping solutions segment, the Group is the United States. involved in maintenance contracts as well as some In the United Arab Emirates, ITAS flare technology was new construction projects. chosen by the Abu Dhabi Company for Onshore Petroleum Operations Ltd (ADCO) for its oil extraction Combustion systems designed for electric and development program. Fives is supplying 28 units. thermal energy production and for industrial In South Korea, 38 North American regenerative processes burners were fitted to forge furnaces at a plant owned by Hyundai. A major electronics company was very Equipment and complete plants primarily used satisfied with the results obtained by Pillard in sugar and bioethanol production; advice NANOxFLAM® burners fitted to its boilers. NOx for optimizing production MAIN CUSTOMERS emissions are 25% down on those recorded with burners recognized as the Best Available Technique by Industrial equipment primarily used in energy the European Best Available Techniques reference ADGAS ADM AIR LIQUIDE AK STEEL ALBEMARLE ALERIS production: ALFA LAVAL GE POWER ARAMCO AREVA ARKEMA documents. The Pillard NANOxFLAM® is already listed ‒ Brazed aluminium plate-fin heat exchangers BAOSTEEL CERREY CHEVRON TEXACO CMI CNIM DALKIA as the Best Emerging Technique. This success has (for air separation units, ethylene production DOOSAN EDF ELLWOOD GROUP ENFAB ENGIE ENGIE enabled Fives to take new orders and presents a or liquified natural gas) COFELY ENI ERAMET ESSAR ESYS EXXON MOBIL promising outlook for future projects. HYUNDAI HEAVY INDUSTRIES KOBESTEEL KWB LINDE ‒ Cryogenic piston and centrifugal pumps (for air Finally, the year was also marked by the launch of MAPNA GROUP METSO MICHELIN – NATIONAL GYPSUM separation units, hydrocarbon production and NEMAK ALUMINIUM NEREFCO NOOTER ERIKSEN NOVELIS North American Total Care, the new local support and distribution of any liquified gas) OUTOTEC OWENS CORNING PETROFAC PROSERNAT services unit dedicated to maintaining combustion SAIPEM SAMARCO SAMSUNG – SNECMA MOTORS SOLVAY systems for steel and aluminium producers. High-performance industrial piping: Engineering, RENAULT TATA TECHNIP TECNIMONT TEREOS TESORO 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives THERMAX TOTAL VALE US STEEL… supply, manufacturing and assembly of highly technical piping (new construction or refurbishing). Tube and pipe solutions: www.fivesgroup.com ‒ Production lines: slitting lines, tube mills, finishing lines + MORE DETAILS Our business Our business ‒ ERW mills and related equipment — Combustion ‒ Finishing equipment — Cryogenics | Energy ‒ Automation — Piping Solutions — Sugar | Bioenergy 38 — Tube and Pipe 39 Our business ENERGY SUGAR AND BIOENERGY Drought conditions affecting several major sugar-producing regions (China, India and Thailand) reduced supply encouraging consumption of stocks from previous year. After a low point in the middle of 2015, the price of sugar has increased sharply in 2016, encouraging renewed investment in the sector. High performance equipment, proven and With in-depth expertise in the full sugar process, and internationally recognized expertise a wide range of adapted tools, including the proprietary Adding a new chapter to its collaboration with Tereos, BEMEIOTM simulation system they have developed, the CRYOGENICS a world leader in the sugar industry, Fives has again Fives teams created a 3D model of the entire plant, demonstrated its ability to adapt to the customers' and the crystallization process in particular, to reach needs. The Group designed a new “100% stainless recommendations for changes to operating systems to steel” (including the parts not in contact with the sugar) help maximize revenues. In cryogenics, activities associated with gas, coal and hydrocarbon processing remained version of its Cail&Fletcher ZUKA® batch centrifugal heavily impacted by the weakness in oil prices, whereas in the air separation segment, for Tereos' Chevrières site in the Oise region of In Tanzania, the Group carried out successful the main players continued deploying major projects initiated in 2015. northern France. The highly satisfied customer then commissioning of a falling film evaporator at the ordered five more for their plant in Escaudoeuvres Tanganyika Planting Company (TPC, a subsidiary of (Nord department). Tereos also worked with Fives the Alteo group, a regional player in sugar cane Sugar Consulting to optimize the latter site's production and renewable energy). With this new Recognized expertise, worldwide presence MAIN CUSTOMERS performance and improve its productivity. equipment, TPC, which has consistently increased In this downturn market of hydrocarbon, Fives has capacity over the past fifteen years, will be able to nevertheless managed in 2016 to secure major orders produce an additional 100,000 tons. in China with several contracts in Shanxi province and ADNOC AIR LIQUIDE AIR PRODUCTS ARAMCO CB&I LUMMUS established a new partnership in the USA with UOP MAIN CUSTOMERS CRYOGENMASH DA ELIM DOW CHEMICAL ENTERPRISE Russell LLC for the gas treatment industry. EXXONMOBIL GAIL GS E&C HANGYANG HYUNDAI INEOS JGC KAIFENG – KBR KPIC LG LOTTE LYONDELLBASELL OPD AB SUGAR BUNGE COSUMAR CRISTAL UNION ETHIOPIAN Additionally, the Group successfully entered the midORPIC PETROCHINA POSCO PRAXAIR QATARGAS RELIANCE scale market for cold boxes in the hydrocarbon S&B SABIC SAIPEM SAMSUNG SASOL SHELL SIAD M.I. SK 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives SUGAR CORP. GRUPO GLORIA GUARANI INCAUCA LEDESMA LOUIS DREYFUS COMODITIES MITR PHOL PANTALEON E&C TECHNIP TOTAL TOYO E.C. WARTSILA… market, when it was selected by the South Korean PRODIMEX PT SUNGAI BUDI RAIZEN SAINTLOUIS SUCRE / engineering firm GS for a gas treatment project at the SUDZUCKER SIPH SOMDIAA SUCDEN TEREOS WEST KENYA SUGAR WILMAR… Liwa site in Saudi Arabia. This size of cold box represents a promising strategic market for Fives' www.fivesgroup.com commercial expansion. + MORE DETAILS On the air separation side, Fives successfully delivered Our business Our business the three major projects awarded in 2015 for Air — Combustion Liquide Sasol project in South Africa, Air Products — Cryogenics | Energy Jazan project for Saudi Arabia and Praxair CNOOC — Piping Solutions project in China. — Sugar | Bioenergy 40 — Tube and Pipe 41 Our business INDUSTRIAL PIPING The 2016 market in high-performance industrial piping was impacted by limited new ENERGY works in France, where activity is mainly driven by the EPR construction at Flamanville. Nuclear maintenance activity was better sustained, and chiefly linked to EDF's “major refit” program. Fives, partner of choice for the French energy industry In the nuclear piping sector, Fives and its piping design TUBE AND PIPE SOLUTIONS consortium partners Endel, Boccard, and SOM were awarded the design framework contract covering dimensioning studies and piping production for the entire French nuclear capacity by DIDPE. The request The world market in tube production shrank by 5% in 2016, to around 120 million tons. for proposals was Europe-wide and Fives and partners This fall is chiefly attributed to reduced activity in the United States, reflecting weak drilling won the award for the fourth time running. DIDPE is Fives has also strengthened its position in the gas the EDF division which is responsible for engineering transportation sector with works to modernize a figures. This is the same scenario in China where several production plants closed. on the nuclear portion of power plants (reactor certain number of switching or delivery stations for However, this trend was balanced by equipment demand for the automotive, machinery building and nuclear island), as well as preparing for TIGF and GRTgaz in France. The latter also placed a and constructions industries. and carrying out heavy maintenance work on the new order with the Group to modernize its switching major nuclear components. The fact that EDF has station in Laprade. once again chosen the consortium confirms the quality of the work done by its teams since 1999. EDF Expertise serving diversification Benchmark technologies preferred also placed eight “pipe supports” orders with the Group. These contracts are to run from 2017 to 2019 Fives' efforts to diversify met particular success in the chemicals, aerospace and paper sectors. For Borealis all over the world Worldwide, Fives is recognized for the quality and MAIN CUSTOMERS and involve checking pipe supports and carrying out in Ottmarsheim, Fives successfully completed a project performance of its technical solutions for welded tube ALCOA BAOSTEEL BORUSAN EVRAZ FUNDIA GERDAU minor repairs. including supplying four collectors for a reforming production lines and finishing equipment, through GRUPPO ARVEDI HYUNDAI JINDAL STEEL& POWER furnace at an ammonia production facility. The Group their Abbey, Bronx, OTO and Taylor-Wilson legacy MARCEGAGLIA MARUICHI STEEL TUBE NEXTEEL OMK also supplied and assembled expansion joints for the names. PADANA TUBI POSCO PROLAMSA SEVERSTAL SHOUGANG Grandpuits site. As part of the development of France's In Turkey, Fives carried out successful commissioning GROUP STEEL DYNAMICS SUMITOMO CORPORATION TATA STEEL TENARIS TMK TOSÇELIK USIMINAS U.S. STEEL Ariane space program, the Group successfully of three welded tube production lines for Tosçelik, at MAIN CUSTOMERS VALLOUREC WEBCO WUHAN IRON AND STEEL YUSCO completed the renovation of the “fluids” lot on testing its Dilovası plant, bringing the number of lines installed 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives METAL ZEKELMAN INDUSTRIES… bench PF 52 for ArianeGroup (formerly Airbus Safran for this manufacturer to 24 in five years. AIRBUS AREVA ARKEMA BOREALIS CEPSA CNPEC DRT Launchers). This high precision project occupied teams In Mexico, the Group also supplied two tube lines to EDF ESSAR GENERAL ELECTRIC GRTGAZ HEEREMA for two years and was an opportunity to demonstrate the largest regional producer, Perfiles y Herrajes, as MICHELIN MEKONG ENERGY COMPANY PETROINEOS www.fivesgroup.com their expertise in delivering this sort of installation, in well as to the Prolamsa Group, parent company to In India, APL Apollo confirmed the order for engineering SAFRAN STX TEMBEC TIGF TOTAL WESTINGHOUSE. the extremely demanding context of the aerospace long-time American customer Axis. and supply of two hollow shape universal forming industry. Finally, Fives carried out metal framework In Italy, stainless steel tube manufacturer Ilta Inox mills (OTO HSU). + MORE DETAILS Our business Our business and stainless-steel piping work for the Tembec paper(Arvedi Group) confirmed its confidence in the Group The Group also took several orders to supply finishing — Combustion mill's Blow Tank project. Successful completion of the with an order for a new packaging system. Padana equipment to Canadian, French and Japanese — Cryogenics | Energy project earned A and B scores for deadline, quality Tubi also chose Fives technologies for four orders for producers. — Piping Solutions and safety criteria. production lines making carbon steel and stainless— Sugar | Bioenergy 42 steel tubes. — Tube and Pipe 43 Our business The recovery in the flat glass market begun in 2015, and continued in 2016. Recovery in GLASS the sale price of glass, driven by activity in the construction and automotive markets, saw investment picking up again and existing lines renovated across all five continents, including Europe where lines that had been shut down were restarted, and new lines were constructed. In the specialty glass industry, producers continued to renovate their installations, choosing technologies with high energy and environmental performances. PRIUM® PLANARTEK THE INNOVATIVE COMBUSTION SYSTEM FOR BETTER THERMAL CONSISTENCY A new and innovative approach for Working Ends and Forehearths, the Prium® PlanarTek combustion system is designed Setting the standard for technology, Fives serving glassmakers' performance to meet specialty glass producers' an upgraded equipment offer With its high added-value technologies and installation requirements. Combined with the Fives In response to its customers, Fives has designed a set of expertise, Fives has helped improve the performance of patented flat flame burner block, it solutions to meet the demands of high-end flat glass production lines for numerous glassmakers. In Turkey, improves glass conditioning performance, production for the automotive industry and electronic for Düzce Cam, the Group started up a float glass with reduced gas consumption. It can be applications. Fives has also upgraded its entire range of production line, with a capacity of 800 tons per day. readily integrated with a customized heat bath equipment, to offer competitive, high performance The design of the furnace supplied by the Group recovery system to further increase solutions that several major producers (Cardinal Float enables energy savings of up to 20% in comparison to energy and operational efficiencies. Glass, Schott, AGC, Saint-Gobain) have chosen when conventional technologies. The furnace is also equipped renovating their existing lines. with a fully digital control system for production In the specialty glass sector, Fives is the go-to supplier optimization, which offers a complete overview of the for forehearths and electric heating equipment, known glass manufacturing process. In the United States, Fives for their performance and reliability. This equipment assisted Fuyao Glass America produce defect-free highhas also been upgraded to provide higher flexibility and end glass, supplying a Prium® Lehr annealing system. environmental performance. Several installations Fuyao in China is a long-time Group customer. Fives implementing the new Prium® PlanarTek high-yield was also chosen by the Xinyi Group for a major combustion technology and new Prium® VariCool production project in Malaysia, to supply nine flat glass electrode holder have been put into service at a major lehrs with capacity of 1,200 tpd and eight solar glass customer in Poland. lehrs the Prium® Lehr PVG with capacity of 250 tpd. In Italy, for Luigi Bormioli, a leading producer of glassware and perfume flasks, the Group put a fully electrical furnace into service: the Prium® E-melt CTVM. This equipment features an integrated steel cooling system to improve glass melting performance and reduce refractory wear rates. MAIN CUSTOMERS Service: recognized expertise The expertise of Fives teams, and their local presence ASAHI GLASS COMPANY BA GLASS CARDINAL FLOAT GLASS OFFER near the customer, was the motivation for choosing the CHINA SOUTHERN GLASS CHINA YAOHUA GLASS GROUP DÜZCE CAM EUROGLAS EUROFLOAT FUYAO GROUP Group to increase capacity at the Luigi Bormioli electric 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives GUARDIAN INDUSTRIES INTERNATIONAL COOKWARE KCC LG Fives provides specialty glass and flat glass furnace in Parma, Italy, in partnership with the University CHEM LUIGI BORMIOLI NIPPON SHEET GLASS OBËIKAN production lines, equipment and associated services. of Milan. The Group also carried out furnace repair GLASS CO. PITTSBURGH CORNING EUROPE SAINT-GOBAIN work for Pittsburgh Corning in the Czech Republic; preSCHOTT SGD SOLVAY SWAROVSKI TAIWAN GLASS Thermal equipment and production lines for: engineering for rebuilding and to improve environmental VALMIERAS VIVIX XINYI… ‒ automotive, architectural, solar and ultra-thin glass: performance of a sodium silicate furnace for Solvay, in melting furnaces, tin baths and annealing lehrs Livorno, Italy; and waste processing for a borosilicate www.fivesgroup.com Our business Our business ‒ specialty glass (fiber, cosmetic, pharmaceutical, furnace for SGD in France. Euroglas, in France, chose etc.): melting furnaces, conditioning equipment, Fives to modify several equipment items on its melting feeders, boosting and ancillary equipment. furnace. + MORE DETAILS — Glass 44 45 Our business The market continues to grow at an exceptional pace, driven by the expansion of LOGISTICS e-commerce, with handling and throughput management constraints supporting demand for sorting center automation. In Europe, Japan, South Korea, North America and Australia, large numbers of capacity-building or modernization programs have been launched by courier companies. They are investing in hubs of all sizes around major cities, and near national postal services that rely on their capillary networks to serve remote areas. The distribution market is also increasingly active in Japan and Western Europe, where numerous operators are starting to automate their warehouses. GENI-FLEX® THE NEW SORTER FOR NON-COMPATIBLES The GENI-Flex® a new system for automated sorting in courier and distribution centers meets operators' growing need to handle non-compatible objects, which are too large, too heavy or an unusual shape. The GENI-Flex® automates handling of items up to 2.5 m long and weighing up Fives, unmatched global player in express In the United Kingdom, TNT is continuing its two to 70 kg. Despite its small footprint, it can courier and postal services decades of partnership with Fives with a contract for sort 95% of non-compatibles at high In South Korea, LG CNS chose Fives to build an entirely the automation for its new Dartford site (England). The speed and in complete safety. The flexible new giant logistics terminal in Gwanju for CJ Korea solution designed by the Group includes a cross-belt GENI-Flex® is available in uniand Express, the country's leading express courier service. sorter with four induction lines, to sort parcels weighing bi-directional configurations. The Fives solution features seven cross-belt sorting up to 50 kg to 79 destinations. Once operational, the loops for 4,400 meters long, with 56 injection lines for system will enable TNT to sort up to 11,000 packages nearly 3,000 destinations in total. The mechanical per hour. installation services and slide plates for chutes were PostNord selected Fives to automate the Herning and designed to handle parcels and packages weighing up Aarhus postal terminals in Denmark, and to supply a to 50 kg. Once it is started up in June 2018, the system sorting system in Trondheim, Norway, for parcels and will offer the customer sorting throughput up to 162,000 large letters. These new orders for key sorting systems items per day. This new contract for the Gwanju site highlight the confidence this long-time customer has in follows the 2013 completion of three cross-belts sorters the proven performance and reliability of Fives crossfor CJ Korea Express' Daejeon, Sangnok and Gwanak belt technology, installed in the region's sorting centers terminals. It confirms customers' trust in Fives' crossfor over twenty years. Fives will also renovate the belt technology, as well as the Group's ability to provide sorting systems at postal centers in Göteborg and support as a full partner for their large-scale projects. Malmö in Sweden, to help PostNord identify the critical components of the systems to upgrade. The two centers are currently equipped with cross-belt sorters OFFER supplied by Fives in 1996, which are still sorting small packages ranging from 50 g to 10 kg, with a maximum MAIN CUSTOMERS Fives designs automated sorting systems for logistics, throughput of 10,000 items per hour. Their lifespan will express parcel, postal and distribution companies be extended by five to ten years. AEROPORTS DE PARIS ARATA BENETTON BCS CANADA In China, the leader in this rapidly developing sector POST CORPORATION CANPAR CHRONOPOST C-LOG Design and installation of tailor-made logistics has chosen the Group to automate two sorting centers CORREOS COLIPOSTE DECATHLON DEUTSCHE POST DHL EURODEP FEDEX FEDEX GROUND FUKUYAMA GEODIS GLS solutions based on proprietary technologies, such as processing packages, boxes and plastic bags, at sites ENTERPRISE INTERMARCHÉ JP SERVICEKOREAN EXPRESS LA high-speed cross-belt sorters, shoe sorters, flat belt located in Beijing and near Shanghai. POSTE LDLC LECLERC MANGO MICHELIN MNG KARGO sorters, parcel singulators, pushers and diverters, as NIPPON EXPRESS OCP OMNIVA PIXMANIA POCZTA POLSKA well as computerized order fulfillment and robotics In 2016, the Fives teams also commissioned several In the distribution and e-commerce sector, Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives POSTNORD PUROLATOR SAGAWA SAMMY SCACHAP solutions high-speed automated sorting platforms for long-time also remains a key supplier, recognized for its SCHENKER AB SEA MALPENSA AIRPORT SEINO SLOVENIA POST SNATT LOGISTICA SODIS SOMFY SONEPAR STIHL customers in Japan and South Korea. In Australia, the technologies and expertise. The Group continues to SYSTEM LOGISTICS TOLL IPEC TEMPO ONE TNT EXPRESS Design of customized software solutions Group delivered a third sorting hub to the Toll Group, develop solutions for a major online retail company. UNITED AIRLINES UPS USPS VIAPOST YAMATO… (realtime, destination servers, WCS, SCADA, etc.) for its South Sydney site. Equipped with a cross-belt for Fiducial (an office equipment supplier) also chose Fives processing small packages and parcels, this center to replace an existing order fulfilment system, without Customer service, such as system maintenance, gives the customer sorting capacity of 16,000 items a shut-down of the operation. The solution provided by www.fivesgroup.com Our business Our business 24/7 hotline support, preventive maintenance, full per hour to 341 destinations. In Italy, Fives delivered its the Group includes the WCS Trace® tool developed by maintenance, as well as retrofit and system first eco-designed cross-belt sorter, the GENI-BeltTM, for Fives for controlling automated systems. upgrades a leading express courier company's airport hub. + MORE DETAILS — Intralogistics 46 — Maintenance 47 Our business The steel market is still being affected by structural overcapacity. Few significant projects STEEL have materialized, including in China, the leading global producer. However, a number of technological niches, linked to producing high added-value steel, and geographical openings (particularly in India, the US and Russia) have offered and will continue to offer opportunities. NEOKOIL® AFFORDABLE CAPEX, ULTIMATE OPEX Fives registered a new brand NeoKoil® for its strip processing lines for carbon, Flat steel: Fives, designing high-end steel rolling mill, has an annual capacity of 500,000 tons stainless and silicon steel. Among recent processing lines and will produce stainless steel for a range of installations: two complete continuous The Group's recognized expertise in the design and applications, including construction, machinery, the galvanizing lines, each of 417,000 tons supply of high-end equipment and project automotive industry, household appliances, medical annual capacity to produce a wide range management, which has enabled it to produce close equipment, chemical storage tanks, high-speed train of exposed and non-exposed steel coils to fifty strip treatment lines and cold rolling mills for rails, and aviation. The line is scheduled to start-up for Baotou Iron and Steel Group (BISG) in stainless steel plants over the past two decades, before end 2017. China. The complete continuous annealing convinced the Chinese producer Foshan Chendge Shanghai STAL Precision Stainless Steel (China), line with an annual capacity of Stainless Steel Co., Ltd. to select Fives to build its new already a Group customer, reaffirmed its confidence 930,000 tons and two continuous cold annealing and pickling line. This new line, with an order for a DMS 20Hi cold rolling mill, capable galvanizing lines with an annual capacity featuring proprietary Group technologies such as an of rolling strips down to thicknesses of 0.040 mm, of 870,000 tons in total to produce annealing furnace and the DMS SkinPass 2Hi in-line destined for high-end applications, such as advanced high strength steels are smartphones and tablet computers. in the commissioning phase at the Shougang Jingtang United Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. Fangchenggang plant of Guangxi Iron & commissioned a Stein Digiflex® vertical annealing Steel Group Co., part of WISCO group furnace, with an annual capacity of 430,000 tons, (China). intended for tin plate production for use in the food packaging industry at its Caofeidian plant in Hebei province. The furnace, which features Fives' latest technologies, the FlashCooling® rapid cooling system OFFER and the AdvanTek® combustion system, was installed The Fives global offer to steel producers meets several on tin plate annealing line No.3, one of the fastest in needs: providing process expertise and operational the world, with strip production speeds of 750 mpm. It support to optimize performance (costs and product is the fifth Fives continuous annealing furnace to be quality), developing breakthrough technologies to operated on the site by Shougang Jingtang, which is meet the new needs and new applications of the steel highly satisfied with the performances observed. market, and in particular high value-added steel Also in China, two complete continuous galvanizing grades. lines for producing a wide range of high added-value steels for the automotive industry, as well as furnaces MAIN CUSTOMERS The global offer covers carbon, stainless and silicon for two annealing lines were started up on the Baotou sectors in long and flat products, as well as tube and site, in Inner Mongolia. In February, the first hot coil ACERINOX GROUP AK STEEL ALCOA ATI BAOSTEEL pipe, including complete solutions for strip was also successfully produced on the continuous BAOTOU BEHAI CHENGDE BENXI IRON & STEEL BLUESCOPE processing, reheating and rolling: annealing line of Baosteel Zhanjiang steel plant. The STEEL BORÇELIK CSN ERDEMIR ESSAR STEEL EVRAZ GERDAU ISDEMIR JINDAL STEEL JISCO LUSOSIDER — Metallurgical and technological process expertise Group has also processed its first rolled coil on the MARCEGAGLIA MASTEEL NLMK NORTH AMERICAN — Design and supply of strip processing lines and new continuous annealing line for Guangxi Steel STAINLESS NUCOR OMK OUTOKUMPU POSCO SAIL reheating furnaces (Wisco). This complete line includes the latest High added-value solutions for reconstruction 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives SALZGITTER SEVERSTAL SHOUGANG JINGTANG SWSS TATA — Thermal and mechanical technologies and technology and equipment developed by Fives, and modernization STEEL TENARIS THAINOX TISCO THYSSENKRUPP proprietary equipment (furnaces, rapid cooling including an electrolytic degreasing section involving The Group has worked alongside European steel USIMINAS US STEEL VALLOUREC VAMA VOESTALPINE WUHAN IRON & STEEL YUSCO systems, cold rolling mills, etc.) a series of chemical processes, followed by mechanical makers whose goal is to modernize their plants in — Induction heating and electrolytic processes to guarantee the high the months and years to come. The reconstructions — Surface treatment solutions required levels of cleanness, a Stein Digiflex® vertical undertaken are focused on reducing energy — Long product straighteners furnace equipped with the AdvanTek® combustion consumption, improving quality, both for hot and www.fivesgroup.com Our business Our business — Automation systems system and FlashCooling® technology, a DMS SkinPass cold rolling, as well as increased production. Fives 6Hi mill, complete terminal equipment and a double + MORE DETAILS — Full range of services: cost optimization, upgrade, has implemented both thermal and mechanical training, operation and maintenance assistance, scrap press. solutions to meet customer needs, in Finland, the etc. Netherlands, Spain, Portugal, Romania and France. — Steel 48 — Induction 49 — Manufacturing OUR COMMITMENTS 52 Fives, a responsible group 54 Ethics and governance 56 Human resources 58 Health & Safety 60 Energy and environmental performance 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives Our commitments Our commitments 50 51 Summary 4 A RESPONSIBLE COMMITMENTS ENVIRONMENT GROUP Minimizing the environmental footprint of Fives and its customers ECONOMICS Promoting fair practices The Group’s corporate social responsibility program reflects its determination in the marketplace in relation to Ethics, Energy and environmental performance, Health & Safety and Human resources. WORKFORCE Providing a safe and motivating working environment GOVERNANCE Incorporating CSR priorities into the organization of all Fives entities The Fives corporate social responsibility program consolidates the Group's past work, in particular around human ETHICS HUMAN resources and innovation. It is also investigating and structuring new avenues RESOURCES of intervention and coordination (health 97 % of Group companies and safety, environment, ethics, etc.), distributed the Code of conduct to their employees 16 % women reflecting Fives' ambitions in these areas. 39 % of women are engineers and managers 73 % of employees attended a training course during the year KEY STEPS HEALTH & SAFETY 4.26 The 2016 accident frequency rate ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL THE UNITED NATIONS 2008 Launch a structured Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program PERFORMANCE GLOBAL COMPACT In 2011, Fives became an official signatory of 2011 Voluntary decision to publish 10 products earned the Engineered the United Nations Global Compact, affirming its the first Annual and CSR report Sustainability® brand in 2016 membership in a global business community that believes in respect for Human Rights, workplace 2012 Creation of the Engineered Sustainability® eco-design program 73 % of industrial sites were ISO 14001-certified standards, the environment and anti-corruption. and launch of Fives’ ISO 14001 process for industrial sites Frédéric Sanchez, 2013 Commitment to an accident Chairman of the Executive Board frequency rate below 4 in 2016 and to 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives WE MUST ACT WITH SOCIAL AND CIVIC developing a strong safety culture. RATING RESPONSIBILITY EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD 2015 Business Ethics program AND IN ALL OUR ACTIVITIES. enhanced www.fivesgroup.com TOP 2 % of the EcoVadis panel with THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT IS 2016 Group Safety Golden Rules Our commitments Our commitments a score of 71 out of 100, representing A GOOD WAY TO REGULARLY REASSESS a 13 points increase since 2012. deployed. THIS COMMITMENT AND PROVIDE OFFICIAL + MORE DETAILS This assessment has four sections: Environment Labor practices Business ACCOUNTABILITY FOR OUR ACTIONS. MILESTONES p. 6 ethics Sustainable procurement OUR BUSINESS p. 24 52 INDICATORS p. 62 53 Ethics and governance THE INTERNATIONAL CHALLENGE International development is part of the history of the Group, which has on an ongoing basis, been able to assimilate changes in regulations worldwide. CONSIDER EACH LOCAL LEGAL Stefano Olcese, CONTEXT AS AN Head of the Tube and Pipe Business Line WE HAVE INVESTED TIME AND ENERGY TO TURN OPPORTUNITY THIS STRINGENT CONTEXT AS AN OPPORTUNITY Italy has implemented a specific regulatory framework concerning the FOR OUR ORGANIZATION. prevention of Corruption, the Legislative Decree No. 231 of June 8th, 2001. It states that a company cannot be held liable if, prior to the crime being committed, it has adopted and effectively implemented organizational, management and control models. Fives is encouraging its Italian subsidiaries to go down this path that allows them to comply with the Fives expectations and demonstrate pro-activity in the field of Business Ethics. Business Ethics: establishing a climate New risks for export of trust For several years, rapid changes in geopolitical Given the number of countries where Fives has context have imposed particular vigilance on all facilities and operates, the anti-corruption organizations when it comes to export rules. Within mechanism implemented by the Group is based on two main approaches: the Fives group, a network of actors has been established to ensure information about decisions KEY FIGURE ‒ deploying a full set of rules and tools; affecting export rule compliance is fed back to the ‒ risk analysis with the operatives involved for all teams involved (legal, project finance, customs and activity divisions, taking specific exposure factors logistics). 97 % of Group companies distributed into consideration for each of the entities. the Code of conduct to their employees On this basis, action plans are defined per Sharing culture and practice across subsidiary, with particular attention paid to the role the whole Group of intermediaries. A product of the Group's experience and an 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives expression of Fives' policies in all its areas of However, beyond the written rules distributed activity, the Directives and Guidelines Manual is the throughout the organization for several years, it is common framework for all Fives subsidiaries. The the trust in the actors and their empowerment, directives clarify the Group's fundamental rules, www.fivesgroup.com Our commitments Our commitments together with a culture of transparency, that are the such as the Code of conduct for employees, which sole guarantee of the system's proper operation. is increasingly the subject of presentations at the For the tools provided to the subsidiaries to be subsidiaries. The increased role in the organization effective, it is essential that the Business Ethics for the activities divisions will involve an update to + MORE DETAILS MILESTONES p. 6 message is reinforced at every level. the Directives Manual in 2017. OUR BUSINESS p. 24 54 INDICATORS p. 62 55 Human resources DIALOG, DEVELOPMENT AND DIVERSITY A human resources policy to support employees throughout their career. SOCIAL BENEFITS In 2016, the social benefit development policy saw concrete results, with death cover introduced in India and improved healthcare cost coverage in China. Fives also launched a telemedicine service in France. At the same time, Fives strengthened its worldwide assistance program for emergencies when traveling for business. KEY FIGURES 8,365 employees Dialog and action Promote diversity 60 nationalities In 2016, Fives continued the actions initiated in 2015 following the satisfaction survey conducted with its In France, Fives promotes local development, in particular through vocational integration and 56% of employees reviewed during the career management employees all over the world. In the United States support for young people. Fives has partnered with committee (CEDRE) for example, the emphasis was on improved the “Nos Quartiers ont des Talents” (NQT) association internal communication: more frequent information since 2015, making a commitment to this innovative 454 employees were interviewed meetings are held with all the sites, and local initiative where experienced managers and during a Starter meeting surveys implemented for regular follow-up to the business leaders mentor young graduates under teams' input. 30. As a result of this support, nearly 70% of the 73% of employees attended a training young graduates were recruited in under six months course during the year Track and develop skills to a long-term post that matched their qualification. With the CEDRE career management committees, In 2016, there were more than 30 Fives mentors in 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives Fives tracks the development of its employees in all France. geographical regions. The number of employees benefiting from a CEDRE review continues to grow, In the US, Fives has for many years been a partner with an increase of 40% since 2010. Fives is also of United Way Worldwide, a long-standing American www.fivesgroup.com Our commitments Our commitments prioritizing training to develop its teams' technical NGO that works in more than 40 countries to and managerial skills: more than 70% of employees provide access to education, employment and underwent training in 2016, and the three training healthcare. programs for managers within the Fives Leadership + MORE DETAILS MILESTONES p. 6 Factory are in place worldwide. OUR BUSINESS p. 24 56 INDICATORS p. 62 57 Health & Safety COMMIT THE ENTIRE ORGANIZATION TO MAKE SAFETY AN INDICATOR FOR FIVES' CULTURE THE GROUP In 2016, Fives continued with a progress process launched in 2009, SAFETY which achieved a major reduction in accident frequency. With everyone committed, it should be possible to transform the organization for GOLDEN RULES the long-term, and strengthen the safety culture within the Group. With the 2016 deployment of the Group Safety Golden Rules, Fives moved to the next level for enhancing its safety Jean-Yves Lys, culture, not only for employees but also Europe HSE Coordinator subcontractors. As the product of the Group's collective experience and OUR INDIVIDUAL AND COLLECTIVE COMMITMENT assessments, these Golden Rules aim to IN DEPLOYING THE GROUP SAFETY GOLDEN RULES control and reduce the risk of severe and CONTRIBUTES TO PROMOTING SAFE WORK potentially severe accidents. BEHAVIORS AND SITUATIONS IN OUR OPERATIONS. Mixed results in 2016 transformation of the Group's culture, both at KEY FIGURES In 2016, the accident frequency rate target set in worksites and in Fives workshops. This change in 2013 was achieved, on a like-for-like basis. Overall, culture is based on deploying tools to enable the Group frequency rate has been reduced by a everyone to be involved in managing safety, 4.26: lost-time accident frequency rate factor of three in six years. including subcontractors, and safety being integrated with Group management at the deepest 0.166: severity rate However, the year also saw the first increase in frequency, which until then had been steadily level. 64 lost-time accidents including dropping since 2009. This increase is chiefly To this end, in 2016 the Group developed two 7 severe accidents explained by a new surge of accidents in the Group's workshops, which are once more the primary tools: the Group Safety Golden Rules, which aim to better identify and control the risks inherent 1 fatal worksite accident (subcontractor) location of two thirds of lost-time accidents. Newly to Fives' activity, and the Field Safety Observation acquired companies generally present some and Dialog visits, to develop a culture of shared difficulties in assimilating the Group's safety vigilance. standards. Seven severe accidents also took place 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives within Fives businesses, one of them fatal for a A new Group ambition to develop subcontractor at a steel site in India. a strong safety culture Several Executive committee sessions will be Safety oversight for the whole scheduled in 2017 to redefine the 2020 safety organization www.fivesgroup.com Our commitments Our commitments ambition and how to achieve it. The severe accidents of 2015 and 2016 demonstrate the need to continue mobilizing the mobilizing the Oversight at the highest level for the program of entire organization and reassert Fives' safety goals. While the fundamentals are in place, efforts must actions decided for 2020 should enable Fives to take an important step in the context of safety + MORE DETAILS MILESTONES p. 6 still be made to continue with the long-term culture, and continue to reduce accident frequency. OUR BUSINESS p. 24 58 INDICATORS p. 62 59 Energy and environmental performance OPTIMIZE INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE SHARING For several years Fives has been investing resources and funds ENERGY in the reduction of the environmental impact of its own activities, and of the products designed for industrial customers. EXPERTISE In 2016 Fives published a White Paper on industrial waste heat recovery, which identifies viable solutions for improving the energy efficiency of energy-intensive industries (cement, steel, glass, aluminium). This White Paper, the product of consolidating the expertise of Fives subsidiaries active in these sectors, is intended to promote the energy A proactive approach since 2012 This voluntary program was developed for use by recovery technologies available, both At the end of 2011, Fives decided to take a more the Group subsidiaries which, once involved, must for companies and institutions. proactive approach to the environment by applying then deploy it for all their key products. By the end the two drivers available: first, designing and of 2016, one third of Fives subsidiaries eligible for building production lines and/or technologies that the program were involved and ten products hold reduce the environmental impact of solutions for the brand, three of them achieving the brand in manufacturers, and second, making environmental 2016 in the aluminium, cement and carbochemistry management systematic at its own industrial sites. In particular, this led, in early 2012, to specific sectors. KEY FIGURES resources dedicated to the environment being Improve strategic awareness deployed to the teams responsible for innovation of the environment and CSR in the Group. In 2012, Fives committed to obtaining ISO 14001 33% of eligible subsidiaries are certification for all of its industrial sites. In 2016, involved in the Engineered Sustainability® eco-design program. A voluntary eco-design program nearly three quarters are certified. The new Developed in 2011, Engineered Sustainability® is a stringent product innovation program which provisions of the ISO 14001 standard, which include eco-design requirements and strategic 3 new equipment items earned the Engineered Sustainability® brand in 2016. incorporates, throughout the process (impact consideration of the environment, are a framework review, design, performance demonstration) for Fives' efforts to adopt these practices across 12 products have been awarded the the three pillars of sustainable development: the Group. brand since its inception in 2012, with the environment, economic and operational For the launch of a metal additive manufacturing 10 still within the brand at end 2016. performance, and the human element (safety in activity in 2015, Fives conducted analyses to particular). After being audited by EY, the program evaluate the environmental impact of the process. 73% of industrial sites were received an assurance statement in 2013. At the end At the end of 2016, Fives also launched a forecasting ISO 14001-certified 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives of the design process, the Engineered Sustainability® exercise to evaluate the impact of political decisions brand is awarded to the end product for a period around climate change (COP 21, EU ETS*, etc.) on of three years, if it is shown to be the best technology the Group's activities and those of its customers. available on the market. www.fivesgroup.com Our commitments + MORE DETAILS Our commitments * European Union Emissions Trading Scheme MILESTONES P. 6 OUR BUSINESS P. 24 60 INDICATORS P. 62 61 Indicators 62 2017 Annual and CSR Report | #2016 financial year | Fives INDICATORS 64 Financial indicators 66 Non-financial indicators 74 UN Global Compact 63 Indicators 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives Financial indicators Financial indicators SALES BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA BY END MARKET SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED FIGURES € million 2015 2016 € million 2015 2016 € million 2015 2016 Americas 521.1 567.3 Automotive 333.0 318.5 Sales 1,718.2 1,779.2 Asia and Oceania 369.0 384.8 Logistics 179.2 238.7 Gross profit 377.4 383.0 Europe 511.6 570.0 Metals (aluminium and steel) 277.9 274.9 General expenses (294.1) (299.8) Middle East and Africa 316.5 257.1 Energy 364.5 375.5 Other revenue and expenses 7.4 6.5 Cement 318.5 278.0 Total 1,718.2 1,779.2 Aerospace and industry 240.0 285.2 EBITA 90.7 89.7 Holding and sourcing co. 5.1 8.4 Profit from recurring operations (EBIT) 64.0 64.1 Contribution from mature economies 58% 60% Contribution from emerging countries 42% 40% Total 1,718.2 1,779.2 EBITDA 116.0 115.6 6.7% 6.5% Operating profit 56.5 49.1 Net financial result 19.3 (13.9) Profit before tax 75.8 35.2 Net profit 55.7 4.0 Net profit (Group Share) 54.4 3.2 ORDER INTAKE BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA BY END MARKET € million 2014 2015 2016 € million 2014 2015 2016 Americas 408.7 635.9 482.0 Automotive 273.6 314.5 386.9 Asia and Oceania 360.3 364.0 328.8 Logistics 180.3 218.7 210.0 Europe 539.3 532.5 550.2 Metals (aluminium and steel) 213.1 259.2 201.0 Middle East and Africa 556.7 175.4 104.1 Energy 398.1 334.9 301.0 Cement 587.8 232.7 84.4 Total 1,865.0 1,707.8 1,465.1 Aerospace and industry 212.1 342.6 266.6 Holding and sourcing co. 5.2 15.2 Contribution from mature economies 51% 62% 64% Contribution from emerging countries 49% 38% 36% Total 1,865.0 1,707.8 1,465.1 ORDER BOOK BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA BY END MARKET € million 12.31.14 12.31.15 12.31.16 € million 12.31.14 12.31.15 12.31.16 Americas 255.3 400.9 317.0 Automotive 189.7 188.1 257.0 Asia and Oceania 344.2 359.6 312.0 Logistics 117.9 165.2 143.8 Europe 366.2 394.4 369.9 Metals (aluminium and steel) 256.1 262.2 186.6 Middle East and Africa 527.9 401.0 247.8 Energy 275.2 250.5 175.9 Cement 536.4 447.6 249.5 Total 1,493.6 1,555.9 1,246.7 Aerospace and industry 118.3 237.8 222.9 Holding and sourcing co. 4.5 11.0 Contribution from mature economies 40% 45% 47% Contribution from emerging countries 60% 55% 53% Total 1,493.6 1,555.9 1,246.7 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives + Financial MORE DETAILS report Indicators Indicators 64 65 Non-financial indicators Non-financial indicators The Group’s progress on social and environmental issues, innovation and ethics is monitored year-round 2014 2015 2016 for analysis and strategic purposes. Our reporting system is designed so that we can track progress on the Group’s initiatives and keep all Fives stakeholders informed of these changes. Employees by region The HR (social indicators) and Innovation reports cover the financial consolidation scope. Health, Safety, The Americas 22% 22% 22% Ethics and Environmental data, on the other hand, is based on headcount and activity criteria which may France 51% 52% 51% lead to differences in scope. Europe (excl. France) 16% 15% 15% Asia and Africa (including the Middle East and Australia) 11% 12% 12% Employees by business sector Aluminium 4% 10% 10% SOCIAL INDICATORS Steel 12% 11% 9% Europe Cement 9% 8% 8% The Asia and 2014 2015 2016 France excl. Energy 32% 28% 26% Americas Africa* France Logistics 5% 5% 7% Automotive 17% 16% 18% Employees 7,745 8,298 8,365 1,834 4,305 1,230 1,043 Aerospace and industry 17% 17% 19% Workforce at the end of the year from acquisitions completed in the year 65 641 60 Others 4% 4% 4% Workforce at the end of the year in companies entering the consolidated scope 1 69 7 Number of new hires (all types of contracts) 966 989 961 Skills and mobility management % of employees reviewed by the CEDRE* career management committee 54% 46% 56% Workforce by gender % of employees receiving regular appraisal interview 68% 66% 69% Percentage of men 84% 84% 84% 86% 84% 86% 78% % of employees having attended at least one training course 73% 74% 73% Percentage of women 16% 16% 16% 14% 16% 14% 22% Number of employees shared between the companies 85 126 164 Percentage of engineers and managers among women 36% 37% 39% 30% 46% 20% 32% Number of people who underwent a starter meeting** 337 470 454 Share of women in management total 14% 14% 14% * CEDRE: Career management committee (Human resources evaluation and development committee) Share of women among CEOs 2% 2% 1% ** Starter meetings: Assimilation reports completed 6 to 18 months after new hires arrive Share of women in Management Committees 13% 14% 16% Share of women managers who report directly to a management committee member 16% 15% 14% The Fives workforce remains more or less stable, with 8,365 employees at end 2016, despite the closure Number of nationalities 53 61 60 of a site in France. The increase in workforce in 2015 was, for the most part, due to acquisitions and consolidations within the Group, particularly Fives ECL and its subsidiaries. At the end of 2016, Daisho Seiki Employees by category Corporation joined the Group, increasing the workforce on the Automotive side. Engineers and managers 41% 42% 44% 41% 44% 36% 60% Technicians, designers and supervisors 24% 26% 25% 17% 32% 24% 17% Staff 11% 11% 11% 14% 7% 16% 13% For the fifth consecutive year, the proportion of women in the Group is unchanged at 16% of the workforce. Operators 22% 19% 18% 26% 15% 23% 10% However it should be noted that the proportion of women on the entities' executive boards has increased Alternates 2% 2% 2% 2% 3% 1% 0% two points to reach 16%. Employees by age range Less than 20 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% The distribution of employees by age and seniority also remains stable. With renewal efforts ongoing for From 20 to 29 14% 14% 13% 11% 14% 8% 16% several years, 37% of the workforce has less than 5 years of seniority. Nearly a third of our employees From 30 to 39 25% 26% 27% 18% 29% 21% 44% are aged 30 to 39. For several years the Group has been hiring more qualified profiles and in 2016 From 40 to 49 25% 25% 25% 18% 26% 29% 26% there was a two-point increase in the number of Engineers and Managers, to reach a total of 44%, From 50 to 59 28% 27% 27% 31% 27% 33% 12% approaching half of the total workforce, despite the integration of new companies with significant 60 and more 8% 8% 8% 22% 4% 8% 2% numbers of operators. Employees by length of service Less than 5 37% 36% 37% 37% 36% 27% 50% Significant increase of our various Human Resources management tools by the recently From 5 to 10 22% 23% 24% 17% 24% 26% 29% integrated entities saw a ten-point increase in staff reviewed by career management From 11 to 15 9% 10% 11% 7% 13% 8% 9% committees (CEDRE) and a three-point increase in employees seen at annual reviews. From 16 to 20 8% 8% 8% 6% 8% 13% 4% 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives From 21 to 25 7% 6% 6% 5% 5% 9% 4% From 26 to 30 5% 5% 6% 8% 5% 10% 2% From 31 to 35 5% 4% 3% 4% 3% 4% 1% The process of resource sharing between subsidiaries and activities further intensified, proving itself a tool From 36 to 40 5% 5% 4% 9% 4% 3% 0% for adapting to activity volumes and retaining skills within the Group: in 2016 more than 160 employees 41 and more 2% 2% 2% 6% 1% 1% 0% were made available to another subsidiary, of which more than 110 were new contracts in 2016, and 45 were 2015 hires. In France the main “source” subsidiary was Fives ECL (Aluminium) and the main “recipient” * Including the Middle East and Australia subsidiary Fives FCB (Cement). Indicators Indicators 66 67 Non-financial indicators Non-financial indicators INNOVATION INDICATORS In 2016, a decision was made not to renew the Engineered Sustainability® brand (reviewed every three years) for 2014 2015 2016 the Chamber Washer from the CentriSpray range a washer for automotive engine parts; the subsidiary chose to R&D expenditure in € million 33.1 36.21 36.7 focus on the development of robotic technology that is more suited to its current market. The Engineered Sustainability® brand awarded to the Stein Digit@l furnace AT 2.0 is currently being renewed, so there will be a Breakdown of R&D expenditure new version of this slab reheating furnace on offer in 2017. At the same time, after undergoing a stringent process, Costs of patents and trademarks 9% 9% 9% Standard design and formalization of know-how 8% 9% 11% three more products earned the internal Engineered Sustainability® brand: Lineos, a pitch fumes treatment system Continuous improvement of products and processes 27% 24% 21% located in marine terminals close to aluminium plants; CTD Flex +, a coal tar distillation for producing pitch and oils Development of new products and processes 43% 44% 46% such as carbon black; the FCB Horomill® grinding mill for its cement application. Research and radical innovation activities 12% 13% 13% Patents and trademarks The Engineered Sustainability® program also saw tools incorporating environmental aspects deployed to engineering Number of patents and patent applications in force 1,859 1,948 2,032 and design offices. The arrival of AddUp (a joint venture between Fives and Michelin) also involved an environmental Number of patent families in force 532 582 611 analysis of additive manufacturing. Number of first patent applications (new patented inventions) 53 50 45 Number of first patent applications relating to energy and environmental performance 17 11 7 Percentage of patents relating to energy and environmental performance 32% 22% 16% Number of “product” trademarks registered 113 111 126 In 2016, Fives published a White Paper on waste heat recovery in the steel, cement, aluminium and The eco-design program glass industries, showing its customers the possibilities for reducing the environmental impact of Number of products carrying the Engineered Sustainability® brand 6 9 10 their installations. Number of products currently being analyzed 10 7 6 Number of subsidiaries participating in the program 14 14 12 Percentage of eligible subsidiaries participating in the program 33% 39% 33% Number of people trained in eco-design in 2016 54 98 17 INTRODUCTION TO THE DATA BY SITE AND THE STATISTICS ON Fives Innovation Awards ENVIRONMENT/HEALTH & SAFETY/ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE Number of subsidiaries taking part in the Group Innovation Award contest 45 46 46 Percentage of Group employees invited to compete for the Group Innovation Award 82% 79% 79% Number of ideas submitted for the Group Innovation Award 407 481 528 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) reporting covered all sites with an average workforce of 10 or more in 2016 and all sites with an industrial activity. Research and test centers Number of research and test centers (*) 27 28 29 In 2016, the changes to the scope were caused by four factors: France: 17, the Americas: 6, Europe (excl. France): 4, Asia: 1 ‒ the inclusion of Fives ECL and its four subsidiaries in the aluminium sector, acquired in 2015, ‒ the inclusion of Fives Lund LLC, in the aeronautics sector, acquired in 2015, 1 Reprocessing of the 2015 data, calculated excluding subsidies and research tax credit (total value €35.5 million with subsidies included). ‒ the inclusion of Fives Landis GmbH, in the automotive sector, 2 All of the subsidiaries conducting their own R&D product testing in designated locations are counted. ‒ the removal of Fives Industries in France, in the steel sector, which ceased activity in 2016, and the merging of two Italian entities. On a like-for-like basis (excluding the acquisition of Daisho Seiki Corporation at the end of the year), the Group R&D program saw a renewed emphasis in 2016, with a 1.5 % spending increase on research and innovation. NB: unlike for HR and Finance reporting, this report does not include companies that did not conduct their The percentage of the R&D budget dedicated to new product/process development continued to grow in 2016, business within the Fives Group for the full year 2016. Daisho Seiki Corporation, the Japanese company acquired reflecting the Group's desire to offer innovative, high-performance technical solutions to its customers. during 2016 in the automotive sector, was therefore not included in the scope of CSR reporting. Fives kept up a high pace of patent registration, with 45 new inventions registered in 2016 (ranking it 32nd in CSR CROSS-SECTIONAL INDICATORS France) and several new patents lodged at the very start of 2017. The Group has a broad range of 611 patented Europe The Asia and inventions, covering all of its activities and protected by a total of 2,032 current patents in different countries. 2014 2015 2016 France excl. Americas Africa* Daisho Seiki Corporation contributed to this impressive figure with 21 inventions protected by 43 patents. The France limited number of new patents linked to equipment energy and environmental performance reflects the current Number of subsidiaries included in the scope of the CSR policy 62 59 64 14 20 15 15 climate, with manufacturers apparently less preoccupied by these topics. Subsidiaries acquired in n-1 that entered the CSR scope in n 7 1 7 2 1 1 3 Daisho Seiki Corporation also brought the number of Group research and testing centers up to 29. Subsidiaries newly included in the CSR scope 2 1 -2 -1 -1 Total number of sites 92 98 102 20 42 19 21 Industrial sites 37 38 41 13 15 8 5 Good results for the 2016 Innovation competition, with a 10% increase in the number of ideas Offices 29 31 32 4 13 5 10 submitted, confirm that the contest has become a major annual event for the Group. All employees, Combined sites, test centers and regional facilities 26 29 29 3 14 6 6 whatever their position, feel empowered to make suggestions to improve our products, processes and methods, thereby contributing to Fives' reputation for innovation, among both customers and Management system Number of sites with ISO 9001 certification 56 61 69 12 34 15 8 stakeholders. 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives Number of sites with pending ISO 9001 certification 7 7 4 1 3 The roll-out of the Engineered Sustainability® eco-design program, an innovation process which aims to optimize Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) community the environmental and operational performance of Fives' products, continued in 2016 with the selection of Group Number of Group HSE representatives 58 59 60 products with a strong environmental impact and which are strategic for the Group's markets. EY audited the Number of Group HSE auditors 15 20 21 program and issued a certificate of insurance in October 2013. Number of Group HSE audits conducted 21 20 18 Percentage of companies audited (cumulative) 79% 81% 73% Indicators Indicators * Including the Middle East and Australia 68 69 Non-financial indicators Non-financial indicators Fives' most recent acquisitions have again increased the proportion of industrial sites in the Group, bringing it 2016 was marked by the first increase in our Group lost-time accident frequency rate since 2009, and by two up to 40%. These are divided almost half and half between North America and France. fatal accidents at our worksites, involving in one case a Group subcontractor in India, and in the other, a Group customer subcontractor in Mexico. The reduction in proportion of audited companies follows from the relative increase in service subsidiaries, which These tragic events took place when actions were in hand to re-shape the Group's ambition in this area for are local to the customers and are monitored and included in the health and safety program in a different way 2020, since 2016 was the final year of the program set out in 2013. The targets set, to halve the 2012 to their parent companies. frequency rate over the period, were met, thanks to the commitment and collective effort of the Group companies. Nevertheless, the declining performances of late 2016 lead Fives to remotivate its teams on both field-based people and the management and executives. ETHICS INDICATORS 2014 2015 2016 In 2017, actions will mainly focus on defining the Group Safety ambition for 2020 (and the Number of subsidiaries which have trained its management committee to Business Ethics 0 5 5 associated strategic actions) and on the proper deployment and reinforcement of the initiatives launched in 2016: Code of conduct ‒ Group Safety Golden Rules to significantly and durably lower the number of severe accidents, Number of languages into which the Group Code of conduct has been translated 13 13 13 Percentage of companies in which the Code of conduct has been distributed 87 % 88% 97 % ‒ training for management teams on Field Safety Observation and Dialog visits, to develop a Percentage of employees accounted for by these companies 76 % 84% 94 % shared culture of vigilance. Percentage of subsidiaries that hold an annual presentation of the Code of conduct involving at least 25% of the workforce 16 % 10 % 22 % Specific actions will also target the workshops. Proportionally, the number of lost-time accidents has risen back to 2014 levels. They are less severe, however, than those taking place on worksites (which are rarer but more severe). In 2016, the business ethics program roll-out has concentrated on conducting risk analysis for each major activity sector, so as to scale the actions to be implemented for prevention and training. To that These actions, supported by safety performance oversight at the highest level, should enable the Group end, the training program for executive committees was put aside and restarted in 2017. A new awareness to turn a corner in terms of safety culture and ultimately seek to lower the accident rate. session did however take place during a dedicated meeting for the Group's 30 key directors at the end of 2016. ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS The various initiatives implemented by the Group on business ethics have meant improved The Europe Asia and distribution of the Code of conduct, as well as its effective presentation to teams. 2014 2015 2016 France Americas excl. France Africa* Number of sites with ISO 14001 certification (all types of sites) 31 37 42 9 18 7 8 Objective of ISO 14001 certification for industrial sites HEALTH & SAFETY INDICATORS Industrial sites 37 38 41 13 15 8 5 Number of industrial sites with ISO 14001 certification 25 28 30 9 12 6 3 2014 2015 2016 Number of industrial sites with ISO 14001 certification in progress 3 6 6 1 2 3 0 Percentage of industrial sites with ISO 14001 certification 68 % 74 % 73% 69% 80% 75% 60% Number of industrial sites 37 38 41 ISO 14001 certification for other types of sites Number of sites with safety certification* 22 25 29 (offices, combined sites, test centers, regional facilities) Number of non-industrial sites with ISO 14001 certification 6 9 12 0 6 1 5 Number of sites engaged in safety certification 5 4 5 Percentage of non-industrial sites certified 11% 15% 20% 0% 22% 9% 31% Percentage of industrial sites with safety certification 30 % 32 % 32 % Environmental management system Percentage of subsidiaries having written and distributed a Health & Safety Policy 79 % 83 % 89 % Percentage of sites that have written and distributed Number of FTE(1) Health & Safety staff in the Group 50,7 53,0 61,3 an Environment policy 61% 64% 71% 60% 76% 89% 52% Accident statistics (employees + temporary employees) Number of FTE** Environment staff in the Group 20.8 20.0 21.1 3.5 10.31 4.0 3.4 Number of severe accidents** NA 5 7 Energy consumption in GWh Number of which were fatal 0 1 0 Electricity consumption in GWh 65.2 63.0 66.3 29.2 22.6 7.2 7.4 Natural gas and heating oil consumption in GWh 61.6 62.2 65.7 32.4 22.6 9.9 0.8 Number of lost-time accidents (≥1 day) 77 55 64 Total energy consumption in GWh 126.8 125.2 131.9 61.6 45.2 17.0 8.1 Percentage of lost-time accidents occurring on customer/subcontractor sites 31 % 42 % 23 % Energy consumption in €000 Percentage of lost-time accidents occurring in workshops 64 % 45 % 64 % Electricity consumption in €000 5,857 6,451 6,243 2,496 2,028 921 799 Percentage of lost-time accidents occurring in offices 5% 7% 9% Natural gas and heating oil consumption in €000 2,140 2,124 2,064 525 1,059 437 43 Percentage of lost-time accidents occurring on business trips 0% 5% 3% Total energy consumption in €000 7,997 8,575 8,307 3,021 3,087 1,358 842 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives Lost-time accident frequency rate 5.36 3.91 4.26 Water consumption (Number of lost-time accidents (≥1 day) x 1,000,000 / Number of hours worked) Water consumption (industrial sites) in m3 83,816 89,316 97,405 39,926 26,571 11,666 19,242 Severity rate Water consumption (industrial sites) in €000 178 213 261 142 70 39 10 (Number of lost-time accidents (≥1 day) x 1,000 / Number of hours worked) 0.207 0.135 0.166 (1) FTE: Full-Time Equivalent * Including the Middle East and Australia * OHSAS 18001 or MASE (“Manuel d’Amélioration Sécurité des Entreprises”) certifications (Corporate Safety Improvement Manual), French ** FTE: Full-Time Equivalent safety management system Indicators Indicators ** Severe accidents: Accidents which could have severe reversible or irreversible consequences, or which could cause death (monitored from January 2015) 70 71 Non-financial indicators Non-financial indicators The increase in number of sites certified ISO 14001 continues in 2016, although the proportion of industrial sites with the certification is slightly down. This is explained by the addition of two non-certified industrial sites to the scope this year, as well as the closure of one industrial site that was certified ISO 14001. The percentage of non-industrial sites certified is however clearly up (reaching 20% in 2016), as is the proportion of sites with a written and distributed Environmental policy, which now stands at 71% (for all site-types). This reflects the drive for environmental performance within the Group: environmental management systems are now being voluntarily implemented and are making it possible to go beyond the certification targets set for industrial sites. The revised ISO 14001, which all the concerned subsidiaries must adopt by 2018, is also an opportunity for synergy between quality and environment systems, and to promote eco-design; the latter is now an integral part of the standard. Joint efforts will be made with the Innovation Department to support the subsidiaries in this transformation. The Group's energy consumption was up 5% in 2016. This increase, which involves both electricity and fossil fuels, is directly linked to the integration of new companies into the scope. With energy prices down, and thanks to the impact North America has on the Group's energy consumption, this increase in volume has not led to a corresponding increase in the Group's energy bill. Like-for-like, the Group's energy consumption has remained virtually stable in volume. As with energy, the 9% increase in water consumption in 2016 is explained by the addition of new companies to the scope of the report. Unlike energy, this increase is felt in the Group's water bill; water prices are up overall in all geographic regions. 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives Indicators Indicators 72 73 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact FIVES ADOPTED GOOD PRACTICES ON ALL KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMS WELL ON SEVERAL LESS MATERIAL STAKES Fives’ ESG performances* 2. CSR strategy and risk management Good + 5. Diversity and equal opportunities 14. Relations with communities 3. Social policy and strategy 7. Social dialogue 4. 6. 8. Human resources management Health and safety Environmental policy and EMS PROGRESS ON DEPLOYMENT OF THE GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL 13. Responsibility towards clients practices RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAM 1. Governing bodies Since 2012, a yearly assessment of the progress done by the Group in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility is being carried out. This, has enable Fives to improve its actions taken during 2016 and to set annual goals for 2017. ≈ Average 9. Energy and emissions 10. Water 11. Waste practices 12. Purchasing process and The firm Indefi has also assessed the Group’s corporate social responsibility process annually since 2013. This of sector responsibility towards suppliers analysis is based on a materiality matrix (facing). Their findings provide information to the Group for talks about priorities and determinations to make across the whole corporate social responsibility program. No formalization Source: Indefi / weak practices The following table (see pages 76-79) details the overall progress made by the corporate social responsibility program of the Group and how that progress relates to the commitment made by Fives to respect and promote the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Materiality level** Their correlation with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact is indicated by “GC 1” (Global Compact 1) for Low Medium High the program that corresponds to Principle 1 of the United Nations Global Compact, and so on, as detailed below: * Governance, social and environmental performance ENVIRONMENTAL AND RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING ** Materiality level: Material topics for an organization should include those topics that have a direct STAKES ARE MANAGED IN LINE or indirect impact on an organization’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental WITH THE PRACTICES OF THE SECTOR and social value for itself, its stakeholders and society at large (source Global Reporting Initiative GRI) Human Rights GC 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and GC 2. Ensure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. External evaluation by Indefi The evaluation conducted by Indefi was based on documents, questionnaires and interviews that were used to balance Labor out the evaluation guidelines Fives applies and to measure Fives’ performance against these guidelines. GC 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association The materiality matrix above provides an overview of these two working strategies: and the effective recognition of the right to collective ‒ On the x-axis, materiality reflects the significance of each topic in relation to Fives’ business (according to the bargaining; Global Reporting Initiative(1), these are “topics that have a direct or indirect impact on an organization’s ability GC 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory to create, preserve or erode [...] value for itself, its stakeholders and society at large”) labor; ‒ On the y-axis, Environmental and Social performance and Governance (ESG) pertains to Fives’ ability to GC 5. The effective abolition of child labor; and understand these topics. GC 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of “ We must act with social and civic responsibility employment and occupation. According to Indefi, the key areas of social responsibility for Fives are part of the following Fives programs (detailed everywhere in the world and in all our activities. on pages 76-79): Environment 2. CSR strategy and risk management: Good practices / Embed the CSR priorities into the organization of each The United Nations Global Compact is a good GC 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach Fives entity way to regularly reassess this commitment and to environmental challenges; 4. Human resources management and 6. Health & safety: Good practices / Provide a safe and motivating provide official accountability for our actions. ” GC 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and workplace 8. Environmental policy and Environmental Management System (EMS): Good practices / Environmental Frédéric Sanchez, Chairman of the Executive Board GC 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of ISO 14001 certification program environmentally friendly technologies. 13. Responsibility towards clients: Good practices / Engineered Sustainability® eco-design program 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives Anti-corruption GC 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Indicators (1)  Indicators The Global Reporting Initiative is an organization that advocates for the standardization of sustainable development reporting practices to encourage the use of best practices and comparisons of organizations. 74 75 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact Co Level Co Level mm mm itm Program Achievements at end-2016 2017 goals of maturity itm Program Achievements at end-2016 2017 goals of maturity en en at end-2016 t at end-2016 t Engineered Sustainability® 3 products branded in 2016 (Lineos, Renew the brand for the Fives Stein Business ethics Conduct risk analysis for each Organize deployment of the Internal eco-design program a pitch fumes treatment system Digital Furnace Advantek 2.0 (put Intensify the program on major activity sector, so as to scale program according to the priorities which meets (and exceeds) located in marine terminals close to back one year), as well as the corruption prevention and the actions to be implemented for identified by activity sector risk the requirements of the ISO aluminium plants; CTD Flex +, a coal other products with expiry in 2017. anti-competition practices. prevention and training. analyses carried out in 2016: 14062 standard. tar distillation for producing pitch Continue with the program, GC 10 Carry out a dedicated awareness training, reviews of local It’s an innovation process that and oils such as carbon black; the redesigning and attributing the session dedicated for the Group's procedures. can lead to the award of FCB Horomill® grinding mill for its brand to new products. 30 senior managers. Reviews of procedures for agent a brand identifying best-in-class cement application), making a total Deploy tools incorporating management (contracting, Promoting fair practices on the marketplace products in terms of of 10 products in all. environmental elements oversight, renewal). environmental and safety 6 products being analyzed. to technical offices. Responsible purchasing Finalize the global purchasing self Start deploying purchasing self performance. 33 % of the eligible subsidiaries are Strategic study by consultants Incorporate our social assessment tool, including HSE and assessment (pilot schemes). EY awarded this program an involved in this program. Carbone 4, on the impact of a 2°C responsibility goals into ethics dimensions. Establish framework for a standard insurance certificate in 2013. 1 product is not renewing the label: warming scenario on Fives' end our relations with subcontractors Improvement in subsidiary adoption procedure for how best to GC 8 GC 9 the CentriSprayTM Chamber Washer. markets: risks and opportunities in and suppliers. of broad HSE and CSR criteria in incorporate Reach regulations at Minimizing the environmental footprint Publication of a White Paper on terms of technological disruption GC 1 – GC 2 – GC 3 – selecting subcontractors (from 15 to the Group level, following the 2016 waste heat recovery in the Steel, and business models. GC 4 – GC 5 22%). pilot. Cement, Aluminium and Glass Set up a central system for third industries, presenting solutions for party information. reducing the energy loss and environmental impact of our Promote social responsibility EcoVadis rating: stable rating at Continue with the mechanism that customers' installations. in our commercial offer Confirmed (Gold), 71/100, in the has been in place for several of the Group and its customers Figure out how to make social top 2% of 20,000 companies years. and environmental impacts part rated by EcoVadis at end 2016. Strengthen sales team involvement Group energy and environmental Set up an environment committee 4 industrial sites should achieve of the offer and the CSR Provide a document with figures in the 2020 safety roadmap. management program bringing together the Innovation, ISO 14001 certification by the end performance levels for Fives and key events for sales staff. Support Group performance CSR and Purchasing departments. of 2017. and every subsidiary part of improvement. At end December 2016, 42 sites Support, through 2017 and 2018, the sales pitch. GC 7 GC 8 were ISO 14001 certified, 30 of the ISO 14001 certified subsidiaries GC 9 them industrial sites subject to the in transitioning to the new version Group's mandatory certification of the standard (2015 version), in Safety roadmap The target set in 2013 was met Frame the Group's Safety program (73% of industrial sites, coordination with the Innovation Move the Group towards in 2016 on a like-for-like basis: ambitions for 2017-2020 (and the Providing a safe and motivating working environment slightly down because of changes department so that the principles a safety culture shared by all. frequency rate less than 4 for associated strategic actions within to the scope). of eco-design are properly In three years, halve the this scope. the Group, activities and Commitment to environmental and assimilated. accident frequency rate for However, 2016 saw the first companies). energy issues observed, beyond Build a global improvement plan employees and temporary staff, increase in the Group lost-time Strengthen tools and Group actions the framework set by the Group: for Fives sites energy with the ultimate goal remaining accident frequency rate since launched in 2016, in particular: 71% of the 102 Group sites have performance. zero severe accidents. 2009: 4.26 compared to 3.91 in * Group Safety Golden Rules an Environmental policy. Our aim is to reach a maximum 2015. It is deplorable that in 2016 * Training management teams for accident frequency rate of 4 in a subcontractor suffered a fatal the Field Safety Observation and 2016 for employees and accident on a Steel worksite in Dialog visits. Fives Code of conduct Group actions on business ethics Continue building awareness, temporary staff. India, and there were 7 severe Launch actions for: Promoting fair practices on the marketplace Adoption of the Code of in 2016 have increased the with the new gifts and hospitality accidents overall. * increasing activity safety in Fives conduct by all employees by: subsidiaries' assimilation of principles. Group Safety Golden Rules workshops, Distributing it to all employees the Code of conduct: deployed to all activities. * monitoring Fives subcontractor Writing a reading guide for the The Code of conduct has become Field Safety Observation and Dialog safety (workshops and worksites) Code of conduct, and practical a real vehicle for discussion within visits deployed in Europe and and their involvement in the Group examples to train all Group the Group, beyond the integration North America. safety process. 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives managers, to feed into an of new employees. annual discussion of the Code 97% of the companies have in each team. distributed the Code of conduct to GC 10 their employees (up 9 points on 2015). Indicators Indicators 76 Topic non identified Emergent In construction Defined, with deployment in progress Fully and satisfactorily deployed 77 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact Co Level Co Level mm mm itm Program Achievements at end-2016 2017 goals of maturity itm Program Achievements at end-2016 2017 goals of maturity en at end-2016 en at end-2016 t t Promoting diversity and raising Gender equality Continue monitoring initiatives Develop an anticipatory Highlight the human resource Perpetuate and systematize awareness of non-discrimination Renegotiate intergenerational in favor of young people, gender strategy on jobs and challenges associated with the strategic HR reviews. Gender equality: Tracking of the agreements in France. equality and diversity. organizations at each company strategic positioning of each percentage of women hired, 16% of employees are women. Develop this strategy with activity, as part of the strategic access to training and 39% of women are engineers or a 5-step program: reviews initiated in 2015. promotion; awareness raised of managers. Define the company strategy. discriminatory practices. Seniors Determine the business goals Employment of older people: 35% of employees are 50 or over. and the operational goals. Tracking of the agreement on 40% of employees have been with Identify the skills required to older people signed in France. the Group for over 10 years achieve these goals. However, the over-50s (15 % for over 25 years). Qualify the existing positions employment rate is high, and Training in the company and the Providing a safe and motivating working environment the challenge for Fives in many Carry out training against sexual associated required skills. of its subsidiaries is to transfer harassment at all Indian Analyse the shortfall and build know-how. subsidiaries. action plans. Employment of disabled people: Awareness-raising campaign Maintenance of know-how and The process of resource sharing Continue with the system. since 2012 and sharing of best employment within the Group between subsidiaries and activities practices. Process existing in France since further intensified: in the 2016 GC 6 2009. semester alone, more than 135 Harmonization of the employee Strengthen Group policy on social Study for additional cover in Sharing meetings held two or employees were made available welfare protection regime benefits. Mexico, Thailand and Indonesia. three times a year, to review to another subsidiary, of which 90 the workloads/under-loads and were new contracts in 2016, and Providing a safe and motivating working environment Harmonize and challenge the Improve cover in India and China. Harmonization study for the employee welfare protection Innovative remote consultation Canadian and Chinese systems. make staff allocation decisions, 45 were 2015 hires. regime in the main domains solution set up in France. Modify health cost plans in the ranging from several weeks to where the Group has a United States. several months. presence. Harmonize death-when-traveling cover for the US subsidiaries. World employee opinion survey Employee work groups set up in Topics most often fed back to be An opinion survey conducted each subsidiary to put together included in the Group training among all Group employees improvement action plans for plan. Identification and management 56% of employees undergo a Fully digital “Fives&Me” HR every three years, designed to identified weaknesses. of employees with potential career management review with a management system set up, which measure satisfaction levels and Satisfaction micro-surveys carried (CEDRE) “CEDRE” committee including at will facilitate and modernize the any organizational out within subsidiaries to measure Annual career management least one member of the Fives use of career management tools malfunctions, and which gives the impact of the action plans committee in each subsidiary, human resources department. within the Group. rises to the implementation of implemented. attended by the management Significant take-up of our human action plans proposed by team and a Human resource management tools by the employee bodies. Resources representative, to: recently integrated entities saw a Determine which measures ten-point increase in staff reviewed need to be taken to improve by career management Distribute best practices Support for subsidiaries that have Initiate the update to the Directives employee performance. committees (CEDRE) and a and Group Directives recently joined the Group in and Guidelines Manual to reflect Incorporating CSR priorities into Approve personal career three-point increase in employees Compilation of Directives and implementing the Directives (Italy changes to the organization and in plans. seen at annual reviews. Guidelines covering all Group and North America). particular clarify the role of Specific support system set up for jobs, linked to internal control Country Management and activity future leaders of Fives. rules. divisions. GC1 to GC10 Training and career path Fives Leadership Factory: Continue with the Fives Leadership the organization of all Fives entities 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives 2017 Report | #2016 financial year | Fives support for promising 21 individuals benefited from the Factory program and the Starter employees LeadershipRise@Fives program meeting and Career booster New employee programs in 2016. programs in all regions. Ongoing training. 216 individuals took the Digital learning platform set up Manager@Fives program in Italy, for the entire Group. France, the United States and China. Launch of BusinessManagement@Fives: first session held in June for 25 attendees. Indicators Indicators Continue with the Starter meeting and Career booster programs in all regions. 78 Topic non identified Emergent In construction Defined, with deployment in progress Fully and satisfactorily deployed 79 Fives French limited company (Société Anonyme) with Executive Board and Supervisory Board Share capital €102,723,764 Registered office: 3 rue Drouot, 75009 Paris (France) 542 023 841 R.C.S. PARIS – APE 7010Z Phone: +33 (0)1 45 23 75 75 Fax: +33 (0)1 45 23 75 71 E-mail : contact@fivesgroup.com www.fivesgroup.com Edited by the Communications Department of Fives This document is printed on Condat Silk, certified PEFC (Pan European Forest Certification) paper, Created by Le Square: +33 (0)1 45 06 56 44 guaranteeing the long-lasting management of forests. Photography: Fives, Le Square Inks used are plant-based, with an alcohol-free Copyright © 2017 Fives All right reserved dampening solution. www.fivesgroup.com
