COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Stockholm 2017-04-03 Statement by the CEO I am pleased to confirm that Investor reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption. Investor is committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and daily operations. In our Communication on Progress report, Investor documents the progress within Investor as well as our major holdings. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders, using our primary channels of communications. Johan Forssell President and Chief Executive Officer Investor AB Sustainable business Investor firmly believes that focus on sustainability is a prerequisite for creating long-term value. Companies that are best-in-class when it comes to operating in a sustainable way, will be able to provide superior products and services, and to recruit the best employees, thereby outperforming competitors in the long-term. Investor has a long tradition of being a responsible owner, and in our internal policies for Anti-Corruption, Sustainability company and employer. To maintain the right to exist in the and Whistleblowing. Investor’s Code of Conduct can be found long-term, companies need to work on managing their resources on our website, www.investorab.com. and focus on continuous improvement, as productivity is key Every employee and other company representatives are to maintain a competitive advantage in a dynamic business expected to comply with our policies. In order to inform the environment. organization about our internal rules, regular trainings are held and all documentation is available on Investor’s intranet. Our sustainability work as company and employer Investor’s internal regulations are monitored and updated when As a company, we continuously work to improve our social, needed, at least annually. environmental and economic impact. We aim to set a good example for our companies. Materiality assessment As an employer, we focus on providing a best-in-class working During the fall 2016, Investor conducted an in-depth materiality environment where respect for each individual and ethical behavassessment. Investor’s most significant sustainability issues were ior is key. This enables us to recruit and retain the best talents. identified and prioritized via analyzes, ongoing dialogs and interviews with our employees and external stakeholders. Guidelines and policies Investor’s most relevant stakeholders are, among others, We are fully committed to the highest standards of corporate shareholders, portfolio companies, employees, partners, media governance and we support the UN Global Compact and the and society as a whole, as they affect how well Investor perform OECD guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. It is of the highest from an economic, environmental and social perspective. The importance that we always comply with legislations and assessment is based on Investor’s investing activities and our regulations. impact as an owner is covered in the aspects of “Active ownerInvestor’s Board of Directors, in cooperation with the ship in sustainable business models” and “Indirect influence on ­Management Group, has formulated an internal framework for sustainability related issues”. how Investor should act as a responsible owner, company and The result from the assessment is used to further pinpoint our employer. These topics are addressed in our Code of Conduct sustainability priorities and reporting going forward. Priority High priority The matrix illustrates Investor’s main sustainability priorities and below is High Business F inancial strength ethics & long term return a description of our highest priorities. Indirect economic influence • Financial strength and long-term return: Sustainable business to create Indirect influence on long-term value. sustainability related issues • Business ethics: Ethical business conduct and prevention of unethical Corporate governance Importance to stakeholders Tax behavior, corruption and bribery. Equality & Active ownership in diversity sustainable business • Indirect economic influence: Investor’s contribution to employment, models growth, wealth, research, innovation and development. Transparency • Active ownership in sustainable business models: As owners, we stress the importance of sustainable business models, customer benefit, Due diligence processes and innovation in the portfolio companies. sustainability evaluation • Corporate governance: Corporate governance matters, such as board Attract & keep talents /talent management independence, competence and compensation, are handled in an adequate and transparent manner. Direct environmental impact, including climate change • Indirect influence on sustainability related issues: As owners, we have an active dialog with the portfolio companies regarding the management of Medium Suppliers & advisors sustainability issues and risks, such as the impact on the climate and environment, health, safety, bribery and corruption, as well as human rights. Medium High Influence on Investors business success I N V E S TO R 2016 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T – S u s t a i n a b l e b u s i n e s s 9 Our sustainability work as an owner Company specific focus areas During the year, Investor developed a more structured approach A sustainability section has been included in each of our listed to sustainability as a long-term, responsible and active owner, as core investments’ value creation plans, with an overview of the this is where we have the most impact. Our most important consustainability performance, our view and two to three company tribution is when our companies improve their competitiveness, specific focus areas. All companies have different focus areas by for example developing innovative products and services that depending on the risks and opportunities that are relevant for reduce energy and water consumption, as well as improving their business. Examples of focus areas are continued focus on waste management and human conditions. innovation, energy efficiency and diversity. We have high expectations on our companies’ sustainability The company specific focus areas are presented annually to efforts, guided by our sustainability guidelines and the company Investor’s Board of Directors, and we communicate the plan at specific focus areas. least annually to the chairpersons and encourage him or her to discuss it with the rest of the board. Investor’s sustainability guidelines Investor’s sustainability guidelines describe our basic expectations Continuous follow-up which are applicable to all our companies. We expect them to; Investor considers sustainability matters in all of our investing • act responsibly and in an ethical manner, activities. Through the annual Investor sustainability question• comply with local and national legislation in each country naire, sent out to all portfolio companies for a self-assessment of operation, of their sustainability work, we follow-up and monitor our sus• continuously improve social, environmental and economic tainability guidelines. impact, Our analysts support and monitor the development continu• analyze risks, formulate objectives and to have adequate ously and the company specific focus areas are monitored processes to manage and monitor sustainability risks, through the same process and principles as for the value • sign and adhere to the UN Global Compact and its ten creation plans as a whole, i.e. through our board work. principles as well as the OECD guidelines for If a serious sustainability related issue occurs in Multinational Enterprises, one of our companies, the business team is • in an appropriate form, transparently responsible for raising the matter report sustainability objectives, internally within Investor and for risks and progress, INVESTOR’S monitoring the steps the company • encourage and SUSTAINABILITY GUIDELINES takes to address the issue. The promote diversity in the Describe our nine basic expectations, business team is also responorganizations, applicable to all our companies. sible for reporting the pro• have an active cess and actions taken to dialog with stakerelevant people within ess oppo COMPANY SPECIFIC holders such as b usin r tu Investor. Investor’s board REPORTING te n FOCUS AREAS suppliers and representatives are a iti Cr e es Our sustainability work Are included in the value trading partners, is included in our Long-term, creation plan for each listed responsible to ensure and Annual Report, on responsible and core investment and vary that relevant actions are our website and in the active owner depending on each • have a secure Communication of Progress company’s opportunities being made within the reporting channel (UN Global Compact). Re and challenges. company. du s ts ce r i co (whistle­blowing) in sk s and place. CONTINUOUS FOLLOW-UP Through a sustainability questionnaire, we annually monitor our sustainability guidelines, and the company specific focus areas are monitored by our analysts on an ongoing basis and reported annually to the Investor Board of Directors. We compile the companies’ sustainability work in an internal index, to evaluate, monitor and develop our companies long-term. 10 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T – S u s t a i n a b l e b u s i n e s s I N V E S TO R 2016 Progress of Investor’s sustainability approach based on UN Global Compact For more information regarding our companies’ sustainability work, please visit their websites. HUMAN RIGHTS LABOR Investor supports the UN Global Compact and its ten principles Investor shall ensure compliance with labor and employment as well as the OECD guidelines on Multinational Enterprises. We laws, including working hours. Furthermore, the right to collecalso support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights. tive bargaining is recognized at Investor. An employee no Investor expects all our companies to continuously improve discrimination policy is included in Investor’s Code of Conduct. their work with human rights. Violations connected to discrimination must be reported to the closest manager, HR or through our whistleblower system. Actions in 2016 – examples from our companies Investor expects all our companies to continuously improve • Mölnlycke has implemented a company-wide global trade policy which, labor and working conditions. among others, includes the handling of trade restrictions and workers’ rights, and is formed in line with the UN Guiding principles on Human Actions in 2016 – examples from our companies Rights. During 2016, the policy was implemented and 90 percent of the • ABB arranged its third annual safety week under the theme ‘Living our employees in the selected target groups have attended training. The story safely’. Core modules included a Safety observation tour, Safety implementation process will continue the coming year and include annual disciplines, and Communication for safety. In total, more than 160,000 training, monitoring and audits, to ensure compliance with the policy. employees attended 4,500 sessions during the week. • Permobil continued its work to make sure that the high standards included • Aleris’s conducted a “we-learning” (e-learning for groups) program during in the company’s Code of Conduct, are spread throughout the organization 2016, in order to increase the awareness of its ethical guidelines and proand that Permobil’s suppliers live up to the standards, for instance by vide an understanding of how to interact in accordance with Aleris’ values, ensuring that the supply agreements contain appropriate requirements vision and business concept. The program clarifies the connection between regarding human rights, environmental, and working safety issues and the ethical guidelines and the employee’s everyday work. Overall, 5,200 business conduct. answers were received and the feedback indicates that the program • Sobi is actively working to increase access to rare disease treatment in contributed to increased awareness. developing countries, both through raising awareness as well as through • SEB introduced a global health index based on the questions in the bridging programs and humanitarian donations. By year end 2016, Sobi, employee survey Insight. This is the first global tool to measure the workin partnership with Bioverativ, had donated 203 million units of Elocta and ing environment and health at both the divisional and national level. At Alprolix – enabling the treatment of 11,000 people in 40 countries by group level, the index was 81 in 2016. Going forward, this will be an addressing 12,500 bleeds and almost 700 surgeries. The percentage of important tool to further identify health and work environment related children who receive treatment trough the donation program in these changes and needs among employees in the organization. countries has doubled. ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Investor’s direct environmental impact is limited, but we actively It is of the highest importance that Investor and its companies strive to avoid increasing our carbon footprint. Investor carbonadhere to and comply with all given legislations and regulations offsets all flights, which corresponds to approximately 75 percent as well as setting a bar for how to act and behave in society – of Investor’s carbon footprint, and in accordance with the EU always with the highest ethics. Energy Efficiency Directive and Swedish law, Investor and its conInvestor expects all our companies to continuously improve solidated subsidiaries report and analyze energy use. The analyses their work against corruption and bribery. will result in proposed actions to reduce energy usage further. Investor expects all of its companies to continuously reduce Actions in 2016 – examples from our companies the environmental impact and to encourage their stakeholders, • Atlas Copco updated the Business Code of Practice training for white such as suppliers and trading partners, to meet the same expeccollar employees and completed the training package for blue collar workers. The training describes the importance of the Business Code of tations. Practice, how it is used and how to report violations of the code. It is a class-room training with interactive discussion about cases covering Actions in 2016 – examples from our companies issues such as corruption, human rights, health and safety. • Husqvarna has committed to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions intensity • BraunAbility was acquired by Investor in 2015 and since then, the sustainby 10 percent across the company’s value chain by 2020 and the absolute ability focus within the company has increased. Among other things, an greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced by 33 percent by 2035, both Anti-Corruption policy was approved by its Board of Directors, and trainfrom a base year of 2015. The company also decided to allow an indepening and implementation will continue during the following year. dent party to review the goals, and in December 2016 the goals were • Saab has revised and updated its internal regulations regarding gifts and approved by the Science-Based Target Initiative. representation, and sponsorship and social commitment. The company has • Vectura implemented a sustainability policy which states that new conalso, alongside the regular training program, organized special training in structions and redevelopment shall achieve set climate and environmental anti-corruption for its Board of Directors and for the purchasing function. targets. For example, the share of renewable energy and renewable materials should be increased and digital solutions should be implemented to reduce climate impact. • Wärtsilä 31 is recognized by Guinness World Records as the world’s most efficient 4-stroke diesel engine. It is the first of a new generation of medium speed engines, designed to set a new benchmark in efficiency and overall emissions performance. The launch of the Wärtsilä 31 introduces a 4-stroke engine having the best fuel economy of any engine in its class. At the same time, it maintains outstanding performance across the complete operating range. Its modular design enables a significant reduction in maintenance time and costs, thereby improving power availability and reducing the need for spare parts. I N V E S TO R 2016 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T – S u s t a i n a b l e b u s i n e s s 11
