Sysmex Sustainability Report 2017 Contents 1 Contents 35 Society 35 Resolution of Medical Issues through Products and 2 Corporate Philosophy, Core Behaviors Services 48 Responsible Provision of Products and Services 3 Message from the Chairman and CEO 70 Realization of an Attractive Workplace 5 Sysmex and Its Relations with Society 98 Respect for Human Rights 102 Corporate Citizenship Activities 9 Highlight 1： Resolution of Medical Issues through 118 Environment Products and Services 118 Environmental Consideration Aiming for a Society 149 Governance in Which All People Receive 149 Corporate Governance Appropriate Health Care 150 Compliance 166 Risk Management 13 Highlight 2： 169 External Evaluation Realization of an Attractive Workplace Embracing Diversity and 175 Fiscal 2016 Performance Data Creating a Culture of Innovation 175 Mid-Term CSR Plan (Fiscal 2016 Results) 177 Social Data 17 Management and CSR 183 Environmental Data 17 Long-Term Management Targets, Mid-Term Management Plan 195 Governance Data 21 CSR Management 197 Corporate Information/ Editorial Policy/ 34 The UN Global Compact Information Available on the Website -1Sysmex Group Corporate Philosophy Sysmex Way Mission Shaping the advancement of healthcare. Value We continue to create unique and innovative values, while building trust and confidence. Mind With passion and flexibility, we demonstrate our individual competence and unsurpassed teamwork. Our Core Behaviors To our Customers We deliver reassurance to our customers, through unmatched quality, advanced technologies,superior support, and actions that consistently reflect the viewpoint of our customers. We constantly look out for our customers’ true needs, and seek to generate new solutions to satisfy those needs. To our Employees We honor diversity, respect the individuality of each employee, and provide them with a workplace where they can realize their full potential. We value the spirit of independence and challenge, provide employees with opportunities for self-fulfillment and growth, and reward them for their accomplishments. To our Business Partners We deliver commitment to our client companies through broad-ranging partnerships. We strive to be a company that can grow in step with our trade partners, through respect and mutual trust. To our Shareholders Our shareholders can rest assured that we will continue to improve the soundness and transparency of our management policies, while promoting information disclosure and close communications. We commit ourselves to a consistent yet innovative style of management, in order to achieve sustainable growth and increased shareholder value. To Society We carry out our business in strict compliance with laws and regulations, as well as in adherence to high ethical standards. As a responsible member of society, we play an active role in resolving environmental issues and other problems that impact our society today. -2Message from the Chairman and CEO By fulfilling the “Sysmex Way,” we are working to realize a sustainable society. Aiming to Resolve the quality of life (QOL) among patients and other people who wish to be healthy, and we have striven to generate Healthcare Issues Society Faces testing technologies to lighten the burden on In line with our mission of “shaping the advancement of professionals at medical institutions. In the field of in healthcare,” which is defined in the “Sysmex Way,” the vitro diagnostics, we currently provide products, services corporate philosophy of the Sysmex Group, Sysmex works and support in more than 190 countries and regions to contribute to the development of healthcare and the throughout the world. healthy lives of people. With a view toward the realization of genomic medicine*1, In recent years, advanced countries have been since fiscal 2016 RIKEN GENESIS CO., LTD., has been a characterized by rapidly aging populations and consolidated subsidiary which possesses advanced increasingly diverse healthcare needs, including technologies and expertise in areas such as the analysis of personalized medicine, while emerging markets have been genetic information. We are also conducting R&D aimed at marked by medical infrastructure developments and a the creation of next-generation diagnostic drugs that will rising quality of healthcare in line with economic make possible the early diagnosis and selection of development and population growth. Meanwhile, in treatment methods for dementia—a pressing issue in addition to being affected by the three leading infectious aging societies—and regular confirmation of the effects of diseases—HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria—developing treatment. At the same time, we are performing R&D on countries have been facing various other types of new diagnostic drugs that employ glycosylation markers*2 infectious diseases, such as Ebola hemorrhagic fever. As a for the early detection and treatment monitoring of result, the healthcare environment is undergoing dramatic diseases originating from chronic hepatitis. Furthermore, changes. International institutions, governments and as a global company we are endeavoring to raise the level companies must work together to address these issues. of healthcare in emerging markets and developing The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by countries and develop technologies useful in diagnosing the United Nations in September 2015, set 17 common malaria—one of the three most deadly infectious diseases. goals for the international community in relation to We are also working on organizing the healthcare society, the economy and the environment. Companies providing structure together with international are being asked to undertake aggressive action to reach institutions such as the World Health Organization these goals. (WHO), the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT Fund) and the Asian Conference on Communicable Since the time of its founding, Sysmex has been involved Diseases. with testing, playing an important role in disease prevention, early detection and determining courses of By resolving healthcare issues, Sysmex will continue to treatment. We have created new clinical value to enhance address the shared desire of all people around the world: -3to remain healthy. recognize that human resources are one of the most important drivers of corporate growth, so we are creating *1 This type of medicine involves analyzing the relationship between genetic information and disease in order to predict the onset risk an environment designed to maximize and proactively of d i s e a s e s a n d a i d i n s e l e c t i n g t h e m o s t e f fe c t i ve co u r s e of develop each employee’ s capabilities. treatment. *2 The linked monosaccharides that link to the surface of a cell or protein in the blood Identifying Priority Issues (Materiality) Formulating a New Mid-Term In addition to contributing to the development of Management Plan Aimed healthcare, Sysmex has engaged in a variety of CSR at Realizing Sustainable Growth activities in accordance with its policy of building trust and confidence among stakeholders by fulfilling its Testing is expected to play a growing role in responding to corporate philosophy and core behaviors. We have increasingly diverse healthcare needs and other changes recently identified priority issues aimed at realizing a in the healthcare environment. Among its long-term sustainable society and sustainable growth for Sysmex. management targets, Sysmex has set the management We have identified five priority domains through which we vision for 2020 of being “A Unique & Global Healthcare will instill trust and confidence in diverse stakeholders: Testing Company” and is working toward more “resolving healthcare issues through our products and sophisticated and diverse testing. In recent years, we have services” as a company operating in the healthcare field; been moving forward on collaborative development with “providing responsible products and services,” which is research institutions, universities, hospitals and important for our corporate activities; “realizing an companies to create advanced and high-value testing and attractive working environment,” “taking the environment diagnostic technologies with a view to realizing into consideration,” and ensuring “governance.” personalized medicine. Sysmex will continue taking a proactive approach toward In May 2017, Sysmex formulated a Group mid-term resolving the issues facing society through its business management plan concluding in the fiscal year ending activities, aiming to contribute toward the realization of a March 31, 2020, to achieve its long-term management sustainable society. I would like to ask for your continued targets. Under this plan, we are enhancing our product support and understanding of our endeavors. lineup, expanding our global sales and service structure, developing highly competitive products that leverage our unique technologies, accelerating global business development, and investing in human resources and an IT Hisashi Ietsugu foundation aimed at sustainable growth. Of these, we Chairman and CEO -4Sustainability SysmexandItsRelationswithSociety SysmexʼsBusinesses ■CorporatePhilosophy,CoreBehaviors PleaseclickhereforinformationontheSysmexWay,thecorporatephilosophyofthe SysmexGroup,andourcorebehaviors. ■SysmexʼsBusinesses -5Clickherefor“SysmexNearYou,”anintroductionofsomeoftheSysmexproductsthat areinusearoundyou. -6SysmexInitiativesonPriorityIssues Clickhereforinformationonmateriality. -7-8Highlight 1 Resolving Healthcare Issues through Our Products and Services Aiming for a Society in Which All People Receive Appropriate Health Care Around the world, people are unable to receive appropriate health care for many reasons, including poverty and insufficient healthcare environments and systems. Access to healthcare is one item targeted in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in 2015. Being a healthcare company, Sysmex considers this an important issue. To ensure that as many people as possible have access to appropriate healthcare, we engage in healthcare enhancement initiatives by cooperating with local governments, international institutions, medical institutions, companies and other entities, and by promoting the provision of healthcare opportunities. Relation to the SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations consist of 17 goals to be met by 2030. Goal 3, to “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages,” targets the following objectives. ●Reduce maternal mortality ●Reduce premature mortality from ●Reduce the mortality of children under five non-communicable diseases years of age ●Ensure access to essential healthcare services, ●Eradicate AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and medicines and vaccines tackle other communicable diseases ●Develop the skills of and conduct training for health workers in developing countries -9Aiming to Improve Healthcare Levels in Case study [Republic of Namibia] Emerging Markets and Developing Countries Collaborating with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to Promote Quality Control Support at Clinical Laboratories to Match International Standards Sysmex is leveraging its accumulated technologies and expertise to provide an external quality assessment service* In Africa, the Republic of Namibia faces shortages of aimed at delivering accurate test results. Through methods healthcare personnel and healthcare infrastructure. At the such as these to support quality control at clinical same time, ensuring the quality of healthcare is an issue. laboratories, we are working to enhance local levels of For instance, although in vitro diagnostics involving the healthcare. sampling and testing of blood and urine are essential to * A method under which the same specimens (such as artificially produced disease diagnosis and treatment, the environment required blood) are distributed to multiple clinical laboratories, and the measurement results obtained are analyzed using statistical methods, to conduct such testing is not in place, hindering the thereby allowing the accuracy of individual laboratories’ measurement provision of appropriate test results to patients. To improve results to be evaluated. The results are provided as feedback to these this situation, the Namibian government is introducing laboratories, helping to increase the quality of testing. quality improvement measures based on the certification of clinical laboratories under the ISO 15189*1 standard for quality management systems. Under this operation, Sysmex is providing a mentorship*2 program that makes use of the Sysmex Quality Guidance Manual—a quality control system operational manual for clinical laboratories—to facilities under the jurisdiction of the Namibia Institute of Pathology, which is overseen by the Namibian government. To date in Africa, we have already been engaging in the same type of initiatives to support increases in laboratory quality by working with the health ministries of Zambia and Zimbabwe. Kick-off ceremony for a collaborative operation with JICA (Namibia) We aim to use our track record in Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe as a steppingstone to enhance the quality of testing in Africa and promote horizontal development into surrounding countries. *1 An international standard that ensures clinical laboratories are operating quality control systems, that they are technically competent and that they have the ability to deliver technically appropriate results. The standard requires all procedures within a laboratory related to testing and control to be documented and calls for evaluations of efficiency and ongoing improvements within the organization. *2 Rather than simply managing people, mentorship is the concept of seeking the growth and success of all people related to a business after making the organization’s directions and values clear. This concept encompasses management that motivates people, provides guidance on position and skills that leads toward enhanced capabilities, and provides a framework to Operator training at a lab (Namibia) invigorate an organization. Comment Comment from a Member of Staff Affiliated with the Namibia Institute of Pathology This was an effective program for achieving improvements in laboratory quality. Under this program, training on laboratory quality enhancement was provided to us as members of staff at the Namibia Institute of Pathology. Our institute has been assigned by the Namibian government to control the management of clinical laboratory operations. We had the opportunity to learn about quality control systems for clinical laboratories that match international standards, which was very meaningful. We also learned about accurate operations and applied knowledge, and reconfirmed the objectives and significance of testing, which raised the overall level of staff interest in hematology testing. I think this program will help raise the level of quality in clinical testing. 10 Highlight 1 Resolving Healthcare Issues through Our Products and Services Aiming for a Society in Which All People Receive Appropriate Health Care Case study [Various Asian Countries] Conducting Scientific Support Activities to Our Record of Standardize and Raise the Quality of Clinical External Quality Assessment Services Testing in Asia To date, Sysmex has entered into agreements with (Fiscal 2016) government institutions in China, Mongolia and Explaining the operation of an automated immunoassay system Cambodia to conduct scientific support activities aimed (Mongolia) at enhancing the quality of clinical testing. In Mongolia, we have conducted external quality Mongolia assessments on testing in the fields of hematology and ・Conducted external quality assessments in the hematology and clinical chemistry fields clinical chemistry and supported the configuration of a ・Conducted an external quality assessment in the standard laboratory. In addition, in March 2016, we immunochemistry field entered a new agreement to provide the same type of support activities on testing for infectious diseases, and as part of government-led efforts to put healthcare infrastructure in place we are setting up standard analyzers in national hospitals. In Myanmar, we have been proposing scientific support activities since 2014. In October 2016, we signed an Myanmar agreement with the National Health Laboratory (NHL), ・Under the approval of Myanmar’s Ministry of Health, entered an agreement with the a Myanmar government institution, to conduct national Health Laboratory to provide scientific support activities with the aim of enhancing external quality control support the quality of clinical testing in the country. Under the agreement, we are providing control support to enhance the reliability of measurement values on Sysmex instruments that have already been delivered Philippines to the NHL. At the same time, we are supporting the ・Conducted an external configuration and operation of a national external quality assessment in the hematology field quality assessment scheme for clinical laboratories within Myanmar. We are also providing technical and Thailand scientific expertise to local healthcare professionals. Going forward, Sysmex will continue with initiatives ・Conducted an external Cambodia quality assessment in aimed at standardizing and increasing the quality of the hematology field ・Conducted an external clinical testing in emerging markets and developing quality assessment in the hematology field countries. Comment Comment from an Employee Involved with Scientific Support Activities I work with local people to help improve the quality of clinical testing. Having actually been to developing countries and seen how clinical testing is performed locally, I was surprised by the differences compared with advanced countries. At the same time, I have understood how essential it is to increase the quality of clinical testing and to boost the level of knowledge about test reliability and the need for testing. The opportunities to meet people engaging in initiatives to increase the level of testing has given me a great deal of courage. I feel it Tetsuya Makino is a great honor for us to support these activities, and I look forward to continuing to be involved Sysmex Corporation in efforts to increase the quality of clinical testing. Scientific Affairs Division 11 Aiming to Provide Healthcare in Regions Annual Deaths from the Three Major Infectious Diseases in 2015 with Underdeveloped Infrastructure HIV / AIDS Source: UNAIDS/GLOBAL AIDS UPDATE 2016 Annual deaths Sysmex provides products and services that take into account the world’s various healthcare environments and are Number of patients 1.1 million people tailored to the needs of regions and their people. Through 36.7 this approach, we endeavor to create opportunities for as million people Of the number of patients and annual deaths, many people as possible to receive proper medical care. 84% were in Southeast Asia and Africa. Case study [Kenya] Providing Healthcare Opportunities through the Tuberculosis Source: WHO GLOBAL TUBERCULOSISB REPORT 2016 Donation of Mobile Laboratories Annual deaths Regions lacking electrical equipment and other infrastructure cannot make immediate use of the products and services 1.4 million people Number of patients provided in advanced countries, pointing to the need to 10.0 million people provide products and services suited to the needs of those Of the number of patients and annual deaths, regions and their people. In some regions, knowledge of 83% were in Southeast Asia and Africa. healthcare is insufficient, and there exists a lack of understanding about the effects of testing and treatment. Patient education and awareness are important issues in such Malaria Source: WHO/World Malaria Report 2016 areas. Annual deaths In the past, Sysmex has provided CyLab mobile laboratories containing Sysmex instruments, primarily in Africa, and Number of patients 430,000 people compact, portable and inexpensive products to facilitate testing in regions where healthcare instruments are sparse. 210 Of the number of annual deaths, million people In August 2016, at the Tokyo International Conference on 92% were in Africa African Development (TICAD VI) in Kenya, we unveiled a mobile lab developed in collaboration with Toyota Tsusho Corporation and Hino Motors, Ltd., that contains Sysmex instruments for diagnosing and monitoring the treatment of infectious disease. We donated the vehicle to the Beyond Zero Campaign*, which is working to raise awareness of maternal and child health and measures to address infectious diseases. As part of an effort to eradicate the three leading infectious diseases (HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria), the project began with the concept of providing healthcare in areas where healthcare access is difficult. We saw introducing a mobile lab as a way to offer a regular traveling clinic, as well as to educate Sysmex booth at the Tokyo International Conference on African Development and promote awareness among patients. Through initiatives such as these, we are aiming to reduce the percentage of deaths from infectious diseases by contributing to their early detection and treatment. Sysmex will continue working to provide appropriate healthcare to as many people as possible and aims to help resolve the world’ s healthcare issues by enhancing awareness of healthcare among patients. Mobile laboratory Diagnostic medical instruments inside a mobile laboratory *This awareness campaign on maternal and child health and measures to address infectious diseases was launched by the wife of Kenya’s President Kenyatta in January 2014. In addition to spurring government efforts and raising awareness among the people, the campaign aims to distribute mobile laboratories throughout the country and includes such activities as a charity marathon supervised by Ms. Kenyatta. 12 Highlight 2 Realizing an Attractive Workplace Embracing Diversity and Creating a Culture of Innovation Efforts to promote diversity and initiatives aimed at making the workplace motivating and work meaningful have drawn increasing attention in recent years, and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) raise gender equality and decent work in their targets. Sysmex considers human resources an important management resource for achieving sustainable growth, and we have evolved from the practice of “diversity,” which simply welcomes diverse human resources, to the more extensive practice of “diversity and inclusion.” This approach involves creating a working environment that is suitable for a wide variety of human resources. Through synergies arising from different values, perspectives, experiences and capabilities, we are working to create a culture of innovation and generate value. Relation to the SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations are comprised of 17 goals to be met by 2030. Goal 5, to “Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls,” and Goal 8, to “Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all,” call for the realization of the following. ●Eliminating discrimination against all women in its various forms ●Ensuring women's full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life. ●Introducing and reinforcing appropriate policies and binding rules for promoting gender equality and enhancing the capabilities of all women ●Achieving full and productive employment and decent work for all people, and equal pay for work of equal value 13 Working to Achieve Diversity Ratio of Female employees (Sysmex) and Inclusion 40.6% Sysmex conducts its business on a global basis, and Group employees number 7,930, more than 55% of whom are overseas (as of March 31, 2017). To put into practice the Group corporate philosophy, the Sysmex Way, and to instill trust and confidence in people throughout the world, we recognize the need to enhance individual employees’ skills Percentage of Percentage of New Recruits Female Managers Who Are Not Japanese Nationals and foster communication among diverse human resources. (Sysmex) (Sysmex Corporation) We believe it is important to share values, perspectives, experiences and capabilities in order to foster flexible and innovative concepts and ideas and generate new value. By promoting diversity and inclusion and introducing a variety of systems, we are striving to create a working 16.2% 22.1% environment that allows diverse human resources to maximize their skills. Fiscal 2016 Results Initiatives to Promote Diversity Promoting the Participation and Advancement of Women / Utilizing Diverse Human Resources Promoting Diverse Working Styles (Parenting, Nursing Care) (Non-Japanese Nationals, People with Disabilities, Seniors) Introduction of various leave systems (parental leave, Proactive recruiting of non-Japanese employees leave for fertility treatment, etc.) and a flex-time system (Hiring foreign students studying in Japan and recruiting students directly from universities overseas.) Establishment of an in-house daycare center at Technopark, Establishment of a support desk for non-Japanese employees our R&D hub Creation of round tables to improve the working environment for non-Japanese employees Start of introducing a working-at-home system Establishment of Sysmex Harmony Co., Ltd., to further promote the employment of people with disabilities to realize an inclusive society Formulation and announcement of action plan based on the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement The outsourcing of some work in Germany to organizations in the Workplace, and announcement of each year’s achievements supporting people with disabilities The introduction of Ostomates (toilets for people who have had Provision of opportunities to listen to input from experienced colostomies or urostomies) and other barrier-free facilities and employees and consider own careers and working styles ensuring that workplaces are easily navigable by wheelchair (diversity round table) Ongoing re-employment Receiving the Top-Level “Eruboshi” Mark for Promotion of Women’ s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace Sysmex Corporation has been an active proponent of diversity. In addition to respecting the individuality of our employees, we strive to provide them with a workplace where they can realize their full potential. One aspect of these activities involves establishing an in-house daycare center, providing childcare leave that exceeds statutory requirements. Also, based on the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace, in April 2016 we formulated the “Action Plan Under the Act on the Promotion of Women’s Active Participation,” to cultivate female leaders and promote diverse working styles. “Eruboshi” Certification as an Excellent Company Based As a positive evaluation of such initiatives, in 2016 we satisfied all five assessment criteria set by on the Act on Promotion of Women’s the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare for promoting the active involvement of women in Participation and Advancement in the Workplace the workplace. Accordingly, Sysmex Corporation was certified for excellence in this area, earning Level 3 “Eruboshi” certification—the highest level. 14 Highlight 2 Realizing an Attractive Workplace Embracing Diversity and Creating a Culture of Innovation Case study [Japan] Case study [Japan] Understanding and Putting Diversity into Practice Empathizing and Considering at the Diversity Round Table through Diversity Management Training We conduct two diversity round tables for people at various To promote diversity, we conducted diversity management stages of life, providing opportunities to consider how to training five times in fiscal 2016. Participants learned about make the most of capabilities, maintain the motivation the evolution of diversity at Sysmex Corporation and its necessary to continue working enthusiastically in their current status, and we promoted understanding about the careers, and think about diverse working styles. meaning of encouraging diversity. Attendees gained skills in controlling potential conflicts that could arise from greater Promotion of women’s participation and advancement in the levels of diversity, including women, non-Japanese nationals workplace: In this round table, guest speakers recount their and seniors. Through this training, we aim to foster greater experiences and encourage participants to engage in discussions respect for diverse personalities and cultivate an with each other to promote empathy and understanding, organizational culture that generates ongoing innovation. providing an excellent first step with respect to their own future We plan to develop and expand the scope of this training. careers and working styles. Improving the workplace environment for non-Japanese employees: Through this round table, we encourage exchanges of Training Structure opinion on the different worries and needs faced by people from other cultures and identify measures for future improvement. In addition to considering dietary restrictions on religious grounds Read assigned materials and promoting the translation of internal documents into English, Prior to Training: Consider issues ahead of time we provide information about living in Japan and encourage “ Kn o w” Diagnose interpersonal trends language exchanges with Japanese employees. Programs Implemented in Fiscal 2016 (Excerpt) Career-Building for Women Lectures on diversity and inclusion Considerations for women aiming to be active overseas Conversations with people who have overseas experience Workshops Training: What sort of career suits me? Seven role plays Different working styles can successfully suit people “ Le a r n” (learning through confrontation) differently Group discussion 〈Objective〉Consider careers and working styles Work-Life Balance / Balancing Work with Parenting and Nursing Care It’s tough for parents with elementary school children! After Training: Propose execution plans A conversation with three working mothers “Put into Put into practice We welcome work and parenting! Practice Repeat A record of our struggles with raising children and Verify” (after two months, after six months) 〈Objective〉Consider the balance between housework, parenting, nursing care and work Comment Comment from an Employee Who Participated in a Diversity Round Table This was a good chance to re-evaluate and consider my future working style. I took part in a round table for female employees with elementary school children. It was easy to relate to the accounts of experiences by other women working in the same company on topics such as how to find time for communication when parents’ and children’ s lives are on different schedules, and mental attitudes and creative twists for working parents. Also, through the program related to the career experiences of female managers, I realized the importance to my own future career of being confident in myself, taking advantage of my own strengths, and not being afraid to charge Naomi Ooi Global Support Division ahead toward areas of interest even if I make mistakes. The people working in this company live in Sysmex Corporation many different circumstances, and I look forward to participating again in this round table to think about my future working style and enjoy a situation that makes it easy to consider all sorts of things. 15 Case study [Japan] Case study [Germany] Establishing Sysmex Harmony to Promote Employment of Subcontracting to an Organization That Supports People People with Disabilities with Disabilities In April 2017, Sysmex Corporation established a new For the past 15 years, Sysmex Europe has worked with an company in Kobe, Hyogo Prefecture, called Sysmex Harmony organization that endeavors to support the independence of Co., Ltd., to promote the employment of people with people with disabilities. The company subcontracts disabilities with a view to realizing an inclusive society. packaging work at a manufacturing line of its reagent factory Sysmex Harmony’s main operation is support of in Germany to people with disabilities. production-related functions at the Group’s instrument and We strive to maintain high levels of motivation among these reagent factories. By creating a workplace where people with workers through sharing our mission, as well as through various sorts of physical, intellectual and psychological periodic training and support from employees. disabilities can work in keeping with their characteristics and disabilities, we aim to foster an environment in which Going forward, we aim to continue providing an everyone, regardless of disability, can work and grow environment in which people can work enthusiastically. together enthusiastically and with peace of mind. In fiscal 2017, we aim to apply for certification of the new company as a special subsidiary under the Act on Employment Promotion, etc. of Persons with Disabilities. Working on the manufacturing line Working Structure Connected with the Local Community Hyogo Prefecture Sysmex Group Group companies in Japan Regional organizations Subcontracting of production-related operation Public employment security office Social welfare corporations, etc. Recruiting Sysmex Harmony Creation of a workplace considering disabilities Instrument factory Reagent factory Regular (Kakogawa Factory) (Seishin Factory) follow-up Packing maintenance parts Folding package inserts Processing waste material within Packaging, etc. the factory, etc. Comment Comment from an Employee Involved with the Establishment of Sysmex Harmony I aim to foster ties with the local community and create a pleasant workplace. Sysmex Harmony was established with the aim of helping to realize an inclusive society in Hyogo Prefecture. Creating a workplace where people with disabilities could utilize their skills has been a long time issue for Sysmex Corporation. We didn’ t have the skill related to building such company, so there were many tasks to do. We had many things to consider, such as what types of work the employees could handle and what sort of care was needed. We were able to start preparing due to support from related departments, the people at Hyogo Prefecture’ s public employment security Motohiko Nakano Human Resources Division office and social welfare corporations. As we move forward, we will focus on the concept of Sysmex Corporation & realizing an environment in which everyone, regardless of disability, can work and grow together Sysmex Harmony Co., Ltd. enthusiastically and with peace of mind. 16 Management and CSR Long-Term Management Targets, Mid-Term Management Plan ThecorporatephilosophyfortheSysmexGroup,the“SysmexWay,”deﬁnesits missionas“Shapingtheadvancementofhealthcare.”Onthisbasis,wehave establishedaLong-TermManagementTargetsandaMid-TermManagement Planaimedatcontributingtotheadvancementofhealthcareandahealthylife forpeoplearoundtheworld. Long-TermManagementTargets(2020) SysmexʼsIdealsfor2020 Positioning 17 Positioning AnUndisputedGlobalLeader AUniqueandCompetitive AnAttractiveCompany inHematology,Hemostasis PlayerintheImmunology ProvidingValueand andUrinalysis(Including Field Conﬁdence Alliances) Wewillharnessunique Weaimtobecomea Wewillbuildtheearnings strengthsthatother highlyattractivecompany foundationtosupport companiescannot todiversestakeholders furtherGroupgrowthinthe emulateanddriveGroup thatoﬀersvalueand Companyʼscore growthoverthemedium reassurance. businesses. term. ALeadingCompanyinthe ALeadingGlobalPlayer OneSysmexCarryingOut AsianInVitroDiagnostics MakingaContributionto High-SpeedManagement (IVD)Market PersonalizedMedicine Throughoptimal Wewillleverageour Byaugmentingvaluein teamworkthroughoutthe geographicadvantageto testing(diagnostics) Group,weaimtobea buildasolidpositioninthe basedonleading-edge corporateentitythat Asianmarketin technologies,wewill conductshighlyeﬃcient immunochemistryand accelerateGroupgrowth andswiftmanagement. othergrowthﬁelds,aswell andestablishourglobal ashematology. position. Mid-TermManagementPlan(FiscalYearsEndingMarch31, 2018to2020) 18 (1)Enhanceproﬁtabilitythroughmarketexpansioninthe hematologyﬁeld AchieveanundisputedNo.1positionintheUnitedStates (strengthensalespromotionontheWestCoast,introductionat prominentcommerciallabs) Strengthensalestosecond-tierandlowerhospitalsinChina Realizehighratesofgrowthinemergingmarkets (2)Expandtheurinalysistestingbusinessbyincreasingnew productsales Realizeaneﬃcientworkﬂowforurinalysistestingthroughanew concept (Urinechemistry+sediment+imaginginstrument+data management) (3)Bolsterproﬁtabilitybyincreasingourglobalshareinthe hemostasisﬁeld AccelerateglobaldevelopmentbyleveragingouralliancewithSiemens Accelerateintroductionofﬁbrinreagents*(China,Japan,etc.) *Usedtotestforclottingabnormalitiesandthrombosis (4)Expandbusinessandimproveproﬁtabilityinthe immunochemistryﬁeldinJapan,ChinaandotherpartsofAsia Expandbusinessinthehepaticdiseasedomain LaunchuniqueparametersinChinaandotherpartsofAsia (hepaticﬁbrosistestreagents,suchastheM2BPGiTMassaykit) Improveproﬁtabilitybyreducingcostofsalesandexpandsales (5)EstablishafoundationfortheFCMbusiness LaunchclinicalFCMproducts Stepupsalespromotionforresearchandindustryuse (6)Increasethelifesciencebusiness PromotethelabassaybusinessesofRIKENGENESISandInostics EntertheclinicalPCRmarket,expandbusinessrelatedtogenetesting Expandthemarketforrapiddetectionoflymphnodemetastasis basedontheOSNATMmethod (7)Commercializebusinessinothernewﬁelds Generatebusinessinultrahigh-sensitivityHISCLTM,cervicalcancer screeningsystems,glucoseAUC(postprandialhyperglycemia monitoringsystem)andothernewareas 19 (8)Enhancemanufacturingspeedandquality Strengthendevelopmentandproductioncapacitybyestablishinga bio-diagnosticreagentbase Maintaincustomertrustthroughhighlevelsofqualityandan enhancedsystemforstablesupply (9)ReinforceITplatformstooptimizeoperatingprocesses Optimizesupplychainprocesses Optimizeengineeringchainprocesses (10)Strengthenhumanresourcecultivationandhumanresource managementtosupportGroupgrowth Stepuprecruitingandcultivationofhumanresourceswhoarenextgenerationleadersandwhohaveadvancedspecialties Fosteraworkingenvironmentthatembracesdiversehuman resources (Promotefurtherdiversity) <Contributetoasustainablesociety> (11)Inadditiontoeﬀortstoresolvehealthcareissuesthroughour productsandservices,wewillworktobeenvironmentallyconsiderate, reinforcecorporategovernanceandpromotediversity,thereby providinguniqueandnewvaluetodiversestakeholdersand contributingtothedevelopmentofsociety. Financialtargets(FiscalyearendingMarch31,2020) NetSales ¥350.0billion(CAGR*=11.9%) Operatingincome ¥72.0billion(CAGR*=11.7%) (Operatingmarginof20.6%) ROE 20%ormore Operatingcashﬂow ¥55.0billion Freecashﬂow ¥30.0billion Exchangerateassumptions:1USD=¥110,1EUR=¥115,1CNY=¥16 *CAGR(compoundannualgrowthrate):ForﬁscalyearsendingMarch31,2018to2020 20 CSRManagement BasicPolicyandStructure BasicPolicyandStructure Sysmex'sCSRBuildsTrustandConﬁdencethroughPracticeoftheSysmexWay Sysmex'sCSRbuildstrustandconﬁdenceamongallitsstakeholdersthroughthepractice oftheSysmexWay,thecorporatephilosophyoftheSysmexGroup. TheSysmexWayindicatesthewaythemostbasiccorporateactivitiesoughttobe conducted,consistingofthreeelementsnecessaryforcontinuedgrowth:Mission,Value andMind.Themissionexpressestheexpansionofourbusinessfromactivitiescenteredon theﬁeldofdiagnostics̶afocussinceourestablishment̶tothebroaderhealthcare domainwithitsevencloserconnectiontohumanhealth.Inthismanner,themissionasserts ouraimofcontributingtowardtherealizationofasocietyﬁlledwithabundance,healthand joy. TheCoreBehaviorsclarifyprovisionofspeciﬁcvaluetocustomers,employees,business partners,shareholders,societyandallourstakeholders.Forexample,toprovide reassurancetoallmembersofsocietywecarryoutourbusinessinstrictcompliancewith lawsandregulations,aswellasinadherencetohighethicalstandards.Wealsoconsiderit importanttoplayanactiveroleinresolvingenvironmentalissuesandotherproblemsthat impactoursocietytoday. Pleaseclickhereforourcorporatephilosophyandcorebehaviors. CSRPromotionStructure Basedontheperspectiveoutlinedabove,wehavesetupvariouscommittees,headedby executives,topromoteactivitiesaccordingtokeyCSR-relatedthemes,including compliance,riskmanagementandtheenvironment.Wehavealsoplacedamemberofthe ManagingBoardinchargeofCSRandestablishedtheCSRPromotionDepartmentasthe specializeddepartmentforplanning,drawingupproposalsforandpromotingCSR activitiesanddisseminatingCSR-relatedinformationbothinsideandoutsidetheCompany. ImportantCSRthemes,suchasidentifyingmaterialityandformulatingmid-termCSRplans, arediscussedandreportedatmanagementmeetingsattendedbymembersofthe ManagingBoard.Wealsoanalyzeexpectationsandrequestsfromsocietyandextractour tasksfromthisinformation.Relateddepartmentsthenreﬂectthetasksintheirexecution plansandactivities,resultinginaPDCAcycle. 21 CSRManagement StakeholderRelations SysmexʼsStakeholders InlinewithitsbasicstanceonCSR,Sysmexundertakesavarietyofinitiativestoinstill conﬁdenceinitsstakeholders. CoreBehaviors ToourCustomers Wedeliverreassurancetoourcustomers,throughunmatchedquality,advanced technologies,superiorsupport,andactionsthatconsistentlyreﬂecttheviewpointofour customers. Weconstantlylookoutforourcustomersʼtrueneeds,andseektogeneratenewsolutions tosatisfythoseneeds. ToourEmployees Wehonordiversity,respecttheindividualityofeachemployee,andprovidethemwitha workplacewheretheycanrealizetheirfullpotential. Wevaluethespiritofindependenceandchallenge,provideemployeeswithopportunities forself-fulﬁllmentandgrowth,andrewardthemfortheiraccomplishments. 22 ToourBusinessPartners Wedelivercommitmenttoourclientcompaniesthroughbroad-rangingpartnerships. Westrivetobeacompanythatcangrowinstepwithourtradepartners,throughrespect andmutualtrust. ToourShareholders Ourshareholderscanrestassuredthatwewillcontinuetoimprovethesoundnessand transparencyofourmanagementpolicies,whilepromotinginformationdisclosureand closecommunications. Wecommitourselvestoaconsistentyetinnovativestyleofmanagement,inorderto achievesustainablegrowthandincreasedshareholdervalue. ToSociety Wecarryoutourbusinessinstrictcompliancewithlawsandregulations,aswellasin adherencetohighethicalstandards. Asaresponsiblememberofsociety,weplayanactiveroleinresolvingenvironmental issuesandotherproblemsthatimpactoursocietytoday. StakeholderEngagement Throughcommunicationwithitsstakeholders,Sysmexconsiderswhetheritrespondsto stakeholdersʼrequestsandexpectationsthroughitsbusinessactivities.Theresultsare reﬂectedinvariousbusinessactivities. 23 MainDialogueAchievementsinFiscal2016 DialoguewithCustomers Directorsinchargeofregional operationsconductedopinion SysmexCorporation exchangeswithcustomers Conductedsurveyondegreeof SysmexCorporation 39thSysmexScientiﬁc customersatisfactionineachregion andoverseasGroup Seminar(Japan) companies SysmexCorporation Heldscientiﬁcseminarsineachregion andoverseasGroup companies Heldusergroupmeetingsto SysmexCorporation communicateaccurateproduct andoverseasGroup knowledge companies Ongoingcustomertrainingprogram SysmexCorporation incorporatingcustomerfeedbackin andoverseasGroup eachregion companies DialoguewithEmployees 24 Dialogue with Employees Investigated desire concerning career design, including interest in working overseas or changing jobs through a Sysmex Corporation voluntary reporting given to all employees, with results made use of in Training underway at the Global HR rotation Communication Center Conducted collective bargaining with the labor union and held labor‒management Sysmex Corporation meetings on such topics as workplace environment improvement Held brieﬁngs on the management policy Sysmex Corporation by executives at each site Sysmex Shanghai, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi, Held dialogues with labor unions Sysmex Vietnam, Sysmex Thailand, HYPHEN BioMed Sysmex Corporation Conducted employee questionnaires and and overseas Group interview companies Dialogue with Business Partners Held brieﬁngs with business partners Sysmex Corporation related to quality control on parts Conducted meetings with distributors to explain the Sysmex business plan, Sysmex Middle East among other matters Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc, Held a business partner meeting Sysmex Korea 25 Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors Held Ordinary General Meeting and Sysmex Corporation informal meeting with shareholders Held the Technology Presentation for Sysmex Corporation institutional investors and analysts Informal meeting with shareholders Held informational meetings for Sysmex Corporation individual investors Held Company tours for individual Sysmex Corporation shareholders Dialogue with Members of the Local Community Held event for local community Sysmex Corporation interaction at R&D core Technopark Participated in math and science education-focused Science Fair in Sysmex Corporation Open to the public of Hyogo event for high school students gardens of Technopark Engaged in dialogue with community Group companies in residents through social contribution overseas regions activities around the world 26 CSRManagement Materiality ConsideringMateriality Sysmexhasidentiﬁedpriorityissues(materialityitems)withaviewtorealizingasustainable societyandachievingsustainablegrowthfortheGroup.Wearecurrentlydevelopinga speciﬁcactionplanbasedontheseidentiﬁedmaterialityitemsandaretakingactions accordingly. IdentifyingMateriality TheProcessofIdentifyingMateriality Weanalyzedsocietyʼsrequirementsbasedoninternational guidelines,suchastheGRISustainabilityReportingGuidelines (G4),theUnitedNationsSustainabilityDevelopmentGoals (SDGs)andISO26000,aswellasscreeningcontentfromSRI andotherassessmentbodies.Wecomparedthese requirementsagainstthecurrentstateoftheSysmexʼsCSR activities,extractingandidentifyingrelatedaspects. Wethenconductedanoverallassessmentoftherelated aspectsidentiﬁedinSTEP1alongtwoaxes:thedegreeof importanceforstakeholders(sizeofimpactondecision-making bystakeholders)and,fromtheperspectiveofrisksand opportunities,thedegreeofimportanceforSysmex(sizeofthe Companyʼsimpactontheeconomy,environmentandsociety). Throughthisprocess,wediscoveredthemostimportant aspectsrequiringpriorityinitiatives. ThematerialityitemsorganizedasaresultofSTEP2were approvedatamanagementmeetingchairedbythechairman andCEO. SysmexʼsMaterialityMatrix 27 SysmexʼsMaterialityMatrix SysmexʼsMaterialityItems Materiality G4-RelatedPerspective SDGsTargets Resolutionofmedicalissues throughproductsandservices Resolutionofmedicalissues Indirecteconomic throughbusinessactivities impact Improvementinaccessibilityto Localcommunities medicalservicesbymeans suchasfamiliarizingproducts Responsibleprovisionof Customerhealthand productsandservices safety Securingofproductqualityand Productandservice safety labeling Appropriatedisclosureof Procurementpractices informationregardingproducts Supplierenvironmental andservices. assessment Assessmentandmanagement Supplierassessmentfor ofthesupplychain laborpractices 28 Supplierhumanrights assessment Supplierassessmentfor impactonsociety Realizationofanattractive Employment workplace Trainingandeducation Provisionofacomfortable Diversityandequal workingenvironment opportunity Developmentofhuman Equalcompensationfor resources menandwomen Promotionofdiversity Productsandservices Environmentalconsideration Transport Environmentalconsideration Rawmaterials throughtheproductlifecycle Energy Reductioninenvironmental Water burdenthroughactivitiesat Emissionintothe businessoﬃces atmosphere Eﬄuentsandwaste Governance Indirecteconomic impact Governance Compliance CorporateGovernance (environment,society, Compliance responsibilityfor RiskManagement products) Anti-corruption Anti-competitive behavior 29 RecognitionoftheIssues Resolutionofmedicalissuesthroughproductsandservices ＜RecognitionoftheIssues＞ Inrelationtoagingpopulationsinadvancedcountries,inrecentyearstheneedhas beengrowingtoreducehealthcarecostsandextendhealthylifespans.Atthesame time,theestablishmentofmedicalinfrastructureisunabletokeeppacewithgrowing populationsinemergingmarketsanddevelopingcountries,andsome400million peoplearoundtheworldarenotreceivingnecessarylevelsofhealthcare*.Boosting accesstohealthcareservicesisthereforeanissue. Meanwhile,theSustainableDevelopmentGoals(SDGs)adoptedbytheUnitedNations inSeptember2015settargetsforhumanhealthandwelfare,promptinggrowing expectationsforglobalcompaniestoundertakeinitiativestoresolvemedicalissues. Undertheseconditions,theinvitrodiagnostics(IVD)domain,whichplaysan importantroleindiseaseprevention,earlydetectionanddeterminingcoursesof treatment,isexpectedtocontributetoahealthysocietybycreatingnewvalueand solvinghealthcareissues,includingthethreemostdeadlyinfectiousdiseases (HIV/AIDS,tuberculosis,malaria). *Source:WHO“UniversalHealthCoverage” PleaseclickhereforinformationonSysmexʼsapproachandactivityresultsin relationtotheresolutionofmedicalissuesthroughproductsandservices. 30 Responsibleprovisionofproductsandservices ＜RecognitionoftheIssues＞ Arecentspateofissuesinvolvingproductqualityandrecallshavedrawnattentionto societyʼsdemandsforproductandservicequalityandsafety.Furthermore,inrecent yearsthescopeofcorporateresponsibilityhasexpandedtoencompasstheentire supplychain,includingbusinesspartners. Againstthisbackdrop,itisgrowingevermoreimportantforcompaniestobuildlongtermtrust-basedcustomerrelationshipsbycomplyingwithlawsandregulations, payingthoroughattentiontoproductandservicequalityandsafety,engagingin measurestoenhancecustomersatisfactionandensureappropriatedisclosure,and supplyingproductsinastablemanner.Toachievetheseaims,companiesarebeing calledupontoworkwiththeirbusinesspartnerstoprovideresponsibleproductsand servicesthatearncustomersʼtrust. PleaseclickhereforinformationonSysmexʼsapproachandactivityresultsin relationtotheresponsibleprovisionofproductsandservices. Realizationofanattractiveworkplace ＜RecognitionoftheIssues＞ Inordertoachievesustainablegrowth,itisconsideredimportantforcompaniesto promotediversityandcreateworkplacesthatareeasyandcomfortabletoworkin. Also,theSustainableDevelopmentGoals(SDGs)adoptedbytheUnitedNationsin September2015includegoalspertainingtogenderequality,decentworkand reducedinequalities.Inordertoachievethesegoals,companiesarecalledonto createworkplacesthatpromotework-lifebalancewhilehelpingdiversehuman resourcesrealizetheirfullpotential,aswellasforsystematicandsustainablehuman resourcecultivation. PleaseclickhereforinformationonSysmexʼsapproachandactivityresultsin relationtotherealizationofanattractiveworkplace. 31 Environmentalconsideration ＜RecognitionoftheIssues＞ Globalenvironmentalproblemsareapressingissuewithrespecttorealizinga sustainablesociety.TheParisAgreement,whichwasadoptedbythe21stsessionof theConferenceofthePartiestotheUnitedNationsFrameworkConventionon ClimateChange(COP21),callsforallcountriesandregionsoftheworldtosettargets forreducingCO2emissionsinordertopreventglobalwarming,andmandated measuresforreachingthesetargets.Furthermore,measurestobecomearecyclingorientedsocietyarebecominganincreasinglyimportanttopicasthedepletionof naturalresourcesgrowsmoreserious. Againstthisbackdrop,inSeptember2015theUnitedNationsadoptedthe SustainableDevelopmentGoals(SDGs),whichsetnumeroustargetsforaddressing environmentalissues.TheSDGscallforcompanies,aswellasgovernments,totake oncertainresponsibilities. PleaseclickhereforinformationonSysmexʼsapproachandactivityresultsin relationtoenvironmentalconsideration. Governance ＜RecognitionoftheIssues＞ Numerouscorporatescandalsrelatedtocorporategovernance,riskmanagementand compliancehavecometolightinrecentyears,andtheirimpactonsocietyhas increased. Inthisenvironment,JapanʼsCorporateGovernanceCodecameintoeﬀectinJune 2015,callingoncompaniestotakegovernanceintoconsiderationinnon-ﬁnancial areas,aswellasontheﬁnancialfront. Inadditiontostrengtheninggovernanceandinternalcontrol,companiesarebeing calledontobuttresstheirmanagementfoundationsforpromotingriskmanagement andcompliance. PleaseclickhereforinformationonSysmexʼsapproachandactivityresultsin relationtogovernance. InitiativesforEnhancingEﬀectiveness 32 InitiativesforEnhancingEﬀectiveness DevelopmentofanActionPlan Fortheidentiﬁedmaterialityitems,wewillboosttheeﬀectivenessofthePDCAcycleby settingtargetsinspeciﬁcactionplans(suchasKPIs)androllingtheseoutintothemidtermCSRplan. Ontheenvironment-relatedfront,basedontheSysmexGroupEnvironmentalAction Plan,”SysmexEco-Vision2020”andtheSysmexGroupmid-termenvironmentaltargets,we willundertakeinitiativesasaGrouptoreducetheenvironmentalimpactofourbusiness activities. Pleaseclickherefordetailsofthemid-termCSRplan(ﬁscal2016results). PleaseclickhereforinformationontheSysmexGroupEnvironmentalActionPlan(Sysmex Eco-Vision2020)andtheSysmexGroupmid-termenvironmentaltargets(Fiscal2015– 2017). 33 ManagementandCSR TheUNGlobalCompact ParticipationintheUNGlobalCompact TheSysmexGroupbeganparticipatingintheUnitedNationsGlobal CompactinFebruary2011toproactivelypromoteitsCSR initiatives.Sysmexreferstothe10principlesoftheGlobalCompact andtheSustainableDevelopmentGoals(SDGs),whichtheUnited NationsadoptedinSeptember2015inconductingourCSR activities. Clickhereforinformationabouttherelationshipbetweenthe SustainableDevelopmentGoals(SDGs)andthepriorityissuesto beaddressed(materiality). TheUNGlobalCompact's10Principles Principle1:Businessesshouldsupportandrespecttheprotectionof internationallyproclaimedhumanrights;and HumanRights Principle2:makesurethattheyarenotcomplicitinhumanrights abuses. Principle3:Businessesshouldupholdthefreedomofassociation andtheeﬀectiverecognitionoftherighttocollective bargaining; Labour Principle4:theeliminationofallformsofforcedandcompulsory labour; Principle5:theeﬀectiveabolitionofchildlabour;and Principle6:theeliminationofdiscriminationinrespectof employmentandoccupation. Principle7:Businessesshouldsupportaprecautionaryapproachto environmentalchallenges; Environment Principle8:undertakeinitiativestopromotegreaterenvironmental responsibility;and Principle9:encouragethedevelopmentanddiﬀusionof environmentallyfriendlytechnologies. Anti-Corruption Principle10:Businessesshouldworkagainstcorruptioninallits forms,includingextortionandbribery. 34 In relation to aging populations in advanced countries, in recent years the need has been growing to reduce healthcare costs and extend healthy lifespans. At the same time, the establishment of medical infrastructure is unable to keep pace with growing populations in emerging markets and developing countries, and some 400 million people around the world are not receiving necessary levels of healthcare*. Boosting access to healthcare services is therefore an issue. Meanwhile, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in September 2015 set targets for human health and welfare, prompting growing expectations for global companies to undertake initiatives to resolve medical issues. Under these conditions, the in vitro diagnostics (IVD) domain, which plays an important role in disease prevention, early detection and determining courses of treatment, is expected to contribute to a healthy society by creating new value and solving healthcare issues, including the three most deadly infectious diseases (HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria). * Source: WHO “Universal Health Coverage” In line with our mission of “shaping the advancement of healthcare,” which is deﬁned in the “Sysmex Way,” the corporate philosophy of the Sysmex Group, we are working to create new value in the IVD ﬁeld. We believe our mission is to address the shared desire of people around the world to remain healthy. In particular, resolving healthcare issues and improving access to healthcare through our business activities are linked with creating new technological and social value, thereby contributing to a sustainable society. 35 Since the time of our founding, we have expanded our product lineup and strengthened our services and support in response to testing needs, working to provide accurate test data swiftly. In recent years, we have been conducting research and development to create advanced, high-value testing and diagnosis technologies with a view to realizing personalized medicine. To boost access to healthcare in emerging markets and developing countries, we are promoting business activities aimed at raising local levels of healthcare. By leveraging the unique technologies we have cultivated to date, as well as our global network, we will continue to contribute toward the development of healthcare and the healthy lives of people. 36 ResolutionofMedicalIssuesthroughProductsandServices ResolutionofMedicalIssuesthrough BusinessActivities InnovationManagement Sysmexaimstoprovideadvanced,high-valuetestinganddiagnosistechnologies.Wehave establishedanR&Dvision,policiesandpromotionstructuretofosterinnovation. AnR&DStructureThatGeneratesCombinationsofaHostofTechnologies Theintegrationofdiﬀerenttechnologiesemployedinourinstruments,reagentsand softwareenablesustoconstantlyincorporatevoiceofthecustomerintoourproduct oﬀerings.AtTechnopark,ourhubforR&D,acongregationofresearchersandengineersin ahostofﬁelds̶electrical,mechanical,biological,chemicalandIT,amongothers̶ encouragesinteractionanddrivesthecreationandfusionofnewtechnologies.Wehave builtupaglobalR&DstructurecomprisingR&DfacilitiesintheUnitedStates,Germany, Chinaandothercountries. Inadditiontoexpandingourowntechnologyplatforms,throughopeninnovationweare pursuingcollaborationwithresearchinstitutes,universitiesandmedicalinstitutionsin Japanandoverseas.Theseeﬀortshaveledtotheintroductionofnewcandidatesfor diagnosticparametersandenableustobringadvancedandhighlyvaluablediagnostic technologiesandreagentstofruitionmorequickly. ClickherefordetailsontheR&Dstructure. PromotingtheJointDevelopmentofGroundbreakingTestingandDiagnostic TechnologiesthroughOpenInnovation Inrecentyears,expectationshavegrownforpersonalizedmedicine,whichprovides healthcareoptimizedtoindividualpatients.Torealizepersonalizedmedicine,Sysmex CorporationispromotingjointR&D(openinnovation)aimedatcreatingnewvalue.Tothis end,wehaveestablishedtheSysmexOpenInnovationLab(SOLA)withinTechnoparkto encouragefusionbetweenourowntechnologiesandthoseofJapaneseandoverseas researchinstitutions. ByinvitingresearchersfromoutsidetheCompanytoSOLA,wepromotecommunication withourresearchersandseektofostera“fusionofknowledge.”Wearealsoincreasing collaborationwithcompaniesregardlessofindustry. 37 Inoneexample,wearecollaboratingwithJVCKENWOODCorporationtodetermineata detailedlevelthestatusofindividualpatienttissuesanddiseasestatesbymeasuring exosomes(capsule-shapedparticles)intheblood.Throughtheseeﬀorts,weareaimingfor thejointdevelopmentofgroundbreakingtestinganddiagnostictechnologiesconnected withtheoptimaladministrationofdrugs.Itisexpectedthatthemanysubstancesexosomes containmightbeemployedasbiomarkers*fordiseasesincludingcancerandcentral nervoussystemdisorders.Wearealsoinvolvedinnumerousotherprojects,rangingfrom thoseattheearlyresearchstagestoprojectsnearingcommercialization. *Substancesthatactasmarkersforcertaindiseases Clickhereforinformationonopeninnovation. 38 SOLA,aPlaceforOpenInnovation ToaccelerateR&Dactivitiestowardtherealizationofpersonalizedmedicine,in2015 weopenedtheSysmexOpenInnovationLab(SOLA)asaplaceforcollaborativeR&D withresearchersoutsidetheCompany.JointR&Disunderwayonourbasic technologyplatforms:genes,cells,andproteins. TheInnovationArea,RepletewithState-of-the-ArtHigh-PerformanceAnalyzers TheCommunicationArea,whichencouragesinteractionamongresearchers,has spacesforfreediscussionandabookareatopromotechangesinperception. TheICTAreaprovidessupercomputeraccessandcanbeusedfortheanalysisof medicalbigdata. EstablishingaJointResearchLabwithintheNationalCancerCenterJapan InSeptember2013,SysmexCorporationenteredintoa comprehensivecollaborationagreementwiththeNational CancerCenterJapantodevelopdiagnosticreagentsfor cancer.Todatewehaveconductedjointresearchon10 topics.InOctober2015weopenedtheSysmexCancer InnovationLaboratory(SCI-Lab)withintheNationalCancer CenterJapanHospital.ThislabwillfurtheraccelerateR&D SysmexCancerInnovation intheﬁeldofcancerdiagnosiswiththeaimofrealizing Laboratory（SCI-Lab） 39 genomicmedicine*1.ThislabmeetsISO15189*2international standardsforclinicallaboratories. TheSCI-Labemploysnext-generationsequencersto conductclinicalresearchinvolvingcomprehensivegenetic testingtomeasurearound100genetypesrelatedto varioustypesofcancer.Thisresearchisexpectedto contributetodecisionsonappropriatetreatmentmethods anduseofdrugs.ThislabisoperatedinalliancewithRIKEN GENESISCo.,Ltd.,aSysmexGroupcompanywithextensive experienceingeneanalysis. WewillcontinuetocollaboratecloselywiththeNational CancerCenterJapanandRIKENGENESIS,promoting researchintheaimofrealizingnewcancerdiagnosis methodsassoonaspossible. *1Thistypeofmedicineinvolvesanalyzingtherelationshipbetweengenetic informationanddiseaseinordertopredicttheonsetriskofdiseasesand aidinselectingthemosteﬀectivecourseoftreatment. *2Thisinternationalstandardspeciﬁesrequirementsforqualityand competenceinmedicallaboratories. DevelopmentwiththeNationalInstituteofAdvancedIndustrialScienceand TechnologyofaReagenttoTestforHepaticFibrosis SysmexCorporationworkedwiththeNationalInstituteofAdvancedIndustrialScienceand Technology(AIST)todeveloptheHISCLM2BPGi®AssayKit,areagentfortestingfor hepaticﬁbrosisthroughbloodsamplingalone.Thiswastheworldʼsﬁrstpractical applicationoftechnologyemployingaglycosylationmarker*totesthepaticﬁbrosis. Leftuntreated,viralhepatitis,oneofJapanʼsleadinginfectiousdiseases,canprogressfrom chronichepatitisandlivercirrhosistohepatocellularcarcinoma.Totreatthisdisease, determiningthedegreeofhepaticﬁbrosisduetothehepatitisvirusiskey.Atpresent,the typicaltestingprocessinvolveslivingtissuediagnosis,ortakingabiopsyofthelivertissue. Thismethodrequireshospitalization,placingasubstantialburdenonthepatientonboth thephysicalandeconomicfronts.TheintroductionoftheHISCLM2BPGi®AssayKit enablestherapidmeasurementoftheprogressionofhepaticﬁbrosissolelythroughblood testing,reducingtheburdenonpatientsandcontributingtotestingeﬃciency. Intheaimofprovidingnewreagentsusingglycosylationmarkers,in2016wealsobegan workingwithAISTandGlycoBiomarkerLeadingInnovationCo.Ltd.(GL-i)onjointresearch intoreagentsasbiomarkersforbileductcancer. *Sugarchainsarelinkedmonosaccharidesthatbindthesurfaceofacelloraproteinintheblood.Aglycosylation markerisabiomarkerthattargetsstructuralchangesinsugarchainsarisefromdisease. SysmexReceivesMeritAwardfromtheMinisterofEconomy,Tradeand 40 SysmexReceivesMeritAwardfromtheMinisterofEconomy,Tradeand IndustryforthePracticalRealizationofaSystemforDiagnosingHepatic FibrosisUsingGlycosylationMarkers InAugust2016,SysmexCorporationreceivedthe14thAnnualMeritAwardfromthe MinisterofEconomy,TradeandIndustryforCollaborativeAchievementBetweenIndustry, AcademiaandGovernmentforthepracticalrealizationofasystemfordiagnosinghepatic ﬁbrosisusingglycosylation,developedincollaborationwithAdvancedIndustrialScience andTechnology(AIST). TheAnnualMeritAwardforCollaborativeAchievementbetweenIndustry,Academiaand Governmentwasintroducedin2003torecognizemajorsuccessinindustry–academia– governmentcollaborationamongcompanies,universitiesandpublic-sectorresearch institutionssuccessfullydemonstratingexamplesofsubstantialcontributionthrough leading-edgeinitiativestohelppromotefurtherindustry–academia–government collaborationinJapan.Theawardreceivedwasoneof12awardsbestowedinthecurrent MinisterofEconomy,TradeandIndustryAwards,includingthePrimeMinisterʼsAward. Overviewofthe14thAnnualMeritAwardfromtheMinisterofEconomy,Tradeand IndustryforCollaborativeAchievementBetweenIndustry,AcademiaandGovernment Receivedfor: Worldʼsﬁrstpracticalrealizationofasystemfordiagnosinghepatic ﬁbrosisusingglycosylation AISThasagloballeadinglycosylationresearch,andcollaborationwith Sysmexhasresultedintheworldʼsﬁrstcommercializationofthis Reasonforaward: research.Thisdevelopmentenablesthestatusoftheentireliver(such asoncogenicrisk)tobedeterminedthroughbloodtestingonly, enablingsame-daytesting(within20minutes)ofchronichepatitis patients. ContributingtotheEarlyDetectionandTreatmentofCancer Asof2015,thereweresome17.5millioncancerpatientsaroundtheworld,withdeaths fromcancernumberinganestimated8.7million.Between2005and2015,thenumberof casesincreasedby33%.Ofthisﬁgure,16.4%wasattributabletosocietyʼsaging,12.6%to populationincreasesand4.1%tochangesinage-speciﬁcratesofcancer.Althoughvarying widelybycountryandregion,aroundtheworlditissaidthatoneinthreemenandonein fourwomenwillcontractcanceratsomepointintheirlives,makingcanceroneofthemost prevalentdiseases*. Throughgenetictestingandothertechnologies,SysmexCorporationisworkingto contributetotheearlydetectionandtreatmentofcancer,helpingtoimprovethequalityof lifeofindividualpatients. *Source:GlobalBurdenofCancer2015 41 DevelopingaLabAssayServiceforResearch*1,withaViewtowardthe RealizationofPersonalizedMedicine SysmexCorporationhasbegunalabassayservicefor researchrelatedtogenetictesting. In2016,theCompanybeganoﬀeringtheCurebest®95GC Breastassayservice*2,whichprovidesresearchdatato predictrecurrencebyanalyzingbreastcancertissue,and thenumberofinstitutionsundercontractandordershave beenrisingsteadily.Inaddition,wearecurrentlypreparing TheSysmexIMPlab,ourbasefor tolaunchalabassayserviceusingBEAMingtechnologyfor labassayservicesrelatedto genetictesting detectingminuteamountsofcancer-derivedDNAinthe blood. Goingforward,byprovidingassayservicesforresearchwe aimtocontributetopersonalizedmedicine,whichprovides healthcareoptimizedtoindividualpatients. *1Provisionoflaboratorytestingresultsasservices *2Ananalysisserviceformeasuringtheexpressionamountsof95genes relatedtobreastcancerprognosis TheSpreadofTestingHavingaLowPhysicalandEconomic Impact Testingandtreatmentcanplaceasubstantialphysicalandeconomicburdenonpatients.In somecases,patientschoosenottoundergotestingandtreatmentforthatreason.In others,theyfacethedilemmaofundertakingtreatmentthatcomesatareducedeconomic costbutcarriesahigherphysicalburden. Inaneﬀorttochangethissituation,Sysmexisworkingtodevelopandpopularizetesting methodsthathavelowphysicalandeconomicimpact,sothatmorepatientswillundergo testing. 42 StrengtheningOurLineupofUrinalysisProducts Throughouttheworld,demandforurinalysisisincreasing, asthistypeoftestingprovidesavarietyofphysical informationwhileplacingarelativelysmallphysicaland economicburdenonpatients.InSeptember2015,Sysmex CorporationlauncheditsUF-5000/4000/3000fully UD-10fullyautomatedimaging automatedanalyzersofformedelementsinurine.These unitforformedelementsinurine instrumentsoﬀerenhancedperformanceandanextended (left) rangeoftestingparameters,comparedwithconventional UF-5000fullyautomated models.Furthermore,inJanuary2016weintroducedthe analyzerofformedelementsin UD-10fullyautomatedimagingunitforformedelementsin urine(center) UC-3500fullyautomatedurine urine.ThroughabusinessalliancewithEIKENCHEMICAL chemistryanalyzer(right) CO.,LTD.,wealsobegansellingtheUC-3500fully automatedurinechemistryanalyzer(inoverseasmarkets), theﬁrstunderourownbrand.Theseproducts,which employthemodularconcept,canbecombinedwithother instrumentstomeetdiverseurinalysisneeds. OtherProductandServiceTopics(FromSysmexCorporation'sNewsReleases inFiscal2016) SysmexReceivesCEMarking(EuropeanConformity)forLiquidBiopsyRASTestingfor MetastaticColorectalCancer-NowAvailableforClinicalPracticesSysmexʼsAutomatedBloodCoagulationAnalyzerCertiﬁedUnderthe5thHeritage ProgramofLegacyAnalyticalInstruments/ScientiﬁcInstruments Sysmex,AstellasandDaiichiSankyoSignMemorandumofUnderstandingonthe CreationofaMethodforAnalyzingCirculatingTumorCells-EngaginginJointResearch toCreateNewCancerDiagnosticValueandApplyingIttoDrugResearchSysmexEntersintoResearchCollaborationAgreementinRelationtoCancerandRare DiseaseswiththeUniversityofTokyo-AimingfortheClinicalApplicationofGenomic MedicineCancer-RelatedGenePanelTestingSystemDesignatedUndertheMinistryofHealth, LabourandWelfareʼsSakigakeDesignationSystem MedicaroidLaunchestheSOT-100Vercia,OperatingTablewiththeFunctiontoMove PatientsWidely 43 ResolutionofMedicalIssuesthroughProductsandServices ImprovementinAccessibilitytoMedical ServicesbyMeanssuchasFamiliarizing Products Peopleinsomepartsoftheworldhavediﬃcultyinreceivingappropriatehealthcaredueto povertyorbecausehealthcareenvironmentsandsystemsandframeworksforproviding healthcareareunderdeveloped. Sysmexistakingonthechallengeofmakingadvancesinthehealthcaredomainintheaim ofhelpingasmanypeopleaspossibletolivelong,healthylives.Webelievethatimproving accesstohealthcareisanimportantthemeinresolvinghealthcareissues.Forthisreason, inemergingmarketsanddevelopingcountries,wearehelpingtoraiselaboratoryandother healthcarequality,supportingtheeducationofhealthcareprofessionalsandworkingto developmoreinexpensiveproducts.Throughtheseeﬀorts,wearestrivingtoensurethat asmanypeopleaspossiblehaveaccesstoappropriatehealthcare. InitiativesTargetingtheThreeMajorInfectiousDiseases Knownasthethreemajorinfectiousdiseases,HIV/AIDS,tuberculosisandmalariaclaim about3millionliveseachyear.Ofthemanyinfectiousdiseasesthatexist,thesethreehave longexistedonaglobalscale.Inrecentyears,thespreadoftherapeuticdrugsand vaccineshashelpedtostemthescaleofinfection,buteconomic,socialandcultural factorsalsocomeintoplay,andthemedicalservicesrequiredfortreatmenthavenotyet reachedmanypoorandsociallydisadvantagedpeople.Impairedhealthcanalsoaﬀect economicgrowth,asitlowerslaborcapabilities,reduceslaborproductivityandleadsto risinghealthcarecosts.* Byleveragingthedetectiontechnologiesithasaccumulatedintheareaofclinicaltesting, SysmexCorporationismovingforwardwiththedevelopmentofproductsthatassistin diagnosingdisease.Wearealsocollaboratingwithgovernmentandacademiaoninitiatives toaddressthethreemajorinfectiousdiseases. *Source:“KnowingtheThreeMajorInfectiousDiseases”,FriendsoftheGlobalFund,Japan 44 InitiativestoEradicatingMalaria Intestingformalaria,intermsofdiagnosisandtreatmentitisextremelyimportantto distinguishbetweenthetypesofmalaria̶whethertropicalmalaria,whichcanbecome severeandleadtodeath,andothertypesofmalaria.Currenttestingmethods,however, involvemicroscopetestingconductedbytrainedandexperiencedprofessionals. Determininganddiagnosingthetypeofmalariainthiswaytakestime,leadingtocallsfor thedevelopmentofnewtechnologythatcandistinguishanddiagnosethetypesofmalaria simplyandquickly. Usingitsexistingautomatedhematologyanalyzertechnology,SysmexCorporationhas developedtheXN-30,anautomatedmultiparameterhematologyanalyzercapableof measuringinaroundoneminuteredbloodcellsaﬀectedbythemalariaplasmodium.This instrumentdeterminesthequantityofredbloodcellsinfectedbymalariaplasmodiaand providesinformationonthetypeofmalarialinfectionquicklyandsimply.Thisproductis currentlylimitedtoresearchuse,butastheinstrumentneednotbeoperatedbypeople whoareexperiencedinworkingwithmicroscopes,wehavehopesthattheinstrumentwill ﬁndabroadrangeofuses,frombasicresearchtoclinicalapplications. Eachyearsince2014,NikkeiInc.hassponsoredtheNikkeiAsianConferenceon CommunicableDiseases.Since2016,Sysmexhasbecomeaspecialsponsor,takingpartin amalariaworkinggrouptoformulateandimplementspeciﬁcactionplansforeradicating malaria.Theconference,consistingofgovernmentinstitutions,otherorganizations, academiaandcompaniesaroundtheworld,isworkingoneradicatingmalariaaltogether. ParticipatingintheGlobalHealthInnovativeTechnologyFund(GHITFund) SysmexCorporationisworkingondevelopmentof testingtechnologiestargetingmalaria,dengue fever,HIVandotherdiseases,aswellas developingproductstocontributetothediagnosis ofinfectiousdiseasesinemergingmarketsand developingcountries.Forthreeyears,since2015, wehavealsoparticipatedintheGlobalHealth InnovativeTechnologyFund(GHITFund)which statesitsvisionforactionas“oneinwhichthe crushingburdenofinfectiousdiseasenolonger preventsbillionsofpeopleinthedevelopingworld GHITFundFramework fromseekingthelevelofprosperityandlongevity nowcommonintheindustrializedworld.”InJune 2017,wedecidedtocontinueourparticipationfor 45 anotherﬁveyearsfrom2018,aimingtocontribute tohealthcareindevelopingcountriesthrough directJapanesetechnologicalinnovation. HelpingtoRaiseLocalHealthcareLevels Asoneofitsinitiativestohelpthedevelopmentofhealthcareinfrastructureandraise healthcarelevelsinAsia,Sysmexhassupportedeﬀortstoraisethequalityofhealthcare testinginsixcountries:China,Mongolia,Cambodia,Myanmar,ThailandandthePhilippines. WealsosupportlaboratoryqualitycontrolinAfrica,inNamibia,ZambiaandZimbabwe,and havecontributedmobilelaboratoriesinKenya. ClickhereforouractivityhighlightonAimingforaSocietyinWhichAllPeopleReceive AppropriateHealthCare. SupportingtheEducationofHealthcareProfessionals Inadditiontopreparinghealthcareinfrastructureinplace,havinginplaceappropriately trainedhealthcareprofessionalsisanessentialpartofimprovingaccesstohealthcare.To assist,Sysmexconductsseminarsandstudysessionsforhealthcareprofessionalsand disseminatesstate-of-theartscientiﬁcinformation. ClickhereforinformationonCustomerRelations PopularizingStableandInexpensiveHealthcarebyMaking UseofiPSCells iPScells*1,whicharecapableofdiﬀerentiationintomanytypesofcellsintissuesand organs,playavitalroleintherealizationofregenerativemedicine,andareexpectedtoﬁnd applicationonavarietyoffronts.Onesuchuseisinallogenictransplantation,whichuses cellsderivedfromadonorwhomeetscertaincriteria.Bystandardizingtheprocesses,this methodisconsideredtohavethepotentialforenablingproductioninaplannedmanner, providingcellsofhighqualityinastableandinexpensivemanner. SysmexCorporation,HEALIOSK.K.andSumitomoDainipponPharmaCo.,Ltd.,have commencedjointR&Donpre-transplantimmunereactiontestingforaregenerative medicinecontainingRPEcells*2derivedfromallogeniciPScells,whichhavebeenjointly 46 developedinJapanbyHealiosandSumitomoDainipponPharma,targetingage-related maculardegeneration*3andotheroculardiseases.Sysmexwilluseitsproprietary technologiestodevelopapre-transplantimmunereactiontestingmethod.Itisanticipated thattestingresultscanbereﬂectedinoptimizingimmunosuppressiveagentadministration frequencyanddosagesforpatientsfollowingallogeneiccelltransplantation. *1Anabbreviationforinducedpluripotentstemcells,iPScellsthatareproducedfromhumanskincellsorothersby transfectionofseveralfactorsarecapableofdiﬀerentiationintomanytypesofcellsorganizing *2Thesecellsformthetissueontheoutermostlayeroftheretina.Includingmelaninpigment,theyabsorbexcess lightenteringtheretina,preventscatteringandperformotherfunctions.Theyalsoserveasacontrolgateto regulatetheﬂowofsubstancesbetweentheexteriorchoroidandtheinternalretina. *3Retinalmaculaeplayanimportantroleintheabilitytosee,butdamageduetoadvancingagecancause degeneration,resultinginillnessinwhichtheeyesightisimpaired.Inonetypeofage-relatedmacular degeneration,themacularstructuretakesonan“atrophicform”alongwithadvancingage.Inanother,the “exudativeform,”newvesselsformjustbelowtheretina(neovascularity),causingdamagetothemaculae. 47 Society  ResponsibleProvisionofProductsand Services Arecentspateofissuesinvolvingproductqualityandrecallshavedrawnattentionto societyʼsdemandsforproductandservicequalityandsafety.Furthermore,inrecentyears thescopeofcorporateresponsibilityhasexpandedtoencompasstheentiresupplychain, includingbusinesspartners. Againstthisbackdrop,itisgrowingevermoreimportantforcompaniestobuildlong-term trust-basedcustomerrelationshipsbycomplyingwithlawsandregulations,paying thoroughattentiontoproductandservicequalityandsafety,engaginginmeasuresto enhancecustomersatisfactionandensureappropriatedisclosure,andsupplyingproducts inastablemanner.Toachievetheseaims,companiesarebeingcalledupontoworkwith theirbusinesspartnerstoprovideresponsibleproductsandservicesthatearncustomersʼ trust. Sinceestablishment,Sysmexhasmadeitaprioritytoinstilltrustandconﬁdenceamongits variousstakeholders,includingcustomersandbusinesspartners.Asacompanywhose businessisinthehealthcaresectorandisthuscloselylinkedwithhumanlifeandhealth,we recognizethatensuringproductandservicequalityandsafetyandprovidingappropriate disclosureareofutmostimportance. Speciﬁcally,wehavecreatedaglobalqualitymanagementsystem,throughwhichweare consistentlystrivingtomaintainorincreasequalitylevels.Asinitiativestoenhance customersatisfaction,weoﬀerservicesandsupportthatarecloselytailoredtocustomersʼ needs,employaframeworkwecall“VoiceofCustomer(VOC)”toincorporatecustomer inputintoourproductdevelopmentandqualityimprovements,andprovidethemostrecent scientiﬁcinformation.Furthermore,asacompanydevelopingitsbusinessgloballyweare reinforcingoursystemsfordeliveringastablesupplyofproducts,promotingCSR48 considerateprocurementactivitiesandaimingtogrowinasustainablemannerintandem withourbusinesspartners. Goingforward,wewillcontinuestrivingtoearnthetrustofourstakeholdersandinstilling conﬁdencebyoﬀeringresponsibleproductsandservices. 49 ResponsibleProvisionofProductsandServices SecuringofProductQualityandSafety ProductQualityandSafetyPolicies Sysmexhasconstructedasystemtoensurecompliancewithlawsandregulationsaround theworldbasedontheQualityPolicy,theCoreBehaviorandtheSysmexCorporation QualityCompliancePolicy,andweactaccordingly. QualityPolicy Byshapingtheadvancementofhealthcare,ourglobalbusinessactivities contributetothecreationofafulﬁllingandhealthysociety. Corebehavior 1.Weunderstandourcustomer'sneeds,andprovideproductsandsolutionsthatmeet orexceedtheirexpectations. 2.Weactbasedonourcustomer'sviewpointsbyrealizingthat Qualityiscustomer satisfaction . 3.Weseektoreassureourcustomersbyestablishingthehighestqualityassurance standardsandusingthemtoenhancethequalityofallaspectsofourbusiness. 4.Wecontinuallycreateinnovativevalueforourstakeholdersbydevelopingand applyingnewanduniquetechnologiesandknowledge. 5.Wecomplywithallrelevantnationalorregionalregulationsandstandardstoprovide safeproducts. 6.Wemaintainandcontinuallyimprovetheeﬀectivenessofourqualitymanagement system. 7.Weestablishqualityobjectivesconsistentwiththisqualitypolicy,andmeasureour performanceagainstthem. RevisedinMay2007 QualityManagement 50 QualityManagement BuildingaGlobalQualityManagementSystem Withregardtoourqualitymanagementsystem,atGroup companiesallproductionsitesandnearlyalldevelopment siteshaveputinplacemanagementsystemsfollowingeither theISO9001orISO13485*internationalstandards.Ofour 65Groupcompanies,32haveobtainedISO9001 certiﬁcationand19havereceivedISO13485certiﬁcationin theaimofreinforcingtheirqualitymanagementsystems. GlobalRAQAMeeting Sysmexalsoconductsmanagementreviewsandauditsofqualityactivitiesatitsprincipal Groupcompaniestoconﬁrmthatthemanagementsystemisoperatingproperly. Tosharequality-relatedinformationthroughouttheGroup,weregularlyholdtheGlobal RAQA(regulatoryaﬀairs/qualityassurance)Meeting,atwhichQualityAssurance DepartmentmanagersfromGroupcompaniesinJapanandoverseasgather. *Qualitymanagementsystemforthedesignandmanufactureofmedicaldevices SustainableImprovementPrograms ReinforcingStructuresforMaintainingandEnhancingProductQuality Usedinlaboratorytesting,Sysmexʼsproductsplayavitalroleinprotectingpeopleʼslives andgoodhealth.Beingfullyawareofthisresponsibility,Sysmexismakingconstanteﬀorts tomaintainandimproveproductqualitybybuildingvarioussystems,nottomention complyingwithsafetystandardsaroundtheworldatthedesignanddevelopmentstages. Intheproductdevelopmentstage,weverifyproductqualitybysettingﬁve qualitygates intheprocessleadinguptomarketlaunch.Also,whenwemarketproductsthatare manufacturedbyothers,weverifytheirqualitybyconductingperiodicauditsofthe manufacturersandmeticulouslyinspectingtheproducts.Aswellastheseeﬀorts,inthe unlikelyeventofadefectiveproductwehavesystemsinplacetoquicklyidentifyand respondtotheproblem. Onfactoryﬂoors,weintroducedcleanroomsintoourﬂowcellpartsmanufacturing processinﬁscal2016.Increasingthecleanlinessoftheworkingenvironmentledtohigher qualityandyields.Toreinforcequalityatsuppliers,eﬀortstoimproveprocesschange managementandfactoryauditsledtoareductionofaroundhalfintherateof nonconformingpartsyearonyear. 51 Inaddition,ourglobalqualitycomplaintprocessingsystemallowsustogatherquality informationinatimelywayfrommarketsaroundtheworld.Whenwereceiveinformation aboutabugormalfunction,weimmediatelylookintothecauseandceasedistributionof theproduct.Sharinginformationgloballyaboutbugsandmalfunctions,aswellas correctiveandpreventiveactions,helpsusmaintainandenhanceproductquality. EmployeeTraining FocusingonSpecializedQualityTraining Inadditiontoqualitypolicytrainingforallemployees,we conductspecializedqualityeducationtargetingspeciﬁc departmentsandjobtypes.Beingacompanythatprovides productsandservicesinmorethan190countriesand regionsaroundtheworld,weconducteducationon individualcountriesʼregulatorysystemsforengineersin developmentdivisions,makingathorougheﬀorttodevelop Grouptraining productsinaccordancewithlawsandregulations. Inﬁscal2016,weconductedtrainingrelatedtoquality systemregulationsonrequirementsforensuringthequality andsafetyofmedicalinstrumentsintheUnitedStates.We alsoconductedtrainingonregulationsrequiringunique deviceidentiﬁcationformedicalinstruments(UDI).Atour OnoFactory,weheldworkshop-stylequalitytrainingfor peopleresponsibleforGoodManufacturingPractice(GMP), increasingqualityawarenessthroughanexchangeof opinionsbasedoncasestudies. 52 ResponsibleProvisionofProductsandServices AppropriateDisclosureofInformation RegardingProductsandServices QualityandSafetyInformation SharingCustomerFeedbackonProductQualityandSafetywithintheGroup AtSysmex,informationonproductqualityandsafetyiscentrallycontrolledattheVigilance Division.Thisdivisioninvestigatesandanalyzessuchinformationfromcustomers,and feedstheiranalysisresultstorelevantcustomerswhilealsosharingthemwithdesign, manufacturingandotherrelatedfunctions,sothattheseﬁndingsmaybeappliedtoquality improvementandproductdevelopment. ProductQualityandVigilanceControlSystem CollectionandRepairInformationPostedonOurWebsite Sysmexpostsinformationaboutproductcollectionandrepaironitswebsiteunder ImportantProductNotices . Pleaseclickhereforimportantproductnotices.(InformationforJapanesemarket) 53 WorkingAggressivelytoStampoutCounterfeitReagents Toassureaccuratetestingresults,Sysmexasksitscustomersathealthcarefacilitiestouse Sysmexbrandedinstrumentsandreagentstogether.Inrecentyears,however,reagents disguisedasSysmexreagentshavebeenfoundincirculationinsomeareas.Theuseof suchcounterfeitreagentscannotguaranteethereliabilityoftestingresultsand,insome cases,canbeharmfultopatients'health. Sysmexcontinuouslymonitorsmarketsforcounterfeitreagents.Whentheyarediscovered, weworkwithlocalgovernmentinstitutionsandjudicialorganstoensurethorough enforcement.Wealsocautionmedicalinstitutionsagainsttheuseofcounterfeitreagents byplacingadvertisementsinnewspapers. 54 ResponsibleProvisionofProductsandServices AssessmentandManagementoftheSupply Chain CoreBehaviors Wedelivercommitmenttoourclientcompaniesthroughbroad-rangingpartnerships.We strivetobeacompanythatcangrowinstepwithourtradepartners,throughrespectand mutualtrust. SupplyChainManagement PromotingCSRProcurementintheSupplyChain Sysmexhasformulatedaprocurementpolicythatexpressesitsbasicconsiderationson selectingsuppliersandconductingprocurementtransactions,andispromotingits deploymentacrossthevaluechain.Inﬁscal2013,werevisedthepolicytopromoteCSR throughprocurement.Wealsoaddedaclauseaboutformulatingbusinesscontinuityplans (BCP)asbeﬁtsacompanythatisdevelopingitsbusinessgloballyinthehealthcareﬁeld, andanotheronpromotingbusinessactivitiesandCSRincompliancewiththelaws, regulationsandsocialconventionsofhostcountries. Atthesametime,inresponsetotheU.K.ModernSlaveryAct,Sysmexhaspublicizedits statementontheSysmexUKwebsite. Clickhereforinformationongreenprocurement. ClickhereforinformationontheU.K.ModernSlaveryAct(SysmexUKwebsite). 55 ProcurementPolicy In shapingtheadvancementofhealthcare, theMissionsetforthintheSysmexWay corporatephilosophy,wedelivercommitmenttoourbusinesspartnersthrough equitableandfairprocurementactivities.Wealsostrivetobeacompanythatcangrow instepwithourtradingpartnersinaspiritofmutualtrustandencouragement. Operatinginstrictcompliancewithlaws,regulations,andcontracts,andadheringto highethicalstandards,wecarryoutconsistentprocurementofcomponentsandraw materialsthatmeetthelevelsofqualityrequiredbyhealthcareproviders.Weclosely followthesepoliciesinourendeavorstosupplyproductsthatcustomersworldwidecan usewithconﬁdence.Similarly,wehopethatourbusinesspartnerswillcooperatewith usinthefollowingsevenareasaswecontinuetocreateandenhanceuniqueand creativevalues. Weaskourvaluedbusinesspartnersto: 1.Assurequalitytotherequisitedegreeforhealthcareproducts 2.Buildasystemforreliablesupply 3.Reﬁnetechnologicalcapabilitiesthatcontributetothedevelopmentofhealthcare 4.Createstablebusinessfoundationsandformulatebusinesscontinuityplans(BCP) 5.PromotebusinessactivitiesandCSRincompliancewiththelaws,regulationsand socialconventionsofhostcountries 6.Carryoutenvironmentalmanagementtohelpconservetheglobalnatural environment 7.Supplyproductsatreasonablepricesandengageinaggressivecost-reduction programs RevisedinMarch2014 ConductingCSRSurveys ToconﬁrmourbusinesspartnersʼCSRactivities,weconductCSRsurveyscontainingsuch topicsasprovidingasafeandhealthyworkplace;prohibitingforcedandchildlabor; eliminatingdiscriminationduetogender,disability,raceorotherfactors;preventingbribery ofoﬃcialsinJapanandoverseas;andengaginginenvironmentalmanagement.Inﬁscal 2016,weconductedsuchsurveysatapproximately280existingbusinesspartners.We haveapolicyofnotdealingwithnewbusinesspartnerswhohaveproblemswiththeirCSR initiatives,soinﬁscal2016weconductedCSRsurveysofsevennewbusinesspartnersand interviewedtheirmanagerstocheckthestatusoftheirCSRactivities.Ourpeopleincharge ofprocurementvisitedoverseasbusinesspartnerstoconﬁrmthestatusoftheirinitiatives inthisregard,includingthepreventionofchildlaborandmaintainingasafeandclean 56 workplace.Inaddition,inﬁscal2016westartedtoconﬁrmwhetherbusinesspartnersuse metalsintheirproductionforusthataresubjecttoconﬂictmineraldisclosureregulations. AimingtoImprovetheQualityofSuppliedPartsandRawMaterials Ourabilitytoprovidehigh-qualityproductstocustomersinastablemannerdependson maintainingorimprovingthequalityoftherawmaterialsandpartsweprocure.We preparedaQualityAssuranceAgreementthatdeﬁnesthequalityrequirementsin2009, andafteralsopreparingahandbooktoimproveunderstandingofthecontentwehave sincebeenconcludingthisagreementwithsuppliers. Weconductqualityauditswithoutfailonnewprocurementpartnerstoensurethatquality managementsystemsareoperatingappropriately.Forexistingprocurementpartners,we inspectproductsforqualitywhentheyaredelivered,conductingqualityauditsifdeemed necessaryasacorrectiveorprecautionarymeasure. RelationsintheSupplyChain Westrivetoenhancerelationswithourbusinesspartners sowecanconductbusinesstogetherbasedontheir understandingofourbusinessdirectionsandprocurement policy.InFebruaryandMarch2016,weconductedsupplier brieﬁngsforbusinesspartnersinJapanwhosupplyparts processedtoSysmexspeciﬁcationsforuseintesting instruments.MembersofSysmex'squalitycontrol Procurementpolicybrieﬁng departmentsalsoparticipatedinthebrieﬁngs,explainingthestandardsforprovision inherentintheSysmexProcurementPolicyitemcallingto assurequalitytotherequisite degreeforhealthcareproducts. BusinessPartnerBrieﬁngsonEnvironmentalStudies AstheRoHSdirectivewillgointoeﬀectforinvitro diagnostic(IVD)instrumentsinJuly2016,inJanuary2016 weheldthreebusinesspartnerbrieﬁngsonenvironmental studies̶onceinTokyoandtwiceinKobe.Peoplefrom245 businesspartnersattendedthesesessions,wherewe explainedtheimportanceSysmexplacesonregulatory initiativesandenvironmentalresponse,andaskedfortheir Businesspartnerbrieﬁngson environmentalstudies cooperationincomplyingwiththeRoHSdirective. 57 ExplainingPoliciesonCompliancetoDistributors Sysmexrigorouslyensurescompliancetobuildsustainableandfruitfulpartnershipswithits distributors.Weprohibitemployeesfromabusinganydominantbargainingposition, oﬀeringexcessiveentertainment,presentsorthelikewhendealingwithdistributors.We assignpersonneltofull-timedutywithkeydistributors,andholdregularmeetingstofoster mutualunderstanding. Clickhereforinformationaboutourcompliancesystemandinitiatives. ConductingInternalAwarenessActivitiestoEnsureCompliancewith Procurement-RelatedLegislation Wehaveinplaceanelectronicprocurementsystem(SysmexTradeMission,orSTM).In additiontopreventingthereductionofpaymentstoinappropriatelevels,aswellas avoidingproductreturns,eachyearweconducttrainingonthissystem. Inﬁscal2016,allmembersoftheProcurementDepartmentunderwenttrainingonthe SubcontractLaw.Forpeoplenewlyassignedtothisdepartment,wealsoprovidedtraining onourprocurementpolicy,CSR,greenprocurementandprocurementrisk.Newmembers ofmanufacturingdivisionsandtheR&DDepartment,whichisinthepositiontoorderR&D materials,alsoparticipatedintrainingonpointsofcautionfromthetimeanorderisplaced throughtoacceptanceinspection,aswellasinrelationtotheSubcontractLaw. 58 ResponsibleProvisionofProductsandServices CustomerRelations EnhancingCustomerSatisfaction ConductingCustomerSatisfactionSurveysinJapanandOverseas Sysmextakesadvantageofitsopportunitiestocontactcustomersinareasaroundthe worldandconductcustomersatisfactionsurveys.Theopinionsandrequestsare communicatedtoeachdivisionandusedforproductimprovementandothereﬀorts. CustomerSatisfactionSurveysConductedinFiscal2016(Japan) Target Peopleattendingcustomertraining Numberof 294people responses Levelofsatisfaction withcustomer 98.3% training Target VisitorstoSysmexʼsboothwiththeJAMTCongress Numberof 1,204people responses Levelofsatisfaction 98.3% (Up1.1percentagepointfromﬁscal2015) 59 OverseasExample(Americas):ImprovingCustomerSatisfactionbyLaunching anEducationalSupportSite SysmexAmericahasstrivenovermanyyearstoprovide extensivesupporttoitscustomers.InFebruary2016, Sysmexlaunchedaneweducationalsupportsitefor healthcareprofessionals,providingrecentclinical informationtoaidinpatientdiagnosisandtreatment. Receivinghighmarksforsuchinitiatives,Sysmexranked topamongmanufacturersofhematologyanalyzersinan IMVServiceTraksurvey(sponsoredbyIMV)ofcustomer Educationalsupportsitefor satisfactionfor17consecutiveyears. healthcareprofessionals:Clinical EducationforClinicians See“Fiscal2016PerformanceData”forresultsoverthe pastthreeyears. OverseasExample(China):StrivingtoBoostCustomerSatisfaction Inﬁscal2016,SysmexShanghaiconductedcustomer satisfactionsurveysacrossChina.Morethan2,000people tookpart,awardingthecompanyhighmarksinmultiple categories,includingafter-salesservicequalityand responsespeed.Throughthesurvey,welearnedthat customershadhighexpectationsforSysmexʼsperiodic SysmexShanghaiʼscustomer maintenanceandscientiﬁcsupport.Learningfromthese supportcenter surveyresults,wewillengageineﬀortstoenhance customersatisfactionfurther. InMarch2016,werankedsecondinthe2015China MedicalDevicesindustrialData&After-salesService Investigation*,conductedbythird-partyinstitutions. *Theinvestigationwasconductedbysixorganizations,theMagazineofthe ChinaMedicalDevices,theMedicalEngineeringSocietyofChineseMedical Association,theClinicalEngineersSocietyofChineseMedicalDoctor Association,theClinicalMedicineEngineeringbranchofChineseSociety 2015ChinaMedicalDevices ofBiomedicalEngineering,theHealthNewspaperandthePeopleʼsMedical industrialData&After-sales PublishingHouse. ServiceInvestigation After-SalesSupport 60 After-SalesSupport RespondingtoInquiriesRapidlyandResponsibly InJapan,SysmexmaintainsaCustomerSupportCenter,whereexperiencedstaﬀmembers withexpertknowledgecatertocustomers24hoursaday,365daysayear(separate agreementrequired).Bycreatingadatabasecontainingmaintenancehistoriesandthe detailsofpastinquiriesfromcustomerstoensurequickreference,thecenterrespondsto inquiriesandrequestsbothquicklyandcarefully. Requestsandothercommentsreceivedthroughthesupportcenterandothermeansis gatheredbytheVoiceofCustomer(VOC)Group.Afteranalyzingthisinformationfrom variousangles,itisprovidedasfeedbacktorelateddivisionssoitcanbeutilizedinnew productdevelopmentandoperationalimprovements.Inﬁscal2016,wegatheredsome 16,000customercommentsintheJapanesemarket.Wehavereceivedapositiveresponse totheVOCmarkweuseinourproductcatalogtoindicateinstrumentswithnewfunctions andinstrumentsthatwehaveaddedasaresultofcustomerinput. InquiriestoCustomerSupportCenter Respondingtoinquiriesatthe CustomerSupportCenter See“Fiscal2016PerformanceData”forresultsoverthepastthreeyears. UtilizingNetworkstoProvideCustomerSupport Athospitalsandotherhealthcareinstitutions,instrumentandreagentprecisionis controlledtomaintainconsistenttestingdatareliability.Inmostcases,theconditionof instrumentsandreagentsischeckedbycomparingthemeasurementresultsofmaterials knownas“controlsubstances”withreferencevaluesandresultsonadailybasis.Sysmex 61 supportscustomersʼqualitycontrolbyprovidingcontrol substancesinvariousﬁelds.Customerinstrumentsare connectedtotheCustomerSupportCenterviaouronline SysmexNetworkCommunicationSystems(SNCS). MeasuredvaluesofcontrolsubstancessentviatheSNCS fromcustomerinstrumentsarereceivedbytheCustomer SupportCenter,whichtalliesandcomparesthesevalues CustomerSupportCenter withitsotherdataresultsonthesameinstruments,detectssignsofabnormalitiesand returnstheanalysisresultstothecustomer.SNCSemploysaremoteservicethatenables communicationwithcustomers.Withthissystem,wecansharedataprocessingscreens anduseWebcamerastoconﬁrmthestatusofinstruments. Thisservicealsohelpstopreventtroublebyusinginformationfromthesensorsplacedon variousinstruments,suchasthenumberofoperations,maintenanceperiods,andlogand temperatureinformation. DisseminatingInformationThatIsUsefulforCustomers Aspartofourcustomersupportactivities,wedisseminate informationonthe“SupportInformation”sectionofour website. Inadditiontoscientiﬁcandtechnicalinformationthatis helpfulwhenusingourproducts,weprovidevideos* coveringroutinemaintenanceandmethodsforaddressing errormessages. “SupportInformation”site Up-to-dateinformationissentoutusingane-mailmagazine distributionservice.Wealsooﬀera“personalpage”function formanagingcontentandviewinghistories.Intheseways, weareconsistentlyenhancingfunctionalitytofacilitate customeruse. *Certainvideoscanonlybeviewedbymembersthatsubscribetothe SysmexNetworkCommunicationSystems(SNCS). 62 HoldingaGlobalMeetingonAfter-SalesSupport InOctober2016,weheldaGlobalMeetingonAfter-Sales Supporttoshareafter-salessupportissuesand perspectivesonaglobalbasis. Themeetingwasattendedby37peopleresponsiblefor practicaloperationsinnineregions,includingregional headquartersoverseas.Themeetingwasdividedintoa scientiﬁcandatechnologysession,whichservedasvenues forspecializedandlivelydiscussion.Atthescientiﬁc session,wesharedinformationonrecentscientiﬁctrendsin variousregionsandengagedinmultifacetedconsideration oftheclinicalvalueofSysmexproductsfromascientiﬁc perspective,discussinghowbesttoappealtocustomers.In Meetingunderway thetechnologysession,wefocusedonthelaunchtimingfor newproductsandtookaworkshop-typediscussionapproachonrequestedthemesas servicetrainingandtrainingmaterials.Goingforward,wewillcontinuetoenhance groupwideafter-salessupportqualitythroughclosecommunicationsbeyondregional boundaries. UtilizingISOtoIncreasetheQualityofClinicalTesting Recently,theﬁeldofclinicaltestinghasmetwithstrongdemandforimprovementinthe qualityoftestresults,andawarenessofinternationalstandardsisincreasingaroundthe world.OnesuchstandardisISO15189(Medicallaboratories̶Requirementsforquality andcompetence).Thenumberofclinicallaboratoriesthathaveobtainedthiscertiﬁcationis increasing,withthecertiﬁcationhavingbecomeobligatoryinsomecountries. SysmexhasreceivedcertiﬁcationundertheISO/IEC17025internationalstandardfor clinicaltestingcalibrationinstitutionsandtheISO15195standard,verifyingthatSysmex meetstheinternationalstandardsforthequalityofthecalibrationserviceitprovidesonits automatedhematologyanalyzers.WearetheﬁrstcompanyinJapantoreceivethe accreditationintheﬁeld. AcalibrationcertiﬁcatethatSysmexissuesisacceptedasagloballyrecognizeddocument thatISO15189requirestoensuretraceabilityandtraceablecalibration.AsofDecember 31,2016,Sysmexhadissuedsuchcertiﬁcatesonmorethan1,750instruments. Furthermore,SNCS/eQAPi*1,anexternalqualityassessmentserviceSysmexprovides,isthe ﬁrstinJapaninanyindustrytoreceivecertiﬁcationunderISO/IEC17043*2(Conformity 63 assessment̶Generalrequirementsforproﬁciencytesting). *1Alarge-scalereal-timeexternalqualityassessmentprogram.Thisserviceinvolvesanalyzingtheresultsof measurementdatainrealtime,whichcontributestoimprovingtheaccuracyofeverydaytesting. *2Internationalstandardonconformityassessment̶generalrequirementsforproﬁciencytesting. ISO/IEC17025: ISO/IEC15195: International International ISO/IEC17043: standardon standardon International general laboratory standardfor  requirementsfor medicine– conformity thecompetenceof requirementsfor assessment– testingand reference calibration measurement proﬁciencytesting laboratories laboratories Reference Reference QualityControl Nameof Measurement Measurement ServicesCenter, Entity Laboratory,Sysmex Laboratory,Sysmex SysmexCorporation Corporation Corporation Certiﬁcation February14,2014 March17,2015 February12,2014 date Certiﬁcation RNL00440 PTP00010 PTP00010 number M19Mass concentration(red M51Clinicaltesting M51Clinicaltesting bloodcellcount, (generaltesting, (generaltesting, Scopeof whitebloodcell hematology,clinical hematology,clinical certiﬁcation count,plateletcount, chemistry, chemistry, hematocritvalue, immunology,other immunology,other hemoglobin testing) testing) concentration) Firstaccreditationin Firstaccreditationin Firstaccreditationin Remarks Japanintheareaof Japanintheareaof Japaninallindustries bloodcellcount bloodcellcount 64 OverseasExample(EMEA*):ProvidingTrainingforDistributorsandEmployees Conductinghighlyprecisetestingrequiresanappropriate leveloftechnologicalandscientiﬁcknowledge.Tofoster thisexpertise,SysmexEurope,theregionalheadquarters forEMEA,hasestablishedtheSysmexAcademytoprovide trainingforkeydistributorsandemployeesalike.The companyhasalsosetuptrainingcentersinvariousEMEA regions,providinganeducationsystemthatoﬀers TrainingattheSysmexAcademy instructionsupervisedbytheSysmexAcademy. *EMEA:Europe,theMiddleEastandAfrica Clickhereforinformationaboutaimingtoimprove healthcarelevelsinemergingmarketsanddeveloping countries ScientiﬁcActivities SysmexholdsseminarstargetinghealthcareprofessionalsinJapanandotherAsian countriestoprovidethemwithmostup-to-datemedicalinformation.Wealsoworkwith variouscountriesʼministriesofhealth,othernationalinstitutionsandmajoracademic societiesonscientiﬁcactivitiesaimedathelpingtoincreasethelevelofhealthcare. HoldingScientiﬁcSeminarsforClinicalProfessionals Sysmexkeepsclinicalprofessionalsupdatedonscientiﬁc informationbysponsoringseminarsandstudysessionsfor doctorsandmedicaltechnologists. InJune2016,weheldascientiﬁcseminartargeting healthcareprofessionals(suchasdoctorsandmedical technologists)inJapanandotherpartsofAsiathatwas 39thSysmexScientiﬁcSeminar attendedbyapproximately1,000people.Themed (Japan) “SearchingfortheRootsofDisease̶PreclinicalStage,”the seminarcoveredclinicalbasicstoapplications,providingthemostrecentinformation usefulinclinicalsettings. 65 InOctober2016,weheldaSysmexScientiﬁcSeminarinYangon,Myanmar.Some170 cliniciansandotherpeopleattendedtheseminar,whichprovidedthemostrecent informationpertainingtourinalysisandhemostasis.Inaddition,inNovember2016weheld the19thSysmexScientiﬁcSeminarinChina,inShanghai.Around1,500peoplefrom acrossChinaattendedtheseminar,wherephysiciansactiveattheforefrontprovided informationaboutrecenttrendsinclinicaltesting. ScientiﬁcSeminarsforHealthcareProfessionals Date Region Theme Attendees Japanand SearchingfortheRootsofDisease̶ Approximately June2016 otherparts PreclinicalStage 1,000people ofAsia October Myanmar Themostrecentinformation Approximately 2016 (Yangon) pertainingtourinalysisandhemostasis 170people November China Recenttrendsinclinicaltesting Approximately 2016 (Shanghai) 1,500people OverseasCaseStudy(AsiaPaciﬁc):ConductingSupportActivitiestoRaisethe QualityofClinicalTesting SysmexisworkingwithgovernmentsandacademicsocietiesinAsiaʼsemergingmarkets anddevelopingcountriestosupportthestandardizationofthroughexternalqualitycontrol program.Inﬁscal2016,weprovidedexternalqualitycontrolinMongolia,Thailand,the PhilippinesandCambodia.Wealsosignedanagreementrelatedtoscientiﬁcsupportin Myanmar.Throughtheseeﬀorts,weareworkingtoraisethequalityofclinicaltestingin variouscountries. Clickhereforinformationonactivityhighlights. 66 OverseasCaseStudy(China):CooperatingonAuthorshipofaSpecializedText fortheChineseLaboratoryMedicine InJune2016,aspecializedChinese-languagetextentitled “EncyclopediaofClinicalExaminationEquipment”was published.SysmexʼsRegulatoryAﬀairsDivisioncooperated onthewritingoftheﬁrstchapter,“Standardizationand Regulations.”Morethan700specialistswereinvolvedin creatingthetext,whichwasproducedduringathree-year period.Thetextearnedhighmarksfromacademicsocieties EncyclopediaofClinical forbeingbothpracticalandforward-lookinginits ExaminationEquipment multifacetedcoverageofsuchthemesasbasictheory, testingtechnologies,clinicalapplications,qualitycontrol, recentprogressandstandardguidelines. 67 ResponsibleProvisionofProductsandServices StableSupply EstablishingaStableSupplyStructure Beingamanufacturerofhealthcareproducts,Sysmexseesitsmissionasprovidinga stablesupplyofindisputablyhigh-qualityproductsandservices.Tofulﬁllthismission,we paycarefulattentiontoqualitycontrolateverystage,fromrawmaterialprocurementto ﬁnalinspectionwhenproductsareshipped. WeoperatefourinstrumentfactoriesinJapan(i-Square,KakogawaFactory,SysmexRA andSysmexMedica)andoneoverseas(SysmexPartec),aswellastwodomesticreagent factories(OnoFactoryandSeishinFactory)andeightinothercountries(SysmexReagents America,SysmexEurope,JinanSysmex,SysmexWuxi,SysmexBrazil,SysmexFrance, SysmexAsiaPaciﬁcandSysmexIndia).Withthesefacilities,wehavecreatedasupply structuretomeetcustomerneeds.Furthermore,weusemultiplebusinesspartnersfor procurement,aproactiveapproachbothforpursuingcosteﬃcienciesandprovidinga backupsystem. ResponseinTimesofDisaster(BCP) Almosteveryyear,disastershitworldwideandgreatmanypeoplewerekilledandahuge damageonthelocalandworldeconomieswereexperienced.Inthepast30years,(1984– 2013),morethan247millionpeoplewerekilledandmorethanUS$2.4trillionwaslostin damages.Earthquakesandotherlarge-scalenaturaldisastersoccurfrequentlyinAsia,a situationthatcallsfordisasterpreparednessandquickresponsewhendisasterstrikes. Ourdisasterpreparednessmeasuresrelatedtoreagentsincludesteppingupoverseas productionandhedgingriskbydiversifyingoursuppliersofkeyrawmaterials.Wehave alsosetupamutualsupplysystembetweenourfactoriestouseintimesofemergency andsecuredalternativetransportationroutes.WehavecreatedaninternalBCPmanualon productsupplyandconductsimulationtraining. JustaftertheearthquakesinKumamotooccurredinApril2016,wesetupaproduct supplycountermeasuresheadquartersthatquicklyascertainedthestatusofallsuppliers, determinedthedegreeofimpactonourproductsuppliersandworkedrapidlytoselect alternativeproducts.Asaresult,therewasnoimpactonourproductionplan. 68 *Source:MinistryoftheCabinet,websitepageon DisasterManagementinJapan Clickhereforinformationondisastercountermeasures. RespondingtoDemandIncreases ExpandingFactoriesandInstallingEquipmentinPreparationforaRiseinGlobal Demand Sysmexworkstorespondswiftlytochangesinglobaldemandforitsinstrumentsand consistentlyensureastablesupplyofitsproducts.Toachievethesegoals,wemaintain appropriateinventorylevelsofeachproductateachlocation,ensurethatinventoriesare locatedneartheirmarkets,andcommunicatewithlocalsubsidiariestoaccurately determinethedemandstatus. Wearealsobuildingnewfactoriesandexpandingequipmentsinanticipationoffurther demandgrowth.ThereagentfactoryintheUnitedStateswearecurrentlyexpandingis scheduledtocommencefull-scaleproductioninﬁscal2017,expandingproductioncapacity toaround1.8timesitsformerlevel.WearealsosettingSysmexAsiaPaciﬁcasourregional distributionhub,inafurthereﬀorttoensurestablesupply. Wewillcontinueimprovingproductionlinesandlogisticstoensureastablesupplyof productstomeetglobaldemand. 69 Society  RealizationofanAttractiveWorkplace Inordertoachievesustainablegrowth,itisconsideredimportantforcompaniesto promotediversityandcreateworkplacesthatareeasyandcomfortabletoworkin.Also, theSustainableDevelopmentGoals(SDGs)adoptedbytheUnitedNationsinSeptember 2015includegoalspertainingtogenderequality,decentworkandreducedinequalities.In ordertoachievethesegoals,companiesarecalledontocreateworkplacesthatpromote work-lifebalancewhilehelpingdiversehumanresourcesrealizetheirfullpotential,aswell asforsystematicandsustainablehumanresourcecultivation. Sysmexrecognizeshumanresourcesasanimportantmanagementresourceinorderto realizesustainablegrowth,andthereforeencouragestherecruitingofdiversehuman resourcesandtakingadvantageoftheirabilities. Speciﬁcally,wehaveinplaceahumanresourcedevelopmentsystemthatdevelops capabilitiesinanongoingandsystematicmanner.Wepromotediversityandinclusionand haveintroducedvarioussystemstocreateaworkplacethatprovidespeaceofmindand enablesdiverseemployeestomaximizetheirskills. Aswestrivetowardsustainablegrowth,wewillcontinueinoureﬀortstobuildaworkplace inwhichdiversehumanresourcescanmaximizetheirpotentialandprovideopportunities fortheirindividualgrowth. 70 RealizationofanAttractiveWorkplace ProvisionofaComfortableWorking Environment FairEvaluationandTreatment EquitablyEvaluatingPersonnelBasedonAbilitiesandAccomplishments SysmexCorporationvaluesthespiritofindependenceandchallenge,providesemployees withopportunitiesforself-fulﬁllmentandgrowth,andrewardsthemfortheir accomplishments.Weremunerateemployeesappropriately,accordingtofactorssuchas theiroccupationsandqualiﬁcations,andbasesalariesarethesame,regardlessofgender. Basedontheprincipleoffairtreatment,ourbasicapproachtowardevaluationisto reward employeesforcapabilitiesthatcontributetotheenhancementofcorporatevalueaswellas forproducingaccomplishments. Inadditiontoevaluatingemployeesfortheirsuccesses, weevaluatetheprocessesleadingtoemployeegrowth(competencyevaluations).To achievefairnessandensurethatemployeesunderstandtheirevaluations,weshow employeestheirevaluationresultsandtheirsuperiors'comments. 71 BasicPrinciplesofthePersonnelManagementSystem 1.Ensuringlong-termemployment Establishingadouble-linear-typecompetence-basedratingframethatenablesa diversityofemployeestomaximizetheirskills,andprovidingopportunitiesfor self-realizationandgrowth 2.Promotingthedevelopmentandcultivationofdiversehumanresources Establishingcompetence-basedratingstandardsandpromotingcultivationof humanresourcesandnormalizationofcareeradvancementthroughclariﬁcation ofpromotioncriteria Evaluatingnotonlyaccomplishmentsbutalsotheprocessesofproducing achievements(realizationcapability)inordertopromotehumanresource developmentandthereformofcorporateculture 3.Rewardingemployeesforcapabilitiesthatcontributetotheenhancementof corporatevalueaswellasforproducingaccomplishments Simplifyingtherelationshipbetweenevaluationandreward. Creatingaremunerationstructurethatiseasyforeveryonetounderstandand thatrewardsemployeesinaccordancewiththeircontribution,role,competency andaccomplishments SupportingEmployeeCareerDesign SysmexCorporationemploysavoluntaryreportingsystemforallemployees.Underthis system,eachyearweholdhearingsforeachemployeetolearnabouttheirmedium-to long-termcareer,overseasworkandjobcategoryaspirations.Thesystemaﬀordseach employeewiththeopportunitytoconsidertheirowncareerdirectionsandlifeplan,aswell astoaﬀecttheirownskillsdevelopmentandplacementaccordingtothecontentoftheir reports. Theﬁscal2016hearingincludedreportingby90.3%ofemployees. PromotingandImprovingtheTreatmentofContractandTemporaryEmployees SysmexCorporationactivelyhirescontractemployeesandtemporaryemployeesasregular personnel.Wehaveclariﬁedourinternalregulationsforhiringpeopleworkingonlimited, ﬁxed-termcontracts,oﬀeringthemfairopportunitiesforpromotion.Weputthis informationonourintranettoencouragethoroughunderstandingoftheserules.When renewingtemporaryemployeesʼcontracts,foremployeesthatmeetcertainconditionswe 72 notifytemporaryplacementagenciesofthepossibilityofemployingsuchpersonnel directly.Inadditiontotheseinitiatives,wehavesetupaspecializedhelpdesktomakeit easyforcontractandpart-timeemployeestoconsultaboutimprovementsinbusiness administration,andthisinformationisnotedintheircontracts.Bycontinuingwithsuch eﬀorts,inﬁscal201611contractandtemporaryemployeeswerepromotedtofull-time positions. In2016,weintroducedasystemformanagingtemporaryemployees,systematizing contractsigningandattendancemanagement.Managingconﬂictingdatesandattendance strengthensourcompliance,andwehaveincreasedeﬃciencybymakingthestart-of-work andcontractrenewalprocedurespaperless.Coincidingwiththisintroduction,we conductedtrainingontherevisedWorkerDispatchingactforpeopleinchargeofdivisions andpeoplewhogiveordersandinstructionstotemporaryemployees.Thistrainingwas aimedatensuringthoroughawarenessoftherulesonbusinessexecutionbytemporary employeesandmattersthatareprohibitedundertheircontracts. Toprovideamorecomfortableworkingenvironment,weextendedtheﬂex-timesystemfor regularemployeestoapplytocontractemployees,aswell.Thissystemenablesemployees toeﬃcientlyarrangetheirownworkinghourstosuitindividualcircumstances,suchas visitingthehospitalorraisingchildren.Goingforward,wewillreviseoursystemsas appropriatetoenhanceourtreatmentofemployees. See“Fiscal2016PerformanceData”forresultsoverthepastthreeyears. IntroducingInternalAwardsSystemstoMotivateEmployees Inﬁscal2011,SysmexintroducedtheGroupCEOAwardsystemforrecognizingindividuals, divisionsorgroupsthatcontributemostsigniﬁcantlytotherealizationoftheSysmexWay, ourGroupcorporatephilosophy,sharingtheseachievementsthroughouttheCompany eachyear.Weprovideawardsforoneindividualandonegroup. TomotivateR&Dengineersandheightenawarenessofintellectualproperty,Sysmex Corporationhasalsointroducedthreepatentawardsystems:thePatentGrand Prize/PatentPrizeofDistinction,thePatentMeisterandtheFilingCommemorationPrize. WealsopresentaQualityAwardforsuccessinqualityimprovements. OverseasExample:PersonnelSystemsatRegionalHeadquarters OurregionalheadquartersfortheAmericas,EMEA*,ChinaandAsiaPaciﬁchaveinplace personnelsystemsinlinewiththelegalframeworksandculturesoftheseregions. 73 Ingeneral,weusemanagementbyobjectivesapproachestoevaluatepersonnel.Tosome degree,wealsoemploycompetencyevaluationsintheAmericas,EMEA*andAsiaPaciﬁc. Weusetalentmanagementeducationforcultivatingpersonnelandconductlevel-based training.Inaddition,theseheadquartershaveinplaceanemployeeexchangeprogramwith SysmexinJapantopromoteglobalpersonnelintercourseandtraining. *EMEA:Europe,theMiddleEastandAfrica EﬀortstoEnhanceEmployeeSatisfaction Sysmexconducts corporateculturesurveys onceeverytwoyearstargetingallemployees oftheSysmexGroup.Employeesatisfactionisoneaspectofthesurveys.Surveyresults arefedbacktoindividualdepartments,wheretheyserveasabasisforenhancing satisfactionlevelsfurther.Departmentswhosesurveyscoresareﬂatreceivevisitsfrom humanresourcesdepartmentmembers,whooﬀeradviceonimprovements.Membersof humanresourcesdepartmentsconductinterviewsattheindividualaswellasthe departmentallevelwhenconsideringreformsrelatedtocorporatecultureandspeciﬁc improvementmeasures. SysmexCorporationisstrivingtoimprovetheworkingenvironmentbyproviding opportunitiestohearrequestsfromnon-Japaneseemployees,whosesensibilitiesand culturalbackgroundsmaydiﬀerfromthoseofJapaneseemployees.Suchrequestshave ledtotheintroductionofvegetarianmenuoptionsinthecorporatecafeteriaandthe translationofin-housebulletinsintoEnglish.Raisingemployeesatisfactionisapriority targetwehaveidentiﬁed,soweplantoacceleratesuchinitiativesgoingforward. OverseasGroupcompaniesarealsoconductingemployeesatisfactionsurveysand undertakinginitiativestoraisesatisfactionlevels. Employee-RelatedData Clickhereforemployee-relateddata. 74 RealizationofanAttractiveWorkplace DevelopmentofHumanResource HumanResourceDevelopment PromotingGlobalHumanResourceDevelopment ThroughouttheGroup,Sysmexhasmorethan7,930employees(asofMarch31,2017) buildingitsbusinessglobally,withoverseasemployeesaccountingformorethan55%of thistotal.Inordertoputintopracticethe“SysmexWay,”ourGroupcorporatephilosophy, underthesecircumstancesandinstillconﬁdenceinpeoplearoundtheworld,augmenting theskillsofindividualsisimportant.Webelieveitisalsoessentialtofostercommunication amongdiversehumanresources,encouragingthemutualsharingofvaluesandfostering newinsightsthatwillleadtonewvaluesanddeepenculturalawarenessthroughthejoining ofcreativeforces. Tothisend,inﬁscal2014Sysmexformulatedaglobalhumanresourcedevelopment systemtofacilitatehumanresourcedevelopmentthroughouttheGroup.Underthis system,wearepromotinginitiativestoenhanceasenseofunitywithintheGroup,develop next-generationhumanresources,strengthennetworkswithintheGroup,andfoster culturalunderstanding. HumanResourceDevelopmentBasedonFourConcepts Basedonitsfourconceptsforhumanresource development,SysmexCorportationoperatesatraining systemoﬀeringselective,rank-basedandelectivetraining thatseekstonurturepersonnelinaplannedandgradual manner.Inﬁscal2016,onaverageeachemployee underwent19.4hoursoftraining,andaverageperemployeeexpenditureamountedto¥108,000*. Newemployeetraining Furthermore,inApril2015SysmexopenedtheGlobalCommunicationCenterinOkuike, Ashiya,HyogoPrefecture.Thisnewfacilityaimstoserveasagatheringplaceforpeopleof diverseculturesandvalues,encouragingcommunicationinsurroundingsthatprovidea breakfromeverydayroutinesandfosterbroadernetworks.Thecenterhasadiscussion areawhoselayoutcanbeﬂexiblyarrangedtomeetuserequirements,andopenspaces wherepeoplecansitandchat.Atthecenter,weconducttrainingfornewandother 75 employeesbasedonSysmex'shumanresourcedevelopmentsystem,inadditiontocrossdivisionalstudysessionsandtrainingcampforglobalpersonnel.Wealsoinvitepeoplefrom outsidetheCompanywithadiverserangeofvaluestothecenter,soastoenhance communicationandpromotemutualunderstanding. *ThisﬁgureindicatestrainingprovidedbytheHumanResourcesDepartmentandexcludescertaintypesoftraining, suchasself-developmentandtrainingrelatedtospecializedworkfordivisions. See“Fiscal2016PerformanceData”forresultsoverthepastthreeyears. FourConceptsofHumanResourceDevelopment 1.Linktraining,evaluationandwork(showresults) 2.PromoteglobalizationoftheSysmexGroup 3.Investinongoinghumanresourcedevelopment 4.Beacompanythatcultivateshumanresourcesandpersonalgrowth ThreeCoreTrainingSystems TrainingType Objective Selectivetraining Cultivategloballeaders Cultivatefuturemanagementpersonnel Acquiretheminimumlevelofunderstandingandexpertisein Rank-basedtraining managementandissueresolutionrequiredateachlevel Promotecommunicationbetweendepartments Electivetraining Obtainpracticalexpertise,knowledgeandskillsonbusiness (SysmexCollege) execution Gainvarioustypesofbusinessmanagementexpertise OutlineoftheGlobalCommunicationCenter 76 OutlineoftheGlobalCommunicationCenter Location: Ashiya,HyogoPrefecture Sitearea: 33,399m² Floorspace: 2,914m² Trainingroom,conferenceroom, GlobalCommunicationCenter Facilities: collaborationspace,theaterroom, (theaterroom) lodgingfacilities,cafeteria,etc. PromotingGlobalHumanResourceDevelopmentandExchange SysmexintroducedtheGlobalPersonnelExchangeProgram inﬁscal2012topromotemutualexchangebetween employeesinJapanandatGroupcompaniesoverseas.The programaimstostrengthentiesthroughdeepermutual understanding. Inﬁscal2016,inNovember20employeesfrom11 Cross-culturalexperiencetraining countriesintheEMEA*,AsiaPaciﬁcandChinaregionstook partintrainingthroughthisprogram.Weheldasessionon theSysmexWay,discussionswiththeexecutivesatour headquartersinKobe,internships,customervisitsandother exchangeprograms.Throughtheseprograms,attendees coulddeepentheirunderstandingofJapanesecultureand Interactingwithemployeesin Sysmexʼsvariousfunctions.InJune,Septemberand otherregionsthrough December2016,JapaneseemployeesvisitedSysmex operationalexperiences America,SysmexAsiaPaciﬁcandSysmexEurope,touringfacilitiesandmeetingcustomers there,takingpartininternshipsandexchangingperspectiveswithlocalemployees.This exchangehelpedtheJapaneseemployeeslearnaboutthefunctionsandoperationsof overseasregionalheadquartersandtheirunderstandingofdiﬀerentcultures. ThroughtheGlobalApprenticeProgram,wealsosendyoungemployeestooverseas subsidiariestogainon-the-groundexperiencethere. Underthisprogram,wesolicitparticipationbyemployeeswhohaveaclearawarenessof issuesandwishtobeactiveintheglobalenvironment.Theprogramaimstocultivate futureglobalhumanresourcesbyprovidingemployeeswithanopportunitytoexperience workingoverseasearlyintheircareers.Upontheirreturn,theemployeesparticipatein 77 debrieﬁngmeetings.Thisapproachhelpstoconveyinformationaboutlocalissuesand conditionstoSysmexinJapan.Atotalof35peoplehadtakenpartinthisprogramasof March31,2017. *EMEA:Europe,theMiddleEastandAfrica EnhancingtheSkillsofEmployeesinManufacturingWorkplaces Augmentingthetechnologicalskillsofemployeeswho engageinmanufacturingprocessesisanimportantissue. TheMonozukuriTrainingCenterprovideshands-ontraining throughouttheyearintheknowledgeandskillsneededto manufactureSysmexinstruments. Inﬁscal2016,webrokedowntrainingcontentintosmaller segmentstohelpemployeesinmanufacturingworkplaces TrainingattheMonozukuri TrainingCenter gainaccurateknowledgeandskillsmorerapidly.This trainingwasattendedby699employees. R&DInnovationActivitytoPromotetheGrowthofResearchers SysmexCorporationinauguratedtheR&DInnovation ActivityinSeptember2013tostrengthenresearchersʼ teambuildingandproposal-makingcapabilities. Inadditiontoindividualgrowth,thisactivityispeoplefocused,tofosterhighlevelsoftechnicalandappliedskills throughaself-directedR&Dorganizationinwhichpeople independentlyconsidertheirownobjectives,resultsand Presentationofresults roles. Managers,teamleaders,andpeopleinchargeofprojects helpeachotherthroughaprocessinwhichparticipants recognizetheirownroles.Exchangemeetingsandresults presentationswereheldattheendoftheﬁrstandsecond halfoftheﬁscalyear,whereteamsandR&Dpersonnel reportedtheirresults,conﬁrmingtheirmutualgrowth. Leadersfromdivisionsthathavetakenpartintheactivity sinceitsstartpassontheirlearningstothenextgeneration ofleaders,furtherreinforcingtheR&Dinnovationactivity. OverseasExample(EMEA):ActivelySupportingEmployeesʼPersonalGrowth 78 OverseasExample(EMEA):ActivelySupportingEmployeesʼPersonalGrowth Inadditiontospecializedskilldevelopmentandpersonal developmentcoursesforemployees,SysmexEuropehasin placelanguagetrainingprograms(EnglishandJapanese), andallemployeesundergotrainingonaregularbasis. Forexample,SysmexEuropeconducts SysmexAcademy providingproduct-relatedtrainingand HRAcademy to Trainingunderway enhance softskills liketeam-building,leadershipand languageproﬁciencythroughface-to-facelecturesore-learning.Italsohas On-Boarding Training* tosupportemployeegrowth. *Aninternaltrainingmethodusedtohelpnewlyhiredemployeestoﬁtinorganizationʼsenvironmentquickly OverseasExample(AsiaPaciﬁc):ConcentratingonBoostingEmployeesʼSkills SysmexAsiaPaciﬁccollaborateswithoutsideinstitutionstogiveallemployeesaccessto onlinetrainingviaSysmexUniversitysuchase-learningprogram.Byintroducingemployee skilldevelopmentprogramsandcross-trainingtoencouragemutualskill-building,the companyworkstohelpitsemployeesdeveloptheircapabilities. Alongsidesystemssuchasthese,eachemployeeʼsplanforindividualgrowthissetandthe progressischeckedeveryyear. 79 RealizationofanAttractiveWorkplace PromotionofDiversity EnsuringDiverseHumanResources EmbracingDiversePersonnelthroughDiversityandInclusion SysmexCorporationhasevolvedfromthepracticeof diversity, whichsimplywelcomes diversehumanresources,tothemoreextensivepracticeof diversityandinclusion. This approachinvolvescreatingaworkingenvironmentthatisamenabletoawidevarietyof humanresources,recruitingandstationingthemwithoutregardfornationality,race, genderordisability.Wealsoaimtofosternewinnovationsandcreatevaluethroughthe synergisticeﬀectsofdiversevalues,perspectives,experiencesandskills. AimingtoEqualizeEmploymentOpportunities SysmexCorporationrecruitsnewemployeesbasedtheevaluationofindividuals,without regardforgender,nationality,race,age,employmenthistoryordisabilitystatus. Speciﬁcally,weinstitutedyear-roundhiringtooﬀerequalopportunitiestopeoplewhohad alreadygraduatedorhadstudiedoverseasandthereforemightbeatadisadvantage. Toensureourabilitytorecruitpersonnelaroundtheworld,weconductCompanybrieﬁngs andinterviewsoverseas,aswellasconductingWeb-basedbrieﬁngsandinterviews.Asin thepreviousyear,wecontinuedtohostinternsinﬁscal2016,strengtheningourmeasures tohelpoverseashumanresourcesgainabetterknowledgeofSysmex.Duetosucheﬀorts, foreignnationalsaccountedfor13.8%*ofnewgraduateshiredinﬁscal2016. *ExcludingmembersoftheSysmexWomenʼsTrack&FieldTeam PromotingEmploymentofPeoplewithDisabilities SysmexCorporationencouragestheemploymentofpeoplewithdisabilities.Targetinglongtermemployment,wedesignworkingconditionstomaximizeindividualsʼaptitudesand skills.Inﬁscal2016,employmentofpeoplewithdisabilitiesamountedto1.94%. Inafurthereﬀorttopromotetheemploymentofpeoplewithdisabilities,inApril2017we establishedSysmexHarmonyCo.,Ltd.,inKobe,HyogoPrefecture,asanewcompanyto realizeaninclusivesociety. 80 Inaddition,weareintroducingOstomates(toiletsforpeoplewhohavehadcolostomiesor urostomies)andotherbarrier-freefacilities,andeachmonthaSafetyandHealth Committeemembervisitsworkplacestoconﬁrmthatfacilitiesareeasilynavigableby wheelchair.Theseareexamplesofourongoingeﬀortstocreateaworkingenvironment thatisamenabletoemployeeswithdisabilities. ClickhereforhighlightsofdetailedactivitiesinvolvingSysmexHarmonyCo.,Ltd. EmployingSeniors̶SystemforReemployingPost-MandatoryRetirementAge Workers SysmexCorporationʼsmandatoryretirementageis60,butwehaveinplaceasystemfor rehiringuntilage65peoplewhohaveretiredatthemandatoryretirementageandstillwish towork.Inﬁscal2016,22peoplewhohadreachedthemandatoryretirementagewere rehiredaccordingtointernalrules.Wehavealsobegunoﬀeringaﬂex-timesystem, facilitatingdiversityinworkinghours. PromotingWomenʼsCareerActivities Oneaspectofoureﬀortstosupportthesuccessofwomenisaninitiativetocultivate femaleleaders.Todate,wehaveputinplaceanumberofleavesystemsandestablishedan in-housedaycarecentertoprovidesupportforemployeesbalancingworkandchildrearing.Asaresultoftheseeﬀorts,thepercentageoffemaleemployeesatSysmex Corporationhasrisenfrom19.9%inﬁscal2005to28.8%inﬁscal2016*.Thepercentage offemalemanagershasalsoincreasedoverthatperiod,from2.4%to8.8%.Also,the percentageoffemalemanagersfortheSysmexGroupasawholewas16.2%inﬁscal2016. InlinewiththeApril2016enforcementoftheActonthePromotionofWomenʼs ParticipationandAdvancementintheWorkplace,weplantostepupourpromotionof womenʼscareeractivities,providinganenvironmentinwhichdiversehumanresourcescan workwithafeelingofsatisfactionandrealizingaworkplacethatexempliﬁesdiversityand inclusion. *Basedonthenumberofpeopleemployed.(Lastﬁscalyear,thepercentagewasbasedonthenumberofpeople registered;resultshavebeenupdatedaccordingly.) 81 SysmexCorporationReceivestheHighest-Level“Eruboshi”Certiﬁcationasan ExcellentCompanyBasedontheActonPromotionofWomenʼsParticipation andAdvancementintheWorkplace SysmexCorporationhonorstheindividualofeachemployeeand providesthemwithaworkplacewheretheycanrealizetheirfull potential.In2016,wemetallﬁvecriteriasetbytheMinistryofHealth, LabourandWelfareforthepromotionofwomenʼsparticipationand receivedthehighestranking,Level3,asan“Eruboshi”company, indicatingsuperiorinitiativestopromotetheactiveparticipationof women. “Eruboshi”mark Clickhereforactivityhighlights,whichprovidedetailsonourAction PlanforthePromotionofWomenʼsActiveParticipationandon receivingthe“Eruboshi”certiﬁcation. ActonthePromotionofWomenʼsParticipationandAdvancementin theWorkplace(MinistryofHealth,LabourandWelfare) PercentageofFemaleManagers(SysmexCorporation) PercentageofFemaleEmployees*(SysmexCorporation) *Basedonthenumberofpeopleemployed.(Lastﬁscalyear,thepercentage wasbasedonthenumberofpeopleregistered;resultshavebeenupdated accordingly.) 82 DiversityRoundTable Weconductdiversityroundtablesforpeopleatvariousstagesoflife,providing opportunitiestoconsiderhowtorealizetheircapabilities,maintainthemotivation necessarytocontinueworkingenthusiasticallyintheircareers,andthinkaboutdiverse workingstyles. Clickherefortheactivityhighlight2“EmbracingDiversityandCreatingaCultureof Innovation” OverseasExample(Americas):FormulationandEnactmentofanAﬃrmative ActionProgram SysmexAmericahasdesignedandputinplaceanaﬃrmativeactionprogramaimedat encouragingdiversity. SystemstoSupportBothWorkandChild-Rearing ProvidingaHostofLeaveSystemsandSupportingChild-RearingwithanInHouseDaycareCenter SysmexCorporationhascreateddiverseprogramsto providesupport,frompre-nataltochild-rearing.Inaddition toleavesystemsforfertilitytreatmentsandmorning sickness,weoﬀerchildnursingleaveuntilachildreaches twoyearsofage,asystemforshorterworkinghoursuntila childreachesjuniorhighschoolageandaﬂex-timesystem thatdiﬀersbytypeofwork.Whenanemployeeneedsto In-housedaycarecenter,Sysmex taketimeoﬀworktonurseachild,theycandosoundera KidsPark programthatallowsthemtouseaccumulatedpaidleavein additiontostatutoryleave. Inlinewiththegrowingdemandformaleemployeesto participateinchildcare,weareconsideringasystemthat wouldallowmentotakespecialleavepriortotheirspouse givingbirth,oﬀeringtwoadditionaldaystobetakenwithin Next-generationsupport onemonthofthebirthtomakeanynecessarypreparations. certiﬁcationlogo(nicknamed Employeesarealsoeligiblefor nurturingleave, under Kurumin ) whichtheycantakespecialleaveofthreeconsecutivedaystocareforchildrenuptoone yearofage. 83 WehavesetupSysmexKidsPark,anin-housedaycarecenterthatacceptsbabiesand toddlers,atTechnopark,ourcoreR&Dbase.Thecenteroﬀersshort-termaswellasfulltimedaycare,sothatemployeeswhosespousesworkonapart-timebasisorwhoﬁndit diﬃculttotakecareoftheirchildrenduetocaretakersʼillness,bereavementorother circumstancesmayalsotemporarilyutilizetheservice. Furthermore,weprovideareemploymentsystemtoenableemployeeswhowereforcedto suspendtheircareerpathsduetochild-raisingwithopportunitiestoresumetheirwork.In recognitionofitsplannedimplementationofsuchsystems,SysmexCorporationreceived thenext-generationsupportcertiﬁcationlogo(nicknamed Kurumin *)fromtheMinistryof Health,LabourandWelfare. *BasedontheActonAdvancementofMeasurestoSupportRaisingNext-GenerationChildren,companiesthat formulatebusinessplansasgeneralbusinessoperators,meetthetargetsdesignatedbytheseplans,andmeet certainstandardsmayreceive“Kurumin”certiﬁcationas“companiesthatsupportchild-rearing”bytheMinisterof Health,LabourandWelfare. SystemsRelatedtoChildren 84 SystemsRelatedtoChildren UseofPrincipalSupportSystems(Fiscal2016) 85 UseofPrincipalSupportSystems(Fiscal2016) System Description Users Shorterworkhour Untilachildcompletesthesixthyearof systemforchild elementaryschool 47※1 rearing (Statutoryrequirement:Untilthechildreaches threeyearsofage) Leaveofabsence Childcareleave:untilthechildturnstwo system(childcare (Statutoryrequirement:Inprinciple,untilthechild 59※1 leave,childbearing reachesoneyearofage) leave) Accumulatedpaidleaveforupto10daysof annualpaidvacationfrompreviousyearscanbe Accumulatedpaid takenforchildnursingorshort-termnursing leavesystem※2 purposes 78※3 (Statutoryrequirement:Fivedaysperﬁscalyear, 10iftwoormorechildrenorsubjectfamily members) Reemployment Systemtoreemploypeoplewhopreviouslyleft 5 system theCompanyforchildcareornursing-related enrollment※3 reasons In-housedaycare Daycarecenterprovidescareforinfantsand 32 system childrenuptoentryintoelementaryschool,which children※1 isavailableforfull-timeortemporarychildcare. *1Regularemployees,contractemployees,seniorcontractemployeesandpart-timeemployeesatSysmex Corporation(excludingpeoplecontinuingfromthepreviousﬁscalyear) *2InDecember2016,wechangedtheunitofleavetimethatcouldbetakenfromonedaytohalfday,morningor afternoon. *3RegularemployeesatSysmexCorporation OtherProgramstoSupportaWork-LifeBalance 86 OtherProgramstoSupportaWork-LifeBalance SupportingNursingCare,CorporateCitizenshipActivitiesandOthers Asoneofoursystemstorealizeawork-lifebalanceamongitsemployees,Sysmex Corporationoﬀersshort-termnursingcareleaveifsevenormoreconsecutivedaysare requiredfortherecoveryofafamilymemberundergoingmedicalconsultationsorto accompanyfamilyduringhospitalstays.Thistimecanbedeductedfromaccumulated leaveinhalf-dayincrements,upto40days.(InDecember2016,wechangedtheunitof leavetimethatcouldbetakenfromonedaytohalfday,morningorafternoon.)InApril 2014,weintroducedaunique incomeindemnitysystem toprovideanursingcareleave stipend,aimingtohelpoﬀsetthelossofincomefromtakingleave,aswellasunexpected expenses,forpeopletakingonemonthormoreofnursingcareleave.Furthermore,we haveasystemforrehiringemployeeswhosecareershavebeeninterruptedduetonursing care. Inadditiontothese,wehaveintroducedavolunteerleavesystem.Thisprogramenables employeesparticipatinginsocialcontributionactivitiestotakeupto10daysofleaveina year,twoofwhichareaccountedforaspaidleave.Otherprogramsincludedonorleave, wherebybonemarrowandotherdonorsreceiveuptoﬁvedaysofpaidleaveeachtime. Throughdiversesystemsofthisnature,weworktosupportawork-lifebalance. SystemsRelatedtoNursingCare 87 SystemsRelatedtoNursingCare SupportingaReturntotheWorkplaceFollowingLeave InFebruary2013,SysmexCorporationintroducedanewsupportsystemtofacilitatethe smoothreturntoworkofemployeeswhohavetakenchildrearingornursingcareleave, andtheemployeeisloanedatabletornotebookPCthatheorshecanusetoconnectto theSysmexemailsystemandintranet.Threemonthspriortoreturningtoworkthe employeeonleavecanbeginviewing in-houseonly companyinformation.Werequire employeestoconsultwiththeirsuperiorsbeforecommencinguseofthissystem.This 88 providesanopportunitytocommunicateaboutworkingstylesafterreturningtowork beforethattimeisactuallyreached. Beingcutoﬀfromtheworkplacecanbeanobstacletoalatersmoothreturn.However,this set-upallowstheemployeetoaccessCompanyinformationathomeinreal-time,and enablesbettercommunicationswithcolleaguesthroughemail.ThisIT-basedsystemhelps theemployeegetthroughtheleaveperiodwithoutexperiencingthetormentoffeelingsof alienationandloneliness,andalsoallowstheemployeetoplayanactiveroleatthe workplaceuponhisorherreturn. PromotingtheUseofSystemsthatSupportaWork-LifeBalance SysmexCorporationprovidesadedicatedsiteontheInternettoprovideeasy-tounderstandexplanationsofitsprogramsforsupportingawork-lifebalance.Wealsohold brieﬁngstopromoteawareness.Wearegraduallyexpandingthescopeofapplicationof ourﬂex-timesystem,whichenablesemployeestoworkﬂexiblehours.Inﬁscal2016,we extendedthesystemtocontractandseniorcontractemployees.Wealsorecommend takingadvantageofﬂex-timeon“PremiumFridays*.”Inourleavesystem,employeescan takepaidleaveandaccumulatedpaidleaveinhalfday,makingthesystemeasiertouse.In addition,employeesreceivee-mailnotiﬁcationsaboutsystemsthatthecompany particularlywishtoencourage. *Initiativeofthegovernment-businesstohaveworkersleavetheoﬃceearlyonthelastFriday OverseasExample(Americas):OperatingNumerousSystemstoHelpManage Work-LifeBalance SysmexAmericacaterstodiverseworkingstylesbyallowing employeestoworkathomeandprovidethemwith equipmentnecessarytodoso.Employeeswhowishtomay alsooptforpart-timeorﬂex-timeworkingarrangements. Tomakeeverydayworkmorecomfortable,SysmexAmerica hasacasualdresscode.Thecompanyalsohasinplacea numberofleaveprogramsinadditiontopaidleave,suchas EmployeesofSysmexBrazil congratulatoryandcondolenceleave,familyleaveand healthcareleave.Ifafamilymembershouldsuddenlyfallill,employeescanreceivesupport fromthirdpartymakingcontractswithSysmexAmericainordertofacilitateabalance betweenchildcare,nursingcareandwork. Inrecognitionofthecompanyʼseﬀortstoprovideacomfortableworkplace,inﬁscal2016 SysmexAmericawasselectedfortheCompaniesthatCareHonorRollfortheninth 89 consecutiveyear.AlsointheAmericas,subsidiarySysmexBrazilwasnamedunderGreat PlacetoWorkBrazil,establishingitsreputationasgoodcompanytoworkfor. ClickhereforinformationonselectionfortheCompaniesthatCareHonorRoll. OverseasExample(EMEA*):PromotingaComfortableWorkingEnvironment SysmexEuropesupportsvariousemployeeworkingstyles,suchas ﬂex-timeandsystemsofshortenedworkinghours.Thecompanyalso provideschild-careallowancesforworkingparentswithchildrenaged threeoryounger.Italsoconcentratesonemployeehealth managementbyprovidingatrainingroomandotherfacilities,and invitessportsprofessionalsanddieticianstoprovideadvice. Thecompanyprovidesaspaciouscaféareawithinitsoﬃcewhere employeescanmeetinformallyandprovideslunchesfreeofcharge. Selectedasa Great Thecompanyprovidesrelaxingspacesforemployeestowork,aswell. PlacetoWork for threeconsecutive Oﬃcesaredesignedforonetothreepeople,andemployeeshave years individualspaceswheretheycanstorepersonalitems.Asaresultof theseinitiatives,SysmexEuropehasbeennameda“GreatPlacetoWork”forthree consecutiveyears. *Europe,theMiddleEastandAfrica OverseasExample(AsiaPaciﬁc):NamedHRAsiaBestCompaniestoWorkforIn Asia2016 SysmexAsiaPaciﬁcandSysmexMalaysiawerebothnamed HRAsiaBestCompaniestoWorkforInAsia2016.This awardwasbasedonevaluationsofresultsofanemployee surveysponsoredbyHRAsiaonworkingenvironmentsand fulﬁllingwork. See“Fiscal2016PerformanceData”forresultsoverthe SysmexMalaysiareceivingaward pastthreeyears. 90 RealizationofanAttractiveWorkplace OccupationalSafetyandHealth AssuranceofSafetyandHealthatWorkplaces ExplicitlyEnsuringOccupationalHealthandSafetyintheGlobalCompliance Code Sysmex'sGlobalComplianceCodeclearlystatestheCompany'sgoalof ensuring occupationalhealthandsafety, andweareconductinganumberofactivitiesinthisvein. SysmexGroupGlobalComplianceCode(Excerpt) 8-4Assuranceofsafetyandhealthatworkplaces Weshallcomplywithlawsandregulationsrelatedtoworkplacesafetyandhealth toensureeveryOﬃcer/Employeeworkswithpeaceofmind,andshallmaintainand enhancethementalaswellasthephysicalhealthofeveryOﬃcer/Employeeina safeandcomfortableworkingenvironment. PromotingCooperationbetweenExecutivesandEmployeesonSafetyand Health Toensurethehealthandsafetyofitsemployees,SysmexCorporationhasformulated SafetyandHealthRegulationsandstrivestocreateasafeworkingenvironment.Inﬁscal 2016,weestablishedtheCentralSafetyandHealthCommittee,whichtargetsGroup companiesinJapanandmeetstwiceeachyear.Thiscommitteeaimstoreinforceand enhancedomesticGroupcompaniesʼoccupationalsafetyandhealthsystems.Tothisend, thecommitteeformulatespoliciesandtargets,ascertainsthestatusofoccupationalhealth atindividualbusinesssites,considersimprovementmeasuresandreportsitsresultsto executivesviatheRiskManagementCommittee.Thecommitteehassetcompanywide safetyandhealthtargetsforﬁscal2017:zerowork-relatedinjuriesandthepromotionof healthmanagementforanincreaseinemployeevitalityandproductivitythrough investmentinimprovingemployeehealth.InitiativesaretobecarriedoutmainlybySafety andHealthCommitteesateachofourcompaniesandoﬃces. HealthandSafetyCommitteemeetingsareheldregularlyateachoﬃce.Inadditionto examplesofnearmissesandoccupationalaccidents,thecommitteetoursworkplacesto 91 identifyrisksand,fromariskmanagementperspective,determinecausesanddeliberate short-andlong-termcountermeasures. Aspreparationforanaccidentorsuddenillness,employeesaregiventrainingon emergencymeasures,howtoevacuatewhenanaccidentoccursandhowtohandle machineryandrawmaterialsthatarepotentiallydangerous.Weconducttrainingonthe useofAEDsandholdregularcoursestotraincitizenemergencyresponsepersonnel.In addition,weholdinitial-responsedrillsthatinvolvecheckstobeperformedintheeventof adisaster̶ensuringandconﬁrmingemployeesʼsafety,checkingthedisasterstatusof oﬃcesandcustomers,andsharinginformationonthestatusofproductsupplies. Inﬁscal2016,thefrequencyofwork-relatedinjurieswas0.53(3injuries,0deaths)andthe severityratewas0.09. Clickhereforinformationontrainingcitizenemergencyresponsepersonnel. FrequencyofWork-RelatedInjuries/SeverityRate(SysmexCorporation) PreventingOverwork Sysmexfocusesonreducinglongworkinghours,whichcanimpairphysicalandmental health.Inadditiontocomplyingwithrelatedlegislation,wehaveinplaceinternalstandards forworkingoutsideregularhoursoronholidaysthatarestricterthantheguidelinessetby theMinistryofHealth,LabourandWelfare.Employeeswhoexceedthesestandardsare requiredtocommunicatethisfacttotheirsuperiors,improvetheiroperations,submita voluntarycheckformand,ifnecessary,meetwithanindustrialphysician. OverseasExample(Americas):ObtainingCertiﬁcationunderOHSAS18001* SysmexBrazilhasacquiredOHSAS18001certiﬁcation,aninternationalstandardfor occupationalhealthandsafetymanagementsystems. 92 *OHSAS18001:Thisstandard,issuedin1999basedonBS8800,whichwas,developedbytheBritishStandards Institute(BSI)in1996,consistsofsome30certiﬁcationbodiesandstandardizationorganizationsinvarious countries. OverseasExample(China):MakingFactoryWorkplacesSafeandComfortable AtSysmexWuxi,oneoftworeagentfactoriesinChina,we haveintroducedpersonnelmanagementbasedonOHSAS 18001.In2016,toensureemployeesafetyweintroduced anarrangementwherebyemployeeswearsafetybeltswhen placingrawmaterialsinfactorytanks.Wealsoestablisheda HealthandSafetyCommittee,workedtoascertainthe statusofwork-relatedinjuriesandengagedinnumerous Left:Wearingasafetybeltwhile initiatives,includingoperationalimprovementsanddisaster working Right:Placingrawmaterialsina drills. tankwhilewearingasafetybelt AtourotherChineseregentfactory,JinanSysmex,wehave soughttocreateanenvironmentwhereemployeescanworkinsafetyandcomfortby ensuringthattheworkplaceisbothsafeandclean.Forexample,wehavemechanizedthe conveyanceofheavyproductsintheaimofreducingworkplaceaccidents.Wealsouse naturallightinginworkplaces,whichhasarefreshingeﬀect,tocreatebrightandhealthyfeelingspaces.Wehaveexpandedouremployeewelfarefacilities,suchasthedininghall andrecreationareas,andmadeabiotopeandwalkwaysthatimpartarefreshingnatural feeling. MaintainingandImprovingHealth MaintainingandImprovingEmployees'Health SysmexCorporationbelievesthatmaintainingand improvingemployeesʼphysicalandmentalhealthisan essentialpartofcreatingasafeandcomfortableworkplace. Weencourageemployeestoundergothoroughphysical examinationsandcancertestsforwomen,inadditionto regularhealthcheckups,fortheearlydetectionofillness. Asacompanyinthebusinessofhandlingmedical instruments,ouremployeescouldcomeintocontactwith “White500”logoforthe infectioussubstancesinthecourseoftheirduties.Forthis companiesthatexcelinhealth reason,inadditiontostatutoryspecialhealthexaminations management” weconductourownmedicalcheckupstwiceeachyearthat 93 includetestingforhepatitisBandC.InDecember2015,weregisteredasapartner companyintheCancerScreeningCorporateAction*1andKnowaboutHepatitis*2projects. InNovember2016,wesignedtheAgreementtoPromoteanIncreaseintheRateofCancer ScreeningwithHyogoPrefecture. AheadofamendmentstotheIndustrialSafetyandHealthLawrequiringstresstests,since ﬁscal2009employeeshaveundergoneannualKokoronoHealthCheckstoconﬁrmmental health,uncoveranyharassment-relatedsituationsanddeterminechangesovertime. ResultsarereportedtoexecutivesviatheHumanResourcesCommitteeandprovidedas feedbacktovicepresidentsandexecutivevicepresidents,helpingtoimprovedivisional operationsandtheworkplaceenvironment..Inﬁscal2015,weexpandedthescopeof theseinitiativestoallGroupcompaniesinJapan. Furthermore,weprovidechannelsforhealthconsultationsthroughouttheCompany,and haveinplacesystemswhereemployeescanmeetwithindustrialphysiciansandpublic healthnurses.Wealsohaveestablishedanemployeeassistanceprogram(EAP),enabling employeestoseekhelpeasily. Fornewlyappointedmanagers,weconducttrainingonsuchtopicsasharassment̶ includingLGBT*3,personneladministrationandtheWorkersDispatchAct.Wehavesetup aninternalandexternalreportingdesk(CampanulaLines)asasystemthatanyonecanuse tomakeareport.KokoronoHealthChecksarealsoperformedannuallytoconﬁrmmental healthandtouncoveranypowerharassmentorsexualharassment-relatedsituations. Feedbackisprovidedtomanagement,andthisinformationisusedfortrainingvice presidents,soitcanbereﬂectedbythemandtheirdivisions. Shouldlong-termleavebecomenecessary,wehaveassafetynetsleavesystemsthatcan beusedonanintermittentbasisandalong-termleavesystem.Wealsoprovideeconomic compensationandhaveintroducedasystemtoeaseemployeesbackintotheworkplace whentheyrecover,providinganenvironmentwheretheycanworkwithconﬁdence. Aswelfarefacilitiestoencouragehealthmaintenance,onthegroundsoftheSolution CenterSysmexprovidessportsgroundsandtenniscourts,aswellasagymnasiumwith trainingequipment,alongwithsystemsforongoingassistanceinusingsportsfacilities.We holdeventsandseminarstoraiseemployeeawarenessofphysicalhealthmaintenance,and employeecafeteriasoﬀerhealthymenuoptions. Asaresultoftheseactivities,inFebruary2017wewererecognizedbytheMinistryof Economy,TradeandIndustryforexcellenceinhealthmanagementof“companiesthat excelinhealthmanagement”(White500). ClickherefordetailsofactivitiesrelatedtoCancerScreeningCorporateAction. 94 *1ThisprojectisundertakenonbehalfoftheMinistryofHealth,LabourandWelfare.Theministryaimstoraise Japanʼscancerscreeningrateto50%throughworkplaceinitiatives. *2TheMinistryofHealth,LabourandWelfarecampaignaimstoencourageearlydetectionandtreatmentby disseminatingeasy-to-understandinformationabouthepatitisandtheimportanceoftestingforthehepatitis virus. *3Acronymreferringtosexualminorities(lesbian,gay,bisexualandtransgender) HoldingHealthEvents Sysmexpromotescampaignsaimedatheighteningemployeeawarenessofhealth.Inﬁscal 2016,SysmexconductedahealthcampaigninwhichfreshvegetablesfromaJAVegetable Eventwereprovidedtoemployeecafeterias(ﬁvetimes).BetweenAprilandJune,the Companyprovidedmenusdesignedtoreducestress,aswellasmenusconsideredto eﬀectiveatpreventinglifestylediseases.TheCompanyʼscafeteriaoperatorandemployees holdcafeteriacommitteemeetingseachquarterinaneﬀorttomaintainandenhance employeehealth. Inadditiontotheseinitiatives,asrequiredweprovideemployeeswithinformationonhealth management,suchasmakingthemawareofwaystopreventinﬂuenza. OverseasExample(Americas):PlacingaFitnessRoomThatIsFreeto Employees Toencouragehealthawareness,SysmexAmericaprovidesa ﬁtnessroomthatemployeesarefreetouse. Eachyear,thecompanypayshealthandﬁtnessallowances tohelpemployeespurchaseanyequipmenttheymayneed. Furthermore,SysmexAmericasubsidizeshealthchecksand inﬂuenzavaccines. Fitnessroom OverseasExample(EMEA*):ImprovingHealththroughSports Inﬁscal2014,SysmexEuropeopenedtheSysmexGym, ﬁttedoutwithvarioustypesofsportsequipment.Thegym oﬀerstraininginvarioussports,includingkick-boxingand pilates.Tofosteraninterestinsportsamongnumerous employees,thegymoﬀersentry-leveltrainingby professionalcoaches,andspecialistsprovidemassages, creatinganenvironmentwheregym-goerscanenjoy SysmexGym maintainingtheirhealth. ※Europe,theMiddleEastandAfrica 95 OverseasExamples(Other):ExamplesofInitiatives OverseasGroupcompaniesarealsoinvolvedinavarietyofotherinitiativestocontributeto employeehealth,inadditiontothoseoutlinedabove. Company Activity SysmexUK Establishmentofa24-hourcounselingsystem Stressriskassessmentperformedbythirdparties SysmexShanghai Newestablishmentofaninternaltrainingroom SysmexVietnam Conductingsportsactivitiestargetingallemployees SysmexKorea Newestablishmentofaninternaltrainingroomand“refresh” room SysmexPartec Provisionofsportscoursesthatemployeescanparticipatein duringlunchorafterwork 96 RealizationofanAttractiveWorkplace RespectingWorkersʼRights UpholdingtheFreedomofLaborAssociationand RecognizingtheRighttoCollectiveBargaining ParticipatingintheGlobalCompactandSupportingCoreLabourStandards SysmexisamemberoftheUnitedNationsGlobalCompactandprovidesclearnoticethat itrespectstheILOʼsCoreLabourStandardsoftheGlobalComplianceCode.Inaddition,we upholdthefreedomofassociationandrecognizetherighttocollectivebargaining. Allfull-timeemployeesofSysmexCorporation,exceptthoseholdingmanagerialpostsand someinback-oﬃceoperations,aremembersoftheSysmexUnion,thein-houselabor union.Inﬁscal2016,membershipaccountedfor60.6%ofemployees.JinanSysmexand SysmexWuxiinChina,SysmexThailand,SysmexVietnamandHYPHENBioMedhavealso formedlaborunionsthatregularlyconductcollectivebargainingandotheractivities. Labor–ManagementDialogue EngaginginDialoguewithLaborUnionsatGroupCompanies SysmexCorporationengagedincollectivebargainingwiththeSysmexUnioninApril2016, withlaborandmanagementagreeingonmeasurestopreventoverworkandencourage health-enhancingactivities. Weheld13councilmeetingsbetweenlaborandmanagementinﬁscal2016,discussing suchtopicsasmeasurestoencouragebetterhealth,themanagementofworkinghours andwelfaresystems.Groupcompaniesoverseasalsotakepartinlabor–management dialogueaccordingtoconditionsineachregion. EmployeeOpinionsReﬂectedinManagement SysmexconductsaCorporateCultureSurveyofallGroupemployeeseverytwoyears,and weanalyzerepliestoquestionsonover100categoriestoﬁndtheorganizationʼsunspoken rules,valuesandtheeﬀectivenessofvariousmeasures.Thisisusefulindiscoveringand resolvingtheissuessurroundingtheGroup. 97 Society RespectforHumanRights PoliciesRelatedtoRespectforHumanRights AdheringtotheUniversalDeclarationofHumanRights,ILOʼsCoreLabour Standards,andtheUNGlobalCompact Asindicatedin 8.ToRespectHumanRightsandtoImproveOccupationalHealthand Safety ofitsGlobalComplianceCode,Sysmexhassetforthclearlyitsadherencetothe UniversalDeclarationofHumanRightsandILO'sCoreLabourStandards.Inaddition,we haveformulatedguidelinesdescribingparticularlyimportantrulesandbehaviorsfor compliancewithbasicrespectforhumanrights.Speciﬁcally,thecodeclariﬁesavarietyof discriminatoryactionsthatarenottolerated;prohibitssexualharassment,workplace bullyingandotheractsthatignorehumanrights;underscoresprohibitionsonchildlabor andforcedorcompulsorylabor;andseekstoensureasafeandcomfortableworkplace environment.Weconducttrainingprogramsasneededtoensurethecodeisputinto practice. SysmexalsobeganparticipatingintheUnitedNationsGlobalCompactinFebruary2011, pledgingtosupportandrespecttheprotectionofhumanrightsandnotbecomplicitin humanrightsabuses. Wehavealsoestablishedregulationsandcommitteesaimedatensuringthehumanrights ofsubjectswhenengaginginhumangenomeandgeneticanalysisresearchandclinical researchanddevelopment. 98 SysmexGroupGlobalComplianceCode(Excerpt) 8.ToRespectHumanRightsandtoImproveOccupationalHealthandSafety WeshallsupporttheUniversalDeclarationofHumanRightsandCoreLabour Standards,andrespectfundamentalhumanrights,andshallnotcommitactssuch asdiscriminationorharassment.Weshallalsocomplywithapplicablelawsand regulationsandendeavortoimproveoccupationalhealthandsafety.Further,we shallnotcommitanyunfairlaborpracticesagainstthepersonnelofthecompany 8-1Prohibitionofdiscriminationandharassment Weshallnotdiscriminateregardingapersonʼssex,age,nationality,race,origin, beliefs,religion,socialstatus,lineage,illness,physicaldisability,sexualorientation, orgenderidentity,norshallwebehaveinamannerthatviolatesthedignityofany person,suchassexualorpowerharassment. 8-2Privacyprotection Weacknowledgethediversevaluesofpeopleasindividualsandshallrespecttheir privacy.Weshallnotunnecessarilydiscloseprivateinformationweacquireinthe courseofourbusinesstoanythirdparty,andshallnotseektounnecessarily obtainprivateinformation. 8-3Prohibitionofforcedlaborandchildlabor Weshallnotdetainanypersonagainsthisorherwill.Weshallnothirepersons belowtheminimumageofemploymentsetforthbyapplicablelawsorregulations. 8-4Assuranceofsafetyandhealthintheworkplace Weshallcomplywithlawsandregulationsrelatedtoworkplacesafetyandhealth toensureeveryOﬃcer/Employeeworkswithpeaceofmind,andshallmaintainand enhancethementalaswellasthephysicalhealthofeveryOﬃcer/Employeeina safeandcomfortableworkingenvironment. Clickhereforinformationonresearchethics. IdentifyingRisktoHumanRights(HumanRightsDue99 IdentifyingRisktoHumanRights(HumanRightsDue Diligence) Accordingtoitem“8.ToRespectHumanrightsanttoImproveOccupationalHealthand Safety”oftheSysmexGlobalComplianceCode,webelieveitisnecessarytoconduct “humanrightsduediligence,”whichinvolvesidentifyingnegativeimpactsonhumanrights, andpreventingorreducingthemthroughourbusinessactivitiesthroughouttheentire supplychain.OnemeasurewehaveimplementedistoconductCSRsurveysofour businesspartners.Surveytopicsincludeprohibitingforcedandchildlaborandeliminating discriminationduetogender,disability,raceorotherfactors.ToensurethatSysmexʼs activitiesarenotinvolvedorcomplicitinhumanrightsabuses,weascertainimpactson humanrightsinadvanceandputinplacemeasurestoensureprevention.Atthesame time,inresponsetotheU.K.ModernSlaveryAct,Sysmexhaspublicizeditsstatementon theSysmexUKwebsite. ClickhereforinformationontheU.K.ModernSlaveryAct(SysmexUKwebsite). Clickhereforinformationaboutprocurementpoliciesthattakeintoconsiderationhuman rightsinthesupplychain. ConsultationandReportingSystemsRelatedtoHuman Rights Sysmexhassetup CampanulaLines asaninternalreportingsystemforGroupcompanies inJapantoenableconsultationrelatedtosexualharassmentandworkplacebullying, amongothertopics.WealsohaveinternalreportingsystemsinplaceatGroupcompanies overseas. Inaddition,onceeachyearSysmexCorporationundertakesanemployeesurveytocheck onanybehaviororattitudesthatmightbeconstruedasworkplacebullyingorsexual harassment.Surveyresultsarereportedtoexecutivevicepresidentsandvicepresidents, andmanagementtrainingisconductedonthebasisoftheseresults. Clickhereforinformationon“CampanulaLines,”ourinternalreportingsystem. EducationandTrainingOnUnderstandingRespectfor 100 EducationandTrainingOnUnderstandingRespectfor HumanRights ConductingTrainingtoPreventHumanRightsAbuses Sysmexstrivestopreventhumanrightsabusesbyconductingtrainingonpreventionof harassmentandregulationsrelatedtolaborstandards. Inﬁscal2016,weconductedtrainingfor113newlyappointedmanagersonsuchtopicsas harassment,includingLGBT*,personneladministrationandtheWorkersDispatchAct.We alsoheldtrainingfornewemployeesandmid-careerhires. *Acronymreferringtosexualminorities(lesbian,gay,bisexualandtransgender) 101 Society CorporateCitizenshipActivities PolicyonCorporateCitizenshipActivitiesandPhilanthropy Sysmexactivelycarriesoutcorporatephilanthropicactivitiestopromoteahealthy societyandvibrantcommunity,andalsofacilitatesouremployees'personal participationinvolunteereﬀorts. Contributiontoahealthysociety Sysmexactivelyutilizesitsresourcesinthehealthcareﬁeldtocarryoutphilanthropic activitiesandpromotethebuildingofahealthysociety. Cooperationtowardavibrantlocalcommunity Sysmexactsasaresponsibleandsocially-consciouscorporatecitizenbycooperating withthelocalcommunitythroughdonations,sponsorshipsandinvolvementin philanthropicprograms. Facilitationofemployees'volunteereﬀorts Sysmexwillfacilitateemployees'participationinvolunteereﬀortsascitizensofthe world,membersofSysmexgroupthatcontributetohealthcareintheworld,and emphasizecommunityinvolvementanddevelopment. EstablishedMay2012 102 CorporateCitizenshipActivities CreationofaHealthySociety InJapanandoverseas,Sysmexworkstowardthecreationofafulﬁllingandhealthysociety bypromotingcooperationamongindustry,governmentandacademiaandconducting educationalandawarenessactivitiesinthehealthcareﬁeld,providingeducationaland researchgrantsandtakingpartinsocialcontributionactivities. ActivitiesinJapan ParticipationintheKobeMedicalIndustryDevelopmentProject TheKobeMedicalIndustryDevelopmentProjectaimstocreateafocalpointamong membersofthehealthcareindustryinKobethroughindustry–government–academia cooperation. SysmexhassetuplabswithintheTranslationalResearchInformaticsCenter(TRI),oneof theprojectʼscorefacilities,andtheCenterforBiomedicalResearchActivities(BMA),where wepromoteclinicalresearchandcollaborativeresearchwithavarietyofhealthcare institutionsandothercompanies. ClickhereforinformationonResolutionofmedicalissuesthroughproductsandservices. ContributingtoHealthcarebyFundingUniversityCourses Sinceﬁscal2004,SysmexCorporationhascontributedfundstoacourseofassessmentof clinicaltestingattheKobeUniversityGraduateSchoolofMedicineandpromotedjoint researchonnewclinicaltestingtechnologies.Thiscourseiscurrentlycollaboratingwith SysmexʼsCentralResearchLaboratoriesonthedevelopmentofhighlypreciseyetsimple diagnosistechnologiesfordeterminingtheriskofcardiovasculardiseasebyevaluatingthe functionofhigh-densitylipoproteins. Inﬁscal2017,weestablishedtwonewfundedcoursesintheﬁeldofinternationalclinical cancerresearch.Thecoursesaimtoapplyleading-edgetechnologies,suchasartiﬁcial intelligenceandroboticstechnology,tothesurgicaldomainandestablishsurgical treatmentmethodsforcancerthatareminimallyinvasiveandoﬀercompletecures.In collaborationwiththesefundedcourses,SysmexwillpromoteR&Dofnext-generation 103 medicalcareandnewmedicaldevicesbyutilizingitsliquidbiopsytechnologiesand Medicaroidʼsroboticstechnologies. ContributingtoHealthcarethroughFoundations In1984,TaroNakatani,thefounderofTOAMEDICALELECTRONICSCO.,LTD.(current SysmexCorporation)establishedtheNakataniFoundationofelectronicMeasuring TechnologyAdvancement.In2012,thefoundationchangeditsnametotheNakatani FoundationforAdvancementofMeasuringTechnologiesinBiomedicalEngineering.The foundationʼscoreactivityistoprovidegrantsforleading-edgetechnologydevelopmentin theﬁeldofbiomedicalengineeringmeasurement,providingawardstoresearchersand oﬀeringtechnologyexchangegrants. Sincethe30thanniversaryofitsfoundinginﬁscal2014,thefoundationhasbroadenedits target,commencinggrantactivitiestopromotescienceeducationatjuniorandseniorhigh schools.Thefoundationalsosetupaninternationalexchangeprogramforuniversity studentsinthesciencesaimedatcultivatingresearcherswhocanbeactiveglobally.In 2016,theexchangeprogramwasconductedbetweenJapanandtheUnitedStates. Fromthetimeofitslaunchthroughﬁscal2016,thefoundationhasprovided407grants amountingtoacumulative*¥1,150million. *ThecumulativeamountofgrantmoneyincludesSpecialResearchGrants,whicharefortwo-year. ContinuingtoCooperatewithBloodDonation AtSysmex,whichprovidesthetestinginstrumentsused forblooddonations,employeesarealsoactive participantsinblooddonations.Inﬁscal2016,some300 employeestookpartinblooddonationsheldat14oﬃces. ToincreaseoursupportfortheJapaneseRedCross Societyasahealthcarecompany,sinceﬁscal2014we Blooddonationactivity(SysmexRA) havebeenregisteredasa“blooddonationsupporting company.” Clickhereforinformationonsystemstopromote employeevolunteers. 104 RegisteringasaPartnertoPromote“CancerScreeningCorporateAction” SysmexCorporationlaunchedtheLC-1000exfoliative cellanalyzerinﬁscal2014,aimingforittobeusedin cervicalcancerexaminationsinthefuture.Wealsoplan topromoteawarenessactivitiesaimedatincreasingthe percentageofpeopleundergoingcervicalcancer examinations. Aspartofthiseﬀort,weregisteredwiththeCancer ScreeningCorporateActionprojectinﬁscal2015. Certiﬁcateofregistrationfor OverseenandoperatedbytheMinistryofHealth,Labour CancerScreeningCorporate Action andWelfare,thisnationalprojectaimstoelicitthe cooperationofcompaniesandorganizationstoraiseto 50%thepercentageofpeopleinJapanparticipatingin cancerscreening.Registeredcompaniesworkto increasethecancerscreeningpercentagethrough internalawarenessactivitiesandthedisseminationof information,andbycreatingvaluethroughtheir SigningceremonyfortheAgreement businesses.SysmexCorporationtookpartinaseminar toPromoteanIncrease heldinOkayamainNovember2016wheretheJapanese intheRateofCancerScreening governmentandcompaniesintroducedrecentinformationinvolvingcancer countermeasuresbeingundertakenaspartoftheirwork,introducingitsowninitiativesto addresscancer. Inﬁscal2016,wesignedtheAgreementtoPromoteanIncreaseintheRateofCancer ScreeningwithHyogoPrefecture.Theprefectureandprivatecompaniesareconducting grass-rootsmovementstopromoteawarenessofandencouragescreenings.Oureﬀorts willhelprealizeonepillaroftheHyogoPrefectureCancerCountermeasurePromotionPlan, topromoteearlydetection. Asoneaspectofitseﬀortstofosterhealthawareness,weactivelypromoteeducation withintheCompanyaboutcervicalcancerexaminations.Wealsoparticipateproactivelyin relatedeventsoutsidetheCompany.InApril2017,weparticipatedintheLOVE49inKOBE projectdesignatingUterusDayinﬁscal2017.Weinteractedwithhealthcareprofessionals, localuniversitystudentsandotherparticipants,gainingvaluableinformationthatwouldbe helpfulforourfutureinitiatives. ClickherefordetailsonSysmexʼsinternalawarenessactivities. ConductingaTrainingCourseforCitizenEmergencyLife-SavingTechnicians 105 ConductingaTrainingCourseforCitizenEmergencyLife-SavingTechnicians Eachyear,SysmexCorporationholdsatrainingcoursefor citizenemergencylife-savingtechniciansandAEDtraining attheheadoﬃce,TechnoparkandSolutionCenter. CertiﬁedbytheﬁredepartmentandthecityofKobeFirst AidSupportTeam(FAST),thiscourseisdesignedtotrain peopleinappropriateresponsesintheeventofillnessor injury. Trainingcourseforcitizen Byencouragingasmanypeopleaspossibletogainlifeemergencylife-savingtechnicians savingknowledgeandskills,wecontributetomakinga securesociety. ParticipatinginInternationalCooperationEﬀorts Sysmextakespartininternationalcooperationeﬀortsby JapanʼsMinistryofForeignAﬀairsandtheJapan InternationalCooperationAgency(JICA)byparticipatingin oﬃcialdevelopmentassistance(ODA),byextendingyen creditorthroughoutrightdonation,aimedatraisingthe levelofhealthcareinemerginganddevelopingcountries. Everyyear,wehosttraineesvisitingJapanthroughJICA JICAtrainees programsatitsfacilities,conductingtrainingontheuseofmedicalinstruments.Inﬁscal 2016,weconductedtrainingseventimesati-Squareandotherfacilitiesfor75participants from62countriesinAfrica,theMiddleEast,CentralAsiaandSoutheastAsia. HoldinganOpenLectureonHepatitisTreatment Tofosteradeeperunderstandingofhepatitisandhelp createanenvironmentinwhichhepatitispatientscango abouttheirliveswithpeaceofmind,inNovember2016 SysmexCorporationsponsoredtheLectureonTreating Hepatitis(ShonanRegion)“TreatingTypeCHepatitisEarly beforeItBecomesHepaticCancer”asanopenlecturefor Openlecture residentsheldbytheLiverSocietyKanagawa,apatientsʼ association. Ontheday,weinvitedlecturersfromtheShonanTobuGeneralHospital,whospokeonthe eﬀectivenessoforaldrugsontypeChepatitisandissueshappenedaftershowing 106 completevirologicalresponse.Thelecturewasattendedby20localresidents,including patients. ProducingIllustratedBookstoPromoteEducationandAwareness Weproduceanillustratedbooktopromoteeducationand awarenessofillnessandtesting.Wedistributethisbookto hospitalsandclinics,whichplaceitinwaitingroomsand otherlocations.Becausethebookfeatureseasy-tounderstandexplanationsinnarrativeformofthe characteristicsofillnesses,aswellastheirtestingand Illustratedbooks treatment,itdrawstheinterestofchildrenandotherswhohavelittleknowledgeabout medicine. OverseasActivities OverseasExample(Americas):MakingOngoingContributionstoOrganizations ThatSupportCancerPreventionandResearch Toachieveitsgoalofcontributingtoahealthysociety, SysmexAmericaregularlydonatestoorganizationsthat supportcancerpreventionandresearch.Inﬁscal2014– 2016,thecompanydonatedmorethanUS$175,000*tothe AmericanandCanadianCancerSocieties,theAmerican HeartAssociationandtheLeukemia&LymphomaSociety. Thecompanyʼsemployeesalsoactivelyparticipatedas Employeesparticipatingina charitywalk volunteersineventsheldbythesesocieties. *Includingdonationsreceivedthroughfund-raisingcampaigns. 107 OverseasExample(EMEA*):“SysmexAgainstCancer”Campaign Fromﬁscal2014toﬁscal2015,EMEAemployeevolunteershavebeencentraltothe “SysmexAgainstCancer”campaigntostampoutthedisease.Employeesineachregion plannedandheldtheirownfundraisingeventstoraiseawarenessofcancerpreventionand raiseapproximately¥31,5millionindonationstotheWorldCancerResearchFund,anonproﬁtorganizationthatconductsinitiativestosupportresearch.Thedonatedfundswere usedforvariousresearchprojectsrelatedtocancerprevention,thepublicationofresearch reportsandawareness-buildingactivities. *Europe,theMiddleEastandAfrica OverseasExample(China):CollaboratingwithaCollegetoCultivateEngineers China,wheretestingdemandisgrowingatarapidpace, facesanurgentneedtoprovidelaboratorytesting instrumentengineerswiththerequisitespecialized knowledgeandtechnologicalskills.Toaddressthisneed, SysmexShanghaiandtheShanghaiMedicalInstrumentation College(SMIC)togetheroperateatrainingcenterfor engineers.Weconductedtrainingthreetimesinﬁscal2016, Engineersintraining for68people. OverseasExample(AsiaPaciﬁc):ProvidingFreeUrinalysisTesting InthePhilippines,thetelevisionprogramSalamatDok (“Thankyou,doctor”)isbeingbroadcasttoraisepublic healthawareness. Incooperationwith“TheDayofUrine,”aneventthe programheldinSeptember2015,SysmexPhilippines providedurinalysistestingfreeofchargetosome100 EmployeesatSysmexPhilippines, peopleincollaborationwiththePhilippineAssociationof whichprovidedthetesting MedicalTechnologists. 108 BloodDonationsOverseas(EachRegion) Tohelpresolvemedicalissuesclosetohome,employeesatSysmexGroupparticipated activelyinblooddonations. InApril2016,atSysmexNewZealand InJune2016,atSysmexIndonesia InJuly2016,atSysmexMalaysia OverseasExample(AsiaPaciﬁc):ProvidingSupportforChildrenwithHeart Disease Eachyear,SysmexNewZealandholdsanin-housefund-raisingcampaigntosupport childrenwithcongenitalheartdisease. SupportforNon-proﬁtOrganizationBuildingMedicalInfrastructure Inﬁscal2010,Sysmexdonatedhematologyanalyzersin supportofILFAR,anon-proﬁtorganizationdedicatedto buildinganHIV/AIDStreatmentinfrastructureinKenya,and Sysmexhascontinuedtoprovidesupportsincethen.ILFAR provideseducationaboutHIV/AIDSandconductsregular freescreeninginthearea.Inﬁscal2016,theorganization providedfreescreeningforaround3,800people.Inﬁscal Hematologyanalyzerdonatedby 2016,SysmexmadeadonationtoILFARcorrespondingto Sysmex thescreeningcostsfor1,100people. 109 CorporateCitizenshipActivities EstablishmentofaVibrantCommunity Tocreatevibrantlocalcommunitieswithvigorousresidents,Sysmexcooperateswithlocal governmententitiesandorganizationsinJapanandoverseas,supportingcultureand sports,providingsupportfordisaster-aﬀectedareas,contributingtotheeducationofthe nextgenerationandtakingpartinenvironmentalpreservationactivities.Intheseways,we contributetoconﬁdenceandvigorinlocalcommunities. ActivitiesinJapan SponsorshipoftheKobeMarathon2016 SysmexCorporationhasbeenaspecialsponsorofthis eventsinceitsinception.Withathemeof“Thanksand Friendship,”theKobeMarathonismeanttoexpressthe gratitudeofthepeopleoftheKobeareatoeveryonewho assistedinthereconstructionoftheregionfollowingthe GreatHanshin-AwajiEarthquake. AsaspecialsponsorofthesixthKobeMarathon,heldin November2016,weprovidedrunnersʼbibnumbersand Employeevolunteershandingout exhibitedattheKobeMarathonEXPO.Wealsoﬁelded water volunteerswhoprovidedoperationalsupport. Theeconomicimpactofthiseventiscalculatedtobeapproximately¥7billioninHyogo Prefecturealone. HoldingEventsforCommunicationwiththeLocalCommunity Everyyear,SysmexCorporationinvitescommunityresidents toitsoﬃcestostrengthenitsrelationshipwiththelocal community.InMay2016,weopenedthegardensat Technoparkforaneventinwhichsome700membersof thelocalcommunityjoinedandstrolledaboutthegrounds. Ontheday,weheldalecturethemedon“recommending OpengardensatTechnopark 110 cervicalcancerscreening.”Participantsalsotookpartina healthcheckusingASTRIMFIT,ourproductforchecking estimatedbloodhemoglobinlevelswithoutsampling. AttheSolutionCenter,acommunityexchangeeventwas heldviatheKobeHigh-TechParkAssociation.Inﬁscal2016, weparticipatedinandexhibitedatasummerfestival OpenMinatoIjinkan sponsoredbytheassociation,lendingspaceforanAED trainingsession. Asinthepreviousyear,inOctoberweopenedtheMinatoIjinkantothegeneralpublic.A historicalediﬁceconstructedin1906,thestructurehadbecomedecrepitandwasclosed tothepublicin2008.InSeptember2012,Sysmexrentedthebuilding,performed renovationsandnowusesitasaguesthouse.Inadditiontomakingthebuildingopento thepublic,weheldaphotoexhibitintroducingthehistoryofKobeandarrangedajazz concertandotherenjoyableevents.Arecord368peoplevisited.WeplantoopenMinato Ijinkantothepubliconaregularbasisgoingforward. SupportingVariousEventsandOrganizationstoStimulatetheLocalCommunity andContributetoCulturalDevelopment SysmexCorporationsupportslocaldevelopmentthroughdonationsandsponsorship. Forexample,wesupportKobeLuminarie,anannualilluminationeventthatoriginatedasa memorialforthevictimsofthe1995GreatHanshin­AwajiEarthquakeandwhichisheldin thehopesofreconstructing/restoringKobeandallofHyogoPrefecture.Wealso cooperatewiththeKobeOjiZooʼsAnimalSponsorProgram.Inaddition,wesupportthe followingorganizationsandevents. StimulatingtheLocalCommunity 46thKobeFestival KobeSeasideBonOdori 89thHyogoPrefecturalElementary,JuniorHighandHighSchoolArtShow FifthHyogoConcertbytheJapanVirtuosoSymphonyOrchestra HyogoKOBEMedicalHealthFair Kobe/HyogoYouthMeetingtheWorld,Others SupportingCulture-RelatedPrograms HyogoPrefecturalMuseumofArt,Others Others 111 Others GlobalHealthInnovativeTechnologyFund(GHITFund) GlobalHumanResourceDevelopmentCommunity JapanPublic–PrivatePartnership Student FoundationforComputationalScience SavetheChildren NakataniFoundationforAdvancementofMeasuringTechnologiesinBiomedical Engineering See“Fiscal2016PerformanceData”forexpenditureoncorporatecitizenshipactivities. SponsoringLocalSportsTeam ToenergizelocalKobesportsteams,SysmexCorporationsponsorsVisselKobe,a JapaneseprofessionalJ.Leaguesoccerclub. Inadditiontopromotingthelocalcommunity,throughsuchinitiativesweaimtocontribute toahealthycommunitythroughsports. OverseasActivities OverseasExample(AsiaPaciﬁc):ConductingVariousActivitiestoAddress ProblemsinLocalCommunities SysmexGroupcompaniesintheAsiaPaciﬁcregiontake partinvariousprojectstoresolveissuesfacedbythelocal community.Inﬁscal2016,theyengagedinthefollowing eﬀortsinvariousregions. Donated600giftbagscontainingsnacksandtissuesto homelesspeopletogetherwiththePERTIWISoupKitchen Project(SysmexMalaysia) Donatedgiftbagstothe ParticipatedintheKmartWishingTreeAppealprojectto homeless(SysmexMalaysia) distribute420,000Christmaspresentstochildreninneed inNewZealand(SysmexNewZealand) 112 OverseasExample(Americas):SelectedfortheCompaniesThatCareHonor RollfortheNinthConsecutiveYear SysmexAmericawasselectedfortheCompaniesThatCare HonorRoll2017,sponsoredbyCompaniesThatCare,aU.S. nonproﬁtorganization.Fornineconsecutiveyears,Sysmex Americahasbeenselectedforthishonorroll,which identiﬁescompaniesofexcellenceinavarietyofareas,such ascultivatingleaders,employeecompensation,extensive welfare,work–lifebalance,apleasantworkingenvironment andvolunteeractivitiesintheregion. OverseasExample(Americas):HelpingtoRepairHomesforLow-IncomePeople SysmexAmericasupportsdivisionalactivitiesintheLake County,IllinoisconductedbyHabitatforHumanity,an internationalNGO.Thisorganizationtakespartineﬀortsto providehomesforlow-incomepeopleinmorethan70 countriesaroundtheworld.HabitatforHumanityLake County,thedivisionSysmexAmericasupports,provides housingsothat214families(around900people)canlive HabitatforHumanityActivities withpeaceofmind.SysmexAmericacontributestothecost ofrepairsforthesehousesandprovidespeopletoassist.In September2016,theorganizationhandedoverhomesat whichrepairshadbeenconductedfromspringthrough autumn. OverseasExample(Americas):ParticipatinginRedNoseDay(ACharityEventto EndChildPoverty) SysmexAmericaemployeesorganizetheSysmexCare committee,whoseactivitiesincludeparticipatingintheRed NoseDay*charityeventtoendchildpoverty.Morethan400 employeesdonrednosesandsupportfund-raising activities. RedNoseDayactivities *RedNoseDayisacharityactivitybyComicRelief,aUSNPO,raising moneythroughtheRedNosedayFundintheaimofendingchildpoverty. Charityactivitiesarecharacterizedbytherednosesparticipantswear.This programsupportseﬀortstohelpchildrenandyoungpeoplebesafeand healthyandreceiveaneducation. 113 OverseasExample(EMEA*):DonatingtoHomesforChildrenandtheElderly SysmexPartecactivelysupportschildreninneedandtheelderlyinitscommunity.Inﬁscal 2016,thecompanysupportedchildrenʼsparticipationinasummercampandmusicand sportsclassroom.Forpeopleinhomesfortheelderly,itsupportedaChristmasparty. *Europe,theMiddleEastandAfrica SupportforDisaster-AﬀectedAreas ProvidingSupportfortheRegionAﬀectedbytheKumamotoEarthquake InApril2016,amagnitude7earthquakehitKumamoto Prefecture.Sincethen,large-scalequakeshavecontinued toaﬀectKumamotoandOitaprefectures.Promptlyafter theearthquake,SysmexCorportaionsetupadisaster responseheadquarters,supplyingmineralwater,freezedriedfood,blanketsandothersupportitemstohospitals andcommerciallabs,itscustomers. ThroughtheJapaneseRedCrossSociety,wedonated¥10 millioninﬁscal2016toproviderelieftopeopleinthe Providingsupportfortheregion aﬀectedbytheKumamoto strickenareaandtoaidinreconstructionoftheaﬀected earthquake region.Ouremployeesalsoconductedfundraisingactivities, donatingapproximately¥1.3million. ContributingtotheEducationoftheNextGeneration SupportingtheEducationofYouth SysmexCorportaioncooperatesintheTry-yaruWeekworkplaceexperienceprogramheld forHyogoPrefecturejuniorhighschoolstudents.WealsotakepartintheScienceFairin Hyogo,aneventparticipatedinbycompanies,universitiesandresearchinstitutions,at whichmathandsciencehighschoolstudentsinHyogoPrefectureannuallypresenttheir researchresults. HostingInternshipsandCompanyTours SysmexCorportaiontakesaproactivestancetowardhostingoverseasstudents.Inﬁscal 2016,theCompanyprovidedinternshipsforfourstudentsfromtheIndianInstituteof Technology.Wealsohostedtwostudents,fromtheUniversityofHongKongandtheHong 114 KongUniversityofScienceandTechnology,providingthemanopportunitytolearnabout Sysmexʼsuniquetechnologies.WeacceptedsixstudentsforhighschoolinternshipsatiSquare.Wealsooﬀeredhands-onlocalinternships,hostingatotalof25studentsinthe R&Dandscientiﬁcaﬀairsdivisionsandsponsoredlong-terminternshipstargetingpost-doc students. InApril2015,wedecidedtotakepartinthe“GlobalHumanResourceDevelopment Community,”apublic–privatepartnershipstudentstudyabroadprogram.Establishedby theJapanStudentServicesOrganization,thisprogramelicitscooperationfromcompanies, theJapanesegovernmentanduniversitiestoprovideopportunitiesformotivatedand capableyoungpeopletostudyabroad.Theprogramaimstobuildmomentumforstudying abroadandsupporttheformationofnetworksamongstudentswhohavestudiedabroad. NaturePreservationandClean-upActivities ForestConservationActivities Sysmexpromotesforestconservationinanaimtocontributetolocalwatershedand biodiversityprotection. Clickherefordetailsonforestconservationactivities. Clean-upActivitiesNearBusinessOﬃces EmployeevolunteersfromSysmexʼsbusinessoﬃcesaroundJapantakepartineﬀortsto cleanareasaroundtheirbusinessoﬃces.Inﬁscal2016,800employeesat20locations tookpartintheseactivities. SendaiBranch SysmexMedica i-Square 115 CorporateCitizenshipActivities EmployeeVolunteerActivities EncourageEmployeeVolunteerActivities SocialContributionPointProgram Sysmexencouragesemployeevolunteeractivities byaSocialContributionPointProgram.Underthis program,employeescanregisterpointsafter participatinginvolunteereﬀortsinprivateor socialcontributionactivitiesheldbytheCompany. ©UNICEF/UNI150956/Asselin TheCompanythenmakescontributionsaccording ©UNICEF/UNI108970/Asselin ©UNICEF/UNI179689/Markisz tothetotalnumberofpointsregisteredby employeeseveryyear.Inﬁscal2016,Sysmexmadedonationstochildrenindeveloping countries,aswellaschildhoodcancerpatientsandtheirfamilies.Some32%ofSysmex employeesinJapan,or1,074people,participatedinthisprogram,resultinginaround ¥1.37millionindonations.Atotalof¥3.62millionhasbeendonatedthroughthisprogram inthethreeyearsfromﬁscal2014. 116 Inﬁscal2016,employeesateachbusinesssiteconducted cleaningactivitiesandcollectedsuchitemsasusedbooks, stamps,miswrittenpostcards,second-handclothesand otheritemsfordonationtoNGOsandotherorganizations. Inaddition,morethan100picturebooksandsome stationeryitemscollectedfromemployeesweredonatedto institutionsforchildreninthecityofKobe. Donationceremony Donateditems 117 Sustainability  EnvironmentalConsideration Globalenvironmentalproblemsareapressingissuewithrespecttorealizingasustainable society.TheParisAgreement,whichwasadoptedbythe21stsessionoftheConferenceof thePartiestotheUnitedNationsFrameworkConventiononClimateChange(COP21),calls forallcountriesandregionsoftheworldtosettargetsforreducingCO2emissionsin ordertopreventglobalwarming,andmandatedmeasuresforreachingthesetargets. Furthermore,measurestobecomearecycling-orientedsocietyarebecomingan increasinglyimportanttopicasthedepletionofnaturalresourcesgrowsmoreserious. Againstthisbackdrop,inSeptember2015theUnitedNationsadoptedtheSustainable DevelopmentGoals(SDGs),whichsetnumeroustargetsforaddressingenvironmental issues.TheSDGscallforcompanies,aswellasgovernments,totakeoncertain responsibilities. Asacompanydevelopingitsoperationsglobally,Sysmexrecognizesincreasinglyserious environmentalissuesasatopmostpriority.Accordingly,wehaveformulatedlong-term environmentalobjectivesintheSysmexGroupEnvironmentalActionPlan(SysmexEcoVision2020),whichcallforenvironment-friendlinessintheproductlifecycleandeﬀortsto reducetheenvironmentalimpactofoperationalactivities.Inparticular,bytargeting environment-friendlinessintheproductlifecycleweexpecttoreducecostsandsecure ourcompetitiveadvantageinthemarket.Atthesametime,webelievewewillbeableto reducetheenvironmentalimpactthatresultswhencustomersuseourproducts. Withrespecttotheproductlifecycle,wearedevelopingenvironmentallyconscious products,reducingCO2emissionsinourlogisticsprocessesanddecreasingamountsof packagingmaterials,amongotherinitiatives.Wearealsorollingoutglobalmeasuresaimed atloweringCO2emissionsatbusinessoﬃcesandbolsteringtherecyclingratio. Goingforward,alongwiththepursuitofsustainablegrowthwewillcontinuestrivingto reduceenvironmentalimpact̶avitalsocialissue. 118 EnvironmentalConsideration EnvironmentalManagement EnvironmentalPolicy EnvironmentalPolicy Byshapingtheadvancementofhealthcare,ourglobalenvironmentalconservation activitiescontributetothecreationofafulﬁllingandhealthysociety. Corebehavior 1.Wedeliverreassurancetoallpeoplebycarryingoutbusinessactivitiesinan environmentallyconsciousmanner. 2.Westrivetoprovideeco-friendlyproductsandserviceswhilegivingcarefulthought ofenvironmentalissuesthroughouttheirlifecycles. 3.Westrivetoconserveenergyandresources,reducewastes,promoterecycleand properlycontrolchemicalsubstancesinallbusinessactivities. 4.Wecomplywithallapplicablenationalorregionalenvironmentalregulations, standardsandagreements. 5.Wecontinuallyimproveourenvironmentalconservationactivitiesandworkdiligently preventpollutionandminimizetheimpactourproductshaveontheenvironment. 6.Wecontributetosocietythroughenvironmentalconservationactivitiesasamember ofthecommunity,whileeducatingandraisingtheenvironmentalconsciousness. 7.Weestablishenvironmentalobjectivesandtargetsconsistentwiththis environmentalpolicy,andmeasureourperformanceagainstthem. RevisedMay2009 EnvironmentalManagementSystem 119 EnvironmentalManagementSystem GroupEnvironmentalManagementSystem SysmexhasformulatedGlobalEnvironmentalManagementRegulationstoclarifythe responsibilitiesandrolesofeachGroupcompany.Wehaveassignedamanagingdirector,a memberoftheManagingBoard,ofSysmexCorporationasanenvironmentalmanagement oﬃcertooverseeandcontrolGroupenvironmentalmanagement.TheEnvironmental ManagementCommittee,whichischairedbytheenvironmentalmanagementoﬃcer,makes decisionsrelatedtoenvironmentalactivities.Activitiesincludedeliberatingonimportant matterssuchasGroupenvironmentalobjectivesandconductingmanagementreviews. WithintheEnvironmentalManagementCommittee,wehaveestablishedtheEnvironmental ManagementSystemPromotionSection(chairedbytheheadoftheCSRPromotion Divisionandmemberedbypeopleinchargeofenvironmentalmanagementsystem promotioninindividualoperatingdivisions)astheorganizationforexecutingenvironmental management.Eachoperatingdivisionpromotesenvironmentalactivitiesinlinewithits function,centeredonthepersonresponsibleforenvironmentalmanagementsystem promotionandthepersoninchargeofenvironmentalmanagementsystempromotion. PromotingtheAcquisitionofISO14001Certiﬁcation SysmexisworkingtowardtheacquisitionofISO14001,theinternationalstandardfor environmentalmanagement,fortheGroupʼsprincipalaﬃliatedcompanies,andJinan Sysmexwasnewlycertiﬁedinﬁscal2016.AsofApril30,2017,wehadacquired certiﬁcationsat24locations,andthepercentageofemployeesatlocationsthathad receivedcertiﬁcationsamountedto69%ofthetotalnumberofGroupemployees.Each locationisalsopromotingtransitionalactivitiesinlinewithamendmentstoISO14001. BycentralizingtheenvironmentalactivitiesoftheGroupʼsactivitiesinJapan,weare workingtoascertainthestateofprogressonactivitiesandanyissues,aswellasto reinforcemanagementactivities.Tothisend,fourcompanies(SysmexCorporation,Sysmex InternationalReagents,SysmexRAandSysmexMedica)comprisingninelocationshave obtainedintegratedcertiﬁcation.Inﬁscal2016,wecompletedthetransitiontothe amendedISOstandards(ISO14001:2015). StatusofISO14001Certiﬁcation 120 StatusofISO14001Certiﬁcation CompanyName Scope Site Acquired in Manufactureofreagents Reagentfactoryin November SysmexEurope forclinicaltesting Germany 1999 (NewlyacquiredISO Salesandafter-sales 50001certiﬁcation) servicesforclinicaltesting Headoﬃce instruments,varioustypes October ofanalyzers,testing 2011 reagents,testing SysmexDeutschland informationsystemsand healthcare-relatedsoftware KakogawaFactory April2000 Technopark February 2002 Headoﬃce February SysmexCorporation Development,design, 2002 manufacture,saleandaftersaleserviceofclinical SolutionCenter November testinginstruments,various 2005 typesofanalyzers,testing February reagents,testing i-Square 2015 informationsystemsand healthcare-relatedsoftware, March SysmexInternational aswellassaleofcustom OnoFactory 2001 Reagents proteins SeishinFactory June2007 SysmexMedica March 2001 SysmexRA June2008 SysmexBrazil Manufactureandsaleof February reagentsforclinicaltesting 2009 121 CompanyName Scope Site Acquired in SysmexAmerica Salesandafter-sales servicesforclinicaltesting instruments,varioustypes ofanalyzers,testing December SysmexReagents reagents,testing 2009 America informationsystemsand healthcare-relatedsoftware, aswellasmanufactureof testingreagents Design,development, installationandsupportof healthcareinformation systemsandservices,as wellassalesandafter-sales SysmexNewZealand servicesforclinicaltesting May2011 instruments,varioustypes ofanalyzers,testing reagents,testing informationsystemsand healthcare-relatedsoftware Salesandafter-sales servicesforclinicaltesting instruments,varioustypes February SysmexFrance ofanalyzers,testing 2012 reagents,testing informationsystemsand healthcare-relatedsoftware SysmexIndia Manufactureofreagents March forclinicaltesting 2012 Salesandafter-sales servicesforclinicaltesting SysmexAsiaPaciﬁc instruments,varioustypes Headoﬃce April2012 ofanalyzers,testing reagents,testing 122 CompanyName Scope Site Acquired in informationsystemsand healthcare-relatedsoftware, aswellasmanufactureand Reagentfactory saleofreagentsforclinical testing Salesandafter-sales servicesforclinicaltesting instruments,varioustypes SysmexEspana ofanalyzers,testing April2012 reagents,testing informationsystemsand healthcare-relatedsoftware Salesandafter-sales servicesforclinicaltesting instruments,varioustypes March SysmexMiddleEast ofanalyzers,testing 2013 reagents,testing informationsystemsand healthcare-relatedsoftware Developmentand SysmexWuxi manufactureofclinical June2013 testingreagents Developmentand January JinanSysmex manufactureofclinical 2016 testingreagents ConductingEnvironmentalAuditing Inlinewithenvironmentalmanagementsystemrequirements,weperformregularinternal andexternalenvironmentalauditsatlocationsthathaveobtainedISO14001certiﬁcation. Inﬁscal2016,threenonconformitieswerefoundduringinternalenvironmentalauditsof thefourGroupcompaniesandninelocationsforwhichcertiﬁcationinJapanhasbeen integrated.Oneslightnonconformitywasfoundinexternalenvironmentalaudits. Correctivemeasureshavebeencompleted. EnvironmentalObjectives 123 EnvironmentalObjectives SettingLong-TermandMedium-TermEnvironmentalObjectives ToguidetheGroupʼsenvironmentalmanagementoverthelongterm,Sysmexhassetlongtermenvironmentaltargetstobeachievedbyﬁscal2020undertheSysmexGroup EnvironmentalActionPlan(SysmexEco-Vision2020).Toachievethesegoals,weare workingtoimprovetheGroupʼsenvironmentalimpactonanongoingbasis. Inourenvironmentalactionplan,welookedatthesocialsituation,needsandexpectations withregardtoclimatechange,resourcecirculationandotherenvironmentalproblems, identiﬁedissuestoaddressbytakingintoconsiderationtheCompanyʼsenvironmental impactandscope,andsettargetsinﬁscal2010throughdeliberationbytheEnvironmental ManagementCommittee.GivenenvironmentalchangesthathavetakenplaceinJapanand overseas,werevisedcertainofthesetargetsinﬁscal2015.Werevisedtheunitsforour targetonreducingCO2emissionsfromJapan-domesticandinterregionaltransportation from“perunitoffreightton-km”to“perunitofnon-consolidatedsales”toreﬂectthe eﬀectsofimprovedloadingeﬃciency.Wehavealsosetmid-termobjectivestowardour environmentalactionplanobjectives.Wearecurrentlyundergoinginitiativesaimedat meetingthetargetsoftheSysmexGroupEnvironmentalActionPlan(Fiscal2015–2017). InthenewGroupmid-termmanagementplanfromﬁscal2017,wehavealsoestablished GroupenvironmentalobjectivesforthecompaniesinJapan.Theplansetsthree-year environmentalobjectivesforproductandservicelifecyclesandoperationalactivitiesfor eachdivisioninJapan.Onthisbasis,wehaverolledoutactionplansandaremoving forwardwithinitiativestomeetthesetargets. 124 Long-TermEnvironmentalObjectivesoftheSysmexGroupEnvironmental ActionPlan(SysmexEco-Vision2020)andSysmexGroupMedium-Term EnvironmentalObjectivesandResults SysmexEco-Vision Mid-term 2020Long-term Environmental Activities/Achievementsin  Environmental Objectives(FY2015– FY2016 Objectives(Revised 2017) Edition) Continuedworkingto reduceelectricityuseand achievebetter compactnessinthe developmentofnew products Continuedeﬀortsto developalternativesfor animal-derivedsubstances inreagents Byadoptingconcentrated reagents,decreased reagentswitchingtimeand achievedreductionin Environmental Promoteeco-friendly Promoteeco-friendly waste consciousness productsandservice productsandservice Toreducewaste,increased inproductlife models models thenumberofinstrument cycleprocess varietiesemploying reusablepackaging materials Increasedthepercentage ofcustomerinquiriesand servicerequestsresolved viatelephoneandnetwork services(compatibilitywith remoteconnection) (therebyreducingCO2 emissionsbydecreasing thenumberofvisitsmade usingvehicles) Clickherefordetails 125 SysmexEco-Vision Mid-term 2020Long-term Environmental Activities/Achievementsin  Environmental Objectives(FY2015– FY2016 Objectives(Revised 2017) Edition) Forexports,promoted shiftfromairtoocean transport Optimizedproduct packagesizesand conductedloading Reducecarbon Reducecarbon simulationstoincrease dioxideemissionsfor dioxideemissionsfor containerloadingeﬃciency logisticsby50%(per logisticsby45%(per Results(perunitofnonunitofnonunitofnonconsolidatedsales): consolidatedsales)*1 consolidatedsales)*1 Fiscal2016:4.937(tBaseyear:FY2010 Baseyear:FY2010 CO2/hundredmillionyen) Baseyear:7.252(tCO2/hundredmillionyen) Againstbaseyear:Down 32% Clickherefordetails 126 SysmexEco-Vision Mid-term 2020Long-term Environmental Activities/Achievementsin  Environmental Objectives(FY2015– FY2016 Objectives(Revised 2017) Edition) Reduceduseofelectricity byimprovingproduction eﬃciency(Sysmex InternationalReagents) ReducedCO2emissionsby usingsolarpower(Sysmex Europe(Reagentfactoryin Germany）,i-Square) Switchedtohigh-eﬃciency airconditioningunits (SolutionCenter) Reducegreenhouse Reducegreenhouse Convertedtotheuseof Environmental gasemissionsat gasemissionsat renewableenergyfor consciousness businessoﬃcesby businessoﬃcesby electricity(SysmexEurope, atbusiness 50%(perunitof 40%(perunitof SysmexDeutschland, oﬃces consolidatedsales)*2 consolidatedsales)*2 SysmexEurope(reagent Baseyear:FY2008 Baseyear:FY2008 factoryinGermany)) Results(perunitof consolidatedsales): Fiscal2016:7.36(t-CO2/ hundredmillionyen) Baseyear:10.07(t-CO2/ hundredmillionyen) Againstbaseyear:Down 27% Clickherefordetails 127 SysmexEco-Vision Mid-term 2020Long-term Environmental Activities/Achievementsin  Environmental Objectives(FY2015– FY2016 Objectives(Revised 2017) Edition) Reusedasaroadpaving materialtheglasswaste formerlyprocessedat landﬁlls(Technopark, SolutionCenter) Achievearecyclerate Achievearecyclerate Reusedpackagingmaterial of93%orhigheratall of92%orhigheratall onpurchaseditems businessoﬃces*3 businessoﬃces*3 (SysmexWuxi) Results: Fiscal2016:91.8% Clickherefordetails Reusedreverse-osmosis (pure)wastewaterthrough improvementofultrapure waterplant(SysmexAsia Paciﬁc) Reusedindustrialwaste Reducewaterusage Reducewaterusage wateraftertreatment atreagentfactories atreagentfactories (SysmexIndia) by10%(perunitof by7%(perunitof amountof amountof Results(perunitof production)*4 production)*4 production): Baseyear:FY2008 Baseyear:FY2008 Fiscal2016:25.4 (m³/thousandboxes) Baseyear:21.5 (m³/thousandboxes) Againstbaseyear:Up18% Clickherefordetails *1Scopeofdata:SysmexCorporation *2Scopeofdata:Allfactoriesandmajorbusinessoﬃces(13factories,7businessoﬃces) [Factories] SysmexCorporation(KakogawaFactory,i-Square),SysmexInternationalReagents(OnoFactory,SeishinFactory), SysmexMedica,SysmexRA,SysmexEurope(ReagentfactoryinGermany）,SysmexBrazil,SysmexReagents America,SysmexIndia,SysmexAsiaPaciﬁc,JinanSysmex,SysmexWuxi [MajorBusinessOﬃces] 128 SysmexCorporation(headoﬃce,Technopark,SolutionCenter),SysmexEurope,SysmexAmerica,Sysmex Shanghai,SysmexAsiaPaciﬁc *3Scopeofdata:Allfactoriesandmajorbusinessoﬃceswhereproductsand/orchemicalsubstancesarehandled (13factories,3businessoﬃces) [Factories] SysmexCorporation(KakogawaFactory,i-Square),SysmexInternationalReagents(OnoFactory,SeishinFactory), SysmexMedica,SysmexRA,SysmexEurope(ReagentfactoryinGermany）,SysmexBrazil,SysmexReagents America,SysmexIndia,SysmexAsiaPaciﬁc,JinanSysmex,SysmexWuxi [MajorBusinessOﬃces] SysmexCorporation(headoﬃce,Technopark,SolutionCenter) *4Scopeofdata:Reagentfactories(ninefactories) SysmexInternationalReagents(OnoFactory,SeishinFactory),SysmexEurope(ReagentfactoryinGermany）, SysmexBrazil,SysmexReagentsAmerica,SysmexIndia,SysmexAsiaPaciﬁc,JinanSysmex,SysmexWuxi EnvironmentalRiskAssessments PerformingEnvironmentalRiskAssessments AspartoftheGroupʼsriskmanagement,Sysmexassessestheimpactofbusinessactivities onincreasinglysevereenvironmentalissuesfromtheperspectivesofcomplianceand environmentalimpact,inaneﬀorttoreduceriskandcreatebusinessopportunities.We conductriskassessmentsonceeverytwoyearsunderitsriskassessmentsystem. EnvironmentalEducation ConductingEnvironmentalEducationandTraining ToincreaseawarenessofGroupenvironmentalactivitiesandtheenvironmentalimpactof individualoperations,onceeachyearSysmexconductsgeneraleducationforall employees,includingmethodssuchase-learning. Furthermore,fordivisionswithdeepinvolvementinbusinessactivitiesorrequiring specializedknowledgeandskills,weconductspecializedtrainingforindividualsdesignated bytheirdivisionsaspeopleresponsibleforandinchargeofenvironmentalmanagement systempromotion.Thistrainingincludesregulatorysystemseminarstogainworking knowledgeandseminarstocultivateinternalenvironmentalauditors.Inﬁscal2016,we conductedawarenesseducationaboutthetransitiontoISO14001:2015.Wealsoconduct specializedandemergencyresponsetrainingforeachdivision,asnecessary. PeopleUndergoingEnvironmentalEducationandTraining(Fiscal2016) 129 PeopleUndergoingEnvironmentalEducationandTraining(Fiscal2016) Numberof Name Target People Undergoing Training General Totalnumberofemployeesatbusinesssiteshaving environmental integratedISOcertiﬁcation 1,786people education Regulatory system Peopleinchargeofbusinesssitesanddevelopment 52people seminar Seminarto cultivate Internalenvironmentalauditors(peopleinchargeof internal environmentalmanagementsystempromotion) 19people environmental auditors 130 EnvironmentalConsideration EnvironmentalConsiderationthroughthe ProductLifecycle Eco-friendlyproductsandservices Environment-FriendlinessinProductDesign Sysmexhasformulatedregulationsrelatedtoproductlifecyclemanagementinaneﬀortto contributetoenergyconservationandwastereductionwhencustomersuseourproducts. Theseguidelines,aimedatconservingIVDinstrumentsʼuseofelectricityandlowering reagentquantities,areincorporatedintotechnicaldevelopment. Forexample,ourXN-Seriesmultiparameterautomatedhematologyanalyzerwasdesigned touseconcentratedreagents.Thisconcentrationmakesreagentsmorecompactand reducesthevolumeofcontainersandpackagingmaterials,whichhelpssaveresourcesand greatlydecreasestheamountofwastegeneratedbylaboratories.Also,thisseriesismore lightweightandcompactthanconventionalproducts,whichimprovestransporteﬃciency, contributingtoareductioninCO2emissionsovertheproductʼslifecycle.Wehave changedthematerialusedinreagentpackagingfrompolyethylenetopaperpacks,helping topreservefossilfuels. Inaddition,forourUF-5000/4000/3000fullyautomatedanalyzersofformedelementsin urine,launchedinSeptember2015,weswitchedtomoreenvironment-friendlyandsafer reagentsthateliminatetheneedforprocessingwasteliquidwithneutralizingagents. XN-SeriesUsingReagentConcentrated25TimesComparedwithConventionalReagents 131 EnvironmentalConsiderationintheProductionofRawMaterials Tocurtailtheuseofnaturalresources,theSysmexGroup hasestablishedaproductionmethodusingrecombinant silkwormsasanalternativetotheuseofanimal-derived proteinsinitsreagents.Ourproteinproductioncontracting servicebusinessusingthistechnologyhasalsobeenfully operationalsinceﬁscal2012,andwearealreadytaking ordersfromanumberofpharmaceuticalcompanies. Inthepast,tomaintainsterileconditionthesesubstances Silkwormstoproduceproteins werecultivatedwithequipmentsuchastankstocontrolfor environmentalfactors,includingtemperatureandoxygenconcentrations,usingcellsfrom mammalsandotheranimals̶anapproachthatconsumedsubstantialenergy.However,as recombinantsilkwormscanbecultivatedatroomtemperature,simplybyusingshelvesand breedingcontainersandprovidingthemwithfood,weanticipateenergysavingsandwaste reduction. ResponsetoLawsandRegulationsonHarmfulSubstances ApplicationoftherevisedRoHSDirective*(whichwasamendedinJuly2011)toSysmex's diagnosticinstrumentsanddiagnosticinstrumentsforanimalsbeginsfromJuly2016. ToconformwiththerevisedRoHSDirective,wehavecompletedtheprocessofconducting partssurveysandshiftingtoalternativesonproductsshippedtoEurope.Accordingly,we havedeclaredourconformancewiththerevisedRoHSdirectivefromﬁscal2015. *RoHSDirective:Adirectiveprohibitingtheuseofhazardoussubstancesinelectricalandelectronicdevicessoldin theEuropeanUnion.Thisdirectivecallsforthecessationofuseofheavymetals(lead,cadmium,mercuryand hexavalentchromium)andspeciﬁedbrominecontainingﬂameretardants(PBBandPBDE). ReducingEnvironmentalImpactAssociatedwithHumanTransportthrough BetterServiceEﬃciency Sysmexisloweringenvironmentalimpactbymakingservicemoreeﬃcient. Forexample,byexpandingthefunctionsoftheCustomerSupportCenter,weare respondingtocustomerinquiriesandservicerequestssothatemployeesinchargeoftheir customerscanvisitinabetter-plannedandmore-eﬃcientmanner. Also,instrumentsoperatedbycustomersareconnectedtotheCustomerSupportCenter viaouronlineSysmexNetworkCommunicationService(SNCS).Throughremotesupport andbymakinguseofaccumulateddata,wecandeterminethestatusofinstruments beforeissuesarise,therebyhelpingtominimizeinstrumentdowntime. 132 Byreinforcingsystemfunctionsinthismannerandintroducingnewserviceschemes,we arereducingthenumberoftimesservicepersonnelusevehiclestovisitcustomers,cutting downonCO2emissions.Inﬁscal2016,ourrateoffailureresolutionusingSNCSincreased approximately7.5%. ClickhereforinformationaboutSNCS. EnvironmentallyConsciousProcurement(Green Procurement) CooperatingwithBusinessPartnerstoPromoteEnvironmentallyConscious Procurement Sysmexhasformulatedgreenprocurementstandards,andworkswithbusinesspartnersto promoteenvironmentallyconsciousprocurement.Furthermore,weaimtoprocure environmentallyconsciouspartsandmaterials,andpublishonourwebsitethechemical substanceswearereducingoreliminatingtheuseofinourproducts. Inourprocurementpolicy,whichexpressesSysmexʼsbasicconsiderationsonselecting suppliersandconductingprocurementtransactions,weaskforbusinesspartnersʼ cooperationinpromotingCSR-consciousactivities. Clickhereforinformationonourprocurementpolicy. FormulatingGreenProcurementStandards Wehaveformulatedgreenprocurementstandards,whichdescribeourfundamentalstance onenvironmentalconsiderationsinourprocurementactivities. HistoryofRevisionsandUpdatesofDisclosureInformationRelatedtoGreen Procurement(PDF:36.6KB) 133 GreenProcurementStandards Throughourglobalcorporateactivitiesinthehealthcareﬁeld,wearecontributingto thecreationofafulﬁllingandhealthysociety. 1.Objectives Inaccordancewithitsenvironmentalpolicy,theSysmexGroupstrivestofulﬁllits corporatesocialresponsibilitybypromotingglobalenvironmentconservation. Accordingly,weendeavortopromotethemanufactureofenvironmentallyfriendly productsbyencouragingtheprocurementofrawmaterialsandpartsthathavelow impactontheglobalenvironment.Sysmexaimstocultivatemotivatedenvironmental conservationactivitiesamongoursuppliersandenableustoworktogethertoward thedevelopmentofasustainablesociety. 2.GreenProcurementInitiatives TheSysmexGrouppractices greenprocurement toensurethatitsprocurement activitiespromoteareductionintheenvironmentalimpactoftheCompany's productsandreducetheenvironmentalimpactofallproductionactivities,including thoseofoursuppliers.Wepromotethetwoitemsbelowasspeciﬁcgreen procurementinitiatives. 1)Promotetheprocurementofrawmaterialsandpartsthathavelower environmentalimpact. 2)Expandbusinesswithsuppliersthattakeaproactiveapproachtoward environmentalconservation. 3.ScopeofApplication Thesestandardsapplytotheprocurementofrawmaterials,partsandproductsby SysmexGroupcompanies. 4.ControlofChemicalSubstancesinProducts TheSysmexGrouprequirestheselectionofmaterialsandpartsfortheproductsit developsandproducestobebasednotonlyontherequisitequality,performance andeconomicfeasibility,butalsoontheminimizationofenvironmentalimpact. Therefore,rawmaterialsandpartsthatdonotemploythechemicalsubstances describedbelowshallbeadopted: 1)Substancesprohibitedaccordingtorestrictionsonchemicalsubstances containedinproductsshallnotbecontained. 2)Thoseinwhichthechemicalsubstanceamountsdeﬁnedunderrestrictionson chemicalsubstancescontainedinproductsshallbemonitored. 3)Thoseforwhichtheenvironmentalimpactofthechemicalsubstanceintermsof atmosphericpollution,watercontamination,soilpollution,etc.shallbelow. 4)Environmentalimpactdataformaterialsshallbedisclosed. 134 5)Inrelationtopackagingmaterials,whenalloftheaforementionedfactorsare identical,thatwiththelowestvolumeofcontainedchemicalsubstancesshallbe selected. RevisedNovember2014 AccordingHighEvaluationstoProcurementPartnersUndertakingMotivated EnvironmentalConservationActivities Sysmexisworkingproactivelytoaddresstheimportantsocietalissueofenvironmental protection.Weaskourbusinesspartnerstobefullyawareofandunderstandthe importanceofouractivitiesandcooperatewithgreenprocurement.Basedonitsgreen procurementstandards,inadditiontoquality,price,deliveryschedulesandtechnological developmentcapabilities,Sysmexaccordshighevaluationstosuppliersthatundertake motivatedenvironmentalconservationactivities.Weaskoursuppliersfortheircooperation onthefollowingpoints. 1.ConﬁgurationandOperationofEnvironmentalManagementSystems Whencommencingtransactionswithbusinesspartners,theSysmexGroupindicates clearlytheimportanceitplacesonmotivatedenvironmentalconservationactivities. Tothisend,weconﬁrmwhetherpotentialsuppliershaveinplaceenvironmental managementsystemscertiﬁedbythirdparties. 1)ISO14001certiﬁcation 2)Simpliﬁedenvironmentalmanagementsystemcertiﬁcation 2.ProvisionofEnvironmentalInformationonRawMaterialsandParts TheSysmexGroupaskssupplierstoprovidethefollowingenvironmentalreportsin cooperationwithSysmex'senvironmentalconservationactivities. 1)Dataonharmfulchemicalsubstancescontainedinrawmaterialsandparts 2)CertiﬁcationagainsttheuseofsubstancestargetedbyEuropeanRoHS regulations 3)InformationonrawmaterialsandpartscompliantwithEuropeanRoHS regulations 3.EnvironmentalMeasuresbySupplierstoTheirOutsourcingPartners TheSysmexGroupalsoaskssupplierstorequestthattheiroutsourcingpartners conﬁgureenvironmentalmanagementsystemsandcooperateinproviding environmentalinformation.Weasksupplierstotakeresponsibilityformanaging theiroutsourcingpartnersinthisrespect. RevisedNovember2014 135 SpecifyingProhibitedSubstances,SubstancestoBeReducedandTarget Countries Basedonitsgreenprocurementstandards,Sysmexdisclosesthefollowingitemsindealing withchemicalsubstances(substanceswithenvironmentalimpact)containedinthe productsitmanufacturesandsells,aswellastheirconstituentparts,devicesandmaterials. 1.Prohibitedsubstances(substanceswhoseuseisprohibited),revisedonJune30, 2017 Prohibitedsubstances（PDF/391KB） 2.Substancestobereduced(substanceswhoseusemustbereduced),revisedon June30,2017 Substancestobereduced（PDF/850KB） 3.Listoftargetcountries(countriesandregionswhoseenvironmentallawsand regulationsprovidethebasisforprohibitedsubstancesandsubstancestobe reduced),revisedonJune30,2017 Listoftargetcountries（PDF/156KB） Environment-FriendlyLogistics EﬀortstoLowerCO2EmissionsinJapan-DomesticandInter-Regional TransportationofProducts AsSysmexʼsglobalbusinesscontinuestoexpand,itis reviewingitslogisticsprocessesandsystemsasdistribution growsincreasinglydiverseandmovingforwardwith packagingreforms.Suchmeasuresincludeshiftingthe overseasshipmentofproductsfromairtoseatransport, optimizingproductpackagesizes,conductingthorough loadingsimulationstoincreasecontainerloadingeﬃciency andworkingtoreduceCO2emissions.Inﬁscal2016,we shiftedourmodeoftransportingreagents,whichare consideredhazardousmaterials,totheUnitedStatesfrom Reefercontainer aircrafttoship,usingreefercontainers*1.Wealsomadethis shiftwhentransportingnewproductstoGermany.Thismovereducedtheannualaircraft transportvolumebyaround360tons. Toreducetransportfrequency,wehavesteppeduploadingsimulations.Asaresult,we improvedourcontainerloadingratiofrom52%inﬁscal2013tomorethan70%inﬁscal 2015,alevelwecurrentlymaintain. 136 Inﬁscal2016,thebankruptcyofashippingcompanywehadusednecessitatedasudden increaseinairtransportation.ThisresultedinCO2emissions(perunitofsales)*2increased fromthepreviousyear,butdecreased32%fromﬁscal2010,thebaseyearinSysmexEcoVision2020. *1Acontainerwithequipmenttomaintainitsinternaltemperatureataspeciﬁedlevel *2ThebaseunitforCO2emissions(perunitofsales)oflogisticswasrevisedinﬁscal2015. CO2emissionsfromlogistics Notes:RangeofcalculationisCO2fromwarehouseinJapanto customerswithinJapanandthattooverseasseaportorairport. SavingResourcesbyRevisingPackagingMaterials Sysmexisrevisingitspackagingmaterialsinaneﬀorttosaveresources.Forexample,we haveintroducedreusablepackagingforinstrumentsshippedwithinJapan,whichhas reducedourvolumeofcardboardwaste.Inﬁscal2016,weadoptedreusablepackagingfor sixmodels,successfullyreducingcardboardwastebyapproximately18.6tonsperyear. Inaddition,forthesteelmaterialsintroducedforshippingproductsoverseas,wehave increasedtransportstrengthandencouragedrecyclingatdeliverylocations,helpingto reduceenvironmentalimpact. IntroductionofReusablePackagingMaterialsThatCanBeFoldedupWhenReturning 137 EnvironmentalConsideration ReductioninEnvironmentalBurdenthrough ActivitiesatBusinessOﬃces: RespondingtoClimateChange SysmexGroupGlobalComplianceCode(Excerpt) 11-2Environmentally-friendlybusinessoperations Whenengagedinbusinessoperations,everyOﬃcer/Employeeshallpayattention totheimpactontheenvironmentbasedonenvironment-relatedinternational standards,andshallpromoteactivitiesthataddresssuchissuesasreductionof greenhousegas,recycling,andwastereduction,inanendeavortoenhancethe globalenvironmentthroughactivitiestoaddressglobalclimatechange. BasicPerspectiveonRespondingtoClimateChange Climatechangeduetoglobalwarmingisbecomingincreasinglysevere,promptingglobal callstoreduceCO2emissions.Atthe21stsessionoftheConferenceofthePartiestothe UnitedNationsFrameworkConventiononClimateChange(COP21),heldinParis,France,in 2015,196countriesandregionsadoptedanewregulatoryframeworkundertheParis Agreement.Japanpubliclycommittedtoreducinggreenhousegasemissionsby26% comparedwith2013levelsby2030. Sysmexbelievesthatresolvingtheclimatechangeissueisnecessaryforasustainable globalenvironment,andiscontributingtothecreationofafulﬁllingandhealthysociety.To thisend,in2010weformulatedtheSysmexGroupEnvironmentalActionPlan(Sysmex Eco-Vision2020),andareinvolvedinongoinginitiativestoreduceCO2emissionsduring theproductlifecycleandinouroperationalactivities.InformulatingEco-Vision2020,we lookedatthesocialsituation,needsandexpectationswithregardtoclimatechange, resourcecirculationandotherenvironmentalproblems,identiﬁedissuestoaddressby takingintoconsiderationtheCompanyʼsenvironmentalimpactandscope,andsetour corporateenvironmentalpolicyandlong-termenvironmentaltargets.Takingglobaltrends intoconsideration,in2017wewillformulatethefollowingenvironmentalactionplanand arepursuingactivitiesaimedatcontributingfurthertoreducingenvironmentalimpact. ReducingGreenhouseGasEmissions 138 ReducingGreenhouseGasEmissions EﬀortstoReduceGreenhouseGasEmissionsatBusinessOﬃces Weareundertakingavarietyofeﬀortstoreducedirectand indirectgreenhousegasemissionsbybusinessoﬃces. Weareimplementingenergy-savingmeasurestomeeteach oﬃce'scharacteristics,suchasthoroughlymonitoringroom temperaturesinsummerandwinter,installingmoving detectorstoactivatestaircaselighting,upgradingto LEDLighting(OnoFactory) energy-savingairconditioningequipmentandintroducing LEDlighting.Atourprincipalbusinessoﬃces,wehaveinstalleddemandmonitoring functions*tocontroloverallelectricityuse.AttheSolutionCenter,inﬁscal2016we switchedtoahigh-eﬃciencyairconditioningsystemthatdoesnotusegas,reducing annualCO2emissionsbyaround36%.InSysmexMalaysia,weconductedaGreener SysmexPointcampaign,awardingpointstoemployeesusinghybridvehiclesintheirwork commute,inaneﬀorttolowerenergyuseandCO2emissions. Inﬁscal2016,unitgreenhousegasemissionsroseapproximately1.1%yearonyear, aﬀectedbyanincreaseinproductionvolumesandoureﬀortstoreinforceoverseasbases andaugmentpersonnelnumbers.AgainstourEco-Vision2020targets,however,emissions (unitperconsolidatedsales)weredown27%comparedwithourbaseyear(ﬁscal2008). *Functionsforcontinuouslymeasuringmaximumelectricaldemand(demandvalue)for24-hourperiodsand soundinganalarmifthelevelexceedstargetvalues,aswellasreportingonelectricityuseonadailyandmonthly basis. Greenhousegasemissionsatbusinessoﬃces Notes:Scopeofthedata:Factoriesandmajorbusinessoﬃces [Factories] SysmexCorporation(KakogawaFactory,i-Square),SysmexInternationalReagents (OnoFactory,SeishinFactory),SysmexMedica,SysmexRA,SysmexEurope(Reagent 139 factoryinGermany),SysmexBrazil,SysmexReagentsAmerica,SysmexIndia,Sysmex AsiaPaciﬁc,JinanSysmex,SysmexWuxi [MajorBusinessOﬃces] SysmexCorporation(headoﬃce,Technopark,SolutionCenter),SysmexEurope, SysmexAmerica,SysmexShanghai,SysmexAsiaPaciﬁc DecreasingCO2EmissionsfromDomesticCompany'sCars TocurtailfueluseandreduceCO2emissionsfromsome400companycarsinJapan,we aremakinguseofourintranettovisualizetraveldistancesandgasolineusedbyeach Companycarandheightendriverawareness.Wearealsointroducingfuel-eﬃcientvehicles andhybridcars.Inﬁscal2016,CO2emissionsbyCompanycarsinJapanweredown approximately2%yearonyear. Weholdeco-drivingcoursesatbranchesandsalesoﬃcesinJapan,withcoursesheldat ninelocationsinﬁscal2016.Asaresultofthisinitiative,gasolineusewasdownbyaround 2%yearonyear.However,thenumberoftruckdeliverieshandledbySysmexMedicarose inlinewithanincreaseinthenumberofpartsassembled,leadingtoa7%riseindieselfuel consumption. ComplyingwithRelatedLawsandRegulations Sysmexendeavorstocomplywithenvironment-relatedlawsandregulations,bothfroma complianceperspectiveandfromthestandpointofenvironmentalpreservation. Asoneaspectoftheseeﬀorts,basedontheEnergyConservationAct,Sysmex CorporationhassubmittedtotheMinistryofEconomy,TradeandIndustryamedium-to long-termplanthatsummarizesitsregularreportsaggregatingannualenergyusage amountsanditsenergyreductionplan.Goingforward,wewillcontinuepromotingenergy conservationactivitiesthroughouttheCompanytoachievethesenon-bindingtargetsin Japan. 140 EnvironmentalConsideration ReductioninEnvironmentalBurdenthrough ActivitiesatBusinessOﬃces: ResourceCirculation ManagingandRecyclingWaste ReducingWasteandPromotingaStableRecyclingRate Sysmexengagesinongoinginitiativestoreducewasteandincreasetherecyclingrateto decreaseitsconsumptionoflimitedresourcesandcontributetowardthecreationofa sustainablesociety.Forinstance,SysmexWuxiisreusingthepolyethylenebagsfrom packagingpurchasedproductsasbagsforhouseholdtrashandtakingothermeasuresto reducewaste.JinanSysmex,meanwhile,hasreducedwastegenerationthroughthe automationofitsproductionlines. InJapan,weareusinggarbagedisposalunitsatlocationsthatgeneratesubstantial amountsofgarbage,suchascompanycafeterias,convertingthegarbagetofertilizer.In ﬁscal2015,webeganrecyclingglasswaste̶previouslydisposedofinlandﬁlls̶inroad pavingmaterialsatTechnopark.AttheSolutionCenter,inﬁscal2016wealsobegan recyclingglasswasteasaroadpavingmaterial. Asourbusinessgrows,ourtotalamountofwasteincreasesduetotheestablishmentand expansionofnewlocationsandtoarisingnumberofemployees.However,asaresultof theseinitiativesourGrouprecyclingrateremainshigh,at91.8%.Wewillcontinuestepping upoureﬀortsasweworktowardachievingthegoalsoutlinedinSysmexEco-Vision2020. Businessoﬃcerecyclingrate 141 Scopeofdata:Allfactoriesandmajorbusinessoﬃceswhereproductsand/or chemicalsubstancesarehandled [Factories] SysmexCorporation(KakogawaFactory,i-Square),SysmexInternationalReagents (OnoFactory,SeishinFactory),SysmexMedica,SysmexRA,SysmexEurope(Reagent factoryinGermany),SysmexBrazil,SysmexReagentsAmerica,SysmexIndia,Sysmex AsiaPaciﬁc,JinanSysmex,SysmexWuxi [MajorBusinessOﬃces] SysmexCorporation(headoﬃce,Technopark,SolutionCenter) *Someﬁgureshavebeenmodiﬁedfromthepreviousyear. UsingWaterResourcesEﬀectively ReducingWaterUseandAppropriatelyProcessingWastewater Sysmexuseswater,bothabove-groundandundergroundwater,initsbusinessactivities, suchasitscorereagentproduction.Recognizingthereductionofwateruseasan importantsocialresponsibility,Sysmexsetstargetsforthereductionofwaterusein SysmexEco-Vision2020,andisworkingtoimprovetheeﬃciencyofwateruseatindividual sites.AtitsreagentfactoriesinJapan,Sysmexisimprovingproductioneﬃciency,working toreduceman-hoursandloweringwaterusage.AtSysmexAsiaPaciﬁc,theultrapurewater planthasbeenimprovedsothatreverseosmosiscanbeusedtorecyclewastewaterinto purewaterwhenthefactoryisnotinoperation,ameasurethatisreducingwateruseby approximately19%yearonyear.AtSysmexIndia,factorywastewaterispuriﬁedandused towaterthegreenspaceswithinthefacility.Owingtothesemeasures,inﬁscal2016our waterusage(perunitofproductionvolume)improvedapproximately2%yearonyear, resultinginan18%increaseagainstourEco-Vision2020targetsforwaterusage. WaterUseatReagentFactories Scopeofdata:Reagentfactories(ninelocations) SysmexInternationalReagents(OnoFactory,SeishinFactory),SysmexEurope(Reagent factoryinGermany),SysmexBrazil,SysmexReagentsAmerica,SysmexIndia,Sysmex AsiaPaciﬁc,JinanSysmex,SysmexWuxi ReducingPaperUse 142 ReducingPaperUse PromotingDigitalData ByusingPCs,tabletdevicesandsmartphonesandholdingpaperlessmeetings,Sysmex Corporationstrivestoconductbusinessactivitieseﬃciently,withaslittleuseofprinted matteraspossible.Theseeﬀortshaveledtoadecreaseinthevolumeofpaperusedand wasteproduced,whilealsocurtailingthenumberofpreparatoryprocesses,suchas printinganddistribution.Sendingmaterialstomeetingparticipantsasdataaheadoftime hashelpedsavetimeandmakemeetingsmoreeﬃcient.Wehavealsobeguncuttingdown onpaperusebyprovidingsupplierswithproductdrawingsaselectronicdataratherthan onpaper. 143 EnvironmentalConsideration ReductioninEnvironmentalBurdenthrough ActivitiesatBusinessOﬃces: PreventingPollution ManagingChemicalSubstances DeterminingtheStatusofStorageandUseandManagingHarmfulSubstances SysmexuseschemicalsubstancesinitsR&Dandmanufacturingprocesses.Westriveto managechemicalsubstancesappropriatelytopreventlosses,leaksanddamageto employeehealth.Toreducetheriskofaccidentsstemmingfromthemanagementof chemicalsubstancesasourbusinessdomainexpandsandorganizationchanges,inﬁscal 2013weestablishedtheChemicalSubstanceManagementCommitteeatTechnopark,our R&Dhub,reinforcingourstructureformanagingchemicalsubstances.Weareconducting thoroughtrainingatrelateddivisionsunderthiscommitteeʼsmanagement. Meanwhile,theSolutionCenterʼsScientiﬁcLaboratoryisconductingthoroughchemical substancemanagementbasedontheScientiﬁcAﬀairsDivisionStandardsforLaboratory Management. EmissionofHarmfulSubstancesandManagementand ProcessingwithRegardtoTheirReleaseintotheWaterand Atmosphere ManagingandProcessingHarmfulSubstances SysmexInternationalReagentsusesbiologicalsubstancesasrawmaterialsofproducts, andTechnoparkusesthemasexperimentalmaterialsforresearchanddevelopment.As thesesubstanceshaveinfectionpotential,asameasureofprecaution,theyaremanaged strictlysuchaslimitoflocationtostorageandusethemaccordingtothemanual,and furthermore,thesesubstancesarecarefullysegregatedfromgeneralwasteforproper disposal. Forotherharmfulsubstances,weworktopreventaerialdrift,dispersionandgroundwater permeationthroughcountermeasuresaddressingbothfacilitiesandmanagementmethods. 144 Intheseways,weendeavortokeepemissionsbelowstatutorystandardvalues.Inﬁscal 2014,werefurbishedwastedrop-oﬀsitesattheSeishinFactory. WastewaterManagementandProcessing Sysmexhassetitsownstandardsfordevelopmentlocationsandfactoriesthathandle chemicalsubstances,managingwastewatertoensuretheselevelsarenotexceeded.In ﬁscal2015,weintroducednewbiochemicaloxygendemand(BOD)alarmequipmentatthe OnoFactory.Thesesystemsaimtopreventthereleaseofliquidscontainingorganic matter. ManagementRelatedtoAtmosphericEmissions InresponsetotheFluorocarbonsEmissionControlLaw,arevisedversionofwhichwent intoeﬀectonApril1,2015,SysmexinJapanestablishedresponsemanualsforindividual companies.Weclariﬁedﬂuorocarbon-containingequipmentweownormanageandworked todetermineappropriateuse,conductedinspectionsanddeterminedcalculatedleakages. 145 EnvironmentalConsideration BiodiversityProtection InvolvementwithBiodiversity Sysmexuseswaterinitscorereagentproductionandunderstandsthatitreceivesahost ofbeneﬁtsfromtheworldʼslivingthingsaspartofitsbusinessactivities.Accordingly,we recognizethatpreservingtheforeststhatcontributetolocalwatershedprotectionisan importantsocialresponsibility.Wealsoaimtocontributetothepreservationofbiodiversity. ForestConservationActivities ContributingtoBiodiversityPreservationthroughthe“SysmexForest” Inﬁscal2013webegantakingpartinforestmaintenanceactivitiesbasedonthe Enlistthe ParticipationofAllCitizensinCreatingWoodland projectbeingpromotedbytheHyogo PrefecturalGovernment.Tothisend,wetookresponsibilityforatwo-hectareportionofthe 17-hectareKawaiKaitekiForestnearourreagentfactoryinthecityofOno,Hyogo Prefecture.Wedubbedthisportionthe SysmexForest andsetaboutmakingthe Satoyama(ahuman-inﬂuencednaturalenvironment)aplaceoftranquilityforpeopleand wildlife.Inﬁscal2016,atotalof215peopleparticipatedintheseactivities,whichtook place10times. Weencourageemployeesandtheirfamiliestoparticipateinthesemaintenanceactivities. Weoﬀerspecialprogramsforchildren,givingthemtheopportunitytocomeintocontact withnature.Forexample,byhand-paintinghousesforsmallbirds,cultivatingplantcuttings, vegetablesandshiitakemushrooms,andtakingpartinotheractivities,weprovidethe childrenwhowillshouldertheresponsibilitiesofthefuturewithopportunitiestolearnabout therelationshipbetweenpeopleandnature. Fromabiodiversityperspective,theseactivitiesfocusonprotectingspeciesthatare threatenedwithextinctionandrarewildplants.Forexample,havingdiscoveredaclouded salamander*inﬁscal2014,weprotecteditshabitatandconﬁrmedthatithadproduced eggsacsforthreeconsecutiveyears.Theﬁrstadultswereseenin2016,conﬁrmingthat wehadcreatedacomfortableenvironmentforthemtolivein.Wearealsocultivatingthe Japaneselily,whichisbeingfoundincreasinglyinfrequentlyinmanyregions,helpingitto 146 stageacomeback.InvitedbytheUnitedNationstotakepartintheInternationalDayfor BiologicalDiversity(May22)in2017,weregisteredfortheGreenWave,aprogrambeing promotedbyJapanʼsMinistryoftheEnvironment,MinistryofAgriculture,Forestryand Fisheries,andMinistryofLand,Infrastructure,TransportandTourism.Goingforward, through“SysmexForest”activitieswewillcontinueaddressingtheissueofbiodiversityand promotingunderstandingandawarenessactivities. *ThesesmallCryptobranchoidea(primitivesalamanders)aredesignatedasVulnerableIIintheMinistryofthe EnvironmentʼsRedDataBook. Clickhereforinformationonoursystemforpromotingemployeevolunteers. Clickhereforinformationonthe“SysmexForest.” SysmexForest SysmexForest(protecting (participantsinforest scarcewildlife) maintenanceactivities) ForestPreservationActivitiesOverseas(AsiaPaciﬁcRegion) Overseas,aswell,variouscompaniesaﬃliatedwithSysmexaretakingpartinforest preservationactivitiesinnearbyregions.Inﬁscal2015,forexample,volunteersfrom SysmexNewZealandplanted902seedlingsofaspeciesnativetoMotutapuIsland. Locatedinthenorthofthecountry,thisislandisknownforthenaturalabundancethat remainsthere.Inﬁscal2016,SysmexNewZealandparticipatedintheMotutapuIsland RestorationProject,sponsoredbythecountryʼsDepartmentofEnvironmentProtection andtheMotutapuRestorationTrust,plantingnativenursery-treesandtreeseedlings. Throughthisproject,Sysmexmemberswillcontinuesupportingeﬀortstorestorethe islandtoitsstatewhenitwasoccupiedbytheMaoripeople,withthekiwiandothernative ﬂoraandfaunathatwerethreatenedwithextinctionasaresultofcultivationbyEuropean settlers. AspartofitsCSRactivitiesintheregionwhereitsreagentfactoryoperates,SysmexIndia assembledanaﬀorestationteaminJuly2016.Allemployeesparticipatedinaﬀorestation activities,planting125seedlings.Thecompanyhasearnedaccoladesfromalocal governmentdevelopmentboardforitsactivities. 147 SysmexIndiaʼsreagentfactoryalsoreceivedacorporateawardin2014,placingﬁrst,for itsenvironmentalactivitiesintheBaddhiindustrialzone.Thecompanyplanstocontinue environmentalactivitiescenteredontheregion. Participantsinforest AﬀorestationactivitiesinIndia1 AﬀorestationactivitiesinIndia2 preservationactivitiesinNew Zealand 148 Sustainability  Governance Numerouscorporatescandalsrelatedtocorporategovernance,riskmanagementand compliancehavecometolightinrecentyears,andtheirimpactonsocietyhasincreased. Inthisenvironment,JapanʼsCorporateGovernanceCodewentintoeﬀectinJune2015, callingoncompaniestotakegovernanceintoconsiderationinnon-ﬁnancialareas,aswell asontheﬁnancialfront. Inadditiontostrengtheninggovernanceandinternalcontrol,companiesarebeingcalledon tobuttresstheirmanagementfoundationsforpromotingriskmanagementand compliance. Sysmexrecognizesreinforcingcorporategovernanceasaprioritymanagementissue.By shoringupourbusinessfoundation,weareendeavoringtoearnthetrustofour stakeholdersandenhancecorporatevalueoverthemediumtolongterm. Tothisend,wemadethetransitionintoacompanywithanAuditandSupervisory CommitteeandstrengthenthesupervisoryfunctionbyexternalmembersoftheManaging Board,aswellasenhancingtheManagingBoardʼseﬀectivenessandreinforcing governanceinotherways.Inlinewiththesechanges,weareputtinginplacesystemsto fortifythegroupwideriskmanagementfunctionandhaveestablishedaCompliance Committeeandaninternalreportingsystemasinitiativestostrengthenourbasewitha viewtosustainablegrowth. WewillcontinueaimingtomaximizetheoverallcorporatevalueoftheGroupthrough managementrobustness,bettertransparencyandimprovedmanagementspeedand eﬃciency. Clickhereforinformationoncorporategovernance. 149 Compliance ComplianceManagement ComplianceStructure PursuingOpenandAboveboardBusinessActivities BasedonourGroupphilosophy,the SysmexWay, wedeﬁneourviewofcomplianceas conductingbusinessactivitiesnotonlyincompliancewithapplicablelawsandregulations, butalsobasedonfairnessandhighethicalstandards. Inaccordancewiththisdeﬁnition, wehaveestablishedaGlobalComplianceCode,inwhichparticularlyimportant conformancerulesandbehavioralguidelinesforallGroupexecutivesandemployeesto abidebyarecompiled. InMay2017,webroughtintoeﬀectarevisedversionoftheSysmexGlobalCompliance Code,whichwereviseperiodicallyinresponsetochangesinourinternalandexternal environments. SysmexGroupGlobalComplianceCode 1.EnsuringtheSafetyofOurProductsandServicestoCustomers Inallourcorporateactivities,weshallmakeitamatterofprioritytoprovideour customerswithsafetyandsecurityintheoperationanduseofourproductsand services. 2.PromotingFairDealingandFreeCompetition Weshallcomplywiththelawsandregulationsofeachcountryandregion concerningthepromotionoffairandfreecompetition,dealfairlywithallour customersandotherbusinesspartnersandconducttransactionsunderappropriate conditions.Inaddition,inrelationtoothercompaniesinthesamebusiness,weshall notillegally,dishonestlyorunreasonablyrestricttheirbusiness,norshallwedefame them. 3.FairandProperInformationDisclosureandExerciseofCompleteInformation Control Ourcorporateinformation,suchasourGroupʼsﬁnancialconditionandbusiness activities,shallbedisclosedinafair,prompt,correct,andclearmannerin accordancewithapplicablelawsandregulations,andweshallexercisestrictcontrol overconﬁdentialinformationcollectedthroughourbusinessactivitiessoasnotto 150 infringetherightsofthirdparties. 4.ImplementationofAppropriateResearchandDevelopmentActivities Whencarryingoutresearchanddevelopment,weshallprotectthedignity,privacy, andhumanrightsoftrialsubjects,andshallcomplywithapplicablelawsand regulationstocarryoutourresearchactivitiesinaccordancewithhighethical standards. 5.ToRespectIntellectualProperty WerespectboththerightsofourGroupʼsintellectualpropertyandtheintellectual propertyofothers. Weshallnotunlawfullyacquireoruseanyconﬁdentialbusinessinformationorthe proprietaryassetsofothers. 6.ToMaintainInternationalPeaceandSafety Weshallcomplywithexport-andimport-relatedlawsandregulations,andshallnot engageinanytransactionwhichmayimpedethemaintenanceofinternationalpeace andsafety. 7.ToConductProperAccountingandAppropriateTaxPayments Weshallalwaysapplytheappropriateaccountingmeasuresandrecognizethetax obligationssetforthinapplicabletaxlawsandaccountingregulationsand standards. 8.ToRespectHumanRightsandtoImproveOccupationalHealthandSafety WeshallsupporttheUniversalDeclarationofHumanRightsandCoreLabour Standards,andrespectfundamentalhumanrights,andshallnotcommitactssuch asdiscriminationorharassment. Weshallalsocomplywithapplicablelawsandregulationsandendeavortoimprove occupationalhealthandsafety. Further,weshallnotcommitanyunfairlaborpracticesagainstthepersonnelofthe company. 9.ProhibitionofConﬂictsofInterest Weshallnotattempttogainanypersonalproﬁtintheperformanceofourduties, andshallnotmakeanyunauthorizeduseofourGroupʼsassets,goodsor information,norshallweperformpersonalactsthatmaycauseharmtotheGroupʼs businessactivitiesorreputation. 151 10.ToMaintainSoundRelationshipswithSociety Weshallcomplywithapplicablelawsandregulationsrelatedtoanti-briberystatutes andcomplystrictlywithapplicablelawsregardingmakingpoliticaldonations.The companyshallnotbeintimidatedbyantisocialactivities,behaviorandgroups,nor maintainanyrelationshipwiththem. 11.ToPreservetheGlobalEnvironment Weshallcomplywithenvironment-relatedlawsandregulations,andrespectthe environmentthroughoutourbusinessactivities,basedonapplicablelawsand internationalstandards,inanendeavortopreserveandimprovetheglobal environment. RevisedMay2017 ClickhereforthefulltextoftheSysmexGroupGlobalComplianceCode. Third-PartyEvaluationsofGroupStructuretoPromoteComplianceandIts OperationalStatus Weconﬁrmtheappropriatenessofourcompliance-relatedinitiativesandregulationswith respecttosocialconditionsandvariouslawsandregulations,revisingourcontentas needed.Inﬁscal2015,weconductedanexternalassessmentonourstructuretopromote complianceandthestatusofitsoperation,intheaimofreinforcingthestructurefor promotingGroupcompliance. Basedontheseresults,inﬁscal2016weimprovedandenhancedourinternalreporting system,mainlyatSysmexGroupcompaniesoverseas.Goingforward,wewillcontinueto reinforceouroverallstructureforpromotingcompliance. EstablishmentofanInternalReportingSystem SysmexhasestablishedandoperatesaninternalreportingsysteminJapanandoverseas. Wehavesetup“CampanulaLines”asaninternalreportingsysteminJapan.Throughthis system,weﬁeldconsultationsaboutcompliance-relatedproblemsandseektoresolvethem quickly.“CampanulaLines”allowouremployeestoseekconsultationsandﬁlereportsvia telephone,postalmailore-mailthroughtwolines(in-houseandexternal).Anyinformation receivedishandledanonymouslytoprotectthoseprovidingtheinformationfromany adversereactions.Inﬁscal2016,weﬁelded13consultations.Weconductedfactual inquiriesforconsultationsanddealtwitheachofthemappropriately. The“CampanulaLines”InternalReportingSystem 152 The“CampanulaLines”InternalReportingSystem ComplianceEducation ContinuouslyProvidingEducationonCompliance CompliancemanagersareinplaceateachGroupcompany,andSysmexprovides complianceeducationforallemployees.Inadditiontoeducatingeachemployeeaboutthe GroupʼsperspectivesoncomplianceandtheSysmexGlobalComplianceCode,weconduct trainingformanagersande-learningonspeciﬁcindividualthemes,therebyinstilling thoroughcomplianceawareness. MainComplianceEducationinFiscal2016(Japan) ConductedcompliancetrainingfornewemployeesenteringSysmex Conductedcompliancetrainingforallsectionnewlyappointedmanagers ConductedcompliancetrainingfornewlyappointedexecutivesatSysmexCNA Conductede-learningatGroupcompaniesrelatedtobriberypreventionlaws Conductede-learningatGroupcompaniesrelatedtoanti-competitionlaws Conductede-learningontherevisedSysmexPromotionCode ConductedtrainingontheSysmexPromotionCodeforR&Ddivisions ClickhereforinformationontheSysmexPromotionCode. MainComplianceEducationinFiscal2016(Overseas) ConductedtrainingontheSysmexGlobalComplianceCode Conductede-learningrelatedtobriberypreventionlaws Conductede-learningrelatedtoanti-competitionlaws Conductededucationrelatedtosunshinelaws 153 Compliance SecurityExportControl Structure PuttinginPlaceaManagementStructure TheGlobalComplianceCodeestablishescompliancewithexport-andimport-relatedlaws andregulationsofeachcountryandregion.Basedonthiscontent,weformulateinternal controlregulationsandregisterforapprovalwiththeregulatoryauthoritiesattheMinistry ofEconomy,TradeandIndustry. WehavealsoestablishedtheSecurityExportControlCommittee,anorganizationthat overseessecuritytrademanagementandreportsdirectlytothepresident,whichconducts managementandoperationstopreventillegalexports.Wehavealsoputinplacemanagers andpeopleinchargeofsecuritytrademanagementatregionalheadquartersoverseas, therebyestablishingaglobalstructure. Initiatives EnsuringThoroughManagementandPromotingEﬃciency RecentyearshaveseenanincreaseinthenumberofopportunitiesforSysmex Corporationtoexportproductsbetweenitsoverseaslocations,presentingtheneedto reformandsystematizeourprocessesandrespondtoincreasinglycomplexlogisticsin ordertoensurethoroughtrademanagementandpromoteeﬃciency. Inﬁscal2016,weintroducedanelectronicapprovalsystemasacatch-allregulatorycheck (customerconﬁrmation).Throughthissystem,combinedwiththeclassiﬁcationsystem (conﬁrmingregulateditems)weputinplaceinﬁscal2015,wehavecompletedthe introductionofmutualsystemsforclassiﬁcationandcatch-allregulatorychecksasbasic securitytrademanagementprocesses. 154 ConductingOngoingEducation Onceeachyear,SysmexCorporationconductse-learning onthefundamentalsofsecuritytrademanagementforall employees.Wealsoholdworkshopsontherecentglobal situationandregulatorysystems,brieﬁngsessionsonnewly introducedsystemsandoﬀervariousothertypesof educationonanongoingbasistoincreaseawarenessof securitytrademanagement. Training  155 Compliance IntellectualPropertyManagement PolicyonRespectforIntellectualProperty Sysmexaccordsthird-partyintellectualpropertyrightsthesamelevelofrespectasitdoes itsown.Asstatedinitem“5.ToRespectIntellectualProperty”oftheSysmexGlobal GovernanceCode,wewillnotunlawfullyacquireorutilizeanyconﬁdentialbusiness informationortheproprietaryassetsofothers.Wepromoteathoroughunderstandingof theserulesforcompliancebyallexecutivesandemployeesthroughouttheGroup. ClickherefortheSysmexGroupGlobalComplianceCode. Structures Whenapplyingforpatentstoprotectourownintellectualpropertyandrespondingtothird parties'intellectualpropertyrights,membersoftheintellectualproperty,R&Dandbusiness planningdepartmentsconductanddiscusspatentreviewsforeachnewproduct developmentproject.Throughtheseactivities,weconﬁrmourabilitytosecureproprietary rightsthatneedtobeprotectedandcheckthatwearerespondingappropriatelywith respecttothird-partyintellectualpropertyrightsthatneedtoberespected. Initiatives Toensurethatemployeesunderstandtheimportanceofintellectualpropertyactivitiesfor ourR&Dandbusiness,weconductlevel-basedtrainingsforbeginner,intermediate, advancedandseniormanagementonintellectualpropertyforR&Dandbusinessplanning divisions.Inﬁscal2016,approximately200peopleattendedthistraining,raisingawareness ofourintellectualpropertyactivities. 156 Compliance ResearchEthics ResearchEthics ConductingAppropriateR&DActivities Beinginvolvedinclinicalresearchanddevelopmentandhumangenomeandgenetic analysisresearch,SysmexhasadoptedtheEthicsRegulationsonClinicalResearchand DevelopmentandHumanGenomeandGeneticAnalysisResearch,whosebasicpolicies includerespectforhumandignityandthoroughprotectionofpersonalinformation. SysmexhasalsoestablishedaResearchEthicsExaminationCommittee,whichincludes outsidememberssuchaslegalandscienceexperts,inordertoreviewresearchcontent. Thelistofcommitteemembersandexaminationresultsaredisclosedonourwebsite,thus ensuringtransparency.Inrelationtoanimaltestingandrecombinantgenetictesting,we havealsosetuptheTestingControlCommitteetodeliberateonwhethertestingplans satisfyrelatedlegislation. ClickhereforinformationontheactivitiesoftheResearchEthicsExaminationCommittee. ConsiderationforAnimalExperiments SysmexGroupGlobalComplianceCode(Excerpt) 4-4Animalexperiments Whenconductinganimalexperiments,weshallcomplywithapplicablelawsand regulationsrelatedtoanimalprotection,andweshalllimitsuchexperimentstoa minimumbystudyingtheuseofalternativemethods.Whenanimalexperimentsare necessary,weshalltakeallreasonablestepstominimizetheanimalsʼpain. Item“4.4Animalexperiments”oftheGlobalComplianceCodestatesthatwhenconducting animalexperiments,weshallcomplywithapplicablelawsandregulationsrelatedtoanimal protection,andweshalllimitsuchexperimentstoaminimumbystudyingtheuseof alternativemethods.Whenanimalexperimentsarenecessary,weshalltakeallreasonable stepstominimizetheanimalsʼpain.Animalexperimentsareperformedinaccordancewith internaloperationalstandards,whichareinconformancewithpublicizedanimalexperiment guidelines.Weconformwiththefollowingguidelines. 157 ActonWelfareandManagementofAnimals StandardsRelatingtotheCareandManagementofLaboratoryAnimalsandReliefof Pain FundamentalGuidelinesforProperConductofAnimalExperimentandRelatedActivities inAcademicResearchInstitutions GuidelinesforProperConductofAnimalExperiments 158 Compliance Anti-Corruption Anti-CorruptionPolicy SysmexGroupGlobalComplianceCode(Excerpt) 10.ToMaintainSoundRelationshipswithSociety Weshallcomplywithapplicablelawsandregulationsrelatedtoanti-bribery statutesandcomplystrictlywithapplicablelawsregardingmakingpolitical donations.Thecompanyshallnotbeintimidatedbyantisocialactivities,behavior andgroups,normaintainanyrelationshipwiththem. 10-1Prohibitionofbriberyandexcessiveentertainment Ingivingoracceptingentertainmentorgifts,weshalllimitsuchactivitiestothe scopeofsociallyacceptedpracticesandcomplywithapplicableanti-briberyand otherlawsandregulations. 10-2Prohibitionofinappropriatepoliticaldonations Whenmakingpoliticaldonationstopoliticiansorpoliticalbodies,all Oﬃcers/Employeesshallcomplywithapplicablelawsandregulations.Further,no Oﬃcer/Employeemaymakeapoliticaldonationinanticipationofanybeneﬁtor quidproquo,includingtheacquisitionormaintenanceofabusinessopportunityor anopportunitytoaccessunpublicizedinformation. SysmexPromotionCode Item“2.PromotingFairDealingandFreeCompetition”oftheSysmexGroupGlobal ComplianceCodesetsforthourcodeofethicsformarketingaspartofourglobal promotionactivities.Furthermore,wehaveformulatedtheSysmexPromotionCode,which establishesmoredetailedandspeciﬁcguidelinesforactivitiesinJapan.Inﬁscal2016,we establisheddetailedcorebehaviorsrelatedtoappropriateclinicalresearchinlinewith voluntaryindustrystandards. 159 CreatingRegulationsandConductingTrainingonBriberyPrevention Sysmexisstrivingtopreventcorruptionbasedonthe10thprincipleoftheGlobal Compact,that Businessesshouldworkagainstcorruptioninallitsforms,including extortionandbribery. WehavepreparedapracticalguidethatcoversapplicablelawsnotonlyinJapan,butalso intheUnitedStates,theUnitedKingdom,Chinaandothermajorcountries,andusethis guideinuniversalawarenessactivities.Themomentumofeﬀortstoeradicatecorruptionis gatheringpacethroughouttheworld,andvariouscountriesareenactinglawsandstepping upenforcementonthepreventionofbribery.Againstthisbackdrop,inApril2016Sysmex formulatedGlobalAnti-BriberyRegulations,whichapplytoallGroupcompanies.InApril 2017,wealsoformulatedGroupAnti-BriberyRegulationstargetingGroupcompaniesin Japan.Theseregulationscoversuchtopicsasbanneditems,duediligenceand managementsystems. Inﬁscal2016,weconductededucationonbriberypreventiontargetingallSysmexGroup employees. TransparencyinRelationshipswithMedicalInstitutions Introduction Sysmex,withitsGroupcorporatemissionof Shapingtheadvancementofhealthcare, conductsbusinessactivitieswiththeaimofprovidingreassurancetoitsvarious stakeholders,includingcustomers.Aspartofthisobjective,ateverystageofour operations̶fromresearchanddevelopmenttomanufacturing,salesandafter-sales support̶weareincreasingthenumberofopportunitiesforcollaborationwithmedical institutionsandmedicalprofessionals.Webelievethatmaintainingastrongsenseofethics aswegoabouttheseactivitiesisimportantinsecuringbroadersocietyʼsunderstandingof usasacompany. ResponsesinJapan In2012,theJapanAssociationofClinicalReagentsIndustriesformulatedguidelinesfor ensuringthetransparencyofrelationshipsbetweencorporateactivitiesandmedical institutions.Concurringwiththespiritoftheseguidelines,SysmexCorporationandSysmex InternationalReagentsdiscloseinformationaboutfundingtheyprovidetomedical institutions. DisclosureMethod 160 DisclosureMethod Wediscloserelevantinformationonourwebsiteeveryﬁscalyear. TargetofDisclosure Thisinformationisbasedonthe GuidelinesonTransparencyofRelationshipsbetween CorporateActivitiesandMedicalInstitutions establishedbytheJapanAssociationof ClinicalReagentsIndustries. ClickhereforinformationonJapanAssociationofClinicalReagentsIndustries“Guidelines onTransparencyofRelationshipsbetweenCorporateActivitiesandMedicalInstitutions” (Japaneseonly)(PDF/1.07MB) ClickhereforFundingdetails ResponsesintheUSandFrance SunshineActshavebeenenactedintheUSandFrance.Wereportrelevantpaymentsor transfersofvaluetotheUSandFrenchgovernmentsregularly. DisclosureMethod WediscloserelevantinformationontheUSandFrenchgovernmentsʼwebsiteeveryyear* *Wealsodiscloseitonourwebsite. ClickhereforFundingdetails TargetofDisclosure US Relevantpaymentsortransfersofvalueto,orresearchwith,thefollowingrecipients: -RegisteredUSphysicians -TeachinghospitalsintheUS France Relevantpaymentsortransfersofvalueto,oragreementswith,thefollowingrecipients: -Physicians,medicalprofessionalsandmedicalstudentsinFrance -Healthinstitutions(educationalinstitutionsormedicalcompanies)inFrance 161 Compliance TaxStrategy TaxTransparency AppropriateTaxPaymentsandDisclosure SysmexGroupGlobalComplianceCode(Excerpt) 7.ToConductProperAccountingandAppropriateTaxPayments Weshallalwaysapplytheappropriateaccountingmeasuresandrecognizethetax obligationssetforthinapplicabletaxlawsandaccountingregulationsand standards. 7-1Appropriatetaxreturnprocedures Weshallcomplywithtaxlawsandregulationsapplicabletojurisdictionsboth domesticandforeign,aswellasinternationalstandardssuchastheOECD Guidelines. 7-2Properaccountingprocedures Weshallcomplywithglobal,regionalandlocaltaxlaws,externalaccounting standards,andinternalaccountingproceduresrelatedtoaccountingentriesof transactionssuchassalesandexpenditures.Further,weshallmaintainaccurate andcompleterecordsofallslips,invoices,receipts,books,records,andother documentsmaterialtoﬁnancialtransactions. 7-3Preparationoffairandtransparentﬁnancialstatements Weshallprepareanddistributeﬁnancialstatementsthatfairlyandaccurately reﬂecttheﬁnancialperformanceofthecompany,andfullycomplywith InternationalFinancialReportingStandards,applicablelaws,regulationsand acceptedaccountingstandards. 162 Sysmexhasestablisheditem“7.ToconductProperAccountingandAppropriateTax Payments”intheSysmexGroupGlobalComplianceCodetoheightentaxtransparency. Furthermore,inlinewiththeinternationalconsensusweemployOECDguidelineswhen pricinginternaltransactionsamongGroupcompaniesoverseas. WediscloseGrouppaymentsofcorporateandothertaxesinﬁnancialandotherreports,as wellasthereasonsfordiﬀerenceswitheﬀectivestatutorytaxrates. TaxPayments Seeourintegratedreportforinformationontaxpayments. 163 Compliance PromotingAccountability CoreBehaviors Ourshareholderscanrestassuredthatwewillcontinuetoimprovethesoundnessand transparencyofourmanagementpolicies,whilepromotinginformationdisclosureand closecommunications.Wecommitourselvestoaconsistentyetinnovativestyleof management,inordertoachievesustainablegrowthandincreasedshareholdervalue. BasicPolicyonAccountability ThebasicpolicyofSysmexinIRactivitiesistodisclosecorporateinformationon performance,ﬁnancialposition,forecastofthefutureandmanagementstrategiesinafair, prompt,accurateandeasy-to-understandmanner,toensureaccountabilitytoshareholders andotherinvestorsandgainproperunderstandingaboutmanagementandbusiness activities. InformationDisclosure GeneralMeetingandInformalMeetingsforShareholders Valuingopportunitiesfordirectdialoguewithour shareholders,Sysmexmakesaneﬀorttoencouragethe participationofasmanyshareholdersaspossibleatthe GeneralMeetingofShareholders.Afterthegeneral meeting,weholdinformalmeetingstopromoteinteraction withshareholders.Inﬁscal2016,too,afterusingpanelsto explainourR&Dtopics,socialcontributioninitiatives,sports activitiesandthird-partyevaluationsofSysmex,we Informalmeetingforshareholders answeredopinionsandquestionsfromtheshareholders. Weaccommodateshareholderswhoareunabletoattendonthedaybyenablingthemto exercisetheirvotingrightsinwritingorovertheInternet.Furthermore,wecontributeto thereadabilityofconvocationandresolutionnotices.WealsoprepareEnglish-language 164 versionsforoverseasshareholders,printcolorconvocationnoticesandpostthesame informationonourcorporatewebsite. InSeptember2016,wehostedtheIRDay2016inOkuikeattheGlobalCommunication Center,ourtrainingcenterinthecityofAshiya,HyogoPrefecture,holdinganIReventfor 40institutionalinvestorsandanalysts.Thiseventenabledustogivefullerexplanationsthat weareabletoprovidethoroughtypicalIRinterviewsandbusinessresultspresentations. Weexplainedandrespondedtoquestionsonsuchtopicsasouruniquecorporateculture, theinvisiblevaluegeneratedbyourhumanresourcesandthebusinessstrategyfor personalizedmedicine,whichwearefocusingon.Theeventhelpedtodeepen understandingaboutSysmexʼsgrowthvisionfromamedium-tolong-termperspective.As partoftheeventprogram,weheldameetinginwhichparticipantsandSysmexexecutives exchangedinformationthroughdirectdialogue.Commentsinaquestionnairecompleted aftertheeventindicatedthatparticipantshadfoundtheexchangeofopinionsmeaningful. Goingforward,weplantocontinueengaginginIRactivitiesaimedatenhancingcorporate valuethroughdialoguewithshareholders,institutionalinvestorsandanalysts. ClickhereforIRinformation FurtherEnhancingInformationDisclosure Sysmexmakesitaruletodiscloseanyinformationthatwebelievewillaﬀectinvestment decisionsinlightofourownstandards,aswellastoobserveapplicablelawsand regulationsconcerningsecuritiestradingandtheRulesonTimelyDisclosureofCorporate InformationbytheIssuerofListedSecurityandtheLikeestablishedbystockexchanges. Inadditiontobiannualbrieﬁngsonﬁnancialresults(afteryear-endandafterthesecond quarter),Sysmexholdsconferencecallsfollowingtheannouncementofbusinessresultsin theﬁrstandthirdquartersinaneﬀorttofurtherenhanceinformationdisclosure. 165 RiskManagement RiskManagementStructure RiskManagementStructure PromotingRiskManagementbyEstablishingaDedicatedCommittee Tocontrolgroupwideriskmanagementactivities,SysmexhasestablishedaRisk ManagementCommittee(RMCommittee).Thecommitteeischairedbyariskmanagement oﬃcer,aseniormanagingdirector.Committeemembersincludesomemembersof ManagingBoard,aswellasexecutiveoﬃcers. TheRMCommitteeregularlyassessesvariousrisk,suchasbriberyandotheraspectsof compliance,occupationalsafetyandhealth,andaccountingandﬁnance,includingtax payments.ThecommitteeidentiﬁesmajorrisksaﬀectingtheGroupʼsoperationsand preparescountermeasures. TheRMCommitteemonitorsthestatusofriskmanagementbeingconductedbythe ComplianceCommitteeandotherrelatedcommitteesandindividualdivisionsandaﬃliated companies.Thecommitteealsodeliberatesresponsestoanyemergingrisksthathavea majorimpactonGroupmanagement. Clickhereforinformationoncorporategovernance. Clickhereforinformationonenvironmentalriskassessments. 166 RiskManagement DisasterResponse Structure CreationofaStructureforRespondingSwiftlyinTimesofEmergency Sysmexformulatesbusinesscontinuityplans(BCPs)foritsmanufacturing,procurement andotherfunctionstoensureitcanfulﬁllitscorporateresponsibilitiesandsupplyproducts andservicesinastablemannerintheeventofadisasterorothercrisis.OurBCPsidentify productstobegivenprovisionprioritysothatourinstrumentscancontinuetofunctionin astablemannerathealthcareinstitutionsevenincrisissituations.Wehavealsoprepared disaster-responseregulationsandmanuals,includingbasicdisaster-responseregulations, puttinginplacesystemsthatenableustorespondswiftlyinemergencies.Duringthe earthquakesthatoccurredinKumamotoprefecturesinApril2016,wesetupanactual crisisresponseheadquartersbasedonthesemanuals,enablingustorespondlogistically andgetinstrumentsbackintooperation. WehaveintroducedsafetyconﬁrmationtoolsatGroupcompaniesinJapanasameansof emergencycommunication.Thissystemallowsustoquicklydeterminethesafetyof membersacrosstheGroup.SysmexhasalsoinstalledwirelessdigitalequipmentatGroup businessoﬃcesinJapan,puttinginplaceasystemforcommunicatingintheeventofa communicationblackout.Inﬁscal2016,weconductede-learningondisasterprevention andresponse,BCPawarenesseducation,aswellassafetyconﬁrmationtrainingandother initialresponse-relatedsimulationtraining,toaugmentBCPeﬀectiveness. ThegroupwidebackboneITsystemthatSysmexoperatesislocatedatexternal,disasterresistantdatacenters.Inaddition,wecreatedabackupstructuresothatwecanquickly switchtoabackupsystemintheeventthatdisasterrendersourregularsystem inoperable. Clickherefordetailsonresponseintimesofdisaster(BCP). Clickhereforinformationaboutsupportfordisasterareas. 167 RiskManagement InformationSecurity Training ConductingOngoingTrainingtoIncreaseAwarenessandEnsureRulesAre Entrenched Sysmexhandlesdataaboutitscustomers,aswellasontheentitieswithwhichit collaboratesonR&Dandothertesting.Werecognizetheimportanceofupholding informationsuchasthis,aswellasofotherimportantcorporatesecrets,andviewtheleak ofsuchcorporatesecretsasanimportantriskfortheGroup.Accordingly,wehaveinplace structurestopreventthisriskfrommaterializing. Toclarifyourpoliciesonensuringinformationsafetyandsecurity,inﬁscal2016we formulatedconsistentaglobalregulationforinformationsecurityforallGroupcompanies, reinforcingorganizationalcountermeasurestoinformationleaksandcyberthreats.Wealso formulatedaglobalregulationformanagingcorporatesecrecytoapplyconsistentlytoall Groupcompanies.Weheldgrouptrainingonthemanagementofcorporatesecretsfor executivesofallaﬃliatedcompaniesinJapan.Alsoweconductede-learningrelatedtothe managementofcorporatesecretsforallmembersoftheSysmexGroupinJapan. 168 Sustainability ExternalEvaluation IncorporationinSustainabilityandOtherIndices SelectionforGlobalSustainabilityIndexes Agrowingnumberofinvestorsareevaluatingcompaniesʼsustainabilitynotonlyfroma ﬁnancialperspective,butalsofromthenon-ﬁnancial,environment,societyandgovernance (ESG)perspective,intheaimofresponsibleinvestingfromalong-termviewpoint.Around theworld,anumberofsustainabilityindexesareusedtobenchmarkresponsible investment.Beingahighlysustainablecompany,Sysmexhasbeenselectedfornumerous sustainabilityindexes. DowJonesSustainabilityWorldIndex*1(Selectedfortheﬁrsttimeinﬁscal2016) DowJonesSustainabilityAsiaPaciﬁcIndex*1(fromﬁscal2012) FTSE4GoodIndex*2(fromﬁscal2008) FTSEBlossomJapanIndex*3(fromﬁscal2017) MSCIGlobalSustainabilityIndex*4(fromﬁscal2011) MSCIGlobalSociallyResponsibleIndexes*4(fromﬁscal2013) MCSIJapanESGSelectLeadersIndex*5(fromﬁscal2017) MSCIJapanEmpoweringWomenIndex*6(WIN)(fromﬁscal2017) EthibelExcellence*7(fromﬁscal2011) EthibelPioneer*7(fromﬁscal2014) EthibelSustainabilityIndex(ESI)*8(fromﬁscal2015) Global100(100mostsustainablecompaniesintheworld)*9(Thirdtimeinﬁscal2016) *1AnESGinvestmentindexdevelopedthoughcollaborationbetweenS&PDowJonesIndicesoftheUnitedStates andRobecoSAMofSwitzerland.Thisindexevaluatescorporatesustainabilitythroughtheperspectivesofthe economy,theenvironmentandsociety,andselectscompaniesthatareexpectedtoachievelong-termsustainable growthbasedoncomprehensiveandadvancedinitiatives.TheWorldIndextargetstheworldʼslistedcompanies, whiletheAsiaPaciﬁcIndextargetslistedcompaniesintheAsia-Paciﬁcregion. *2AnESGinvestmentindexannouncedbyFTSERussel,oftheLondonStockExchangeGroupoftheUnited Kingdom.Excellentcompaniesareselected,basedonanevaluationofESG(environment,society,governance) informationdisclosedtothegeneralpublicbytheworldʼsleadingcompanies. *3FTSERusselloftheUnitedKingdomselectsJapanesecompaniesbasedonsuperiorresponseonESG (environment,society,governance)matters.TheindexusesFTSE4Goodstandardsderivedfrominternational standards,suchastheUnitedNationsʼSustainableDevelopmentGoals(SDGs). *4AnESGinvestmentindexdevelopedbyMCSIInc.(MorganStanleyCapitalInternational),oftheU.S.Morgan StanleyGroup.CompaniesareselectedbasedonanevaluationthatincludesESGissuesconsideredimportantby variousindicesbasedontheindustrycharacteristicsofthecompaniesittargets. 169 *5AnESGinvestmentindexofMSCIoftheUnitedStates.TheindexselectscompanieswithrelativelyhighESG ratingsinindividualsectorsfromamongthetop500Japanesestocksbymarketcapitalization. *6AnESGinvestmentindexbyMSCIoftheUnitedStates.Theindexselectscompaniesinvarioussectorsthatexcel ingenderdiversityfromamongthetop500Japanesestocksbymarketcapitalization. *7AnindexdevelopedbyForumEthibel,aBelgiannon-proﬁtorganization.Companiesareselectedthatexhibithigh performancefromtheperspectiveofcorporatesocialresponsibility.Theindexincludestwosub-indices,Pioneer andExcellence.CompaniesinthePioneerindexareselectedfromamongthoseintheExcellenceindexasbeing particularlyexcellent. *8ThisindexcomprisescompaniesselectedforEthibelExcellence,basedonsuchlimitingconditionsasﬂoating marketcapitalization. *9The100MostSustainableCompaniesintheWorld,selectedbyCorporateKnightsofCanada.Theselectionwas announcedduringtheWorldEconomicForum,heldinDavos,Switzerland. RecognitionandCommendationbyThirdParties Fromﬁscal2014to2016 2017 February RecognizedbytheMinistryofEconomy,TradeandIndustryforexcellencein healthmanagementintheﬁrstyearof“companiesthatexcelinhealth management”(White500) February ReceivetheAwardforExcellenceatthe20thEnvironmentalCommunication Awards(JuryAwards)fortheSysmexSustainabilityReport2016 January Selectedforthe2017Global100(100mostsustainablecompaniesinthe world),thethirdtime 2016 170 2016 November Attheﬁscal2016KinkiLocalCommendationforInventions,receivedthe MinisterofEducation,Culture,Sports,ScienceandTechnologyPrizeforone inventionandtheEncouragementPrizeforInventionsforthreeinventions November SysmexAsiaPaciﬁcandSysmexMalaysiaselectedforHRAsiaBest CompaniestoWorkforinAsia2016 October Ranked27thof462CompaniesintheNikkeirankingof“Companiesthat MotivatePeople” September Receivedthehighestranking,level3,asan“Eruboshi”company,basedon theActonthePromotionofWomenʼsParticipationandAdvancementinthe Workplace September SelectedfortheﬁrsttimeforinclusionintheDowJonesSustainabilityWorld Index September Sysmexʼsautomatedbloodcoagulationanalyzercertiﬁedunderthe5th HeritageProgramofLegacyAnalyticalInstruments/ScientiﬁcInstruments September RankedﬁfthinForbesJapanʼs“ManagersthatMoveJapan”and28thonthe Forbes2016ListoftheWorldʼsMostInnovativeCompanies August Wonthe14thAnnualMeritAwardfromtheMinisterofEconomy,Tradeand IndustryforCollaborativeAchievementBetweenIndustry,Academiaand Governmentfortheworldʼsﬁrstpracticalrealizationofasystemfor diagnosinghepaticﬁbrosisusingglycosylation June SysmexInternationalReagentsʼOnoFactoryreceivedtheCityofOno FireﬁghtingSocietyExcellentBusinessSiteAward May ReceivedtheACE-Award,sponsoredbyConﬁrmit(VoiceofCustomerand ContactCenterdivisions)(SysmexAmerica) March SelectedasaGreatPlacetoWork(SysmexEurope) March SelectedfortheCompaniesThatCareHonorRoll*2016(SysmexAmerica) *CompaniesThatCareHonorRoll:Acorporaterankingthatdesignatescompaniesthatcontribute tothewelfareofemployees,theirfamiliesandlocalcommunity,basedonasurveyconductedby theCenterforCompaniesThatCare,anNPO. 2015 December ReceivedanawardasamodelforformulatingasystemforGood DistributionPractice(GDP)*intheinvitrodiagnostics(IVD)industrythat TaiwanʼsFDAismovingintolaw. *Amodelforverifyingthatthequality(eﬀectiveness,safety)ofpharmaceuticalsthatare produced,distributedandstoredbymanufacturingcompaniesuptocustomers,aswellasfor preventingtheftandaccidents,andensuringagainstcounterfeitdrugsandalteredproducts beingmixedintothesupplyroute. November ReceivedtheJapanInvestorRelationsAssociationʼs20thIRGrandPrix Award 171 October NamedbytheSecuritiesAnalystsAssociationofJapanforExcellencein CorporateDisclosureandselectedforexcellenceindisclosuretoindividual investors October AttheKinkiLocalCommendationforInventions,receivedthe EncouragementPrizeoftheCommissionerofJapanPatentOﬃceforone inventionandtheEncouragementPrizeforInventionforthreeinventions October i-SquarereceivedtheLandscapeCommunityPlanningAwardintheDesign DivisionfromthecityofKakogawa October Ranked24thof454CompaniesintheoverallNikkeirankingof Companies thatMotivatePeople August SysmexAnnualReport2014wontheGoldAwardinthehealthcare (instruments)categoryofthe2014VisionAwardsintheUnitedStates July SelectedforHRAsiaBestCompaniestoWorkforinAsia2015(SysmexAsia Paciﬁc) June ReceivedFiscal2015HyogoPrefectureInventionAwardsfor“Hemostasis Analyzer”and“WorkingProcedureDisplayMethodandWorkingProcedure DisplaySystem” May ReceivedtheACE-Award,sponsoredbyConﬁrmit(SysmexAmerica) April NamedaGreatPlacetoWorkBrazil(SysmexBrazil) March ReceivedtheAwardforExcellenceatthe18thEnvironmental CommunicationAwardsfortheSysmexSustainabilityReport2014 March RankedﬁrstintheToyoKeizairankingofthetop300 ExcellentCompanies forNewEmployees March Selectedforthe CompaniesThatCareHonorRoll2015 (SysmexAmerica) 2014 December Receivedanoverallratingof73rdof538companiesintheNICESrankingby NikkeiInc. October Receivedthe MinisterofEducation,Culture,Sports,ScienceandTechnology EncouragementPrizeforInvention foroneinventionand The EncouragementPrizeforInvention forthreeotherinventions October Ranked30thof439CompaniesintheoverallNikkeirankingof Companies thatMotivatePeople October SelectedbytheSecuritiesAnalystsAssociationofJapanfor Excellencein DisclosuretoIndividualInvestors August CC-1001automatedhematologyanalyzercertiﬁedunderthe 3rdHeritage ProgramofLegacyAnalyticalInstruments/ScientiﬁcInstruments July ReceivedanawardfromthecityofKobefor eﬀortstopromotecitizensʼ healthandcontributetoanimprovedawarenessofnutrition 172 June ReceivedFiscal2014HyogoPrefectureInventionAwardsforthe Direct NucleicAcidAmpliﬁcationMethod andthe LiquidSuctionSupervision Method May ReceivedtheACE-Award,sponsoredbyConﬁrmit(SysmexAmerica) April ReceivedtheFiscal2014CommendationforScienceandTechnology (DevelopmentCategory)bytheMinisterofEducation,Culture,Sports, ScienceandTechnologyfortheDevelopmentofaMethodforAnalyzing FormedElementsinUrine April BaddhiFactorywinslocalenvironmentalaward(SysmexIndia) March SelectedfortheCompaniesThatCareHonorRoll2014(SysmexAmerica) March NamedaGreatPlacetoWork,ranking50thoutof100companies(Sysmex Europe) 173 174 Mid-Term CSR Plan (Fiscal 2016 Results) Category Mid-Term CSR Issues Measures Fiscal Plans • Evaluate and revised the global risk management Deploy a global risk management system system Reinforcement of our global risk management • Continue responding to significant Group risks structure Strengthen measures to counter significant (information leaks, fair trade, business continuity) Group risks • Through risk assessments, identify and promote countermeasures for new significant risks Organizational Governance Ensure thorough compliance and expand • Expand scope of contract including compliance application provisions Reinforcement of the compliance system • Draft and implement improvement measures Reinforce the global compliance structure based on results of fiscal 2015 evaluations by external specialists • Build working environment where more women feel satisfied with their work and promote their Promote an active role for women active participation (conduct trials of working-at-home system, introduce measures to support for consideration of career plan, etc.) Cultivation and promotion of diverse human resources • Continue to recruit non-Japanese human resources Recruit diverse global human resources (maintain fiscal 2015 hiring ratio) Human Rights / Labor Practices • Continue implementing programs to cultivate Promote global talent management global human resources Maintenance or improvement of • Draft and implement measures based on results of an attractive and pleasant Increase employee satisfaction Corporate Culture Survey working environment Promote environmentally friendly • Continue promoting reductions in greenhouse gas products and services emissions of products and services Environmental impact reduction of products, services and Environment operational activities (Including achieving the Group target values outlined in Sysmex Eco-Vision ) Reduce the environmental impact of • Continue reducing energy, waste and water business activities resource use Fair Operating Promotion of CSR • Conduct business partner survey on conflict Continue to promote CSR procurement minerals Practices procurement • Conduct global integrated customer satisfaction Consumer Improvement of Create a global customer satisfaction survey in China Issues customer satisfaction evaluation system • Respond based on the results of customer satisfaction surveys conducted in fiscal 2015 Community Conduct corporate citizenship activities • Continue to conduct corporate citizenship activities Involvement Promotion of corporate based on the Policy on Corporate Citizenship • Increase the number of employee volunteers by and citizenship activities Activities and Philanthropy promoting a Social Contribution Point Program Development Note: Of the mid-term CSR issues, the target scope for “Reinforcement of our global risk management structure,” “Reinforcement of the compliance system,” “Environmental impact reduction of products, services and operational activities” and “Improvement of customer satisfaction” is Sysmex Corporation and the Sysmex Group in Japan and overseas. The target scope of the other mid-term CSR issues is Sysmex Corporation and the Sysmex Group in Japan. 175 Fiscal Results Progress* Corresponding Categories and Aspects of G * • Determined risk management issues at companies in Japan and overseas regional headquarters and proposed improvements • Conducted group training for people responsible for risk management and ○ personnel in charge of these activities • Formulated a global regulation on information security • Reinforced information security measures and conducted educational and Indirect Economic Impacts awareness activities related to information management Anti-corruption • Conducted education related to anti-competition laws and anti-bribery at ○ companies in Japan and overseas regional headquarters • Conducted risk assessments and finished identifying significant new risks • Increase the number of Group companies adopting agreements with compliance covenants when they close contracts with their business partners ○ (Sysmex Europe, Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Wuxi) Anti-corruption Compliance • Provided multilingual interface for the internal reporting system in the Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society ○ Americas and Asia Pacific • Introduced a tool for assessing legislative trends for Group companies in Japan • Conducted an assessment by outside specialists of the compliance structure • Trialed a working from home system • Conducted diversity management training companywide ○ • Held diversity round tables to encourage dialogue with experienced people Employment • Achieved an 18.5% employment ratio of non-Japanese nationals ○ Training and Education Diversity and Equal Opportunity • Conducted management enhancement training • Commenced systematic English skills training ○ • Continued to conduct overseas training for young and mid-level employees ○ • Based on results of Corporate Culture Survey results, formulated and Employment implemented action plan targeting improvement item • By increasing transportation efficiency, reduced CO2 emissions from transportation by 33% (per unit of non-consolidated sales) against base year; up year on year, however, due to urgent transportation Energy • Promoted making more energy-saving and compact instruments under new △ Emissions Products and Services product development • Continued to augment capabilities to respond remotely and via telephone to Transport service requests (to reduce amount of service involving vehicle dispatch) • Through measures to improve productivity, switch to high-efficiency air conditioning equipment, shift to renewable energy and utilize solar generation, reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 27% (per unit of consolidated sales) Energy against base year △ Water • By revising waste disposal methods, maintained recycling rate (91.8%) Emissions • Performed reverse osmosis of waste water (pure water); however, owing to Effluents and Waste increase in reagent production volumes, volume of water resource use was up 18% (per unit of production) against base year, falling short of target Procurement Practices • Conducted business partner survey on conflict minerals Supplier Environmental Assessment • Performed CSR survey of business partners (target: about 280 existing ○ Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Supplier Human Rights Assessment business partners in Japan) Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society • Completed customer satisfaction survey in China • Based on results of customer satisfaction surveys conducted in fiscal 2015, created systems at each regional overseas headquarters to monitor customer ○ Product and Service Labeling satisfaction levels • Conducted corporate citizenship activities (Sysmex Forest, opening the Minato Ijinkan, Kobe Marathon sponsorship, blood donations, community cleanups, etc.) ○ • Rate of employee participation in Social Contribution Point Program was 32%, Local Communities and program resulted in ¥1.37 million in donations to organizations supporting children in developing countries and patients with childhood cancer and their parents * “Progress” indicates the state of progress toward fiscal 2016 plans (○: according to plan; △: partially not achieved) * Fourth Edition of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 176 Fiscal2016PerformanceData SocialData Customers Category Fiscal2014 Fiscal2015 Fiscal2016 Related Articles Peopleundergoingtrainingat theSysymexCorporation 942 1,031 699 Details MonozukuriTrainingCenter (cumulative) Inquiriesreceivedbythe SysmexCustomerSupport 95,767 95,929 88,909 Details Center Customersatisfactionrating withtheSysmexCustomer 91.6 93.7 98.3 Details SupportCenter*(%) *ResearchbySysymexCorporation Customersatisfactionratingin theUnitedStates* 9.1 9.1 9.2 Details (outof10possiblepoints) *ResearchbySysmexAmerica Customersatisfactionratingin theUnitedStates* 9.18 9.09 9.32 Details (outof10possiblepoints) *ResearchbyIMVServiceTrack Employees(AllﬁguresareresultsforSysymexCorporation) 177 Employees(AllﬁguresareresultsforSysymexCorporation) Category Fiscal2014 Fiscal2015 Fiscal2016 Related Articles Total 61 59 68 Ofwhich,men 40 40 38 New-graduate Details recruits Ofwhich,women 21 19 30 Ofwhich,non12 12 15 Japanese Total 69 70 73 Ofwhich,men 47 50 56 Mid-careerrecruits Ofwhich,women 22 20 17 Details Ofwhich,non1 1 4 Japanese Turnover* *Regularemployees Turnover(people) 42 40 74 only,excludingpeople ­ whohavereachedthe mandatoryretirement Turnover(%) 1.96 1.97 3.22 age Employmentof Numberof 47 50 54 peoplewith people Details disabilities Percentage 1.86 1.82 1.94 Applicants 20 25 22 Reemploymentof People workersafterthe reemployed 20 25 22 Details mandatory retirement Percentage 100 100 100 reemployment Reemploymentof Newregistrants 5 6 5 personnelleaving People 1 1 0 forreasonsof reemployed Details childcareor Percentage nursingcare reemployment 20 17 0 Contract 15 17 7 Promotionto employees Details regularemployees Temporary 4 2 4 178 employees Total 19 19 11 Work-related 0 0 0 deaths Work-related 3 7 3 injuries Frequencyof work-related 0.58 1.27 0.53 injuries Industrialaccidents Details Severityofwork0.00 0.07 0.09 relatedinjuries Totalworkdays 20 386 494 lost Totalactual numberof 5,129,491.25 5,499,593.25 5,641,249.00 workinghours Daysgranted 47,000 49,534 51,667 Paidleave Daystaken 22,255.5 27,605.5 31,305.0 Percentageof 47.4 55.7 60.6 daystaken Peopletakingpre-andpost-maternity 48 39 48 leave Peopletaking Women 41 32 56 childcareleave Men 3 2 3 Details Peopletaking Women 50 50 47 shorterworkhours forchildcare Men 0 0 0 Peopletaking Women 1 1 2 nursingcareleave Men 0 1 0 Percentageof Women(%) 100 100 98 peoplereturning afterchildcare Men(%) 100 100 100 leave Peopletakingaccumulatedpaidleave 26 77 78 179 Peopleonﬂex-timearrangement 1,678 1,742 1,949 ChildrenininTotalduringyear 34 33 32 housedaycare center Atﬁscalyear-end 23 28 26 Training Trainingresults* expenditureper 157,789 179,000 108,000 *Fromﬁscal2013, employee(yen) excludestemporary Trainingtimeper Details employees,part-time employee(hours) 28.2 22.6 19.4 employeesand executives Numberof 22 23 23 trainingprograms Total 124 157 135 Numberofinterns Details accepted Ofwhich,non3 5 1 Japanese Note:Someﬁgureshavebeenrevisedfromonesdisclosedbefore,owingtochangesindeﬁnition.  Totals (1)Employees(people) 2,083 (2)Averageage(yearsold) 40.5 (3)Averageyearsofemployment(years) 11.6 (4)Averageannualsalary(thousandsofyen) 7,853 Notes:Dataisdisclosedinourannualﬁnancialreport(actualﬁguresasofMarch31,2017). Allﬁguresarecalculatedbasedonregularemployeesandemployeesonloanexceptexecutives,secondee workingatothercompanies,contractemployeesandtemporaryemployees. Theaverageannualsalaryamountincludeswagesoutsidebasicwages,aswellasbonuses. Employees(AllﬁguresareresultsforSysymex) Category Fiscal2014 Fiscal2015 Fiscal2016 Related Articles Sysymex Femalemanagers Corporation 6.5 8.3 8.8 (%) (%) Details (Directorlevelor above) Overall 11.6 14.3 16.2 Group(%) 180 Category Fiscal2016 Men(%) 59.8 Regularemployees,employees Japan onloan,andcontract Women(%) 40.2 employees(exceptexecutives andtemporaryemployees） Men(%) 62.4 Percentage Americas Women(%) 37.6 ofmenand womenin Men(%) 55.7 EMEA* Regularemployees,employees theGroup Women(%) 44.3 onloan,contractemployees Men(%) 65.2 andexecutives China Women(%) 34.8 Men(%) 59.9 AsiaPaciﬁc Women(%) 40.1 Category Fiscal2016 Men 2,079 Regularemployees,employees Japan onloan,andcontract Women 1,398 employees(exceptexecutives andtemporaryemployees） Men 670 Americas Numberof Women 404 theGroup Men 1,214 employees EMEA* Regularemployees,employees Women 966 onloan,contractemployees Men 359 andexecutives China Women 192 Men 388 AsiaPaciﬁc Women 260 *Europe,theMiddleEastandAfrica CorporateCitizenshipActivities 181 CorporateCitizenshipActivities Category Fiscal2016 Expendituresforcorporatecitizenshipactivities About290,000,000 (SysymexCorporation,yen) Category Fiscal2014-2015 DonationstotheWorldCancerResearchFund (GroupcompaniesinEMEA*,yen) About31,500,000 *Europe,theMiddleEastandAfrica Category Fiscal2014-2016 RelatedArticles Donationstocancer-relatedorganizations About175,000 Details (SysmexAmerica,USdollars) 182 Fiscal2016PerformanceData EnvironmentalData MaterialBalance INPUT   Fiscal2014 Fiscal2015 Fiscal2016 Electricityuse(thousands 35,988 37,476 37,403 kwh) Citygas(thousandsm³) 852 1,544 1,474 LPG(t) 15.1 19.4 21.1 LNG(m³) 0 0 0 Heavyoil(kL) 0 0 0 Kerosene(kL) 70 35 31 Dieseloil(kL) 19 19 21 Gasolinefordomesticﬂeet 778 750 734 (kL) Dieselfordomesticﬂeet 19.7 23.5 25.1 (kL) Wateruse(thousandsm³) 368 391 406 Oﬃcepaper(t) 49 44 42 PRTR（t） 0.15 0.13 0.06 OUTPUT   Fiscal2014 Fiscal2015 Fiscal2016 Greenhousegasemissions frombusinessoﬃces(t21,431 24,035 22,760 CO2) CO2emissionsfrom domesticcompanycars(t1,856 1,802 1,768 CO2) Totalwasteemissions(t) 1,557 1,701 2,106 Recyclingrate(%) 90.4 91.9 91.1 Wastewatervolume 164 192 189 (thousandsm³) PRTR(t) 0 0 0.02 183 MainbusinessoﬃcesinJapan,InstrumentfactoriesinJapan,ReagentfactoriesinJapan, SalesoﬃcesinJapan,OtheroﬃcesinJapan,Mainoverseaslocations,Overseasreagent factories [MainbusinessoﬃcesinJapan]SysmexCorporation(headoﬃce,Technopark,Solution Center) [InstrumentfactoriesinJapan]SysmexCorporation(KakogawaFactory,i-Square),Sysmex Medica,SysmexRA [ReagentfactoriesinJapan]SysmexInternationalReagents(OnoFactory,SeishinFactory) [SalesoﬃcesinJapan]SysmexCorporation 1oﬃce(Tokyo),6branches(Sendai,KitaKanto,Nagoya,Osaka,Hiroshima,Fukuoka),13 salesoﬃces(Sapporo,Morioka,Nagano,Niigata,Chiba,Yokohama(includedinscopefrom ﬁscal2015),Shizuoka,Kanazawa,Kyoto,Kobe,Takamatsu,Okayama,Kagoshima),1service center(MetropolitanAreaServiceCenter),SysmexCNA [OtheroﬃcesinJapan]SysmexCorporation(R&DCenter,ProteinDevelopmentCenter, BMALaboratory,GlobalCommunicationCenter(includedinscopefromﬁscal2015), Soushindormitory(includedinscopefromﬁscal2015)) [Mainoverseaslocations]SysmexEurope,SysmexDeutschland,SysmexAmerica,Sysmex Shanghai,SysmexAsiaPaciﬁc [Overseasreagentfactories]SysmexEurope(ReagentfactoryinGermany),SysmexBrazil, SysmexReagentsAmerica,SysmexIndia,SysmexAsiaPaciﬁc,JinanSysmex,SysmexWuxi MainbusinessoﬃcesinJapan,InstrumentfactoriesinJapan,ReagentfactoriesinJapan, OtheroﬃcesinJapan,Overseasreagentfactories (Referto1) MainbusinessoﬃcesinJapan(excludingheadoﬃce),InstrumentfactoriesinJapan, ReagentfactoriesinJapan,OtheroﬃcesinJapan,Overseasreagentfactories (Referto1) MainbusinessoﬃcesinJapan,InstrumentfactoriesinJapan,ReagentfactoriesinJapan, SalesoﬃcesinJapan,OtheroﬃcesinJapan (Referto1) MainbusinessoﬃcesinJapan,InstrumentfactoriesinJapan,ReagentfactoriesinJapan (Referto1) MainbusinessoﬃcesinJapan,InstrumentfactoriesinJapan,ReagentfactoriesinJapan, SalesoﬃcesinJapan,OtheroﬃcesinJapan,Overseasreagentfactories (Referto1) ResultsfortheSysmexGroupEnvironmentalActionPlan 184 ResultsfortheSysmexGroupEnvironmentalActionPlan (SysmexEco-Vision2020)(Relatedarticlesindicatethe scopeofcalculation.) Category Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Related 2014 2015 2016 Articles CO2emissionsfromlogisticsper unitofnon-consolidatedsales(t4.170 3.794 4.937 Details CO2/¥100million) Greenhousegasemissionsat businessoﬃcesperunitof 7.28 7.26 7.36 Details consolidatedsales(t-CO2/¥100 million) Businessoﬃcerecyclingrate(%) 90.4 89.0 91.8 Details Wateruseatreagentfactories perunitofamountofproduction 21.4 25.9 25.4 Details (m³/thousandboxes) 185 186 Main Indicators and Results Related to Environmental Impact Data Related to the Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan, Eco-Vision 2020 Base Year Aspect Content Unit Scope Fiscal Year Data Product logistics within Japan CO emissions from logistics t-CO Environment consciousness Greenhouse gas Product logistics to emissions overseas locations Sysmex Corporation in product life cycle process Product logistics within t-CO / Unit CO emissions in Japan and to overseas logistics locations million Sysmex Corporation, Unit denominator non-consolidated net sales million Main business offices, instrument factories and reagent factories in Japan City gas, LPG, LNG, Total emissions heavy oil, kerosene, t-CO diesel oil and electricity Greenhouse gas emissions Main overseas locations and reagent factories Environment City gas, LPG, LNG, t-CO / Main business offices, instrument consciousness factories and reagent factories in Total unit emissions heavy oil, kerosene, Japan, as well as main overseas at business diesel oil and electricity million locations and reagent factories offices Unit denominator Consolidated net sales ‐ million Total emissions Main business offices, t instrument factories Waste recycling (including energy recovery) and reagent factories Waste emissions in Japan, as well as overseas reagent Recycling rate for waste factories % (including energy recovery) Reagent factories in Japan – Groundwater Overseas reagent factories – thousands – m Reagent factories in Japan Municipal supply water Overseas reagent factories – Water use Total water usage m /thousand Reagent factories in Total amount used per unit boxes Japan and overseas thousand Unit denominator Boxes manufactured boxes 187 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Population of Coverage Coverage Calculation Method Data Data Data Data Data Ratio No. Ratio CO emissions from logistics from factories to warehouses in Japan and from warehouses to customers in Japan (including branches and sales offices). Calculated as ton-kilometers traveled (amount 1,145.00 1,237.00 1,112.00 1,213.00 1,181.51 − − transported times distance traveled) times CO conversion factor. Conversion factor (source): In accordance with “Common Guidelines for the Method of Calculating CO Emissions in the Logistics Field” CO emissions from logistics (including to overseas customers) from warehouses to ports (airports) in Japan and CO emissions from logistics from Japanese ports (airports) to ports (airports) in overseas 4,528.00 4,251.00 3,971.00 4,222.00 5,682.54 − − regions. Calculated as ton-kilometers traveled (amount transported times distance traveled) times CO conversion factor. Conversion factor (source): In accordance with “Common Guidelines for the Method of Calculating CO Emissions in the Logistics Field” 6.508 5.348 4.170 3.794 4.937 − − 871.71 1,026.17 1,218.94 1,432.43 1,390.40 − − The amount of each type of energy is multiplied by the emission factor and the sum of the amounts is calculated. Conversion factors (sources): (Fossil fuels) CO emission factors for 7,450.00 7,532.00 8,138.00 8,240.00 7,669.30 34.54% 8,217 provided by Osaka Gas. (The same factor is used for overseas business offices.) (Electricity) CO for credits) are based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, using information announced by the power companies that supply individual factories and business offices. The amount of each type of energy is multiplied by the emission factor and the sum of the amounts is calculated. Conversion factors (sources): (Fossil fuels) CO emission factors for 5,106.00 7,199.00 7,980.00 10,130.00 10,719.50 28.32% 8,217 gas provided by Osaka Gas. (The same factor is used for overseas business offices.) GHG Protocol (WBCSD/WRI). 8.63 7.98 7.28 7.26 7.36 62.86% 8,217 1,455.77 1,845.38 2,213.76 2,531.57 2,498.99 − − 962.60 1,056.90 1,341.20 1,502.80 1,347.08 Of waste, the amount reused or used for material recycling or heat 863.50 941.60 1,212.60 1,338.00 1,237.12 recovery (thermal recycling). 39.97% 8,217 Recycling rate (%) = (amount of waste reused + amount of valuable 89.7 89.1 90.4 89.0 91.8 substances sold) ÷ (industrial waste + general waste + amount of 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 24.87% 1,122 The amount of groundwater used. 9.37 8.46 9.25 9.70 12.70 75.13% 1,122 67.89 66.72 66.00 63.00 66.11 24.87% 1,122 The amount of clean water and industrial water used. 161.88 174.02 188.56 216.90 223.41 75.13% 1,122 239.14 249.20 263.81 289.60 302.23 100% 1,122 20.8 22.0 21.4 25.9 25.4 11,489.00 11,305.00 12,327.00 11,177.00 11,905.80 − − Boxes of the Company’s reagents manufactured per year at reagent factories. 188 Data Related to Environmental Performance Aspect Content Unit Scope thousands Electricity (non-renewable) kwh City gas thousands m LPG t Consumption of non-renewable energy LNG t Heavy oil kL Kerosene kL Main business offices, instrument factories, reagent factories, sales offices and other offices Diesel oil kL in Japan, as well as main overseas locations and reagent factories Consumption of thousands Electricity (renewable) renewable energy kwh (*1) Total consumption GJ Gasoline (Company cars) Main business offices, instrument factories, Energy consumption Consumption of other kL reagent factories, sales offices and other non-renewable energy offices in Japan Diesel oil (Company cars) Electricity (non-renewable) thousands kwh/ thousands m / City gas LPG Unit consumption of non-renewable energy LNG Heavy oil Main business offices, instrument factories, reagent factories, sales offices and other Kerosene offices in Japan, as well as major overseas INPUT locations and reagent factories Diesel oil Unit consumption of thousands kwh/ renewable energy Electricity (renewable) (*1) Total unit consumption Unit denominator Consolidated net sales ‐ Non-renewable energy City gas, LPG, LNG, consumption(*1) heavy oil, kerosene, diesel oil and electricity Renewable energy GJ consumption Electricity Main business offices, instrument factories, Reduction in energy reagent factories, sales offices and other consumption offices in Japan, as well as major overseas locations and reagent factories Total consumption Unit consumption of City gas, LPG, LNG, non-renewable energy (*1) heavy oil, kerosene, diesel oil and electricity Unit consumption of Electricity million renewable energy (*1) Total unit consumption 189 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Population of Coverage Coverage Calculation Method Data Data Data Data Data Ratio No. Ratio 27,573.43 31,525.65 35,779.00 37,233.00 37,193.25 1,043.92 1,185.34 851.98 1,543.97 1,473.61 11.65 12.38 15.11 19.39 21.09 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 62.44 67.60 70.17 35.02 30.65 73.42% 8,217 19.04 18.72 18.91 18.84 21.17 81.88 100.46 209.42 243.00 210.01 The amount of each type of energy is multiplied by the emission factor and the sum of the amounts is calculated. Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting 322,405.78 368,227.36 395,042.86 439,653.70 440,124.47 Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) 748.47 794.69 777.51 749.86 733.66 Gasoline consumed by Company cars in Japan. 45.10% 8,217 3.34 11.72 19.68 23.53 25.10 Diesel oil consumed by Company cars in Japan. 18.941 17.084 16.162 14.707 14.883 0.717 0.642 0.385 0.610 0.590 0.008 0.007 0.007 0.008 0.008 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 73.42% 8,217 0.043 0.037 0.032 0.014 0.012 0.013 0.010 0.009 0.007 0.008 0.056 0.054 0.095 0.096 0.084 221.468 199.540 178.449 173.668 176.121 1,455.77 1,845.38 2,213.76 2,531.57 2,498.99 − − (Energy consumed in the current fiscal year) – (energy consumed in the previous fiscal year) ▲ indicates an increase from the previous fiscal year. − ▲ 45,821.51 ▲ 26,815.11 ▲ 44,610.71 ▲ 470.89 Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) (Energy consumed in the current fiscal year) – (energy consumed in the previous fiscal year) ▲ indicates an increase from the previous fiscal year. − ▲ 0.07 ▲ 0.39 ▲ 0.12 0.12 73.42% 8,217 Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) (Energy consumed in the current fiscal year) – (energy consumed in the previous fiscal year) ▲ indicates an increase from the previous fiscal year. − ▲ 45,821.58 ▲ 26,815.50 ▲ 44,610.84 ▲ 470.77 Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) − 21.927 21.091 4.780 ▲ 2.453 ▲ indicates an increase from the previous fiscal year. 73.42% 8,217 − 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 ▲ indicates an increase from the previous fiscal year. − 21.927 21.091 4.780 ▲ 2.453 ▲ indicates an increase from the previous fiscal year. 190 Aspect Content Unit Scope Groundwater Main business offices in Japan (excluding head Municipal supply water thousands m office) and instrument factories, reagent Total amount used factories and other offices in Japan, as well as Water use overseas reagent factories Total amount used per unit m INPUT Unit denominator Consolidated net sales ‐ OA paper use Main business offices, instrument factories and t reagent factories in Japan Main business offices, instrument factories, PRTR input Handling volume t reagent factories, sales offices and other offices in Japan Main business offices, instrument factories, Japan reagent factories, sales offices and other offices in Japan City gas, LPG, LNG, t-CO Greenhouse gas heavy oil, kerosene, emissions Overseas diesel oil Main overseas locations and reagent factories Total emissions Main business offices, instrument factories, reagent factories, sales offices and other offices in Japan, as well as major overseas Total unit emissions t-CO locations and reagent factories Unit denominator Consolidated net sales ‐ Main business offices, instrument factories, Japan reagent factories, sales offices and other offices in Japan t-CO Greenhouse gas Electricity emissions Overseas Main overseas locations and reagent factories OUTPUT Total emissions Main business offices, instrument factories, reagent factories, sales offices and other offices in Japan, as well as major overseas Total unit emissions t-CO locations and reagent factories Unit denominator Consolidated net sales ‐ Product logistics within t-CO Japan CO emissions from logistics Greenhouse gas emissions Product logistics to t-CO Sysmex Corporation overseas locations Unit CO emissions Product logistics within Japan and to overseas t-CO / from logistics locations Sysmex Corporation, Unit denominator non-consolidated net sales 191 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Population of Coverage Coverage Calculation Method Data Data Data Data Data Ratio No. Ratio 48.86 44.47 51.24 50.29 58.30 The amount of groundwater used. 281.68 299.94 316.97 340.80 347.79 The amount of clean water and industrial water used. 330.54 344.40 368.21 391.09 406.09 38.52% 8,217 227.054 186.630 166.329 154.486 162.502 1,455.77 1,845.38 2,213.76 2,531.57 2,498.99 − − 53.14 50.46 48.79 44.48 41.69 34.54% 8,217 PRTR handling volume at business offices in Japan that handle chemical 7.16 7.88 0.15 0.13 0.06 45.10% 8,217 substances. The amount of each type of energy is multiplied by the emission factor and the sum of the amounts is calculated. 917.40 1,096.70 806.50 865.00 501.00 45.10% 8,217 Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) The amount of each type of energy is multiplied by the emission factor 1,613.90 2,147.70 1,430.20 2,892.10 3,057.60 28.32% 8,217 and the sum of the amounts is calculated. Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) 2,531.30 3,244.40 2,236.70 3,757.10 3,558.60 73.42% 8,217 1.739 1.758 1.010 1.484 1.424 1,455.77 1,845.38 2,213.76 2,531.57 2,498.99 − − The amount of each business office electricity is multiplied by the emission factor and the sum of the amounts is calculated. Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting 9,915.80 11,869.90 12,635.30 13,040.60 11,915.90 45.10% 8,217 Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) The amount of each business office electricity is multiplied by the 3,540.40 5,099.30 6,559.20 7,237.50 7,285.40 28.32% 8,217 emission factor and the sum of the amounts is calculated. are listed in the GHG Protocol (WBCSD/WRI). 13,456.20 16,969.20 19,194.50 20,278.10 19,201.30 73.42% 8,217 9.243 9.196 8.671 8.010 7.684 1,455.77 1,845.38 2,213.76 2,531.57 2,498.99 − − CO emissions from logistics from factories to warehouses in Japan and from warehouses to customers in Japan (including branches and sales 1,145.00 1,237.00 1,112.00 1,213.00 1,181.51 − − offices). Calculated as ton-kilometers traveled (amount transported times distance traveled) times CO conversion factor. Conversion factor (source): In accordance with “Common Guidelines for the Method of Calculating CO Emissions in the Logistics Field” CO emissions from logistics (including to overseas customers) from warehouses to ports (airports) in Japan and CO emissions from logistics from Japanese ports (airports) to ports (airports) in overseas regions. Calculated as ton-kilometers traveled (amount transported 4,528.00 4,251.00 3,971.00 4,222.00 5,682.54 − − times distance traveled) times CO conversion factor. Conversion factor (source): In accordance with “Common Guidelines for the Method of Calculating CO Emissions in the Logistics Field” 6.508 5.348 4.170 3.794 4.937 − − 871.71 1,026.17 1,218.94 1,432.43 1,390.40 − − 192 Aspect Content Unit Scope Total CO emissions from Company cars t-CO Main business offices, instrument factories, Greenhouse gas reagent factories, sales offices and other offices emissions in Japan t-CO / Total unit CO emissions from Company cars Sysmex Corporation, Unit denominator non-consolidated Sysmex Corporation net sales Main business offices, instrument factories, Total emissions t reagent factories, sales offices and other offices in Japan, as well as overseas reagent factories OUTPUT Total emissions (excluding sales offices in Japan) Waste emissions Material recycling waste t Main business offices, instrument factories, reagent factories and other offices in Japan, Recycling waste (including energy recovery) as well as overseas reagent factories Material recycling rate % Recycling rate (including energy recovery) Main business offices in Japan (except head office) and instrument factories, reagent Wastewater volume Total emissions thousands m factories and other offices in Japan, as well as overseas reagent factories Emissions Main business offices, instrument factories, PRTR Output t reagent factories, sales offices and other offices Travel in Japan Violations of Total amount of large fines environmental regulations Number of sanctions other than fines cases Main business offices, instrument factories, Compliance reagent factories, sales offices and other offices Significant spills and Total number of cases cases in Japan, as well as major overseas locations losses of chemical and reagent factories substances Total leakage volume t Figures have been revised from those shown in the report for the previous fiscal year, owing to certain mistakes in making calculations, and units shown. : Standard for calculating and reporting GHGs emitted directly by Company facilities and factories. (Excluding from use of Company cars.) ion to products and services. (Including from use of Company cars.) 193 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Population of Coverage Coverage Calculation Method Data Data Data Data Data Ratio No. Ratio The amount of gasoline and diesel oil for each Company car is multiplied by the emission factor and the sum of the amounts is calculated. Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting 1,746.58 1,830.26 1,856.25 1,802.01 1,768.43 Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade 45.10% 8,217 and Industry) 2.004 1.784 1.523 1.258 1.272 871.71 1,026.17 1,218.94 1,432.43 1,390.40 − − 1,163.91 1274.16 1,556.76 1,701.35 2,105.50 48.02% 8,217 1,018.74 1,109.82 1,419.19 1,534.63 1,436.45 Of waste, the amount of valuable substances resulting from third-party 536.02 600.51 788.13 986.44 814.25 processing. Includes substances converted to fuel (such as RPF). 44.06% 8,217 Of waste, the amount reused or used for material recycling or heat 907.96 988.45 1,282.60 1,410.97 1,308.91 recovery (thermal recycling). 52.62 54.11 55.53 64.28 56.68 89.13 89.06 90.38 91.94 91.12 145.11 144.36 163.83 191.66 188.75 38.52% 8,217 PRTR emissions for business offices in Japan that handle chemical 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 45.10% 8,217 substances. 0.70 4.84 0.00 0.00 0.00 PRTR travel at business offices in Japan that handle chemical substances. 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 0 0 0 0 73.42% 8,217 0 1 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Main business offices in Japan: Sysmex Corporation (head office, Technopark, Solution Center) Instrument factories in Japan: Sysmex Corporation (Kakogawa Factory, i-Square), Sysmex Medica, Sysmex RA Reagent factories in Japan: Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory) Sales offices in Japan: Sysmex Corporation (1 office (Tokyo), 6 branches (Sendai, Kita Kanto, Nagoya, Osaka, Hiroshima, Fukuoka), 13 sales offices (Sapporo, Morioka, Nagano, Niigata, Chiba r (Metropolitan Area Service Center)), Sysmex CNA Other offices in Japan: Sysmex Corporation (R&D Center, Protein Development Center, BMA Laboratory, Global Communication Center (included in scope from fiscal 2015), Soushin dormitory Main overseas locations: Sysmex Europe, Sysmex Deutschland, Sysmex America, Sysmex Shanghai, Sysmex Asia Pacific Overseas reagent factories: Sysmex Europe (Reagent factory in Germany), Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex India, Sysmex Asia Pacific, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi The coverage ratio calculation is based on the number of employees. usage, the population is the number of employees at Group reagent factories. 194 Fiscal2016PerformanceData GovernanceData InformationonFundingProvidedtoMedicalInstitutions* Japan Category Details  2015 Expensesfortrials,reports,andsurveillance studiesconductedunderpublicregulations Research (clinicaltrialsfornewdevices,post-marketing and clinicalstudies,nonconformityandinfection 233,911 development casereports,post-marketingsurveillance studies,etc.)inadditiontothosefor independentinvestigations. Academic Expensesforscholarships,generaland research academicconferencedonations,aswellas 121,520 support academicconferenceco-sponsoringexpenses Amount Expensesforlectures,manuscriptwriting,and (1,000JPY) Manuscript theconsignmentofservices,including  writingfees, consulting,toprovideinformationregarding 43,264 etc. theappropriateuseofmedicaldevicesand clinicalreagents. Expenses Expensesforlectures,workshops,and relatedto seminarstoprovidehealthcareprofessionals information withrelevantinformationregarding 162,654 provision appropriateandsafeuseofmedicaldevices andclinicalreagents. Other Expensesforreceptionsandsocialcourtesy 37,144 expense Totalamount  598,493 195 US Category  2014 2015 2016 Number 450 443 242 Relevantpaymentsortransfer ofvalue Amount US US US $186,645 $190,638 $137,658 Number 8 7 21 Research US US Amount $194,150 US$76,061 $209,370 France Category  2014 2015 2016 Relevantpaymentsortransfer Number 365 226 223 ofvalue Amount €42,856 €14,367 €29,542 Contracts Number 3 4 11 ContractamountsarenotrequiredundertheFrenchSunshineAct. *Thisinformationmightbemodiﬁedafterourdisclosureaccordingtoreviewbygovernmentauthoritiesormedical institutions. Clickhereforinformationoncorporategovernance. 196 Corporate Information Corporate Overview (As of March 31, 2017) Company name Sysmex Corporation Head Oﬃce 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe 651-0073, Japan Established February 20, 1968 Line of business Development, manufacture, sales, Paid-in capital ¥11,611 million and export/import of laboratory testing Representative Hisashi Ietsugu, Chairman and CEO instruments, reagents, and related software Net sales Operating income ¥51.7 (¥billion) (¥billion) 300 250 252.6 ¥249.8 billion 60 50 60.7 billion 221.3 44.4 200 40 184.5 32.8 150 145.5 30 21.8 100 20 50 10 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Japanese GAAP IFRS Japanese GAAP IFRS Profit attributable to owners of the parent Number of employees (¥billion) 50 ¥40.6 billion 10,000 7,930 40 39.2 8,000 7,446 6,739 30 6,000 6,211 26.6 5,594 20 20.5 4,000 14.1 10 2,000 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Japanese GAAP IFRS （Including contract workers and part-time employees） (Net income) Editorial Policy Sysmex publishes the annual “Sysmex Sustainability Report” to communicate to stakeholders our approaches and activities concerning corporate social responsibility (CSR), and to enhance understanding of and trust in us. Guidelines referenced Date of publication The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)'s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, August 2017 Edition 4 Previous version: August 2016 The Japanese Ministry of the Environment's Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 ed.) Inquiries about this report CSR Promotion Department, Sysmex Corporation 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe, Hyogo, 651-0073, Japan Organizations covered Tel +81-78-265-0500, Fax +81-78-265-0524 Sysmex Group (Sysmex Corporation and its subsidiaries both in Japan and abroad). In this report, “Sysmex” refers to the Sysmex Group as a whole. Cautionary Statements “Sysmex Corporation” refers to the Company on a stand-alone basis This report contains both forward-looking statements, plans and facts regarding the past about the Sysmex Group. These forward-looking Period covered statements and plans are based on the current judgments and assumptions of Primarily fiscal 2016 (from April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017). Some activities the Sysmex Group in light of the information currently available to it. conducted outside this period are also included. The most recent information Uncertainties inherent in such judgments and assumptions, the future course is provided on our CSR news on the CSR site. of our business operations, and future events may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements either expressed or implied within such forward-looking statements. 197 Information Available on the Website Comprehensive Information Provided on the CSR Site Sysmex CSR Search Message from the Chairman and CEO Society Resolution of Medical Issues through Products and Services Sysmex and Its Relations with Society Responsible Provision of Products and Services Realization of an Attractive Workplace Highlight 1： Respect for Human Rights Resolution of Medical Issues through Products and Corporate Citizenship Activities Services Aiming for a Society Environment Environmental Consideration in Which All People Receive Appropriate Health Care Governance Corporate Governance Highlight 2： Compliance Realization of an Attractive Workplace Risk Management Embracing Diversity and Creating a Culture of Innovation External Evaluation Management and CSR Fiscal 2016 Performance Data Corporate Philosophy, Core Behaviors Mid-Term CSR Plan (Fiscal 2016 Results) Long-Term Management Targets, Mid-Term Management Plan Social Data CSR Management Environmental Data The UN Global Compact Governance Data Editorial Policy Sustainability Report Download Search Function Search for Articles by Stakeholder Use Keywords to Search Articles ISO 26000/GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines CSR Sitemap 198 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe 651-0073, Japan Tel +81-78-265-0500 Fax +81-78-265-0524 www.sysmex.co.jp
