Bank of America Corporation 2015 Business Standards Report and Environmental, Social and Governance Addendum How we live our purpose Since the financial crisis, we have worked hard to transform our company by focusing on the needs of the customers and clients we serve. We recognize the important role of financial institutions in the economy, and understand our decisions and actions affect people’s lives every day. We’ve taken significant action to follow through on that responsibility. In all we do, we are guided by a common purpose to make financial lives better by connecting our customers, clients, and communities with the resources they need to be successful. Our Business Standards Report shows how our company today is more straightforward, less risky, and built on a stronger foundation that lives up to our purpose. As part of our transformation, we’ve built our liquidity and capital to record levels, while relentlessly narrowing our focus to concentrate on the businesses and services that matter most to our customers and clients. This progress is the result of a strategy we set in motion several years ago to simplify the company, resolve mortgage-related and other issues from the crisis, rebuild our balance sheet, invest in our company and our capabilities, and pursue a straightforward model focused on responsible growth. Our more than 200,000 teammates work every day to deliver on our strategy and bring our purpose to life — helping our customers and investing in our communities. We have a culture of teamwork and a passion to do what’s right to deliver for all those we serve — from individuals at every stage of their financial lives, to companies of every size, and in communities across the U.S. and around the globe. While we have more work to do, we are pleased to detail our progress in this report. Brian Moynihan Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Table of Contents Business Standards Report CHAPTER 1: Delivering on Our Purpose: An Introduction 1 CHAPTER 2: Our Values and Responsible Growth 2 What Guides Us 2 Our Values 2 Responsible Growth 3 CHAPTER 3: Governance and Leadership 7 Governance and Leadership 7 Board of Directors 7 Management 12 CHAPTER 4: Responsible Growth 15 Part One: Responsible Growth: Winning in the Market 15 Winning in the Market 15 Part Two: Responsible Growth: Focusing on Customers 16 People 16 Companies and Institutions 24 Part Three: Responsible Growth: Managing Risk 25 Code of Conduct and Risk Framework 25 Culture 26 Risk Appetite 29 Risk Management Processes 29 The Three Lines of Defense 30 Key Risk Types 31 Part Four: Responsible Growth: Growing in a Sustainable Manner 34 Sustainable Responsible Growth 34 Operational Excellence 34 Great Place to Work 40 Delivering for Shareholders and Other Stakeholders 48 CHAPTER 5: Ongoing Commitment 55 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Addendum 56 Environmental Sustainability 59 Social 86 Governance 118 About This Report 128 iii 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT CHAPTER 1: Delivering on Our Purpose: An Introduction At Bank of America, we have a clear purpose to help Throughout this report, we discuss how we live our make financial lives better through the power of every purpose and how we fulfill our environmental, social, connection. We fulfill this purpose by executing a and governance (ESG) responsibilities. We look at business strategy that is focused on serving the core the work we’ve done to strengthen our culture and financial needs of people, companies, and institutional bring together our employees through a common set investors by connecting them with capabilities across of expectations. We provide information about our our eight lines of business. corporate governance, our risk management and control functions, and how our relationships with customers In the years following the financial crisis, we’ve and key stakeholders are deepening in ways that are transformed and simplified our company. Today, we unique to Bank of America. are a less complex company that manages risk more rigorously than ever. We’ve focused our business model Our hope is that this report will help you better on the core products and services our customers and understand the work we’re doing and the ways we’ve clients need. We’ve built record capital and liquidity, changed to help make financial lives better for the sold or liquidated assets that didn’t serve our people, companies, and institutions we serve. customer-focused strategy, and reduced expenses, while pursuing operational excellence. We put in place several straightforward operating principles to ensure our global team is aligned around the work we do. These principles include being customer-driven in all we do, managing risk well, operational excellence, creating a great place to work for our employees, and delivering value for our shareholders. All of the hard work to strengthen the focus and foundation of our company comes together as an engine for responsible growth. What follows is a report on Bank of America’s business standards, our culture, and the work we do to drive our strategy of responsible growth, through the lens of the strategy’s four tenets: • We must grow and win in the market. • We must grow with our customer-focused strategy. • We must grow within our Risk Framework. • We must grow in a sustainable manner. 1 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT CHAPTER 2: Our Values and Responsible Growth What Guides Us Our Values At Bank of America, our purpose, operating principles, We recognize that cultivating a strong culture is an and values form the foundation of our culture — a ongoing effort, fostered day after day in both formal culture that is rooted in integrity, disciplined risk and informal ways. Building a unified culture requires management, and delivering together as a team to thoughtful, purposeful action. This work helped us better serve our clients, strengthen our communities, bring together all of our employees — from different and deliver value to our shareholders. businesses, companies, and countries — with a unifying idea of what it means to work for Bank of America. Our culture is built on the tenets of responsible growth and serving our customers. It comes through in our Our values not only inform the way we conduct commitment to ensuring that our policies, practices, business and make decisions, they underscore who we products and programs all align to our purpose. Our are and what we believe as a company. For employees Code of Conduct, which provides basic guidelines for from Jersey City to Singapore, this builds an emotional our business practices and professional and personal connection and pride in the organization that can drive conduct expectations, along with our Risk Framework, greater engagement. These values also define how our which describes our risk management approach and company invests in our employees around the globe provides clear accountability for managing risk across who support customers and clients every day. the company, are foundational to our culture. Our Chairman and CEO routinely discusses the We seek to reflect what stakeholders expect of global company’s values with employees and external companies today. At all times, we’re listening to and audiences, underscoring our commitment to doing engaging with a diverse set of stakeholders — including business the right way: with honesty and integrity. our employees, stockholders, customers, clients, and Whatever path brought each of our employees to community advocates — listening to their feedback to Bank of America, we are one company, with a common help inform our decisions. Through continual debate and set of values to guide and inspire how we connect dialogue — with internal and external stakeholders — with customers, clients, communities, and each other: we believe more informed, balanced decisions are made. We Deliver Together We believe in the importance of treating each customer, These efforts have allowed us to focus on our client, and teammate as an individual, and in treating customers and clients with renewed clarity, and to every moment as one that matters. We strive to go deliver the full range and depth of our resources and the distance to deliver, with discipline and passion. We global reach to help them achieve their goals. Through believe in connecting with people person-to-person, stronger connections with customers and clients, with empathy and understanding. We believe everything we’re building more financially secure communities — we do for customers, clients, teammates, and the recognizing that we only succeed when our customers, communities we serve is built on a solid business clients, employees, and our communities thrive. foundation that delivers for shareholders. 2 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT We Act Responsibly • We must grow in a sustainable manner. This means We believe that integrity and the disciplined having the right business model, ensuring rigorous management of risk form the foundation of our governance practices are in place, making decisions business. We know our decisions and actions affect that are right for the customer and which strengthen people’s lives every day. our brand, and treating our employees well. We Realize the Power of our People We Must Grow and Win in the Market We strive to help our employees reach their full We serve three groups of customers — people, potential. We believe that diverse backgrounds and companies, and institutional investors. In the U.S. we experiences make us stronger. We respect every serve all three customer groups, and outside the U.S. individual and value our differences — in thought, we serve larger companies and institutional investors. style, culture, ethnicity, and experience. This approach has helped simplify our operations and reduce our risk profile. We Trust the Team We believe the best outcomes are achieved when • People: For the people we serve, we believe people work together across the entire company. we have the best consumer, small business, and We believe great teams are built on mutual trust, shared wealth-management franchise in the country. We ownership, and accountability. We act as one company serve 47 million households, and every week we and believe that when we work together, we best meet interact with customers more than 130 million times. the full needs of our customers and clients. • Companies: For the companies we serve, our Global Banking business works with virtually every Responsible Growth company in the S&P 500. In many products and When we look at where we stand today, our company geographies, Global Banking has greater market is stronger, simpler, and better positioned to deliver share than our consumer business, delivering long-term value to our shareholders, thanks to the solid and recurring profitability. Recognizing straightforward way in which we serve our customers the businesses we serve are the engines of the and clients. The path forward is clearly one of economy, we bring the broadest array of solutions, responsible growth. both domestic and international, to our clients to help companies grow, improve cash flow and invest Responsible growth has four pillars: for the future. • We must grow and win in the market. • Institutions: Turning to the institutional investors • We must grow with our customer-focused strategy. we serve, our Global Markets business is one of We aren’t going to grow by buying assets where the most capable platforms in the world. This we do not have an underlying relationship with the business provides capital to companies necessary customer, such as mortgages originated by another for growth, and serves many of the world’s largest company. Our growth will come through knowing institutional investors who manage savings and our customers and clients, and being able to do investments through pension and retirement funds. more for them. Our presence and global reach in fixed income and • We must grow within our Risk Framework. This is equity products allow us to provide them access to the foundation of everything we do. investment opportunities. 3 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT As we look across our businesses and the clients Whether investing in a small business, making a credit they serve, we have a leading set of capabilities in decision, or preventing fraud, nearly every aspect of our every area where we operate. That is the power of work calls for sound judgment and a commitment to this company; that is the strength of the model and doing what’s right for our customers, shareholders, and the balance we are striking to ensure we are doing communities. Our culture emphasizes that we are one all we can for our customers and clients, while team, and we have a shared responsibility to manage optimizing our balance sheet to perform efficiently risk well, act responsibly, have an ownership mindset, with the post-crisis regulations. and escalate issues so they can be addressed proactively. We Must Grow With our Customer-Focused Strategy Our Risk Framework is foundational to our culture and We have a simple goal. We need to do more with our describes our approach to managing risk well so we customers by bringing them everything they need to can run our business and grow responsibly. The Risk live their financial lives. Framework is not a concept; it sets forth clear ownership and accountability for managing risk across the company One of the ways we drive our customer-focused to ensure that we maintain strong risk-management strategy is through our business integration work. discipline. Several years ago, we embraced a local market-driven approach. We organized the United States into more We have invested heavily to improve our riskthan 90 market coverage areas. management practices, and we are committed to having best-in-class risk-management capabilities, At the local market level, our teams are working because we know that managing risk well is together to look at every customer and client foundational to everything else we do. relationship in their market and ask: are we doing all we can for them? We Must Grow in a Sustainable Manner Building a sustainable company is about how, at the We have seen dramatic growth in the way we are core of everything we do, we are guided by our referring existing clients to other teammates who principles to make the right decisions that will hold us may not yet have a relationship with those particular in good stead today and in the future. We think about clients — from nearly 300,000 referrals five years ago this in a variety of ways. to roughly 5 million in 2015. First, it’s important to maintain focus on operational Through this approach we are a global company excellence, and on the momentum we’ve built managing that feels local. expenses. We’ve made significant improvement in decreasing our operating expenses, even while making We Must Grow Within our investments to improve efficiency and grow our platform. Risk Framework As a financial services company, our business is to be the Sustainability also includes having the right governance. very best at managing all types of risk, and to do so in a We have a diverse and experienced Board of Directors responsible manner that serves our clients, shareholders, that provides independent oversight. Our Board and communities, and helps the economy grow. constantly looks for ways to ensure its diversity and 4 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT strength, and monitors corporate governance best • And, we extended more than $180 million in practices to adapt and improve when necessary. philanthropic investments, and our employees donated nearly 2 million hours of volunteer This rigorous oversight extends across our businesses. service to the causes they care about around For example, each line of business makes decisions the world. through a governance process made up of business leaders and control partners who debate the issues — Finally, to be a sustainable company, we must be a ensuring we are striking the right balance between company that values our people and gives all employees risk, business opportunity, and customer focus. And, the support they need to build their careers, achieve our Global Environmental, Social and Governance their goals, and have the resources they need to Committee (ESG Committee), led by Anne Finucane, improve their lives and the lives of their families. Vice Chairman at Bank of America, with senior leaders from each business line, meets regularly to ensure we We have a diverse and inclusive workplace that reflects are looking at our progress through an environmental, the diversity of the customers, clients, and communities social and governance lens. This committee is we serve in more than 35 countries around the world. accountable to the CEO and reports at least annually We provide resources and strategies to help employees to our Board’s Corporate Governance Committee. develop no matter where they are in their careers. Through our recruitment programs and partnerships, Our approach to sustainability also comes through we are investing in the future by bringing the best and in our commitment to ensure our policies, practices, brightest to work at Bank of America. products, and programs all align to our purpose. We’ve done this in part by creating simple, safe, transparent, We’ve also made changes to our benefits, increasing and easy-to-use financial solutions that give people our wellness offerings and other family support greater control of their finances. programs to reflect the needs of our workforce. Our health care benefit premiums are progressive, based on Another way we think about sustainability is the work how much an employee earns. In 2011, for employees we do to strengthen our local economies and invest making less than $50,000 a year we reduced premiums in our communities. by 50% and have kept those costs down. These employees have had the ability to keep premiums flat • In 2015, this included increasing our environmental for the last four years. And we continue to invest in business initiative to $125 billion — one of the our wellness programs for all employees, to increase largest bank commitments to address climate activity and improve overall health. change and demands on natural resources — through lending, investing, capital raising, and As we think about all the ways we pursue sustainability, developing financial solutions for clients. our focus is to use our size and scale in ways that • We also extended more than $235 million to contribute positively to our communities, create Community Development Financial Institutions opportunity for our customers and employees, (CDFIs) to support affordable housing, small and grow our company responsibly. business growth, and neighborhood stabilization. 5 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Case Study: Reinforcing Responsible Business Practices – Environmental, Social and Governance Committee An important way we’ve cultivated and strengthened our culture of responsible business practices is through more focused oversight of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues. In 2014, Bank of America formed a Global Corporate Social Responsibility Governance (GCSR) Committee to provide oversight of our corporate responsibility strategy and initiatives, including community development, corporate philanthropy, volunteerism, the Community Reinvestment Act, and environmental efforts. In February of 2016, we strengthened the Committee’s oversight of ESG issues by expanding its responsibilities to include more formal oversight governance activity. The Global Corporate Social Responsibility Committee was re-chartered as the Global Environmental, Social and Governance Committee to reflect this broadened set of responsibilities. In addition to providing broader strategic oversight, the Committee ensures that our environmental, social, and governance activity is in alignment with and supportive of our company’s responsible growth strategy, notably sustainable growth. The ESG Committee and its teams provided important leadership over a number of significant initiatives, including: The Signing of the United Nations-Supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) • In 2014, our Global Wealth and Investment Management division became the first wealth management firm to sign the U.N.-supported Principles for Responsible Investment on behalf of its discretionary asset-management business. The PRI initiative is an international network of investors working together to understand the implications of sustainability for investors, and support signatories in incorporating these issues into their investment decision-making and ownership practices. The Formulation of a Human Rights Statement and Vendor Code of Conduct • These two documents, developed by the GCSR Committee and their teams in 2014, demonstrate our effort to operate a responsible and transparent business. Our Human Rights Statement articulates the company’s commitment to supporting fundamental human rights, and demonstrates leadership in responsible workplace practices across our enterprise and in all regions where we conduct business. Our Vendor Code of Conduct outlines the standards we set for our vendors to demonstrate their commitment to basic working conditions and ethical business practices. The principles contained in the Human Rights Statement and the Vendor Code of Conduct are consistent with the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Fundamental Conventions. Our Human Rights Statement and Vendor Code of conduct can be found at www.bankofamerica.com. 6 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT CHAPTER 3: Governance and Leadership Governance and Leadership Cultivating and implementing the transformation Our Board is also responsible for: underway at Bank of America requires strong • Reviewing, monitoring, and approving succession governance and leadership. Changes are implemented plans for the Chairman and the Lead Independent across the company by a strong Board of Directors, Director, and for our CEO, and other key executives skilled management, and clear and effective to promote senior management continuity. governance practices. • Conducting an annual self-evaluation of our Board and its committees. Board of Directors • Identifying and evaluating director nominees and Our 13-member Board of Directors brings a vital nominating qualified individuals for election to independent perspective based on their experience in serve on our Board. different organizations and different industries in both • Reviewing our CEO’s performance and approving the public and private sectors. the total annual compensation for our CEO and other executive officers. Among other things, the Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that continued embedding Board Oversight and Committee Structure of values and ethical conduct remains a sustained To support our corporate goals and objectives, risk priority. Our Board and its committees oversee: appetite, and business and risk strategies, we • Management’s identification of, management of, maintain a governance structure that delineates the and planning for our company’s material risks, responsibilities for risk management activities, and including operational, credit, market, interest rate, the governance and oversight of those activities, by liquidity, reputational, capital management, liquidity management and our Board. planning, and legal and regulatory compliance risks. • Our company’s maintenance of high ethical Our Board has five active committees: Audit, standards and effective policies and practices Compensation and Benefits, Corporate Governance, to protect our reputation, assets, and business. Credit, and Enterprise Risk. These committees regularly • Management’s development and implementation make recommendations and report on their activities of an annual financial plan and strategic business to the entire Board. Each committee may obtain advice plans, and monitoring our progress against these from internal or external financial, legal, accounting, or financial and strategic plans. other advisors as desired. • Our corporate audit function, our registered independent public accounting firm, and the The Board is committed to strong, independent integrity of our consolidated financial statements. oversight of management and risk through this • Our company’s establishment, maintenance, governance structure. Our Enterprise Risk Committee, and administration of appropriately designed Audit Committee, and Credit Committee have the compensation programs and plans. principal responsibility for enterprise-wide oversight of our company’s risk management. Each of these 7 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT committees regularly receives updates on risk-related The Board elected Brian T. Moynihan, our CEO, as matters within the committee’s responsibilities, and Chairman of the Board, and the independent directors reports on these updates to our Board. This process of the Board elected Jack O. Bovender, Jr. to serve in provides our Board with integrated, thorough insight the newly established Lead Independent Director role. about our enterprise risk management. Our Board determined at that time and continues to believe that the leadership structure with Mr. Moynihan We believe this holistic Board and committee risk as Chairman and CEO and Mr. Bovender as Lead oversight process complements and remains consistent Independent Director is in the best interests of with our Board’s commitment to maintaining a strong, Bank of America and its stockholders based on the independent Board and committee leadership structure. company’s present needs and circumstances. More information on the role of the Board committees in oversight of risk structure can be found on p. 25. Our Board’s amendment of its Corporate Governance Guidelines codified a description of the duties and In addition, our Compensation and Benefits Committee responsibilities it expects from either an independent oversees, among other things, our compensation Chairman of the Board or a Lead Independent Director, policies and practices so that they don’t encourage depending on which leadership structure is in place. unnecessary or excessive risk-taking by our employees. This development documents the independent leadership that our Board expects, having not had such Our Corporate Governance Committee oversees our a documented role description previously. The duties Board’s governance processes; identifies and reviews and responsibilities include the following: the qualifications of potential Board members; recommends nominees for election to our Board; Board Leadership recommends committee appointments for Board • In the case of the Chairman, presiding at all approval; reviews and reports to our Board on our meetings of our Board and, in the case of the Lead environmental, social and governance activities; leads Independent Director, presiding at all meetings of our Board and its committees in annual selfour Board at which the Chairman is not present, assessments; and reviews and assesses stockholder including at executive sessions of the independent feedback and our stockholder engagement process. directors. • Calling meetings of the independent directors, Board Leadership Structure as appropriate. On October 1, 2014, we amended our bylaws to permit • In the case of the Lead Independent Director, if the leadership of the Board by either an independent CEO of our company is also Chairman, providing Chairman or a Lead Independent Director, and adopted Board leadership if the CEO/Chairman’s role may be governance provisions contemplating the responsibilities (or may be perceived to be) in conflict. of a Board leader, whether an independent chair or a Lead Independent Director. On September 22, 2015, at Board Culture a special meeting, our stockholders ratified the Board’s • Serving as a liaison between the CEO and the decision to amend our bylaws to provide this flexibility independent directors. to the Board in determining leadership structure. • Establishing a close relationship with the CEO, providing support, advice and feedback from our 8 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Board while respecting executive responsibility. • Board Assessment: Consulting with the • Acting as a “sounding board” and advisor to Corporate Governance Committee on our Board’s the CEO. annual self-assessment. • Director Development: Providing guidance on Board Focus the ongoing development of directors. • Board Focus: In consultation with our Board • Director Assessment/Nomination: With and executive management, ensuring that our the Corporate Governance Committee and Board focuses on key issues and tasks facing our the CEO, consulting in the identification and company and on topics of interest to our Board. evaluation of director candidates’ qualifications • Corporate Governance: Assisting our Board, (including candidates recommended by directors, the Corporate Governance Committee, and management, third-party search firms, and management in complying with our Corporate stockholders) and consulting on committee Governance Guidelines and promoting corporate membership and committee chairs. governance best practices. • CEO Performance Review and Succession Stockholders and Other Stakeholders Planning: Working with the Corporate Governance • Being available for consultation and direct Committee, the Compensation and Benefits communication, to the extent requested by Committee, and members of our Board; major stockholders. contributing to the annual performance review • Having regular communication with primary bank of the CEO, and participating in CEO succession regulators (with or without management present) planning. to discuss the appropriateness of our Board’s oversight of management and our company. Board Meetings • In coordination with the CEO and the other Board Qualifications members of our Board, planning, reviewing, and Our directors bring varied and unique experiences and approving meeting agendas for our Board. attributes to their service on our Board. Our Board • In coordination with the CEO and the other considers the following qualifications, attributes and members of our Board, approving meeting skills important for our directors: schedules to assure that there is sufficient time • Our directors are seasoned leaders, and the for discussion of all agenda items. majority serve or have served as chief executive • Advising the CEO of the information needs of our officers. Board, and approving information sent to our Board. • Our directors bring to our Board a vast depth and • Developing topics of discussion for executive diversity of public company, financial services, sessions of our Board. private company, public sector, academic, nonprofit, and other domestic and international business Board Performance and Development experience. • Board Performance: Together with the CEO • Our directors have held leadership positions in and the other members of our Board, ensuring the complex financial services organizations and with efficient and effective performance and functioning our primary regulator, and management roles in the of our Board. areas of risk, operations, finance, technology, and human resources. 9 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT • Our directors represent diverse viewpoints and complex organizations; regulated industries; consumer, bring a blend of historical and new perspectives commercial and corporate businesses; and international about our company as a result of their varied organizations. lengths of tenure as our directors. Seven of the Board’s 13 current members have joined since 2012. Of our directors, seven have international experience, nine have CEO experience, one has deep experience in Our Board believes that this mix of attributes among cyber-security, two are African-American and four are the directors enhances our Board’s independent women, one of whom is Hispanic. Our directors also leadership and effectiveness. Our Corporate Governance have experience in financial and regulatory oversight, Guidelines further provide director nomination standards, risk management, strategic planning, and technology. including the requirements that director candidates: They bring depth and breadth of financial, operational, • Have the desire to represent the interests of risk, and other areas of expertise relevant to our all stockholders. company; through their varied lengths of tenure, they • Be capable of working in a collegial manner bring a blend of historical and new perspectives about with persons of diverse educational, business our company. and cultural backgrounds, and possess skills and expertise that complement the attributes of the Director Independence existing directors. While the New York Stock Exchange listing standards • Be capable of constructively challenging the require a majority of our directors to be independent, Chairman and CEO and other senior executives, our Corporate Governance Guidelines go even further as appropriate. and require a substantial majority of our directors to • Represent a diversity of viewpoints, backgrounds, be independent. Eleven of our 13 current directors experiences, and other demographics. and each member of our Audit, Compensation and • Demonstrate notable or significant achievement Benefits, and Corporate Governance committees and possess senior-level business, management, are independent. or regulatory experience that would benefit our company. The independent and non-management directors • Be individuals of the highest character and integrity. bring a caliber and diversity of expertise, experience, • Be free of conflicts of interest that would interfere and leadership, and are a testament to the Board’s with their ability to discharge their duties or that commitment to self-evaluations, continuous would violate any applicable laws or regulations. refreshment and rigorous, independent oversight. • Be capable of devoting the necessary time to discharge their duties, taking into account The Board’s commitment to independent oversight memberships on other Boards and other of management is augmented by federal banking responsibilities. regulatory requirements, including the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Current Composition of the Board Currency. Our company is strenuously regulated, and Our directors possess backgrounds, qualifications, our Board must contain members who have experience attributes and skills that, when taken together, provide that meets certain regulatory requirements, including: our company with a broad range of experience in large, independence; financial literacy and expertise; 10 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT experience in identifying, assessing, and managing Stockholder feedback is shared with the Board and its risk exposures of large, complex financial firms; and/or committees to enhance our governance practices, to understanding of risk management principles, policies, facilitate a dialogue between stockholders and the and practices relevant to our company or a comparably Board, and to provide transparency of those practices sized company. to our stockholders through enhanced disclosure. In furtherance of those and other regulatory requirements, We review the voting results of our most recent annual members of our Board and the independent committee meeting of stockholders, the stockholder feedback chairs (including our Lead Independent Director) received through our engagement process, the frequently meet with our regulatory authorities without governance practices of our peers and other large management present. companies, and current trends in governance as we consistently consider enhancements to our governance Our Corporate Governance Guidelines require that the practices and disclosure. non-management directors meet in executive session at each regularly scheduled Board meeting at the Enhancements in Response to direction of the Lead Independent Director (when the Stockholder Feedback Chairman is not present), with the Lead Independent The Board has demonstrated a record of independent Director presiding. The Lead Independent Director oversight, actively engaging and maintaining a robust also plays a central role in the Board’s stockholder and regular dialogue with management. Since 2009, the engagement program, and is available to communicate Board has enacted significant governance changes in with stockholders and other parties. In addition, the response to stockholder engagement and feedback. Lead Independent Director may serve on committees of the Board, and Mr. Bovender currently serves on the After considering feedback received from our Board’s Corporate Governance Committee. stockholders, our company: • Adopted an enhanced stockholder engagement Ongoing Stockholder program that includes the active involvement of our Engagement Program Lead Independent Director and other independent The Board and management are committed to engaging directors. with the company’s stockholders and soliciting their • Adopted a proxy access right to permit a stockholder, views and feedback on important performance, or a group of up to 20 stockholders, owning governance, compensation, and other matters. We continuously for at least three years shares of our review our stockholder engagement practices regularly company representing an aggregate of at least 3 with an eye towards continual improvement. percent of the voting power entitled to vote in the election of directors, to nominate and include in Our corporate secretary and investor relations teams, our proxy materials director nominees constituting together with relevant executive management members up to 20 percent of the Board, provided that the and directors, conduct stockholder outreach throughout stockholder(s) and the nominee(s) satisfy the the year, and inform our management and the Board requirements in our bylaws. about the issues that our stockholders tell us matter most • Implemented the right permitting stockholders holding to them. at least 10 percent of our outstanding common shares to convene a special meeting, provided that the stockholders satisfy the requirements in our bylaws. 11 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT • Implemented leading incentive compensation • After consultation with many of our significant recoupment policies and committed to disclose stockholders on the Board’s leadership structure, certain forfeitures under these policies. the Lead Independent Director’s role and • Implemented progressive stock ownership responsibilities, and the process the Board guidelines for senior management and our undertook to effect the bylaw amendment, held a directors. special meeting seeking stockholder ratification of • Gathered additional information regarding the amendment of our bylaws to provide the Board significant investors’ voting policies and procedures flexibility in determining its appropriate leadership on key governance matters and shared that structure. information with the Board and Corporate • Committed that we would produce this Business Governance Committee. Standards Report to increase transparency around • Enhanced our disclosures relating to a number of our processes and standards, corporate culture, matters, including greenhouse gas emissions from governance, and business practices. our own operations and our U.S. utility portfolio, and published a new coal policy, which helps ensure We also have provided the following stockholder rights: that we play a continued role in promoting the • There are no super majority amendment provisions responsible use of coal and other energy sources, in our Certificate of Incorporation or our bylaws. while balancing the risks and opportunities to our • Our directors are elected annually by a majority shareholders and the communities we serve. voting standard in uncontested elections. • Enhanced our political activities disclosure • Our Corporate Governance Committee considers to include: director candidates recommended by stockholders. A more detailed discussion of our participation • We do not have a “poison pill” in effect. in the political process; Current and historical reports of our Political Management Action Committee (PAC) contributions; A list of trade associations to which we paid Management Team Structure more than a deminimis amount; Management team members are the standard-bearers A list of tax-exempt organizations organized for our business practices and our culture throughout under Section 527 of the U.S. Internal Revenue the organization. Therefore, ensuring the right Code to which we made contributions; management team is in place is critical to the success Information regarding the management, of our entire enterprise. compliance, and monitoring of our political activities, including our Corporate Governance The team is led by Brian Moynihan, our company’s Committee’s oversight of our significant Chairman and CEO, who, in his more than 20 years policies and practices (see the “Political at Bank of America, has run each of the major Activities” page of our Investor Relations customer and client businesses — consumer and small website at http://investor.bankofamerica.com). business banking, wealth management, and corporate • Enhanced our proxy statement disclosure and investment banking. Since assuming the CEO regarding our Board leadership structure, including position, Mr. Moynihan has made clear and purposeful a discussion of the robust and transparent changes to resolve legacy issues and ensure that the independent Board leader duties. management team and the company can execute our responsible growth strategy. 12 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT The management team Mr. Moynihan has built and cultivated demonstrates both depth of knowledge in each line of business, as well as broad industry experience. The team further understands and values the journey that our company is on and the cultural change happening throughout the bank. We have a strong performance management process in place that evaluates management team member performance against each of our operating principles, and holds individual team members accountable for delivering on our commitments and embodying our values. As of the end of 2015, the average tenure among management team members is 29 years in the financial services industry. The future of our management team is frequently discussed with our Board of Directors, and we have a well-developed succession and development-planning process in place to identify and develop the next generation of leaders. 13 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Case Study: New Product Launch – A Governance Structure When we look to bring a new product to market, that product must go through an extensive review and approval process to ensure that it meets the needs of our customers and clients, and is aligned with the company’s goals and risk appetite. Products must serve the interests of our customers and clients, and comply with applicable laws and regulations in the jurisdiction where they will be offered. Our New Product Review and Approval Policy sets requirements designed to manage risk and ensure the product is consistent with the bank’s risk appetite. It’s a strong example of the transformations underway at Bank of America. As part of the process, lines of business are required to follow a new product review and approval process, which includes, but is not limited to, the following: Business Governance • Each business has a committee of senior executives with designated responsibility for reviewing and approving new products. Membership includes representation from within the business and the control functions that support it. At a minimum, approval must be granted from a committee with representatives from the line of business, as well as Compliance, Legal, Risk, Finance, and Global Technology and Operations. Additionally, Corporate Tax, Corporate Treasury, Balance Sheet and Capital Management, operational risk, market risk, and credit risk are all consulted in the approval process. • Depending on the product, there may be an additional layer of approvals required, as determined by the business risk team. These approvals could include internal committees, such as the International Governance & Control Committee, Global Marketing & Corporate Affairs or the Management Risk Committee. Enterprise Governance • The Enterprise New Product Pipeline Review identifies potential impacts a new product could have on business or control functions. Each new product undergoes a risk assessment, which considers the following factors: general information, compliance, legal, operational risk, market risk, credit risk, finance, global technology and operations, corporate tax, balance sheet and capital management, corporate treasury and resolution risk. All new products working through the review process must be properly documented, including the analysis of the relevant risk factors. Additionally, the policy includes robust monitoring, reporting and escalation processes throughout. 14 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT CHAPTER 4: Responsible Growth Part 1: Winning in the Market Responsible Growth: The first pillar of responsible growth is a strong business and a winning mindset. Simply put, this is how Winning in the Market we can best grow responsibly — by being a profitable business and by competing in the market. Overview As you will read throughout this report, our purpose is How does this happen? Within the company, we’ve to make financial lives better for our customers, our determined that we must continue to grow our business clients, and our communities by connecting them to with more customer-facing teammates and more the resources they need to be successful. That purpose customer-friendly products, services, and technology. has guided us over the past several years to change In this report, we’ll discuss our Simplify and Improve and make our company simpler, more straightforward, initiative, which is driven by feedback from customers stronger, and better. and employees, and focuses on ways we can make it easier to do business with Bank of America. We’ll also Today … discuss the modernization of our technology platforms, • We’re a simpler company to navigate and to do which has made banking easier for customers and business with because of the thousands of ideas clients in many different ways. our employees have generated to streamline, simplify, save money, and cut the red tape. To compete in the market, Bank of America must also • We’re a more straightforward company because have the very best people in each of our disciplines. we’ve exited businesses and sold assets that didn’t We must invest in our talent and in training, so our fit our customerand client-focused strategy, and people can grow business relationships thoughtfully put most of our legacy issues behind us. and meaningfully where it makes the most sense • We’re a stronger, sounder company because for customers and clients. Later in this report, we’ll we’ve built record levels of capital and liquidity, discuss the ways we’re helping our people grow in their and strengthened our risk-management practices. roles with the company while achieving their highest • We have leading capabilities across all our professional aspirations. businesses, and a strategy that is focused on connecting our capabilities to deliver for our For Bank of America to grow in the market, we must customers and clients. put the full capabilities of our whole team at the service of customers and clients. This is what we mean when All of this comes together as an engine for responsible we talk about the power of connection and of delivering growth. Across our businesses, you can see the one company. If we can help customers and clients progress of this strategy and our teams’ focus on take advantage of everything the company has to offer, growing the right way. Responsible growth is growth we’re confident we can help improve their financial that is customer-focused, within our Risk Framework, lives. This is at the heart of our work in recent years. and sustainable. 15 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Part 2: development investments that help them grow and thrive. Responsible Growth: • Small businesses can be connected to the capital Focusing on Customers they need to invest and create jobs. • Organizations, nonprofits, and companies solving Overview society’s toughest problems have the resources and As you have read throughout this report, we’ve expertise of our bank and the volunteer efforts of undertaken significant efforts over the past several our employees behind them. years to make Bank of America simpler, more straightforward, stronger, and better. At the heart of Throughout this chapter, you’ll find examples of the these efforts is a clear focus on customers and clients, many ways we’re transforming our company to be even and making their financial lives better. more customer-driven. This customer focus, and the efforts we’ve made to deepen our relationships on every level, is the second People We serve individuals, families, and small businesses pillar of our responsible growth strategy. through our Retail Banking, Preferred and Small Business Banking, Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, We recognize that our customers’ needs may be very and U.S. Trust businesses. Our products and services different. Whether they’re individual consumers or range from basic banking to meeting specialized families, small business owners, or large multinational financial needs – developing responsible products, companies, we know that we succeed only when our services, and practices that lead to better financial customers and clients are thriving. That’s why our decisions, a stronger company, and a healthier economy. operating principles and responsible growth strategy are focused clearly on the customer. Simplifying Banking and Investing Our customers and clients have told us what they for Our Customers expect from us, and we intend to live up to those The people we serve have changed the way they expectations. By listening, we take into account their bank, so we’ve changed to meet their needs. While we preferences, concerns and goals, and we deliver what continue to serve these customers and clients across they need. the country, we’re doing it differently than before. All these efforts have allowed us to focus on our First and foremost, we’ve simplified products and customers and clients, and to deliver the full power of reduced fees. We’ve also listened to customers, clients, our resources and global reach to help them achieve and employees, and made changes based on their their goals. feedback that make it easier for customers to work • Families can have the tools and support they need with us, so we can help them take advantage of what to live more successful financial lives, including the company has to offer – and ultimately improve their saving for a home, college tuition, and a secure financial lives. We focus on understanding the unique retirement. needs of our customers so we can build better, more • Neighborhoods can be built on a solid foundation personal relationships and do more for and with them. of responsible home lending and economic 16 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT What our customers told us is clear: Don’t let me spend Our customers now schedule more than 15,000 money I don’t have; give me the tools to do the simple appointments each week, and these improvements will things myself and at my own convenience; help make make it even easier to get connected to all that Bank investing easier; and please recognize my loyalty. These of America offers to improve their financial lives. And as insights led to: technology advances, so do we. • Simplified Products in Consumer Banking: • More Accessible Expertise: We want to be Instead of a long list of complicated options, we’ve a trusted partner for our customers and clients simplified our offerings to three core products that, when they’re making their most important financial between them, serve the full spectrum of customer decisions. These are often occasions that require needs — from basic banking to more extensive more specialized capabilities, like buying a house, capabilities. opening a small business, or investing for the Bank of America Core Checking® is our most future. We do all this through our relationship popular account and provides all the benefits of managers and a network of dedicated specialists a checking account with easy ways to qualify for in our financial centers. They stand ready to help monthly fee waivers. whenever our customers and clients need more Bank of America Interest Checking® is personalized service. interest-bearing for customers with more • Easy Ways to Invest for the Future: We want extensive needs and larger balances. to talk to clients about the many ways we can help SafeBalance Banking® is an alternative option them think about and manage their money. for our customers who want more predictability Life Priorities – We’ve worked to better connect in the way they bank, protection from overdrafts, people’s lives to their finances through broader, and the ability to manage their finances without more personally meaningful conversations with using paper checks. a financial advisor about their life priorities. This • Increased Transparency: We’ve continued to effort is designed to ensure clients can pursue simplify the disclosures across all our products what’s most important to them to achieve peace to ensure that they’re straightforward and easy to of mind and prepare for the future. understand. Our goal is to ensure that our Merrill Edge® – We offer self-directed online customers clearly understand all the features, investment options that combine investment requirements, and benefits of our products. insights from Merrill Lynch with the ease • More Ways to do Business With us: and convenience of a robust online platform. Customers can bank with us when and where it’s Customers have easy access to investment most convenient for them, whether depositing a research and one-on-one guidance from check with their mobile phone, paying bills through financial solutions advisors, together with online banking, making purchases with a digital intuitive tools that make it easy to invest and wallet, speaking with a teller, or using one of our track their progress. ATMs with Teller Assist®. Our online and mobile Merrill Lynch Wealth Management – We’ve Bank by Appointment tool allows customers to changed the dialogue with our clients, talking schedule same-day financial center appointments to them about their money in simple language. with specialists, and mobile users can add the We’ve also developed solutions that are focused appointments directly to their calendar. on their personal goals and on achieving outcomes that are meaningful to them. 17 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Case Study: SafeBalance Banking® As part of our ongoing product development process, in 2013, we conducted research with customers in their homes to better understand their habits and beliefs about their financial lives. We also sought feedback from representatives on our National Community Advisory Council, a council of civil rights, consumer advocacy and community development leaders from across the country. During our research, we gave customers a series of activities designed to explore their relationships with money from every angle — from simple everyday transactions like buying a cup of coffee, to more philosophical questions about money as a source of happiness, stress, or distress. We learned how people make emotional connections to the various tools of finance, including the credit cards they carry in their wallets. These customers told us that if an account could prevent transactions from going through when there is not enough money in the account, it would help them gain better control of their spending. Based on that research and following considerable conversations with and feedback from leaders on our National Community Advisory Council, in early 2014, we launched a low-fee banking account called SafeBalance BankingTM. Developed as an alternative option for customers who want more predictability in the way they bank, the new account prevents them from incurring overdraft fees by allowing transactions only when they have enough money in their accounts. SafeBalance Banking also eliminates the uncertainty created by check writing by eliminating this activity altogether. Since its launch, SafeBalance Banking has received praise from consumer advocates and civil rights organizations as a leading example of how we’ve focused on providing customers with banking solutions that effectively address their everyday challenges while helping them build better money habits. 18 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Helping Customers Advance expertise in online learning with our financial Better Money Habits know-how to deliver simple, easy-tounderstand For each person, feeling in control of their money and information on a wide range of personal making finances simpler and easier to manage means finance topics. something different. For some, it’s all about more predictability in their everyday finances; for others, it’s getting useful information in moments that matter. Here are some of the ways we’re helping people manage their finances: • Alerts: We have a range of proactive alerts that customers can set up to be notified of account activity. • Policy on overdrafts: We don’t let debit card customers overdraft at the point of sale. As part of our commitment to providing more clarity and transparency for customers, in 2010, we made the decision to only allow debit card transaction at the point of sale if a customer has enough money in his or her account. Customers also cannot overdraw their account at the ATM, unless they proactively agree that they understand a fee will be charged. This change helped customers by reducing the likelihood they may inadvertently overdraw their account and incur unexpected overdraft fees on those transactions. • Better Balance Rewards™ credit card: To underscore the importance of building better credit habits, we offer a credit card that rewards responsible credit behavior. With this card, customers who pay more than their minimum payment on time each month receive a $25 credit in their statements each quarter. • BetterMoneyHabits.com: Developed in partnership with nonprofit Khan Academy, this online education resource — free, objective, and open for all — is part of our commitment to helping everyone understand more about their finances, one decision at a time. This partnership is described in greater detail later in the report. BetterMoneyHabits.com pairs Khan Academy’s 19 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Case Study: Better Money Habits in Our Financial Centers We recognize that Bank of America has an important role to play in helping people feel financially confident, so we offer free and unbiased financial education through BetterMoneyHabits.com and within our financial centers. Better Money Habits is an online financial education resource that we developed in partnership with Khan Academy, a nonprofit organization whose mission is to provide a free world-class education for anyone, anywhere. The Better Money Habits site is free, objective, and available to everyone, and it pairs Khan Academy’s expertise in online learning with our financial know-how to deliver simple, easy-to-understand information on a wide range of personal finance topics, including saving, budgeting, building credit, paying down debt, paying for college, and buying a house. Since the site launched in 2013, we’ve connected millions of people to information that can help them make better financial decisions. As of December 31, 2015, over 11 million people have visited the site, and our content has been viewed more than 92 million times. We also use the simple, easy-to-understand information provided through Better Money Habits within our financial centers. Our employees talk with customers about their financial needs and show them how to access this free information to help them address a particular need or to build their general financial know-how. We began training our associates with the launch of BetterMoneyHabits.com in 2013 and continue to invest in their training. Currently, any one of our financial center associates can pull up materials to print and share with customers, and we have tablets in more than 2,000 financial centers to walk customers through the resources in real time. For example, if a customer is applying for a credit card but doesn’t have a good credit history, our personal bankers can show them information on how to improve their credit score. Approximately 5,200 financial center associates have participated in the Better Money Habits Recognition Program training as of December 31, 2015. We’re currently working to identify opportunities to include this topic in customer engagement training so our teammates can point to the resources in their everyday sales and service conversations. Better Money Habits is also included in our relationship banker training and will be included in the relationship manager training as it is developed. We’re also working to include appropriate links in servicing communications that go out to customers regarding events like overdrafts and name changes. Regular internal communications direct employees to these resources and share success stories to increase engagement and encourage employees to make Better Money Habits a part of every customer conversation. 20 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT A Strong Culture of Serving Retail behaviors and expectations of our financial center Banking Customers associates and enables our leaders to manage and We have instituted processes and provided training coach them based on business needs, staffing models, so our associates clearly understand our values and local market conditions. When core behaviors and operating principles. We set clear expectations and expectations are consistently met, we show our of behavior for customer interactions, and our customers how we’re committed to being better, one employees spend time in training and skill-building connection at a time. activities in person, on the job, and online. We provide continuing education and support through each of our The Playbook covers essential elements, such as how communications channels as employees progress in we engage customers, build relationships, and solve their careers. problems, and it describes foundational expectations and behaviors. Employees are asked to make a personal These key strategic communications channels include pledge to embrace the Customer Experience an interactive Intranet, where consumer banking Commitments: employees find tools, training, job aids, and leader • Make interactions easier by making it simple for messages. We also publish “The Water Cooler,” a blog customers to do business with us. that enables front-line employees to interact with each • Make expertise more accessible by partnering with other, leaders, and business experts. Employees stay our experts as one team to help our customers. connected with our culture through local leadership • Make relationships more human by caring for engagement, daily guidance from financial center customers and treating them with respect. managers through a routine called the “Daily Huddle,” • Share our success by doing the right thing for and continual feedback and coaching. customers, teammates, and the community. Several times each year, employees in our financial To enable us to meet our customer satisfaction goals, centers and call centers participate in “focus weeks,” we publish and use a series of job aides, which help which provide intense grounding in key elements of employees understand how to more fully connect and their work. For the past several years, employees have interact with customers: participated in activities and learning opportunities • Our Customer Experience Guide provides details during the first week of October, which marks a national on behaviors that contribute to our unique focus on customer service. Called “My Customer Week,” customer experience. the full slate of activities includes videos, role playing, • Our Customer Indicators Reference Guide provides coaching, and exercises that teach employees how to an overview of the customer indicators and how make customer interactions easier and more personal. customerand client-facing employees can better use them during various interactions. Our New Playbook for Customer and • Our Driving Success in Customer Satisfaction Client Engagement Leader Toolkit is designed to help managers and Strengthening our company culture has involved the leaders demonstrate and coach associates to full commitment and engagement of our managers achieve better connections with our customers and leaders as well as the front-line associates. Our and improve performance in key areas impacting Customer Engagement Playbook outlines the core customer experience. 21 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Focusing on Our Clients – Global Wealth The people of GWIM serve our clients with enormous and Investment Management dedication and talent. Merrill Lynch and U.S. Trust draw The Global Wealth and Investment Management (GWIM) upon a combined heritage of more than 250 years of business of Bank of America – comprised of Merrill wealth management and private banking leadership, Lynch Wealth Management, Global Wealth and Retireserving generations of individuals and families. They are ment Solutions, and U.S. Trust – is focused on leading recognized today for their industry-leading service and the financial industry away from a traditional top-down, innovation in meeting the needs of our clients. one-size-fits-all approach, in favor of a new dialogue. We engage in conversations with clients and prospects A Culture that Sets Us Apart in Global so that we can understand what matters most to them Wealth and Investment Management and their families, and then tailor advice to help them Merrill Lynch and U.S. Trust also share the belief pursue their goals. that we serve our clients best through the combined efforts of a team of people working together toward Our GWIM businesses are supported by over 15,700 a common objective. Dedicated individuals contribute client-facing advisors, who manage $2.38 trillion in their talents and expertise to develop customized client assets in over 800 offices around the world. strategies for each client. For their part, clients can be GWIM provides a high-touch client experience through confident their advisor teams stand ready to respond a network of financial advisors who are focused on promptly to their questions and requests, to regularly meeting our clients’ needs. Our specialists support our review their progress, and be fully transparent about advisors and clients in delivering personalized guidance, risks or fees. solutions, and thought leadership to help meet our clients’ needs in investments, banking, and retirement Our advisors have the ability to align the company’s planning. Our vast resources and customized solutions broad resources and expertise to a client’s financial include wealth structuring, investment management, needs. It could be a young couple’s desire to save and brokerage products, banking and credit needs, financial invest for their first home, their children’s education, and succession planning, philanthropic and specialty and a secure retirement. It could be the capital a small asset management, family office services, custom business seeks to develop new technologies or create credit solutions, trusts and banking, specialty asset jobs in struggling communities, provided by individuals management services, financial administration, and investing with a social purpose. It could be the advice family trust stewardship. and guidance sought by high net worth clients for wealth structuring, trusts and banking, and for help First and foremost, we are client advocates. We stress leaving legacies to their loved ones and gifts to their to clients and prospects that our business is not about favored charities. selling products or investments, but looking for ways to make their financial lives better. This is why each In each instance, GWIM can meet our clients’ needs client relationship is grounded in a dialogue focusing with teamwork that delivers solutions to provide greater on that individual’s priorities and objectives. With that value to our clients. As an example, Merrill Lynch understanding, we can discuss how to best use our and U.S. Trust teams are collaborating side-by-side broad capabilities to make their experience a positive one. to provide industry-leading trust capabilities to their 22 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT clients, bringing together advisors and specialists to Our Global Wealth and Investment Management develop comprehensive plans, execute as one team and business runs two additional formal training programs. review the results, so they can continue to improve. The first recruits college graduates and trains them to contribute as members of Financial Advisor teams. Developing Our Global Wealth and The second prepares candidates to become Financial Investment Management Advisor Force Advisors within our banking financial centers, where We recognize the importance of developing and they offer traditional banking and investment solutions enhancing the knowledge and skills our GWIM advisors to prospective wealth management clients. need to provide a client-centered approach. This is why, even as the advisor population is shrinking across U.S. Trust’s Private Client Advisor (PCA) Development our industry, GWIM’s advisor numbers continue to program is a world-class training program unique in the rise, thanks to the success of our recruiting and our industry. Associates are equipped over an 18-month commitment to investing in identifying and developing period with the training and experiences necessary to new advisors. build a sustainable business and serve many types of clients, from families managing wealth across multiple We employ various methods to train our experienced generations, to business owners, corporate executives, advisor force to ensure they remain current on topics nonprofit organizations, and foundations. Upon that impact their business, and enable them to leverage successful completion of the program, associates will their expertise for the benefit of our clients. We also transition into a PCA role and have access to the full have several formal programs to develop new talent. complement of U.S. Trust’s advisor-training continuum, For example, front-line advisors who rise through the which is designed to familiarize them with the broad Merrill Lynch Practice Management Development (PMD) array of solutions and capabilities available to clients program graduate from the most rigorous training and to deepen their business acumen and client-facing program in the industry. Over a three-year period, we skills. U.S. Trust also partners with providers such as the provide our advisors the knowledge and discipline they Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania for need to build their practices and portfolios and serve select executive education programs, and associates are and deliver goals-based financial guidance to clients. encouraged to obtain professional designations such as In 2015, the PMD program was awarded a gold medal Chartered Financial Analyst®. in the Brandon Hall Group Excellence in Sales and Performance Awards for the third consecutive year. Helping Our Clients Manage Risk As clients have seen increasing volatility in markets After graduating from the PMD program, advisors during the past decade, they’re seeking assurances that continue to refresh and expand their knowledge, financial firms like ours are fully committed to helping and GWIM encourages advisors to gain additional them identify and avoid unnecessary risks. certifications, with Certified Financial Planner® among the most popular. In today’s environment of rapid Our commitment to a strong culture focused on change, there’s also unrelenting pressure to stay current managing risk has impacted the discipline we employ in on market events, new products, and benefits available how we bring products and services to market, and also to their clients, enhancements to our advisory platform, the steps we take to inform and educate our clients and regulatory requirements that will affect our about risk, so that the appropriate choices are made. advisors’ practices and clients. Our thinking and our actions with clients are guided 23 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT by this culture of risk mitigation and transparency. By • Enhanced routines to hold employees and managers asking the right questions and addressing concerns accountable for conduct incidents which may result proactively, we’re providing both a higher level of service in outcomes ranging from verbal coaching up to and greater confidence in their financial strategy. termination of employment and/or claw-back of compensation in the most serious cases. Companies and Institutions • Business and desk heads have conducted multiple Our Global Banking and Markets (GBAM) business conduct-focused training sessions across the globe delivers Business Banking, Global Commercial Banking, for all sales and trading employees, emphasizing Global Corporate and Investment Banking, and Global our culture of compliance; additionally, new-hire Markets services for companies and institutions across orientation and newly promoted employee sessions the globe. We provide institutional clients worldwide focus on conduct and culture expectations. access to our leading sales and trading and research • Business controls and compliance teams have franchises, investment banking services, global client conducted specific line-of-business training relationships, and product innovation. covering acceptable versus unacceptable employee market conduct. Our Global Banking business works with virtually every • Access to customer order information and potential company in the S&P 500. Through our platform, we’re resulting conflicts have been further limited through building long-standing relationships with institutional, information-security controls designed to restrict corporate, and commercial clients in the U.S. and access to only those who need to know the internationally, focused first on understanding each information for legitimate business purposes. client’s specific strategic needs, and then on creating • Multi-user chats have been prohibited for two or opportunities and solutions by delivering our full range more banks and/or dealers, are limited to those who of investment banking and asset management products have a business purpose, and are closely monitored. and services. • E-communication reviews have been significantly enhanced, and efforts continue to correlate Sales and Trading Practices trading behavior to e-communications and voice In 2014, Global Markets launched an initiative to analyze communications. and, where necessary, further enhance our sales and • Sales and trading supervisors are required to review trading market practices. This initiative focused on their employee’s e-communications, including market conduct and how that conduct is reflected chats, and escalate potentially problematic in fair, well-functioning and transparent markets. communications. • Supervisory and surveillance capabilities have Throughout our sales and trading practices, we’ve taken been improved and continue to be enhanced, steps to mitigate conduct risk through preventive and and additional compliance testing reviews have detective measures. Senior managers are engaged been recently added to complement traditional in the implementation and oversight of practices surveillance capabilities. and controls to ensure that employees uphold the • These policies and procedures continue to be company’s conduct expectations. Salient aspects of the assessed for further improvement. control framework are outlined below: 24 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Additionally, conduct incidents including policy elevated approvals and adherence to monitoring violations, unprofessional and problematic standards. Through proactive and rigorous client e-communications and matters identified through selection processes, we have simplified and de-risked supervisory, compliance, human resources, and risk our portfolio, including exiting certain businesses management processes are aggregated globally and that were perceived to engage in unfair, deceptive, or incorporated into performance management and abusive acts or practices. For example, our Commercial compensation decisions. In addition, conduct incidents and Corporate Banking groups do not actively do are reviewed by the Conduct Review Forum, which business with payday or car title lenders. includes senior business, compliance, human resources, and risk managers to determine if heightened Part 3: supervisory requirements should be imposed. Responsible Growth: Enhanced Controls for Payday Lending/ Managing Risk Predatory Lending Overview Prohibited Client Relationships As a financial institution, risk is inherent in all of our and Transactions business activities. Managing risk well is foundational Due to inherent, legal, reputational, or financial to our business and our ability to deliver responsible risk issues, we deem certain extensions of credit growth. It contributes to the strength and sustainability as prohibited – which means that relationships or of our company for the future, and supports the work transactions with those specific clients or industries are we do today to serve our customers, clients, community, unacceptable under any circumstances, no exceptions shareholders, and employees. We invested heavily after permitted. Under this framework, relationships or the financial crisis to improve our risk management transactions that are in violation of Office of Foreign practices and are committed to having best-in-class Assets Control sanctions, speculative in nature and risk management capabilities. purpose, in support of predatory lending practices, or designed to facilitate illegal or improper activities such Key components of our risk management approach as unlawful internet gambling are not permissible. include our Code of Conduct, Risk Framework, culture, Business unit risk teams ensure that these transactions risk appetite, risk management processes, and three or relationships are prohibited through review of lines of defense, each of which is discussed in detail credit approval documentation. In addition, training below. on prohibited transactions, clients, and industries is conducted as part of the company’s overall credit risk Code of Conduct and governance, as part of general training on core credit policy. Risk Framework Our Code of Conduct and Risk Framework are Higher Risk Transactions, foundational to our culture. Our Code of Conduct Client Types, and Industries provides basic guidelines for our business practices Higher risk transactions, client types and industries and professional and personal conduct that all present heightened reputation, regulatory, money employees are expected to follow. Our Risk Framework laundering, and financial risk. Higher risk transactions, describes our risk management approach and provides client types and industries require a higher level of for the clear ownership and accountability for managing scrutiny and may warrant enhanced due diligence, risk across our three lines of defense – the front line units, independent risk management, and Corporate 25 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Audit. Our Global Risk Management group performs • Integrity is required and employees are expected to the function of independent risk management, the be honest, ethical, and trustworthy. second line of defense. • Managing risk well protects our company and enables us to deliver on our purpose and strategy. Culture • We treat customers fairly, act with integrity Managing risk well is a key operating principle that is and conduct ourselves properly to support the fundamental to our culture and critical to our success. long-term interests of our employees, customers, Our values require us to act responsibly, and our and shareholders, and the financial markets. operating principles compel us to take ownership of • Individual accountability and an ownership mindset managing risk. At our company, everyone has a role are the cornerstones of our Code of Conduct to play in managing risk. We encourage employees and are at the heart of managing risk well. to take personal ownership of, and continuously • All employees are responsible for proactively focus on, risk management as an integral part of our managing risk as part of their day-to-day activities business practices and activities. Our approach to through the prompt identification, escalation, and risk management is intended to reinforce a culture of debate of risks. personal integrity and accountability where risks are • While we employ models and methods to assess promptly identified, escalated, and debated, thereby risk and better inform our decisions, proactive benefiting the overall performance of our company. debate and discussion lead to the best outcomes. • Our lines of business are first and foremost We’ve worked to cultivate a culture and create an responsible for managing all risks in their environment in which employees discuss risks openly, businesses. and exchange insights that help in day-to-day • Independent risk management provides decision-making and strategic planning. Our focus on independent oversight, while Corporate Audit creating a diverse and inclusive culture further enhances provides independent assessment and validation. our risk management, as employees feel valued and • We strive to be best-in-class by continually working empowered to share their various perspectives on how to improve our risk management practices we run our businesses. We discuss this in more detail and capabilities. on p. 40. Additionally, our company’s ongoing formal and informal training and communications help sustain Managing Risk in Practice a shared understanding of risk management and build Key to managing risk well is our philosophy that all risk skills throughout our company. employees take the initiative to identify, escalate, and debate risk issues across our enterprise. Sustaining and continually strengthening our culture • Identify: We foster a culture where employees rooted in disciplined risk management is a clear are encouraged to proactively identify risks, expectation of executive management and the Board including emerging risks, in all of our activities of Directors. Our leadership and risk governance and in every part of the company. We believe that routines consistently reinforce this message. it’s important to identify risks regardless of their probability of occurrence at any given point in time, Principles of Managing Risk as probabilities continually change, and paradigm The following form the foundation of our operating shifts in economies and markets can dramatically principle of managing risk well: alter probabilities. 26 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT • Escalate: We require employees to be diligent, and “Tone From the Top” and Leading by Example escalate risks at the point of discovery. We expect The Board and executive management set our core employees to notify their managers immediately values and drive our culture of risk management when they have identified a potential risk. They’re through setting the tone from the top and leading by also encouraged to share any risk-related concerns example. The Board and executive management team with their manager’s manager or with partners in reset our company’s direction in 2010 by carefully Global Risk Management or Corporate Audit. We articulating our purpose and strategy, and clearly expect managers to create an environment in which describing our operating principles and values. Since everyone is encouraged to ask questions, raise then, we’ve continued to make significant strides to concerns, and challenge others constructively. instill a sound culture consistent with this direction. • Debate: We promote frank dialogue and the For example, our CEO has led numerous global town deliberation of risks and, consequently, seek halls discussing our values and operating principles to create and maintain an environment that and emphasizing responsible growth. In addition, promotes open debate, challenge, and resolution members of senior management have participated in of risk-related issues. We encourage our employees discussions where they’ve shared their insights on how to be intellectually curious, and require them to both to build a strong culture of risk management. They’ve initiate and participate in a thorough, dispassionate, also reinforced the importance of each employee’s and objective challenge process where they can role in managing risk at all-hands meetings and town discuss risks, issues, and concerns openly in order halls, through executive communications, and by to arrive at the best possible outcome. personal acknowledgment of employees who have demonstrated exemplary risk management practices. Ongoing Efforts to Strengthen Managing Risk Performance Management, Compensation, Since the financial crisis, we’ve worked diligently to and Recruiting enhance and embed routines into our daily operations Risk and controls are an important part of our that support a sound culture rooted in disciplined risk performance management, compensation, and management. In 2014, we surveyed employees to recruiting processes. Our compensation policies and establish a baseline for our risk management practices practices encourage responsible risk-taking consistent that support our culture and identify strengths and with the Risk Framework and risk appetite. Over the opportunities for improvement. We launched various past several years, we’ve aligned performance plans initiatives based on those survey results, and we and compensation with risk management tools and continue to incorporate lessons learned into our enhanced promotion and reward practices to reinforce practices, and tailor these practices to the dynamic the importance of delivering results over both the business environment. This enables us to sustain short and long term. Our performance management high risk management standards and continuously and compensation practices are designed to reward strengthen our culture as part of our commitment employees who conduct business and achieve results to build leading risk management capabilities. in the right manner. Compensation can be influenced not only by what the employee achieves, but how the Recent initiatives to strengthen our culture and risk employee achieves it, and while employees have the management practices include the following: opportunity to earn increased compensation for strong 27 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT performance, some may receive a decreased amount, Communications or no incentive at all, if performance has not met We have a comprehensive communications strategy expectations. Career advancement and job promotion that articulates key messages across the company opportunities are tied to overall employee performance, about our values and operating principles. We including adoption of our culture, and adherence to our continuously drive home key messages, such as: we Risk Framework and the company’s core values. For our all have a role in risk management, and managing risk leaders, we incorporated objectives about risk into their well is everyone’s job. We’ve executed a campaign to assessment process, and we enhanced our expectations encourage employees to be intellectually curious and for leaders by adding desired behaviors to their “use their voices” to proactively raise issues and performance goals, which are aligned with our culture. provide effective challenges. We also carried out an More information about our compensation practices enterprise-wide “risk week” program aimed at creating can be found on p. 44. greater awareness of and attention to risk management and culture, and over the past several years, we’ve Building Skills and Capabilities worked to enhance the company’s intranet site with Recruiting highly skilled and experienced personnel additional tools and resources on risk management is critical to our success and to the continual practices. We recognize that creating and maintaining enhancement of our skills, capabilities, and culture. a strong culture requires vigilance and a steadfast Our employees are our most important resource, commitment to a robust communications strategy, and we strive to hire the best people. Over the past and we continue to focus on this by identifying several years, we’ve focused on hiring highly skilled and enhancements to our communications strategy. experienced personnel for Global Risk Management, including in the areas of Global Compliance, global risk Providing Role Clarity analytics, and model risk management. We carefully articulate responsibility and accountability for managing risk at each level of the company – the Training helps sustain our culture. All new employees Board of Directors, executive management, managers are provided training and information during and employees. In addition, we’ve implemented on-boarding to help acclimate them with our values, risk fundamental changes over the past several years framework, and risk management practices. We also to enhance the governance and oversight of our require employees to take annual training on our Code control environment. We have clear ownership and of Conduct, which provides basic guidelines for business accountability for managing risk across our three practices and professional and personal conduct which lines of defense: front line units, independent risk employees are expected to follow. We provide management, and Corporate Audit. Front line units are role-based training for certain priority compliance first and foremost responsible for managing all risks of topics, such as the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, their businesses. Regulation W, and the Volcker Rule. We incorporate training on risk management into specialized This past year we reorganized our global risk development training for employees, such as our management operating model to make the group a Manager Excellence training, a training series for managers, more efficient and effective second line of defense. As and our “Risk Minute Video” training. In addition, certain part of this reorganization, we established front-line lines of business develop and conduct their own tailored unit risk teams that face our eight lines of business trainings to address risks specific to their operations. and have primary responsibility for providing strategic, 28 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT holistic, and independent oversight across all risks In addition, management and certain committees of the within a business; and enterprise risk teams that have Board monitor risk metrics relative to our risk appetite deep subject matter expertise for a given risk type, limits and take action as necessary to proactively and product or capability with end-to-end enterprise-wide effectively manage risk. responsibility. Our risk appetite is rooted in several principles, This operating model will further drive proactive including: management of all types of risk across the company, • Overall risk capacity: Our overall capacity to increase our effectiveness at managing risk, and take risk is limited, so we prioritize the risks we are facilitate more holistic thinking about risk and the willing to assume. Our risk capacity informs our risk interplay between risk types. appetite. • Financial strength to absorb adverse Reinforcing Our Culture With Formal Processes outcomes: Our objective is to maintain a strong The company’s governance framework provides and flexible financial position so we can weather structure and robustness to our risk management challenging economic times and take advantage of activities and reinforces our culture focused on organic opportunities for growth. managing risk. Components include our Board of • Acceptable risks: We consider all types of Directors, Board committees, management committees, risk, including those that are difficult to quantify. and their related risk management routines. Policies, Qualitative guidance in our risk appetite statements standards, procedures, and processes further reinforce helps us manage risks that are hard to quantify our culture. in a manner consistent with our culture. We seek to assume only those risks that we have the skills An overarching theme of our efforts to enhance our and capabilities to identify, measure, monitor, and culture is simplification. Among other things, we’ve control. streamlined our governance structure and operating model, clarified roles and responsibilities, simplified Risk Management Processes processes and reporting, and reduced bureaucracy Risk management is an essential component of our and complexity. Our risk governance and controls daily business activities. We employ an effective are supported by policies, standards, procedures, risk management process that involves identifying, and processes that provide consistency and clarity measuring, monitoring, and controlling risk as part of on requirements for managing risk and how these our daily activities. requirements must be addressed, and also help streamline and simplify governance practices. Risk considerations are also of paramount importance when establishing our strategic and financial plans. Risk Appetite Our strategic planning process consists of a Our risk appetite establishes guidelines and parameters top-down approach based on our risk appetite, financial around the amount of capital and earnings we’re considerations, strategic themes, and economic willing to put at risk to achieve our strategic objectives assumptions, integrated with a bottom-up approach and business plans. The risk appetite is reviewed and driven by our lines of business. Our risk appetite, and approved by our Board of Directors at least annually. capital and liquidity considerations are integral parts of our strategic planning process. We consider them 29 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT throughout the process in order to make the strategy Independent Risk Management of each line of business align with our company’s overall Our Global Risk Management group performs the appetite for risk and financial resources. function of independent risk management, the second line of defense, and is responsible for independently In addition, we employ key processes, such as stress assessing the risks associated with our company’s testing, capital adequacy assessments and recovery, domestic and international business activities — and resolution planning, to help us make sound providing effective challenge and overseeing risk. Global business-planning decisions. We conduct companywide Risk Management establishes policies and procedures stress tests on a periodic basis to better understand that outline how our aggregate risks are identified, balance sheet, earnings, capital, and liquidity measured, monitored, and controlled. It also escalates sensitivities to certain economic and business material risks that it identifies, as appropriate, to our scenarios, including conditions that are more severe executive officers, Board, and relevant committees. than anticipated. We’ve developed and maintain Global Risk Management oversees all types of risk, contingency plans that are designed to outline in including compliance risk. advance how we will respond in the event of potential adverse outcomes. These contingency planning Global Risk Management is led by the Chief Risk routines include capital contingency planning, liquidity Officer, who reports directly to both the Enterprise contingency funding plans, and recovery planning. Risk Committee and the CEO and is responsible for Contingency response plans, are designed to enable the development and implementation of our Risk us to increase capital, access funding sources, and Framework. Global Risk Management is organized into reduce risk through consideration of potential actions enterprise risk teams and front-line unit risk teams that that include asset sales, business sales, capital or debt work collaboratively in executing their respective duties. issuances, and other de-risking strategies. Enterprise risk teams establish and assess adherence to policies and standards, provide company-level risk The Three Lines of Defense oversight, and monitor and report on risks. These teams The three lines of defense consist of front-line units, also ensure that risk profiles remain within specified independent risk management, and Corporate Audit. limits and align with our risk appetite. Front-line unit risk teams oversee the risk management governance Front-Line Units structure for the lines of business and other Front-line units, which include our eight lines of front-line units. business, are organizational units or functions that engage in activities designed to generate revenue Global Compliance is led by the company’s global or reduce expenses, provide operational support or compliance executive, who maintains the authority for servicing to any organizational unit or function in the oversight of compliance risk and compliance-related delivery of products and services to customers, or matters. Global Compliance has responsibility for the provide technology services to any such organizational overall identification, management, escalation and unit or function. Front-line units are our first line of objective independent oversight of compliance risks defense in managing risk and are held accountable by and compliance-related matters across the company. the CEO and the Board for appropriately assessing and effectively managing all the risks associated with their activities. 30 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Corporate Audit • Assessing line-of-business strategies to ensure Corporate Audit is the third line of defense. Corporate consistency with the company’s overall strategic Audit, led by the corporate general auditor, maintains direction and financial and capital plans. its independence from the front-line units, independent • Strengthening our forward-looking analytics and risk management, and other control functions by stress-testing tools. reporting directly to the Audit Committee of the Board. • Performing analysis, including stress testing, on The corporate general auditor administratively reports portfolios to understand risk due to changes in to the CEO. Corporate Audit provides independent macroeconomic or geopolitical conditions. assessment and validation through testing of our key • Conducting deep dives on exposures and activities processes and controls across the company. in different countries or sectors to ensure consistency with our overall business strategy Key Risk Types and risk appetite. We have defined seven key types of risk: strategic risk, credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, Credit Risk compliance risk, and reputational risk. Credit risk is the potential loss due to a borrower’s or counterparty’s future inability or failure to repay their Strategic Risk contractual obligations to us, and it can significantly Strategic risk is the risk resulting from incorrect impact earnings. Credit risk is created each time we assumptions about external or internal factors, commit to or enter into an agreement with a borrower inappropriate business plans, ineffective business or counterparty. strategy execution, or failure to respond in a timely manner to changes in the regulatory, macroeconomic, We manage credit risk to borrowers and counterparties or competitive environments. We continually face based on their risk profile, which includes assessing strategic risks due to the changing regulatory and repayment sources, underlying collateral, and the competitive environments in which we operate, in expected impact of the current and forward-looking addition to the development of new products and economic environment on borrowers and counterparties. technologies in the financial services industry. Underwriting, credit management, and credit risk limits are proactively reassessed as a borrower’s or We proactively consider strategic risk throughout the counterparty’s risk profile changes. In addition, we strategic planning process. Our Board reviews and employ collection and loan modification programs, as approves our strategic plans after considering strategic well as customer assistance infrastructure, to mitigate risks in addition to other types of risk. In addition, we our exposure to credit risk. In our lines of business, we set strategies within the context of our overall risk utilize various methods to mitigate losses, including appetite, and track the performance of our strategic increased portfolio monitoring for moderate-to-weak plan to proactively manage our risks. risk profiles and hedging. We have been working since the financial crisis to Initiatives to improve our management of credit risk enhance the management of strategic risk, and are that were undertaken over the course of the several continuing to do so, by: years following the financial crisis include: • Working closely with front-line units to verify the • Transforming from a product-focused to a customerappropriateness of line-of-business risk appetites focused strategy for extensions of credit, thereby within the company’s overall risk appetite. improving the overall quality of our credit portfolio. 31 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT • Establishing risk appetite statements and limits Recent enhancements to our market risk management at legal entity, line of business, and business unit practices, which were motivated in part by regulations levels to better manage and control the level of promulgated subsequent to the financial crisis, include: risk. This has helped us enhance our monitoring and • Increasing the frequency and granularity of market measuring of credit risk by improving analytics and risk data reconciliation efforts. adding granular and dynamic credit risk limits, to • Enhancing daily reconciliation processes. better control and manage credit risk within our risk appetite. Liquidity Risk • Continuously enhancing our loss modeling and Liquidity risk is our potential inability to meet expected stress-testing capabilities to improve our ability to or unexpected cash flow and collateral needs while measure the performance of our credit portfolios continuing to support our businesses and customers. under various stress scenarios. Many of our operations and activities impact our • Better measuring our key vulnerabilities and liquidity risk profile, and liquidity risk is present in each concentrations (e.g., to residential and commercial of our major business lines and enterprise activities. real estate). Our liquidity risk profile is also impacted by corporate • Changing our loan underwriting criteria (e.g., activities, such as strategic funding decisions, tax max loan to value, minimum FICO) and actively planning, and litigation settlements. monitoring our performance against those standards. Understanding our liquidity risk profile in aggregate and on a granular basis is fundamental to managing liquidity Market Risk risk across our enterprise. We employ liquidity measures Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions, to ensure the appropriate composition, maturity profile, and which may adversely impact the value of our amount of funding, and liquidity of assets. We also assets or liabilities or otherwise negatively impact our employ limits to control the amount of certain types of earnings. Market risk is inherent in financial instruments assets and liabilities within our liquidity risk appetite. to which we have exposure through our operations and In addition, we have developed certain funding and activities, including loans, deposits, securities, short-term liquidity risk management practices which include: borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and maintaining excess liquidity at the parent company liabilities, and derivatives. and selected subsidiaries; determining what amounts of excess liquidity are appropriate for these entities Market risk management ensures that the front-line based on analysis of debt maturities and other potential units remain within the company’s stated market risk cash outflows, including those that we may experience appetite. We manage this primarily through establishing during stressed market conditions; diversifying funding and monitoring a set of market risk limits. These limits sources, considering our asset profile and legal entity have thresholds that may not be exceeded without structure; and performing contingency planning. executive and risk management approvals. In addition to limit monitoring, the market risk teams assist the Recent improvements to our management of liquidity lines of business with understanding, measuring, risk include: and monitoring the market risk in their portfolio and • Strengthening our absolute levels of liquidity across advising on risk reward or hedging decisions. Market all risk measures. risk management also has responsibility for setting • Hiring additional personnel to support expanded enterprise policy and process standards. liquidity risk management coverage. 32 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Operational Risk management by line-of-business and control Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from functions to ensure model risk is managed inadequate or failed internal processes, people, consistently with other major risk categories. and systems, or from external events. We manage • Strengthening model risk management practices, operational risk by designing and implementing procedures, and systems. internal controls to identify, measure, monitor, and • Revising the model risk policy and enterprise-wide control risks. We have quality assurance controls in standards for review and challenge of models place within processes to consistently assess controls across the company. and benchmark their effectiveness and efficiency • Continuing to build out the risk appetite framework across multiple business processes. We also rely on all for model risk with enhanced metrics and employees to conduct themselves properly, contribute monitoring. to an effective internal control environment, and manage operational risk within their roles. Compliance Risk Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory Our recent enhancements to strengthen operational sanctions, material financial loss or damage to the risk management include: reputation of the company arising from the failure • Developing and implementing governance routines of the company to comply with the requirements to prioritize and coordinate risk management of applicable laws, rules, regulations, and related improvement opportunities. self-regulatory organizations’ standards, and codes • Adopting consistent processes to ensure of conduct. business-led risk management forums are run with the necessary rigor, and provide the appropriate We manage compliance risk through an integrated environment to effectively escalate and debate key set of controls and processes to address external issues. and internal risks, including a complex and dynamic • Developing and implementing an enterprise-wide regulatory environment and the evolving products, control framework to govern, control, and mitigate services, and strategies of the front-line units and risks associated with spreadsheets throughout control functions. their lifecycle. • Enhancing our commercial and consumer loss Our recent enhancements to strengthen our global forecasting capabilities. compliance program include: • Improving counterparty risk management practices. • Creating a new centralized testing function to enhance compliance-testing capabilities and test Our operational risk management efforts include the design, as well as documenting consistent and management of model risk. Model risk refers to the efficient procedures. This new function enables potential for adverse consequences from decisions stronger, independent testing capabilities for the based on incorrect or misused model results. company and brings together testing expertise across all groups. Our recent enhancements to strengthen the model risk • Improving our compliance risk assessment management function include: approach to more clearly focus on business • Increasing accountability for model risk and control functions, assessing the inherent 33 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT compliance risk of activities and the effectiveness Part 4: of controls, and determining control weaknesses to be strengthened and enhanced. Responsible Growth: • Enhancing our compliance reporting to provide an Growing in a Sustainable Manner independent view of compliance risk across the company and support transparent communication Sustainable Responsible Growth and management awareness of compliance risk. We are invested in the company’s long-term sustainable This reporting brings together a comprehensive growth, and the fourth pillar of our responsible growth and independent view of compliance strategy emphasizes the importance of this risks and themes across the company. commitment. • Instituting a new compliance policy that establishes clear roles and responsibilities for the management We understand that we must sustain operational of compliance risk, and drives more consistent excellence in all our functions, as well as continue to execution by clarifying roles across Global be innovative in how we deliver end services to our Compliance and front-line units. customers and clients. Later in this chapter, you’ll read how we’ve focused resources and expertise on lower-fee products, mobile banking, and financial Reputational Risk education, and how we’re ensuring enhanced security Reputational risk is the risk that negative perceptions throughout the banking process. of our company’s conduct or business practices will adversely affect us and our business by, among other Sustainable responsible growth also means that things, not being able to establish new or maintain we’re able to attract and retain great people, in all existing customer relationships. Many of our business our business disciplines, and be viewed by our own activities expose us to reputational risk, and we people and by people within our industry as a great evaluate the potential impact to our reputation across place to work. Sustaining this broad support and a broad spectrum of activities and risks. We manage engagement starts with a culture of shared success. reputational risk by establishing policies and controls We’ve made significant investments in the health and in our business and risk management processes to wellness of our people, and in deepening the principles mitigate reputational risks in a timely manner and of inclusiveness and diversity across the company. through proactive monitoring and identification of We’ve built the core principles of corporate social potential reputational risk events. responsibility into our strategy, and we’re guided by these principles across our entire business. Over the past several years, we’ve taken steps to strengthen our management of reputational risk, including: Operational Excellence Sound day-to-day operations within an organization • Updating and enhancing our policies and guidance like ours are most clearly felt by customers and clients. for our reputational risk committees, including Throughout the company, we continue to reduce explicit inclusion of environmental and social issues. expenses and reduce volatility in risk and quality, and • Improving our reporting on reputational risk. we already are setting the standard for operational excellence in several measures within our industry. The ongoing goal of operational excellence remains one of our key operating principles. 34 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Simplifying and Strengthening percent reduction since 2008 in total outstanding the Company commercial paper and short-term borrowings. In response to today’s economic realities and to the • Further moderated short-term liquidity risk in evolution of our own business model, we’ve made non-traditional repo, as 79 percent of the overall important changes to every facet of our operations, portfolio now has a term of greater than one including how the company is capitalized and month, up from 55 percent in 2010. structured. • Focused the franchise on serving core customers and eliminated proprietary or non-core activities, including $73 billion in divestitures. Financial Strengthening Since 2009, Bank of America has reduced risk and decreased the size of its balance sheet while Structural Simplification substantially strengthening capital and liquidity. As part of the company’s transformation since the Our company’s post-crisis strategy has been clear: financial crisis, simplifying the legal entity structure has to deliver the full breadth of the franchise to three been a priority. A few key actions taken include: customer groups while building and maintaining a • The number of legal entities has been reduced by strong and secure balance sheet. This transformation roughly 45 percent since 2011. has emphasized both increasing available financial • A number of internal mergers have simplified the resources (capital and liquidity) and reducing and better organizational structure, reducing complexity and managing risk across businesses. Specifically, the interconnectedness: company has accomplished the following: Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. was merged • Increased capital levels by $43 billion, or 36%, into Bank of America Corporation on since the end of 2009 to $162 billion at the end of October 1, 2013. 2015 (Tangible Common Equity), while materially Two smaller banks, Bank of America Rhode reducing the company’s risk profile. Island, N.A., and Bank of America Oregon, N.A., • Built record levels of excess liquidity — $504 billion were merged into Bank of America, National at the end of 2015 — more than double the end of Association (BANA) in 2013. 2009. FIA Card Services, National Association • Significantly reduced the total long-term debt was merged into Bank of America, National footprint, from $523 billion in the fourth quarter of Association (BANA) as of October 1, 2014. 2009 to $237 billion at the end 2015. • Lowered refinancing risk by reducing, extending, The simplification of the legal entity structure over and smoothing the maturity profile for parent the past several years has been coupled with a long-term debt, as demonstrated by a reduction in strengthening of the oversight of the company’s near-term, annual long-term debt maturities from legal entities. The company developed a Subsidiary over $50 billion to approximately $20-25 billion Governance Policy in 2010 that included tiering the per year. entire population of legal entities, setting minimum • Concurrently maintained strong parent liquidity, legal entity reporting requirements and designating with 39 months’ coverage of maturities, versus 27 representatives from the businesses, finance, and months’ coverage of maturities in 2009. risk as formal legal entity designees. A Legal Entity • Eliminated both parent commercial paper and executive, or LEE, was formally named in 2011 with broker-dealer master notes, resulting in an 86 the responsibility to oversee the Subsidiary Governance 35 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Policy. The LEE ensures that the legal entity structure is • Consolidate tools and systems: Our SIM measured against the formal set of criteria as part team within Enterprise Business and Community of business processes and routines. Engagement consolidated more than 100 data elements from 35 systems into one tool. In Simplify and Improve Initiative addition, the reporting that was done manually is In addition to financial and legal entity structural now automated, which will save the thousands of changes, we’ve asked our teammates for ways we can hours it took to compile it previously. improve operations within the company. We call this • Move in real time: Recently, the SIM team within process at the bank “Simplify and Improve,” or SIM, and Merrill Lynch Wealth Management consolidated it’s a key part of our strategy to grow Bank of America the view of customer data in the Client Wellness sustainably. The SIM initiative has become an idea Dashboard, reducing the number of clicks it takes generator throughout our organization. to locate the data from over 70 to just one. This provides managers access to real-time analytics to We launched SIM in 2014 in response to feedback from enable them to more effectively coach advisors on employees, customers, and clients who said we could growth opportunities and risk management. make it easier to do business with Bank of America. • Make authentication easier: With the rise of Even before SIM was implemented, we looked for ways calls from mobile phones, we’re developing a “click to optimize the processes at the heart of our business. to dial” solution that will allow clients to call us by With this in mind, our SIM team started collecting ideas using a “contact us” button within the mobile app from employees across the company. At the same time, to authenticate directly. By having mobile numbers dedicated teams in each area of the company precisely on file, clients will not have to re-authenticate once mapped our current processes behind the bank’s core connected with customer service specialists. functions — including ATM security, loan approvals, and • Deliver one company: We want to improve investment analysis and advice — to better understand the Home Loans experience by allowing our how those functions can be improved. client-facing employees to access client documents and accounts that are currently part of their overall This work has resulted in nearly 1,000 ideas that have Bank of America relationship, including Retail been approved or implemented in the first year of SIM. Banking, Preferred, and Small Business, We anticipate these ideas will deliver a higher level Merrill Lynch and U.S. Trust. For the customer, of service and security to our customers and clients this creates a more streamlined and efficient while generating significant savings and revenue for home loan process. the company. And there are thousands of other ideas • Speed decision-making: We are simplifying within our SIM pipeline that continue to be reviewed. our operations in Consumer Lending by increasing Here are just a few examples: automation for new account acquisition and credit • Streamline approvals: In the past, the credit line increases while remaining within our risk process in Business Banking has been time parameters. This will increase our consistency, and consuming because of the many approvals required. provide customers with quicker decisions. We are The SIM team has streamlined the approval process, also consolidating technology platforms to reduce reducing the Business Banking approval grid from operational complexity and operational risk. 24 to four pages and making requirements clearer and more consistent for customers. 36 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Addressing Customer Concerns for managing the company’s global infrastructure, How we resolve customer complaints through technology, and operations to meet client needs with operational excellence presents one of the greatest appropriate controls and testing to ensure operational opportunities we have to strengthen our relationship risks are mitigated. with customers. Quite simply, it can make or break their connection with the bank. Over the past several years, we’ve invested in the modernization of our platforms, resulting in less Formed in 2014, the Enterprise Customer Care complexity through the retirement of applications Resolution (ECCR) team brings together groups and the simplification of technology environments. responsible for resolving customer concerns across Efforts span from the consolidation of platforms – card, deposits, and mortgage areas. The team also such as reducing three deposit platforms to one – to includes groups that work with lines of business broader transformational programs that are eliminating to ensure customers receive consistent, fair, and duplicate systems of record, automating manual responsive treatment when their concerns are resolved processes, significantly increasing processing capacity, and remediated. and delivering more resilient hardware and software. Reducing the number of people the customer has to In partnership with front-line units and control deal with is one of the most important challenges of functions, GT&O develops strategic plans that provide this initiative. The ECCR team members work with roadmaps for technology capabilities and foundational experts in all areas of the bank, but operationally, we architecture. These plans address: want just one person to be the customer’s point of • What is possible and proven in technology today. contact until we resolve the issue. • Use of scale to change the way infrastructure is deployed. In 2015, the team developed training, coaching • Digitization of platforms and operating processes. exercises, role-playing activities, and online resources to help ECCR teammates refine their skills at resolving and Our work to simplify and modernize our systems over preventing customer issues. Call-quality measurement the past several years is making banking easier for and policy and procedure updates are already improving customers, clients, and employees. For example: the customer experience. Alignment with enterprise • Consumer Deposits platform: Converting to initiatives, such as call monitoring and customer a single national deposits platform from three authentication, will also build competitive advantage, platforms enabled us to offer all customers a as customers who have a positive service recovery consistent coast-to-coast sales and service experience should be more receptive to speaking with a experience. company representative about deepening their banking • Merrill Lynch One®: The integration of five relationship. separately managed Merrill Lynch platforms into one offers a single view of a client’s holdings across Technology Simplification and all of their accounts, providing financial advisors a Modernization clearer understanding of how different investment Global Technology and Operations (GT&O) is the portfolios align to client goals. functional organization within Bank of America responsible 37 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT • CashPro®: Our consolidated client treasury Since 2009, we’ve made significant strides to enhance services platform for Corporate and Commercial our resiliency and our preparedness for crisis situations Banking clients provides access to comprehensive through a combination of increased financial strength, cash flow information on accounts worldwide. reduced risk profile, simplified company structure and • Credit card processing platform: This has operations, and well-developed crisis-management been the largest domestic platform conversion protocols. We’re committed to identifying additional in the credit card-serving industry. We converted opportunities to improve our resiliency and crisis approximately 86 million consumer credit card preparedness. accounts, updated 2,500 operational procedures to reflect process changes, and trained 17,000 Enhancing Resolvability employees for the conversion. We completed Bank of America is committed to improving this conversion to better integrate our systems, resolvability by identifying and mitigating risks. To improve efficiency and customer service, and help ensure that impediments are identified and mitigated us customize products based on customer and on an ongoing basis, the company has incorporated client needs. the identification of resolvability risks into its business routines. Since submitting its first Resolution Plan in In addition, operational risk has been reduced through 2012, Bank of America has completed over 20 projects improved platform stability – enabled by simplification to enhance resolvability. We’ve aligned the completed and modernization efforts – and the management of resolvability enhancements and the actions underway operational performance through strict governance into four primary areas of resolution preparedness: over error analysis, root cause discovery, and disciplined • Financial preparedness: The framework for mitigation programs. Operational risk has also been and placement of capital and liquidity necessary to reduced through the monitoring and management of execute the resolution strategies for the material high-risk processes and identification of key controls for entities. these processes. • Structural preparedness: The continued rationalization of the company’s legal entity Resolution Readiness structure and business practices for enhanced During crisis situations, it’s crucial for our company recoverability and resolvability. to function properly, and operations are a key part of • Decision-making preparedness: The this. Bank of America takes very seriously our role in formalization of overarching event management the global financial system, and we’re committed to governance to guide Board and management exemplary recovery and resolution preparedness. We decisions during times of severe financial stress. have a responsibility to operate our businesses not • Operational preparedness: The further only to serve our customers and clients and benefit build-out of executable operational continuity our shareholders but also in a manner that limits the capabilities. possibility that severe financial stress at the company could cause harm to customers, employees, U.S. taxpayers, or the overall economy or financial system. We’re focused on limiting this possibility, and we’ve embedded the consideration of enhancing resolvability in many of our strategic decisions. 38 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Case Study: Our Environmental Operations Today, the bank’s operations are on a path to be more environmentally sustainable. Efforts such as reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, paper and water consumption, diverting more waste from landfills through recycling and composting, and occupying buildings that are LEED-certified are all initiatives that reduce costs while reinforcing responsible operations and environmental stewardship throughout our organization. Since 2010, we have made significant progress towards our global operational environmental goals: • Greenhouse gas emissions reduced by 26% • Paper usage reduced by 29% • Water consumption reduced by 28% • 19% of our workplace is LEED-certified In 2011, Bank of America set a goal to reduce our absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 15 percent by 2015. The goal spans our global operations in more than 35 countries, and builds on our previous GHG reduction of 18 percent from 2004 to 2009 in our U.S. portfolio. We will far exceed this goal. Data centers are essential to our business. As our data centers account for 20-25 percent of our GHG emissions, our goal is to significantly increase the efficiency of our overall data center footprint. Since 2010, we’ve exited more than 30 data centers, consolidating our computing operations into significantly fewer buildings and reducing our energy usage in this area. We will continue to emphasize efficiency in our data centers in the coming years, to help simplify our operations, reduce costs, and lower emissions. Water is essential to our operations, and we take very seriously our responsibility to carefully manage our water resources. We’ve significantly reduced our water usage through the installation of many types of water-saving fixtures, and we’ve recycled or reused more than 23 million gallons of water throughout our facilities. Today, we use a billion fewer gallons of water annually than we did in 2010. We report annually on our greenhouse gas emissions and water usage to CDP. In 2015, we received a perfect score of 100 for disclosure and an A for performance from CDP, and were listed on the CDP Climate A List and the Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) for the sixth consecutive year. Paper is a significant contributor to our environmental footprint. We have three paper-usage goals we’ve worked to achieve by 2015: decrease our overall paper use by 20 percent; use an average of 20 percent post-consumer recycled content by weight; and use only paper sourced from certified forests. Throughout 2014 and 2015, we continued to focus on transitioning customers to online banking, reducing employee printing, and increasing the digital delivery of key documents. Since 2010, we’ve reduced our paper use by 29 percent, and we are on track to reach our goal of having 100 percent of our paper sourced from certified forests. We plan to announce the results of our 2015 global operations’ environmental goals in Spring 2016, when we will also announce our new suite of environmental goals. 39 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Great Place to Work equally diverse, with six of our CEO’s direct reports and Based in more than 35 countries, our employees six of our 13 Board of Director members being female represent the diversity of the communities we serve — and/or persons of color. in thought, style, experience, culture, race, ethnicity, gender identity, and sexual orientation. Their unique We have a disciplined approach to maintaining and perspectives help us make financial lives better for continuing to improve our diversity. Our Global Diversity people, companies, and institutions around the world. and Inclusion Council, chaired by Brian Moynihan and comprised of senior leaders from around the company, As we strive to make Bank of America a great place is responsible for setting diversity and inclusion goals to work, we listen to our employees to build on our and practices. Our Global Diversity and Inclusion programs and resources to enhance their employee Organization is a team of employees whose full-time experience, help them become better in their jobs, and responsibility is to partner with every business and further their careers with us. Through their feedback, region to develop diversity and inclusion strategies, we’ve learned that the needs of our employees are recruit diverse talent, manage partnerships and changing as today’s workforce is changing. Many alliances focused on diversity, and actively engage our employees are raising children, supporting aging employees. Each member of our management team, parents, staying in the workforce longer, and changing including the CEO, has diversity and inclusion metrics their career paths to pursue personal goals. To support incorporated into their business goals, and that focus is these diverse needs and drive our culture of making expected for all managers across the company. In fact, financial lives better, we focus our efforts on several each of our lines of business have councils charged key areas: with planning and implementing diversity strategies and • Growing our diverse and inclusive workforce. meeting their targeted goals and metrics. To support • Empowering professional growth and development. these efforts, we have recruiting programs specifically • Rewarding performance that balances risk designed to identify qualified diverse candidates, and reward. including partnering with more than 200 schools, • Investing in health, emotional, and financial wellness. colleges, universities, and external organizations. Through our far-reaching recruitment programs and Growing our Diverse and partnerships, we’re bringing the best and brightest from Inclusive Workforce around the world to Bank of America. In order to build We are a diverse and inclusive company where our the next generation of leaders, we have campus staff employees are actively encouraged to bring their full dedicated to recruiting and retaining talent, and aligned selves to work, and are empowered to share their with top diverse external organizations and conferences perspectives on how we run our company and support in order to build a more diverse workforce. Our most one another. The diversity of our employees — in recent campus recruiting class was more than 50 thought, style, sexual orientation, gender identity, race, percent diverse. ethnicity, culture, and experience — is essential to our ability to meet the needs of our diverse customers and We have many programs in place to help develop clients. Today, more than half of our global workforce is high-performing, diverse employees, and prepare them female, and more than 40 percent of our U.S. workforce for the next level of their career. Programs like our is racially and ethnically diverse. Our senior leadership is Global Women’s Conference, Black Executive Leadership 40 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Summit, and Hispanic Latino Leadership Summit • Contact the Employee Banking and Investments connect employees to senior leaders, outside experts, team for confidential solutions for our and to guidance on how to differentiate themselves and credit products. achieve their career goals. We also have 12 employee • Leverage bank assistance on behalf of family networks, which are comprised of more than 200 members and friends (U.S. only). chapters and over 70,000 members around the world, for women, black/African-American, Hispanic/Latino, The conversation with our employees about their military, LGBT, and employees with disabilities. These experience at Bank of America never ends. We’ll networks provide employees with opportunities to continue to learn from their diverse perspectives, connect to develop leadership skills, build strong ties and together, we’ll work to make our company an with the communities we serve, and bring lasting value even greater place to work. to our business strategies. All of these programs and efforts were created based Empowering Professional Growth on the feedback we receive from our teammates. They and Development are at the heart of all of our efforts in creating an Our employees’ career growth and professional inclusive workplace. After each Employee Engagement development is a top priority. The primary goal of Survey, the management team, as well as every line our development and career management programs of business, reviews the results to evaluate ongoing and tools is to help employees be effective and efforts to improve the employee experience. Employee grow in their roles, while achieving their highest satisfaction action teams are formed to gain a deeper professional aspirations. We know that people learn understanding of the survey results, prioritize issues and best in a variety of ways, so the learning options we concerns, and develop solutions. These action teams make available range from instructor-led learning and are also a vehicle to gather employee feedback on an web-based training to eBooks and videos — ensuring ongoing basis, on both the issues and the solutions. our employees can access what they need when they need it to grow skills and expertise to better do In addition to surveys, employees are encouraged to their jobs and serve our customers and clients. We share their feedback in many other ways – through also encourage our employees to explore external direct feedback with their managers, regular employee opportunities for learning, and in the U.S., we offer a town hall meetings, line-of-business meetings, and tuition reimbursement program that provides thousands Flagscape, our intranet for employees. Through of employees up to $5,250 per year for courses related Flagscape, we run a program called “Speak Up!” that to a current or future role at the company. encourages all employees to share feedback, ideas, questions, and success stories with management. In Manager Effectiveness 2015, employees posted almost 18,000 submissions Our managers are critical to influencing our company through the program. We also offer employees direct culture and supporting employees in their career mechanisms to: development. To help them be more effective in • Contact the Global Human Resources Service managing and leading their teams, we launched an Center with HR-related questions. innovative development program called Manager • Report ethical concerns or violations. Excellence. Our audience benefits from access to experienced senior leaders, industry experts, and peers, 41 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT providing diverse points of view and valuable lessons identify risks and opportunities more effectively, and learned. Topics are determined by leader feedback we retain top talent. and support company priorities, giving leaders insights and practical tips on a variety of managerial, business, Career Growth and professional subjects. In 2015 we had over In the last couple of years, we made great progress 60,000 leaders (both managers and non-managers) to help all employees achieve their personal career who participated in Manager Development, including goals and better support our customers and clients. Manager Excellence. Our leadership programs connect We developed a career tool called myCareer — a new employees, executives, and thought leaders across internal careers site that offers enhanced job search the organization. We provide access to leadership capabilities and career planning tools. It’s simple to and opportunities for our key talent to advance their navigate, and packed with resources to help employees careers through programs such as Know Your Talent. It explore career options and find opportunities that connects top-talent employees in Global Banking and fit their skills and interests. Since its launch in 2014, Markets with HR professionals for career conversations employees have signed up for more than 32,000 and ongoing development and support. Through our job alerts, giving them immediate access to roles Women’s Leadership Program, female managers hear that fit their skills and interests. Making it easier for from faculty from Columbia Business School and our employees to grow and continue their careers University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Kenan-Flagler at the company allows us to retain great talent and Business School to enhance their skills and prepare institutional knowledge, which drives stability across all them for leadership roles. Women who attend this we do for customers, clients, and each other. program are seven times more likely than their peers to be promoted. In addition to myCareer, we also developed the Career Path tool to better enable career planning for select We also continued training for employees and managers financial center roles. This new tool was designed to around how unconscious bias can affect how we run help employees, including tellers, identify potential next our businesses, reaching nearly 24,000 employees since roles based on how they want to expand their career. 2013. Unconscious bias is an automatic positive or The tool asks employees a series of questions about negative belief we are unaware we hold. Recognizing how they want to support customers and interact unconscious bias can help us become more effective with their teams. From those responses, the tool at retaining our best employees and developing their suggests possible next roles and outlines the skills and careers. Additionally, we launched inclusive leadership experience needed to get there. In 2015, the Career training for managers. Inclusion focuses on how Path tool received more than 43,000 page views, and as everyone can bring their whole self to work. We are a result of the favorable feedback we’ve received from continuing to integrate this message in all our leader employees, we’re expanding the tool to include more programs. roles across the company. We know that when we invest in these leaders and Rewarding Performance That Balances managers and they’re effective in leading their teams, Risk and Reward we see strong work performance from employees, we Our Pay for Performance philosophy connects an employee’s pay to company, line-of-business, and individual performance results. 42 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Performance Our Ethics and Compliance (E&C) Hotline, established in Through our performance management process, 2004, enables and encourages employees who witness employees understand expectations for their role unethical activities to report them in a confidential through ongoing dialogue with their manager. manner. In addition to financial improprieties or fraud, Employees have a performance plan that helps them unethical activities can also include Code of Conduct focus on specific goals in their role with the company, infractions, sexual harassment, discriminatory practices, and each plan has actionable goals with a focus on retaliation, and conflict of interest. Complaints or supporting our culture. possible violations can be submitted anonymously and in complete confidence to the E&C Hotline. A Culture of Risk Management As we mentioned earlier in this report, responsible We will not retaliate, and we prohibit employees from growth is critical to how we run the company and retaliating, against any employee who in good faith we’ve been more deliberate over the past several reports suspected unethical conduct or violations years to make sure strong risk management is woven of laws, regulations, or company policies. We will throughout our performance management process, not terminate employment, demote, or otherwise so that our business and performance activities are discriminate against an employee for calling attention sustainable and disciplined. Throughout the year, to suspected unethical acts, including providing employees receive coaching on their performance and information related to an investigation. Allegations opportunities for development, and, ultimately, they of retaliation are investigated, and anyone found receive a rating for their full-year performance based responsible for retaliating against an employee who upon their achievement of goals for their job. reported to the E&C Hotline is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment Over the last few years, we’ve enhanced the training and possible legal action. and development we provide to not only help employees achieve their own professional goals, but also help them Each E&C Hotline complaint is assigned to an be more effective at managing risk well. In 2015, our internal group who is responsible for determining employees logged more than 9.5 million training hours, the appropriate course of action and resolving the taking advantage of thousands of courses offered reported issue. Our Ethics Oversight Committee and through our employee learning curriculum. Courses Board of Directors are regularly updated regarding span our business practices, regulatory matters, and risk whistleblower-related matters and Code of Conduct management. violations. All employees are required to partake in annual training Control Function Feedback on our Code of Conduct, which outlines business To further support the company’s Risk Framework, we practices and professional and personal conduct review annually those senior leaders and employees that everyone is expected to follow. The Code, which who have the ability to expose the company to material is grounded in our values, guides how we meet our risk. We review their roles against components of our responsibilities and manage risk for customers, clients, Risk Framework to determine those who take and shareholders, and each other. control material risk for the company. We call these individuals “covered employees,” and we created a 43 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT rigorous performance review process for them called Compensation Control Function Feedback. Over the last few years, this Bank of America has a well-governed pay-for-performance review process has been enhanced, and each of these program that rewards long-term, sustainable results leaders and employees receives direct feedback and that are aligned with stockholder interests. evaluations from their independent control partners, such as finance, risk, audit, legal, human resources, Compensation ties pay to performance while balancing and compliance, on their ability to drive results for rewards with prudent business decisions and sound their customers and clients in a way that supports risk management. Compensation is comprised of an effective risk management for the company. Control appropriate mix of salary, benefits, and incentives Function Feedback is separate from, but included paid over time that properly aligns employee and within, the overall performance management process stockholder interests. Criteria for payment of incentive we described in the Performance section of this report. compensation takes into account company-wide, We’ve increased the number of covered employees business unit, and individual factors. Compensation is who are now part of this control function review determined on the basis of a combination of financial process, including many traders and sales personnel. and non-financial factors that reflect both the current Since inception in 2010, the number of senior leaders period and a longer period. and employees who have been identified as covered employees has doubled, and most recently increased 30 Compensation Plan Review percent from 2014. Since 2010, we have also applied Our compensation programs incorporate significant claw-back features to deferred incentive awards, which governance processes and procedures. In order to ensure allow the company to review for detrimental conduct or that the design of our incentive plans appropriately financial loss on an individual basis. balances risks with compensation outcomes, we have a compensation governance structure and an All these efforts at Bank of America help manage a annual incentive design process that is conducted in strong top-down culture, and promote effective risk partnership with the independent control functions management transparency throughout our business. (finance, risk, audit, legal, human resources, and The added rigor around managing our most senior compliance). Additionally, all of our approximately 25 employees helps ensure we drive the right risk focus compensation plans are reviewed and certified annually and balance when it comes to making performance and by the risk management function, and corporate audit pay decisions. assesses our plans on a scheduled basis. Each year, we continue to strengthen the governance and controls We also have increased our focus on expectations around compensation. For example, we recently around conduct and behavior as we continue to improve reviewed the risk, operations, and compliance metrics business operations. For example, Global Banking that are part of the compensation plan in our consumer and Markets employees took additional training in business. 2015 to help them better understand elements of the Code of Conduct, including customer privacy, expense In our financial centers, incentive awards are determined requirements, media engagement and appropriate use by a mix of sales, operational excellence, customer of email. This provided a consistent understanding of experience, and compliance-based metrics. For employees conduct and behavior, whether an employee is based in who are part of our Merrill Edge plans, incentive awards Houston or Hong Kong. are determined by sales metrics, client experience results, and behavior and conduct considerations. 44 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT In our Global Wealth and Investment Management specific performance goals over a three-year period. business, Financial Advisors are subject to a supervisory All awards are subject to claw-back policies. structure, and advisors not in good standing are ineligible to participate in certain business and Investing in Health, Emotional and compensation programs. Financial Wellness We know that supporting the physical, financial, and Across our Global Banking and Markets business, we’ve emotional wellness of our employees in their personal adjusted compensation arrangements to ensure that life also supports them in their work life, so they can be we don’t reward imprudent risk taking. We provide the best at work and at home. employees and managers additional structure by pre-loading guiding questions within the performance Health and Wellness management tool. The questions cover such topics as Our approach to health is built on the things we can financial and risk metrics, collaboration with support do together with our employees to manage health care and control partners, professional conduct, diversity, and costs: focusing on wellness, providing education and personal and team development. support, and partnering with efficient and accountable health care providers. We offer all employees who work Hourly Wage Strategy 20 hours or more per week health and insurance coverage. We’re committed to paying all of our employees competitive wages, and we invest considerable time Over the last few years, we’ve increased our focus in educating and supporting our managers to make on health and wellness by providing opportunities for sound and market-informed pay decisions. In particular, employees to become more knowledgeable about their we monitor the compensation of employees who are health, and help them save money on future health care paid hourly to ensure their wages are competitive expenses. Eighty seven percent of employees, spouses, with industry trends. To that end, we pay our U.S. and partners completed voluntary health screenings employees significantly higher than federal, state, and and assessments in 2015, while 74,000 employees local minimum wage requirements. We will continue have engaged a health coach or nurse to help manage to focus on this topic as we stay committed to paying chronic conditions, improve nutrition, reduce stress, or competitive wages. provide other wellness support and guidance. Compensation at Senior Levels By completing two voluntary wellness activities — a All senior business heads and control function heads health screening and health questionnaire — U.S.-based meet with the Board of Directors’ Compensation and employees maintain a $500 credit toward their annual Benefits Committee individually as part of the process medical plan premium. If a covered spouse or partner of reviewing and approving the company’s bonus pools; also completes both activities, the total credit is $1,000. discussions center on culture, risk management, and Our goal with these activities is to actively address talent. The company’s CEO and the CEO’s direct reports health risks by helping employees take advantage of receive a majority of their total compensation available resources, and learn more about their health in variable, performance-based pay. Half of those so they can prevent and address health issues. equity-based awards are structured as performance units that will be awarded only if the bank meets As a direct result of the wellness assessment, the company identified some common healthand 45 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT lifestyle-related concerns. Employees were concerned those costs down, giving these employees the ability to about not getting enough physical activity during the keep premiums flat for the last four years. For 2015 and week, making poor diet choices and coping with stress. 2016, we offered all employees a medical option with Following the success of the wellness activities, in 2013 no premium increases. the company further increased its wellness focus in two key areas — launching an activity-based program and Regardless of how much an employee earns, we expanding the wellness activities. continue to cover the majority of costs for employees’ medical coverage and offer health care savings Get Active! accounts to help employees manage their annual outTo complement its wellness activities and respond of-pocket expenses. On average, we pay approximately directly to employee feedback about getting engaged 65 percent of all our employees’ health care costs, in more physical activity, the company introduced Get totaling billions of dollars each year. Active! in October 2013. This voluntary program uses team-based activity challenges to help employees Work-Life Benefits improve their overall health. Employees use the In addition to our focus on health and wellness, we program’s website to log their steps or exercise offer a variety of support to working families with minutes, view team standings and show support for benefits like back-up child care, back-up elder care, elder teammates. In the eight-week challenge, participants care resources (including up to six hours of in-person could earn a reward by walking 56,000 steps assistance with a professional care manager per year at per week. no cost), discounts on certain child care center fees and tuition, reimbursement of up to $240 per month per In 2015, a remarkable 80,000 employees took part child for eligible employees’ child care expenses, in our Get Active! global challenge, forming more and more. than 12,000 teams surpassing initial expectations. Senior leaders were active participants and program We offer a range of paid and unpaid leave options champions. Progress of top teams was highlighted to enable employees to take time away from work. at divisional town halls; managers led by example by Parental leave policies differ from country to country. wearing their pedometers; teams were praised at In the U.S., we provide 100 percent paid time off — department meetings; and there was an overall healthy up to 16 weeks for adoption, maternity and paternity spirit of competition, collaboration and fun. As a result, leave — for eligible employees to care for a new child. employees took more than 28 billion steps in the global An employee can take up to 26 weeks total of paid and challenge equal to 568 trips around the world. unpaid leave. Parents also have the flexibility to take their leave when it works best for their family within Alignment of Health Care Costs and Compensation the first 12 months after the child arrives. We continue to align the cost of health care with compensation. Our health benefit premiums are We support employees who are new parents to help progressive based on how much an employee earns; the balance work with family life by offering a number of more our employees earn in yearly pay, the more they programs and benefits to help them make the transition contribute overall to the cost of their health benefits. back to work. In 2015, more than 8,000 employees took In 2011, for employees making less than $50,000, we parental leave. Approximately 93 percent of women and reduced their premiums by 50 percent. We’ve kept 98 percent of men returned to work after their leave. 46 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Eligible employees in the U.S. can also take advantage counseling, and domestic violence support. We’ve also of opportunities that encourage flexibility. These created an internal Domestic Violence Taskforce to options include flex time and compressed workweeks, further educate our employees about this serious issue, reduced hours, and alternative work locations. and the variety of resources we have available to employees and their families. Emotional Wellness Support We recognize that emotional wellness is as important The work of these teams has made a dramatic impact as physical wellness. Stress caused by factors at home on our entire company. In 2015 alone, the Life Events or at work can have an impact on our employees’ quality Services team extended support to over 10,000 of life and their ability to do their job well. That is why employees, retirees, and family members. The powerful one of the most important things we do is provide feedback from our employees, retirees, and their support to our employees during major life events that families about the support they have received and the impact their personal and professional lives. Our current difference these teams make in their lives is a constant employees, and the people who have retired from our reminder that we have made the right decision by company after years of dedicated service, deserve our making an investment in these areas. focused attention during the moments in their lives that matter the most. Financial Wellness We believe that the more informed people are about One of most impactful improvements we’ve made is their money, the clearer their financial outlook can establishing a dedicated Life Event Services team. The be. This applies not just to our customers, but to our team assists our U.S. employees who need support employees as well. That’s why we offer competitive during major life events, which may include taking a financial benefits that help employees prepare for leave of absence, facing a terminal illness, retiring from retirement and protect their family in the long term. the company, or undergoing a gender transition while working for Bank of America. The team also supports 401(k) – Automatic Enrollment employees and retirees when a dependent passes, and Our competitive 401(k) benefits help employees their families when our employees and retirees pass. In increase their savings for retirement through all cases, Life Event Services specialists ensure they are company-matched contributions of up to 5 percent of able to provide timely, holistic support for the financial eligible pay, and an additional 2 to 3 percent automatic and emotional wellness of their clients. company contribution, starting after one year of service. In 2015 we saw a steady growth in the voluntary level The Life Event Services team is comprised of of participation in our 401(k) plan, with 89 percent employees with special training and backgrounds that of employees participating in a retirement account. enable us to make the process as easy as possible and In 2016, we implemented automatic enrollment at to ensure those involved can take advantage of all of 1 percent to the 401(k) plans, as well as a Welcome our available resources and support. employer contribution of $50 to all newly hired employees to help promote 401(k) savings. We believe In addition, our Employee Assistance Program provides this will help individuals who may have postponed employees access to free and confidential counseling joining the plan get a jump-start on saving for their and resources for addressing personal and emotional retirement. Employees can opt out of participating in issues, including parental advice, legal services, financial the 401(k) plan, if they choose. 47 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Employees receive up to one time their annual base rollovers. Better Money Habits empowers our employees, pay in life insurance from the company at no cost. their families, and the general public with educational They have the option to purchase additional insurance tools on complex money topics, so they can be more for themselves, as well as certain coverage for their confident in their financial decision-making. spouse/partner and children. To offer income protection in case of a prolonged illness or injury, employees Delivering for Shareholders and receive long-term disability insurance of up to 50 Other Stakeholders percent of their annual base pay from the company Through our work, we seek to reflect what at no cost. stakeholders — including our stockholders — expect of global companies today. At all times, we’re listening Our health care accounts offer employees a beneficial, to and engaging with a diverse set of stakeholders who tax-advantaged resource to manage their health are interested in or directly affected by our company’s care expenses — thus helping to reduce financial business. As part of our stakeholder engagement stress. Over the past two years, we increased our process, including our stockholder engagement, we communications and education efforts so that listen to the feedback of our constituents to help employees can better understand their features and inform our decisions. Through continual debate and purpose. HSAs offer employees a valuable way to dialogue with all of these groups, we believe better save for future medical care, while paying for current informed, more balanced decisions are made. expenses. Further, employees can use the guidance and advisory resources available through our financial We have a variety of ways in which we engage our wellness programs to create an investment strategy for shareholders, customers, clients and employees, and their HSA that complements their investment direction have described many of these methods in previous for their 401(k), etc. chapters of this report. The information that follows outlines several of the ways in which we engage and We offer a variety of financial education resources to listen to other key stakeholders. encourage employees to save for a healthier future and that meet a variety of financial objectives. Our Regulators Benefits Education and Planning Center provides free Our Code of Conduct, which translates our values into personalized guidance for budgeting, debt management, the actions we should take as representatives of the retirement planning and more, while our Employee company, includes respect for laws and regulations, and Banking and Investments group provides access to a fair and honest communications. All employees have a full range of discounted banking and investing products duty to fully cooperate with any regulatory examination and services to help employees pursue their shortand or request for information. long-term financial goals. The Global Regulatory Relations team, in place for more Through our partnership with non-profit online than 10 years, is available to assist regulatory agencies education innovator Khan Academy, we provide Better as needed. The team also provides guidance and Money Habits®, a free education resource available to training to employees so that regulatory interactions anyone, anywhere. For our employees, we worked with are efficient and that regulators receive information founder and CEO Sal Khan to create two videos — one needed in a timely manner. We also have specialized about maximizing the 401k match, and the other about Regulatory Relations teams that support individual 48 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT businesses and help drive transparent, responsive participating in the political process in a manner that interactions with our regulators around the world. is consistent with solid corporate governance practices and complies with legal requirements. It’s in this spirit Senior Leadership Engagement and that we encourage our employees to be active in our Regulatory Interaction democratic society and provide opportunities to do so Our senior executives meet regularly with our regulators. through the PAC program and voluntary community These sessions help us gain insight regarding the focus service-oriented activities. and concerns of our regulators, and provide a forum for us to keep regulators updated about our business In 2014, our company’s Public Policy group and the activities. We discuss key regulatory matters and Office of the Corporate Secretary worked together to business updates in multiple forums, including Board of improve our political activities public disclosure in the Director and senior management meetings. following ways: • Changed the overall focus of the political activities Our businesses and control functions engage regulators on http://investor.bankofamerica.com to include all through exams, ongoing supervision, regular meetings of Bank of America’s political activities. and ad hoc inquiries for information. We also provide • Included reports of PAC contributions, in addition scheduled reports to regulators. Throughout these to links to each state’s reporting website. engagements, we seek to confirm that regulators are • Included a list of trade associations of which getting the information they need in a timely manner. Bank of America is an active member and pays more than $25,000 in dues. Lobbying and Political Activities • Included a list of 527 organizations to which Bank of America often shares interests with groups Bank of America contributed. that advocate and shape public policy positions on • Stated that Bank of America does not make issues that are important to the financial services corporate contributions to candidates for public industry and the global business community. We believe office, political parties, or PACs. that we’re better when we work with others to bring • Stated that Bank of America may support 501(c) about consensus and advocate for issues of importance (4) groups on public policy matters, but does not to us, our customers and clients, and the communities support the election of specific candidates or we serve. funding of specific expenditures. • Stated that when Bank of America PACs make We have a Corporate Political Contributions Policy political contributions, they do so to promote the Statement that sets forth basic principles concerning interests of the company, without regard to the the company’s stance on political contributions private political preferences of its executives and activities. Together with our other policies • Included information regarding the management, and procedures included in our Code of Conduct compliance, and monitoring of Bank of America’s and Political Action Committee (PAC) governance political activities, including the Corporate documents, it guides our company’s and associates’ Governance Committee’s oversight of significant approach to political involvement. As a global financial policies and practices. services company, Bank of America is committed to 49 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Memberships and Contributions choosing, and employees may elect to make personal Trade associations in which Bank of America is an political contributions, either directly or through active member and which received more than $25,000 company-sponsored or other political committees as in annual dues are listed on the company’s website. permitted by applicable local, state, and federal laws, as When we make payments to these organizations, well as the laws of any applicable jurisdiction outside including membership fees and dues, we restrict of the United States. Employee contributions are not the organization from using the funds for any reimbursed by Bank of America. election-related activity at the federal, state, or local level, including contributions and expenditures (including Additionally, employees are encouraged to participate in independent expenditures) in support of or opposition political activities on their own time and in accordance to any candidate for any office, ballot initiative with their individual desires and political preferences. campaign, political party committee, or PAC. Payment When engaging in political activities, apart from Bank of dues or other contributions to a trade association of America responsibilities, employees are expected to does not mean that Bank of America agrees with every make it clear that they are acting as an individual and policy position the organization may adopt based on the not as a representative of the company. Employees who consensus of their membership or otherwise. wish to accept an appointment to public office or file as a candidate for election must first obtain approval Bank of America and its affiliates do not make consistent with Bank of America policy to avoid any corporate contributions to candidates for public office, conflict of interest. political parties, or PACs. In appropriate circumstances, however, we may make contributions to non-candidate Stakeholder Engagement organizations, such as political convention host We listen to many stakeholders, including our committees, organizations organized under Section 527 shareholders, customers, and employees. We also of the Internal Revenue Code, or presidential inaugural actively engage our community leaders to receive committees, to the extent permitted by applicable law. feedback and input on our business. While we don’t use corporate funds to make Market Presidents independent political expenditures, we may, from time Each of our local markets is led by a Market President. to time, use corporate or PAC funds to support or The Market President’s role is to work with our different oppose state or local ballot initiatives that affect the lines of business within the company, sometimes with business environment. These contributions are reported individual employees, so that customers and clients get in accordance with any applicable laws or regulations. the benefit of everything we have to offer them. They work to make sure our customers have a positive and Consideration is given to entities that support policies consistent experience with Bank of America, regardless and initiatives that are important to the company. Our of how they do business with us. policy forbids the use of our facilities, equipment, or other assets for political purposes without consent and The Market President is also the voice for the company to the extent prohibited by applicable law. in that community. They guide our efforts to be a responsible corporate citizen, whether through our Bank of America encourages informed participation in day-to-day business activities, our employee volunteer the democratic process. We also respect the rights of programs, or our philanthropic support for organizations our employees to support issues and candidates of their that make a positive impact. 50 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT As part of this role, they regularly engage with local Members of the NCAC include: influencers, including civic leaders and policy makers, • Aeris to solicit their feedback and engage them on pressing • Brookings Institution issues in the community. They also regularly speak • Beaulac Associates, LLC with our customers and clients in the local community • CATO Institute to field questions and listen to feedback. • CDC Small Business Finance • Center for Financial Services Innovation National Community Advisory Council • Ceres Our National Community Advisory Council (NCAC) • Chicago Community Loan Fund is a prime example of an engagement process that • Consumer Federation of America is designed to drive change. Created in 2005, this • Clean Air Task Force 31-member council is comprised of prominent • C2ES community development leaders from across the U.S. • Enterprise Community Partners, Inc. The NCAC addresses critical issues affecting affordable • Greenlining Institute homeownership and economic development in some of • Harvard Kennedy School’s Corporate our nation’s distressed and underserved communities. Social Responsibility Initiative It joins public and private sector leaders to provide an • The Leadership Conference on external perspective and work with the company on the Human Rights programs and services that will keep us on the forefront • Local Initiatives Support Corporation of community revitalization. (LISC) • Low Income Investment Fund • National Association for the Advancement of Colored People • National Coalition for Asian Pacific American Community Development • National Community Reinvestment Coalition • National Council of La Raza • National Foundation for Credit Counseling • The National Urban League • Nature Conservancy • NeighborWorks • Opportunity Finance Network • The Pew Charitable Trusts • Self-Help Venture Funds • Urban Institute • U.S. Green Building Council • World Resources Institute 51 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Investing in Our Communities • Awarded close to $1MM in scholarships to diverse Our expertise, reach and resources provide us the business owners for capacity building education. opportunity to play an important role in helping build • Hosted an Inaugural Bank of America Capacity thriving economies around the world. Building Forum, bringing together current and high-potential Bank of America Tier I / II diverse We are deeply involved in community development work vendors with Bank of America leadership and related to affordable housing, small business lending Procurement Executives and neighborhood revitalization, and have been for • Re-launched the formal Supplier Diversity and years. We’ve worked to create sustainable community Development Mentoring Program and local economic development through public-private • Re-launched the Supplier Diversity and partnerships around the world. Whether we’re helping Development Small Business Institute a small business get off the ground, or leveraging our relationships with community development financial Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) institutions to connect people and communities to the CDFIs are private-sector local loan centers that offer capital they need, our longstanding commitment to financing for small businesses, affordable housing, and investing in local economies helps our communities and other economic revitalization projects, primarily within their stakeholders prosper. Below are more examples lowand moderate-income communities. CDFIs are of our investment in the economic development of our often a good source of capital for those who may not communities. qualify for a traditional bank loan, and through 2015 we’ve invested $1.2 billion in more than 240 CDFI Supplier Diversity partners. To further our impact, in 2015, we developed We’re supporting the growth of diverse businesses an online U.S. CDFI directory to connect small through our profitable vendor relationships with businesses to more capital. The directory will allow minorities, individuals with disabilities, and businesses entrepreneurs and small business owners to find a CDFI owned by veterans, women, and the LGBT community in their community to help access the funding they through our Supplier Diversity program. In August need to grow their business. 2014, Bank of America became the first Financial Services Institution to ever be inducted into the Billion Supporting Communities Around the Globe Dollar Roundtable, a nationally recognized organization We’re investing in building leadership and increasing created to recognize and celebrate corporations that the impact of high-performing U.S. nonprofits through achieved spending of at least $1 billion with minorityour Neighborhood Builders® program and fostering owned and women-owned suppliers. Since the 2001 the next generation through our Student Leaders® establishment of the organization, no other corporation program. Over the course of more than 10 years with in the Financial Services sector has achieved $1B in $190 million invested, we’ve recognized more than 800 direct minority-owned and women-owned business nonprofits, provided leadership training to nearly 2,000 spend. 2015 marked the 25th anniversary of Bank nonprofit leaders, and connected more than 2,100 of America’s Supplier Diversity and Development students to employment and service opportunities. Program, and we launched a number of initiatives to commemorate the event, including the following: 52 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT We’re supporting local communities through capital In April 2014, Bank of America Foundation investments in many cities. Through these projects, commissioned a four-month feasibility study by we help revitalize neighborhoods by creating jobs and nonprofit Social Finance to assess the use of social building or renovating buildings, land, and infrastructure impact bonds and other pay-for-success programs to drive and enrich local economies and communities. to address critical shortfalls in the funding of effective reintegration and ongoing support We’ve created philanthropic partnerships with global services for military veterans. The study was organizations such as (RED) and Special Olympics designed to assess how new financial instruments that go beyond giving money to offering our time, and programs could help, how they would be expertise, talents, and the use of our connections funded, and how their success might be measured. to customers and communities, bringing beneficial change to communities around the world. • Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Training in Wealth Management Last year alone, our employees volunteered Business: Across our wealth management approximately 2 million hours in a variety of ways, businesses, we provide ESG/Impact Investing including mentoring young people, feeding the hungry, training and education programs for advisors, and supporting the needs of veterans. In partnership each one tailored to the clients those advisors with Habitat for Humanity, we launched the first global, serve. For example, both U.S. Trust and Merrill multicity build, taking place during one week in 36 Lynch offer their own versions of in-person training communities around the world. The initiative, which we programs that dive deeply into the history of repeated in 2015, was part of a $6 million investment impact investing, the landscape of preferred and in local Habitat affiliates across the globe, as part of best practice approaches and strategies, common our commitment to revitalizing local communities and concerns to foster better understanding of our creating affordable housing. ESG/Impact Investing offerings, and how to best serve our clients. Additionally, Merrill Lynch financial Impact Investing advisors attend training through breakout sessions Bank of America is committed to meeting client at national Advanced Education Symposium events demand and working to build a commercially viable and regional Strategic Solutions Symposiums market for impact investing. We know that structuring held throughout the year. Merrill Edge delivered portfolios to help foster good corporate practices has ESG/Impact Investing training in 2015 Outlook enormous potential to change investments, lives, workshops, including in-person presentations and communities. and conference calls for Merrill Edge advisors. Non-advisor employees had opportunities to be • Social impact bonds: In December 2013, educated about ESG/Impact Investing through Bank of America worked with New York State employee town halls and Diversity & Inclusion and Social Finance Inc. to offer a social impact forums. Finally, thought leadership on ESG/Impact bond aimed at reducing recidivism. Through this Investing from our Chief Investment Office has partnership, $13.5 million in capital was raised to been shared with Merrill Lynch advisors in an finance a 5 1/2-year pay-for-success program that implementation guide and a white paper. provided re-entry employment services to 2,000 formerly incarcerated individuals in New York City and Rochester, N.Y. 53 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT Case Study: Transformational Finance $125 Billion Transformational Finance Commitment and Green Bonds We recognize the crucial role of large financial institutions in driving the global transition to a low-carbon economy. This is why Bank of America in 2015 pledged to increase the company’s current environmental business initiative from $50 billion to $125 billion by 2025 to address climate change and demands on natural resources through lending, investing, capital raising, advisory services, and developing financing solutions for clients around the world. The commitment was announced in July 2015 at the White House’s American Business Act on Climate Pledge event, which recognized corporations for their support of action to address climate change. To meet this commitment, we will continue to lend, invest, and deploy innovative capital markets solutions designed to accelerate the funding of low-carbon projects, focusing in particular on financial innovation, such as expanding our Catalytic Finance Initiative (CFI) and developing the green bond market. The CFI is designed to stimulate at least $10 billion of new investment into high-impact clean energy projects. A key component of the CFI is the development of innovative financing structures that reduce investment risk to attract a broader range of institutional investors. Through the CFI, we’re helping to make clean energy investments more financeable — especially in emerging markets, where the benefits of such projects are amplified by their positive impact on health, education, and job creation in the communities nearby. In addition, Bank of America has played a leading role in the development of the rapidly expanding green bond market, issuing the first benchmark-sized corporate green bond in 2013 — a $500 million offering — followed by a second green bond for $600 million in the spring of 2015. Green bonds play an important role in moving capital to renewable energy, energy efficiency and other low-carbon sectors. We believe that corporate issuers of green bonds, ourselves included, have the potential to be a key driver of growth in this market. In 2014, we collaborated with financial industry peers to develop the Green Bond Principles, providing much-needed guidance on the issuance process for green bonds. Bank of America was the No. 1 underwriter of green bond issuances in 2014 and 2015. 54 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT CHAPTER 5: Ongoing Commitment Our Transformation Continues Bank of America in 2016 is an organization that The culture we’ve developed, nurtured, and encouraged continues to evolve and improve. We have a solid across the company is built on this atmosphere foundation to build upon, and a legacy of more than of mutual trust and the knowledge that when we 200 years of banking and community building across work together, we can fully meet the needs of our the U.S. and around the world. The changes we’ve made customers and clients. We realize that developing have simplified and strengthened our organization and the next generation of leaders is critical to the future enriched our culture, and they build on our company’s success of our company, so we strive to equip our very best qualities. leaders with the resources they need to reach their highest career aspiration. In short, we’re putting the This significant investment of time and effort is making depth of our franchise and our whole team to work for a difference. As you’ve read in these pages, we’ve our customers and clients — wherever they are, and created a foundation for responsible growth and the however they’ve come to Bank of America. disciplined management of risk that permeates our entire organization. As we take stock of where the company stands today, we can see the tangible results of hard work The decisions we make at Bank of America are as we have simplified, strengthened, and transformed supported by a system of strong internal governance, our company. We have a strong foundation, and a which we’ve enhanced with a network of external strategy focused on the customers we serve, and all experts and leaders from public, private, and nonprofit the capabilities we possess have come together as an sectors. Together, these stakeholders align our engine for responsible growth. decisions and actions with the commitment we share to build thriving economies — families secure in their All of this is made possible by more than 200,000 own homes, successful small businesses, and nonprofits teammates who come to work every day to serve and companies solving tough problems. clients and improve our communities. Together, we will continue to take the company forward and deliver This approach ensures that decisions we make as value to those we serve. an organization are clear, fair, and grounded in the principles of shared success, responsible citizenship, and community building. As we continue on this path and channel investment and deploy capital responsibly and sustainably, Bank of America acts as an engine to help our overall economy grow. 55 2015 BUSINESS STANDARDS REPORT 2015 Environmental, Social and Governance Addendum INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT 2015 ESG Highlights Named by Euromoney July as the Best Global Bank for Corporate Social Responsibility and by The Banker magazine for the fifth year in a row as the Most Innovative Investment Bank of America Merrill Bank for Climate Change March and Sustainability Lynch — in partnership with We continued to support financial empowerment for all through Esmée Fairbairn Foundation, Better Money Habits®, a free Nesta, Calouste Gulbenkian program created in partnership Foundation, and the Arts with Khan Academy. Eight out Council England — launched of 10 customers using Better a £7,000,000 social Money Habits® felt more investment fund aimed confident about achieving their at providing unsecured loan financial goals(1) finances to arts organizations Provided more than in England. The first of its kind $183 million in to focus on the social, artistic, and financial return created global philanthropic by arts-based organizations, investments toward We’ve made progress the Arts Impact Fund our 10-year, $2 billion on our responsible brings together the expert philanthropic goal growth strategy knowledge and networks of the arts industry with charitable established in 2009 by managing risk foundations, investors, and well, simplifying our social impact specialists businesses to better serve customers and Announced that the 37th September clients, and creating the Annual Bank of America right culture for As part of our efforts to Chicago Marathon delivered an estimated $254 million in our workforce foster employee wellness, total business impact to the around 88% of employees city of Chicago and raised the globe completed voluntary more than $17.7 million in support of local, national, and wellness activities international charitable causes (1) Source: Bank of America customer advisory panel study 57 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Recognized by CDP and During the UN Conference Sept/Nov December Dow Jones Sustainability on Climate Change Index (DJSI) for ESG (popularly known as performance: listed on DJSI COP21) in Paris, we World and North America We support the sponsored an event with indices and received a CDP inclusion of diverse the White House to disclosure score of “100” for discuss the important role our reporting transparency suppliers across the businesses — ​especially and a performance score company, resulting in financial institutions — ​play of “A,” recognizing our actions in helping to accelerate more than $2 billion of to reduce emissions and the transition to a mitigate climate change procurement spending low-carbon economy with these businesses during 2015 In a new whitepaper published in 2015, “Impact Investing: The Performance Realities,” Completed December Completed the largest Merrill Lynch’s Wealth Management November Institute analyzed the growing affordable housing $10 million body of evidence showing that loan transaction commitment to investors can do well financially in history in San (RED), with all funds by investing in organizations that are doing what’s right for the Francisco ($770 million), going toward the environment and society in cooperation with Global Fund to Fight seven development AIDS, Tuberculosis firms and Malaria, and reaffirmed our support with another $10 million over five years More than 50% of our global workforce is To learn more about our female and more than ESG work, please visit 40% of our U.S.-based about.bankofamerica.com workforce are people of diverse races and ethnic backgrounds 58 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | ​HIGHLIGHTS | ​ENVIRONMENT | ​SOCIAL | ​GOVERNANCE | ​ABOUT THIS REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY In this • Goals and Progress • Our Approach • Transformational Finance section • Our Operations • My Environment • Philanthropy • Environmental Governance and Policies • Looking Ahead 59 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | ​HIGHLIGHTS | ​ENVIRONMENT | ​SOCIAL | ​GOVERNANCE | ​ABOUT THIS REPORT Financing a LowCarbon Future As part of the White House’s American Business Act on Climate Change, ENVIRONMENT in 2015 we increased our second environmental business initiative from $50 billion to $125 billion by 2025. This includes supporting low-carbon and sustainable business “This new commitment through lending, investing, capital means Bank of America raising, advisory services, and is again setting the pace. developing financing solutions for clients around the world. To be considered a leading In 2015 alone, we provided provider of financial services, $14.5 billion in financing for in anything from energy renewable energy, energy to real estate, it’s crucial to Our grant to GivePower efficiency, and other sustainable be focused on funding Foundation will help provide projects. For example, we delivered electricity to 1,000 additional our innovative financing and advisory low-carbon solutions, and schools in Africa and capabilities to Lincoln Clean Energy Bank of America’s new Central America. and Starwood Energy Group. As part of this engagement, we advised on commitment is a very the sale of two 230-MW wind farms significant statement.” that will provide clean energy to Catalytic Finance thousands of homes. Michael Liebreich Founder and chairman of Initiative the Advisory Board, Bloomberg New Energy Finance, Our Catalytic Finance Initiative, We continue to be the on Bank of America’s launched in 2014, is designed to No. 1 underwriter of $125 billion pledge stimulate at least $10 billion of green bonds and issued new investment into high-impact our second green bond for clean energy projects. In 2015, we $600 million. made progress on the initiative, which focuses on developing or advancing The bond will help to fund innovative financing structures renewable energy, including that reduce investment risk such as wind and solar, and energy investment grade loans, project bonds efficiency projects, such as and philanthropic first-loss capital lighting retrofits. funds, thereby attracting a broader range of institutional investors. For example: Since 2010, We provided a $500,000 grant in our own operations, to the GivePower Foundation, we’ve reduced: SolarCity’s charitable nonprofit organization, to address energy Greenhouse gas (GHG) Paper Water poverty through solar-powered lighting emissions: use: use: in schools in the developing world. 37% 28% 34% 60 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Environmental goals and progress We invite you to read details of our progress toward meeting selected environmental goals in 2015. O U R TA RG E T S O U R P RO G R E SS S TAT U S $125 billion Since we launched this goal in 2013, we’ve provided more than $31.8 billion in financing for lowin low-carbon and other sustainable carbon and other sustainable business. ON business by 2025 through lending, investing, TRACK capital raising, advisory services, and developing In 2015 alone, we delivered financing solutions for clients around the world $14.5 billion toward this goal. 15% From 2010 to 2015, we reduced GHG emissions by 37%. reduction in net Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions In 2015, we reduced our EXCEEDED within our global operations between GHG emissions by 16%. 2010 and 2015 20% We exceeded our goal by achieving 23% LEED certified space LEED certified square footage in our as of the end of 2015. EXCEEDED workspace by 2015 20% As of 2015, we reduced our reduction in water consumption within water consumption by 34%. EXCEEDED our global operations between 2010 and 2015 61 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Our Approach for low-­carbon and other sustainable business. In 2015 alone, we delivered $14.5 billion toward this G4-EN7 | ​Reductions in energy requirements of products and services goal. Since 2007, we have provided more than As one of the largest financial institutions in the $53 billion in low-carbon activities. G4-FS8 | ​Monetary value of products and world, we are in a unique position to help society services designed transition to a low-carbon economy. to deliver a specific environmental benefit We believe we can do this by: providing financial and intellectual capital to develop solutions to climate change and other environmental “Climate change is a challenge challenges; reducing our operational impact far bigger than one company through aggressive targets for greenhouse gas or one country. Steering the emissions, water, and paper, among others; and working with our people and partners to inspire world onto a path of 2°C emissions environmentally responsible actions each day. reduction will require upwards of US$75 trillion in cumulative investment through 2040. Without the global business community’s Transformational active participation, it can’t happen.” Finance Anne Finucane Vice Chairman, Bank of America COP21 In December 2015 we saw the signing of a landmark agreement at the UN Conference on Climate Change in Paris (COP21), which The commitments we’ve made represent both brought together leaders from 195 countries, an understanding of the challenges we face corporations, environmental groups, and public and a willingness to help society address the and private sector organizations to discuss the issue of climate change. As a global financial challenges and opportunities in the transition to institution, we can and will continue looking for a low-­carbon economy. It was an honor to be part ways to overcome obstacles in catalyzing capital of those important discussions, and we applaud investments toward a low-­carbon economy and government, business, and non-­governmental providing the necessary financing to realize the organization leaders for achieving this agreement. promise of global climate commitments. Here The agreement helps spur the conversation with are some of the ways in which we have already investors to increase and reallocate capital from delivered on our commitment. high-­carbon to low-­carbon investments. Green Bonds Financial Capital Bonds for low-carbon and other sustainable In 2015, we pledged to increase the company’s business account for a small fraction of environmental business initiative from $50 billion the global bond market, currently valued at (announced in 2013) to $125 billion in low-­carbon $100 trillion. We see enormous potential to and other sustainable business by 2025 through grow the green bond market to help drive even lending, investing, capital raising, advisory more capital to renewable energy, sustainable services, and developing financing solutions for transportation, infrastructure, and other lowclients around the world. We’re proud to have carbon sectors. In 2015, green bond issuances been one of the first companies to make a pledge grew to $41 billion, compared to $40 billion in on behalf of the American Business Act on 2014. Corporate and municipal issuers of green Climate Change. Since we launched our new goal bonds continue to be a key driver of growth in in 2013, we’ve provided $31.8 billion in financing this market, and we will continue to educate our clients on this important ­capital-­raising 62 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT opportunity. According to Bloomberg New By working together, we can combine efforts to G4-EN7 | ​Reductions in energy requirements Energy Finance, we again led the market in 2015, increase funding and significantly accelerate the of products and services remaining the No. 1 underwriter of green bond transition to clean energy solutions. issuances in 2015. We were also named the No. 1 G4-FS8 | ​Monetary CFI partners bring expertise in a broad range of value of products and green bond underwriter in the Asia Pacific by financial specialty areas, such as clean energy services designed Dealogic. We served as a lead bookrunner for infrastructure finance, green bonds, project to deliver a specific the following: finance, green asset-­backed securities, emerging environmental benefit • Southern Power ($1 billion) for clean markets investment, and approaches to blending energy projects — ​the first-ever U.S. public and private finance. Investment Grade Utility to issue a green In 2015, as part of CFI, we served as structuring bond and one of the largest USD green bond lead for SolarCity’s first solar asset-­backed issuances of last year securities transaction backed • Transport for London (TfL) by traditional tax equity flip (£400 million equivalent to UNDERWROTE partnerships, a structural complexity $596 million) to fund sustainable $100 MILLION OF absent in prior securitizations transport including capacity involving tax equity. This GREEN BONDS improvements and station upgrades groundbreaking securitization solved on Rail and Underground, bus fleet FOR THE DC a final, long-­outstanding component upgrades, and cycling infrastructure CLEAN RIVERS of the residential solar development • District of Columbia Water & PROJECT cycle, helping to lower the cost of Sewer Authority ($100 million) to solar financing while attracting finance a portion of the DC Clean additional capital. Rivers Project Renewable Energy • State of Washington ($51 million) to finance In 2015, Bank of America led the industry in a mixed portfolio of environmental projects delivering innovative and holistic solutions Catalytic Finance Initiative to a broad spectrum of renewable energy clients. Here are some of the financing and risk In order to address investors’ key requirements management solutions we offered: such as scale, risk sharing, and liquidity, in September 2014, we launched our Catalytic • We delivered a holistic advisory, financing, and Finance Initiative (CFI) to accelerate investments risk management package to Lincoln Clean into specific high-­impact clean energy Energy (LCE), a private renewable energy opportunities. We committed $1 billion and development firm, and the Starwood Energy in 2016 added partners to grow the initiative Group (SEG), a private investment firm. to $8 billion in capital commitments from Bank of America Merrill Lynch advised LCE on several other leading financial organizations. its sale of a combined 460-MW wind farm to Our partners include AllianceBernstein (AB); SEG. Further, our team led a $240 million tax Babson Capital Management LLC, a subsidiary of equity commitment and acted as lead arranger Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company and joint bookrunner in a $236 million credit (MassMutual); Crédit Agricole CIB; European facility to finance the construction of a 230-MW Investment Bank; HSBC Group; International wind farm in Knox and Haskell Counties in Texas. Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the We also structured and wrote a 13-year fixedWorld Bank Group; and Mirova, a subsidiary of price/fixed-­volume power hedge for the project. Natixis Group, all of which have pledged capital • Bank of America Merrill Lynch worked with and expertise to develop and advance innovative SolarCity in structuring innovative financing financing structures to advance investments in solutions in the residential and commercial solar clean energy and other sustainability-focused sectors, culminating in a $650 million revolving projects. In addition, the Aligned Intermediary, credit facility, believed to be the largest representing a group of long-term institutional aggregation facility to date for distributed investors, will collaborate on specific investment generation solar projects. Providing this early opportunities with members of the partnership. 63 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT stage financing enables SolarCity to support buildings to make them more sustainable. Over G4-EN7 | ​Reductions in energy requirements the rapid growth of its forecasted installations. the years, we have financed hundreds of projects of products and services When the financing is fully drawn, SolarCity designed to reduce energy usage and costs. For will have been able to finance installations for example, in 2015, we provided: G4-FS8 | ​Monetary value of products and thousands of homes and businesses throughout • $15.2 million in tax-­exempt financing for the services designed the U.S. Newport News School Board in Virginia to to deliver a specific environmental benefit • Bank of America Merrill Lynch acted as lead finance energy conservation measures (ECMs) managing bookrunner for the $163 million installed by Ameresco, Inc. The district serves IPO for Inox Wind, one of India’s leading 29,700 students in grades K through 12. The wind power solutions providers engaged in ECMs will be installed in 58 ­district-owned manufacturing and supplying wind turbine school facilities. The financing will primarily generators and executing wind farm projects fund lighting upgrades, energy management on a turnkey basis. systems, boiler controllers, water conservation, • Bank of America Merrill Lynch acted as and building envelope improvements. The total co-arranger of €978 million project bonds guaranteed savings associated with this energy to re-finance Meerwind, a fully operational project during the financing term will be enough 288-MW German offshore wind farm located to cover 100 percent of the project costs. in the North Sea. Meerwind is owned by • $12.7 million tax-­exempt financing for the WindMW, a subsidiary of The Blackstone Group State of New Hampshire to finance and Windland. The re-financing represents the energy conservation measures installed by largest-ever renewable energy project bond Consolidated Edison Solutions, Inc. (CES) under and attracted a wide set of investors in both an Energy Performance Contract. The energy the U.S. and EMEA. project consists primarily of lighting upgrades, Financing energy efficiency is another key HVAC equipment, and control and building component of our low-­carbon business strategy, system upgrades throughout four state-owned helping local communities upgrade existing facilities. In addition, there will be one biomass BREAKDOWN OF $14.5 BILLION IN FINANCING BY LINES OF BUSINESS: Line of Business Environmental Engagement 2015 Activity Raises equity and debt capital and provides advisory services to support Global Investment Banking $7.2B our clients’ low-carbon business Provides equipment and tax equity financing for energy efficiency projects and Leasing $3.1B renewable energy projects Public Finance Delivers debt for municipal sustainability projects $1.9B Commercial Real Estate & Finances projects with LEED, ENERGY STAR and other environmental $1.9B Community Development Banking certifications, as well as brownfield redevelopment Global Commercial Banking Extends lending and credit to lower-carbon companies $51M Consumer Vehicle Lending Provides loans for hybrid/electric vehicle purchases $266M Global Wealth and Provides ESG investment solutions for GWIM clients $21.3M Investment Management Philanthropy & CDFI Lending Supports environmental nonprofits and CDFIs $25.8M 64 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Since 2007, Bank of America has provided boiler installed (40 percent of the total project) G4-EN7 | ​Reductions in energy requirements more than $53 billion in financing for the in one of the facilities. Total energy savings of products and services following sectors: are projected to exceed total project costs by $1.6 million. G4-FS8 | ​Monetary value of products and services designed Calculating the Environmental Impact of to deliver a specific Our Investments environmental benefit We estimated the annual environmental benefits of our investments by employing the Sustainability Impact Assessment methodology Total: co-­developed with the global consulting firm EY. $53B To learn more about this methodology, see our white paper titled, “Financing for a sustainable future: Estimating the environmental benefits of Bank of America’s Environmental Business Initiative.” We allocated the estimated benefits based on our proportional share of each total transaction. These metrics were calculated on the portion of the bank’s current 10-year, $16.5B $125 billion environmental business initiative that has a direct impact on emissions. For 2015, Energy Efficiency that includes 23 percent, or $3.4 billion, of our $28M financing last year. $6B Fuel Cells Wind Estimated Annual Metrics Total $5.8B $6B Nuclear $ Value of financial products $3,398,906,427 Solar $ Value of energy saved/ $3B produced and net $ value of $272,331,000 $4.6B Sustainable fuel saved for hybrid vehicles MWh saved from energy Mixed Renewables 473,300 Transportation conservation projects $1B $3.2B MWh produced from alternative energy projects 2,081,000 Hydro Other Total square feet of LEED 3,361,430 certified buildings funded $864M $776M Total square feet of ENERGY 2,432,848 Biomass/BioFuel STAR certified buildings funded Water Greenhouse gas emissions 2,014,200 $565M avoided (metric tons CO2e) Geothermal $4.3B Water use avoided 53,641,700 Mixed (thousands of gallons) Non-hazardous waste avoided 47,755 (metric tons) Hazardous Waste avoided 25 (metric tons) 65 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Partnerships: Providing modern energy services and double the share of G4-EN7 | ​Reductions in energy requirements Intellectual Capital renewable energy in the global energy mix. of products and services In addition to providing financial capital and Following the UN Framework Convention on G4-FS8 | ​Monetary creating markets to drive significant capital Climate Change, the Green Climate Fund value of products and flows towards low-­carbon investment, we are (GCF) was formed in 2010 as a new channel for services designed the disbursement of climate finance. The GCF to deliver a specific also providing intellectual capital to promote environmental benefit financial innovation. We engage in ­public-­private will help developing countries reduce emissions partnerships to share our knowledge and and adapt to the impacts of climate change. expertise. For example: Developing countries are those that are likely to be hurt the worst by a changing climate, and will Bank of America co-­chairs the Finance Working need the most help making a technological shift Group of the United Nations Secretary to a clean energy economy. In 2015, Managing General’s Initiative, Sustainable Energy Director of Climate Finance at Bank of America for All (SE4All). A unique multi-­stakeholder Merrill Lynch Abyd Karmali served as one of the partnership backed by the United Nations and two inaugural Private Sector Representatives to World Bank to catalyze action for universal the Board of the GCF and provided guidance on access to sustainable energy, SE4All aims to the fund’s strategy, investment framework, and double the rate of improvement in energy choice of instruments to mobilize capital from efficiency by 2030 — ​a target under the UN’s the private sector. Sustainable Development Goal 7 on energy. The group also aims to ensure universal access to The Global Innovation Lab for Climate Finance (The Lab) seeks expertise in climate finance from governments, pension funds, investment banks, project developers, and development finance institutions in developing Impact Investing and developed countries. Their experience Carbon Reserve-Free Strategy informs the identification and development of innovative financial instruments. Lab U.S. Trust launched a new component of Advisers contribute institutional expertise in its proprietary and customizable Socially order to design, stress test, and advise on the Innovative Investing (S2I) strategy, the Carbon Reserve-Free Strategy (CRF). The identification of instruments. Purna Saggurti CRF offers the opportunity to invest in a (Chairman, Global Corporate & Investment portfolio that excludes companies that own, Banking at Bank of America Merrill Lynch) extract, distribute, and/or process carbon serves as a Principal in The Lab. reserves, as well as those firms that convert In the lead-up to COP21, we joined other petroleum directly into energy with CO2 as the financial institutions to partner with Ceres — ​ byproduct. The CRF was developed in response a coalition of investors, companies, and public to rising demand from investors seeking interest groups that advocates for sustainability companies with superior environmental leadership — ​to issue a joint statement calling business initiatives. The objective is to for cooperation among governments to reach provide clients a U.S. equity allocation that a global climate agreement and for the right delivers risk-adjusted returns comparable to policy frameworks to be implemented to unlock the S&P 1500 benchmark with companies the private and public capital needed to finance that are environmentally-focused. The CRF climate solutions. is composed of securities identified as environmental stewards according to a multiIn 2015, we partnered with the Center for factor screen. It is derived from U.S. Trust’s Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES) to Environmental Stewardship and Sustainability announce the launch of “Weathering the Next (E2S) portfolio. Storm: A Closer Look at Business Resilience.” The report examines how companies consider and prepare for climate risk. Bank of America 66 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT provided funding for the multi-year C2ES We are proud to report we’ve met or exceeded G4-EN27 | ​E xtent of impact mitigation of research initiative. many of our 2015 goals to reduce our environmental impacts In 2015, the National Community Advisory environmental impact. We know that the journey of products and services Council (NCAC), a diverse group of nonprofit towards environmental sustainability is long and leaders convened by Bank of America, added five challenging. Therefore, achieving measurable new members representing environmental and environmental results requires a multifaceted sustainability expertise. Joining Ceres President approach, from education and changing Mindy Lubber, our new sustainability experts on behaviors to switching light bulbs and rethinking NCAC are: how we operate our buildings. • Armond Cohen, Executive Director, Since we first introduced public environmental Clean Air Task Force goals in 2004, we have learned a great deal about our company, partners, and vendors, and about • Rick Fedrizzi, Founding Chairman and CEO, the importance of collaboration and sharing U.S. Green Building Council best practices. In order to solve the problems • Bob Perciasepe, President, Center for faced by our world today, we must join forces Climate and Energy Solutions with other companies and organizations to identify and implement innovative solutions. • Andrew Steer, President and CEO, By working together with a variety of nonprofit World Resources Institute and government organizations, we can support • Mark Tercek, President and CEO, the development of creative solutions for the The Nature Conservancy complex problems faced by businesses and communities around the globe. As we discuss the outcomes of our 2015 Our Operations operational goals below, we’ll share stories of the partnerships that we have developed along the way, which allow us to continually improve our At Bank of America, we recognize the importance environmental performance. It is our intention of ensuring our operations are environmentally to provide a transparent and honest account of sustainable, and we work continuously to deliver our sustainability journey to date, in the hopes superior environmental performance at our that it can provide helpful insights to companies locations. We are committed to tracking and and organizations in their current and future managing our progress toward our aggressive environmental efforts. goals to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, paper and water consumption, as well as We acknowledge the successes as well as the increasing our diversion of waste from landfill challenges in meeting these operational goals. and the percentage of our occupied space that is We will take both into account as we move LEED certified. forward with new operational goals, which we will 67 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT announce in the coming months and will reflect G4-EN6 | ​Reduction of energy consumption what we have learned thus far. As we tackle Efficient Lighting Standards the next set of goals, we realize we will succeed G4-EN19 | ​Reduction in some areas but not others. We will continue In 2014, we launched a new lighting standard, of greenhouse gas which specifies the lighting technology to (GHG) emissions to work toward improving our sustainability programs and reducing our environmental impact. be used throughout our occupied portfolio. G4-EN27 | ​E xtent LED technology dominates the new of impact mitigation of Global Environmental Operations Group standard due to its many benefits, such as environmental impacts 40 – ​6 0 percent energy savings per bulb, of products and services (EnOps Group) outstanding life, and maintenance cost Established at the end of 2013, the Global avoidance. Throughout 2015, we implemented Environmental Operations Group (EnOps) is this standard at more than 1,300 facilities and comprised of senior executives from across our expect that the retrofits will reduce lighting company. It is tasked with establishing goals, electrical loads by 40 percent. setting strategy, and implementing initiatives that impact our environmental operational goals. Throughout 2015, the group met to review programs and illustrated our global commitment progress towards the 2015 operational goals, to improving our environmental performance. to develop line of business operational plans to facilitate the achievement of the goals, and to Greenhouse Gas Emissions work to ensure that resources were allocated Buildings are a significant contributor to our GHG to under-­performing initiatives. As part of the emissions and to our use of energy, water, and broader Global ESG Committee, EnOps building materials. Therefore, reductions adds its expertise and knowledge of operations to support environmental FROM 2010 in our global real estate portfolio result in decreased environmental impacts. In sustainability initiatives across TO 2015, 2015, we reduced our occupied space the business. REDUCED by 7 percent globally, and we now more One member of EnOps, a leader OUR GHG efficiently use our real estate portfolio. in our Global Wealth & Investment EMISSIONS Thus, space utilization increased from Management line of business, leveraged 68 percent to 72 percent, and square feet our environmental efforts to create a BY 37% per employee decreased slightly from newsletter to communicate the value of 290 to 274. Bank of America continues to sustainability to his team. This communication pursue space reductions, and we anticipate our increased internal support for sustainability space utilization percentage will increase over time. 2015 Operational Goals Goal 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Results Notes Greenhouse gases: reduce net Scope 1 15% 6% 14% 19% 26% 37% Exceeded and 2 emissions Paper: reduce consumption 20% 0% 15% 25% 29% 28% Exceeded Did not achieve; see Paper: increase average recycled content 20% 9% 9% 9% 8% 9% p. 71 for explanation Did not achieve; see Paper: sourced from certified forests 100% 93% 95% 97% 98% 99% p. 71 for explanation LEED certified workspace 20% 15% 16% 18% 19% 23% Exceeded Water: reduce consumption 20% 1% 9% 18% 27% 34% Exceeded Did not achieve; see Waste: diversion from landfill 70% 54% 59% 59% 62% 64% p. 73 for explanation E-waste: disposal using certified, Did not achieve; See 100% 84% 87% 89% 91% 98% responsible vendors p. 73 for explanation 68 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Scope 1 and 2 Emissions We have reduced emissions across our G4-EN6 | ​Reduction of energy consumption In 2011, we set a goal to reduce our absolute portfolio primarily by consolidating space and GHG emissions by 15 percent from 2010 to implementing energy-efficiency projects. Like G4-EN15 | ​Direct 2015. During that time period, we reduced global others, we have also benefited from a less greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) GHG emissions by 37 percent, more than double carbon-intensive utility grid. our goal. The goal spans our global operations Energy efficiency projects directed by our G4-EN16 | ​Energy indirect greenhouse in more than 35 countries and builds on our Real Estate Services Energy and Sustainability gas (GHG) emissions previous GHG reduction of 18 percent from 2004 team in 2015 will save more than 46,000 (scope 2) to 2009 in our U.S. portfolio. megawatt-hours of electricity annually, which is G4-EN19 | ​Reduction In setting the 15 percent GHG emissions goal, equivalent to avoiding nearly 21,000 metric tons of greenhouse gas we considered the recommendation by the of GHG emissions. Since 2004, energy efficiency (GHG) emissions Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). projects have resulted in more than $300 million G4-EN27 | ​E xtent While a 10 percent reduction over of cumulative reductions in energy costs. of impact mitigation of five years would be consistent with Data centers are essential to our environmental impacts of products and services IPCC’s ­science-based recommendation, REDUCED business to facilitate point-of-sale we set a more aggressive goal by ENERGY USAGE and online services to customers, committing to a 15 percent absolute and to ensure effective internal data IN OUR reduction over five years. The graph management and processes. As below shows the current IPCC DATA CENTERS our data centers account for 20 to recommendation and our actual 11% FROM 25 percent of our GHG emissions, reductions through 2015. 2013 TO 2015 we continue to deliver on a multiTransparency is another important pronged approach to reduce our data element of our GHG emissions center energy needs. management program. Since 2003, we have Since 2010, we’ve exited 33 data centers, annually disclosed our greenhouse gas emissions consolidating our computing operations and reduction strategies through the CDP into significantly fewer buildings across our Climate Change survey. In 2014 and 2015, enterprise. In addition, we have focused our we received a disclosure score of 100 for our energy expertise on reducing the energy reporting transparency and a performance required to support our data centers, which led score of A for our leadership in the field. 2015 to an 11 percent reduction in energy use from was the sixth consecutive year CDP named 2013 to 2015. These efforts, combined with Bank of America to the Climate Disclosure our demand response programs, resulted in Leadership Index and the Climate A List. more than $4.4 million in savings realized since GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS 0% -10% -20% -30% -40% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Bank of America Reductions IPCC Recommended Reduction 69 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT 2013. We will continue to emphasize efficiency a final report from the Portfolio Carbon Initiative G4-EN15 | ​Direct in our data centers over the coming years to greenhouse gas (GHG) in 2016. emissions (scope 1) help simplify our operations, lower costs, and Our commitment to this project builds on the reduce emissions. G4-EN16 | ​Energy lessons we’ve learned from historical tracking indirect greenhouse We have also implemented a grid reliability and reporting of GHG emissions attributed to our gas (GHG) emissions and demand response program across our U.S. power utility corporate loan portfolio, which (scope 2) portfolio, where we work directly with utilities we are committed to continuing. G4-EN17 | ​Other in the U.S. and UK to take our load off the grid indirect greenhouse when requested by the utilities. We are avoiding Utility Emissions gas (GHG) emissions peak power use, helping utilities avert rolling (scope 3) Our consideration of value chain emissions brownouts and blackouts that result from grid includes tracking and reporting on the G4-EN19 | ​Reduction disruptions, and assisting utilities in avoiding greenhouse gas emissions intensity of our of greenhouse gas the construction of new power plants and the (GHG) emissions U.S. power utility corporate loan portfolio, and operation of inefficient power plants used during we remain the only financial institution to do G4-EN27 | ​E xtent peak demand times. so. This portfolio includes electric generators of impact mitigation of environmental impacts with whom the bank has significant credit of products and services Scope 3 Emissions relationships. Our reporting this year shows Beyond the impact of our Scope 1 and 2 GHG continued improvement in greenhouse gas emissions, we recognize and measure significant emissions intensity attributed to the portfolio. emissions generated throughout our value The decline reflects ongoing efforts by our chain. In 2015, we saw significant reductions clients to increase the efficiency of their across several of these categories, including generating facilities and decrease the carbon upstream transportation and distribution. From intensity of the fuel mix they use to generate 2010 to 2015, GHG emissions from upstream electricity. transportation and distribution went down from 56,735 metric tons to 14,818 metric tons. This 74 percent reduction in upstream transportation and distribution emissions was the result of UTILITY PORTFOLIO EMISSIONS INTENSITY decreased shipments of checks, including the elimination of the air transport of checks. Short tons CO2 per MWh — Short tons CO2 per MWh — ​ Our evaluation of Scope 3 emissions includes previously reported from restated/reported from emissions that result from a variety of forms of Year available data newly available data transportation, including commuting, business 2004 0.733 NA travel (rental cars, rail travel, air travel), upstream transportation (couriers and armored cars, 2005 0.658 NA contractor vehicles, contracted shuttle buses, 2006 0.638 NA black cars), and downstream transportation 2007 0.634 NA (customer travel to financial centers and ATMs). 2008 0.581 NA In 2015, Bank of America continued to support the World Resources Institute (WRI) and United 2009 1 ( ) NA Nations Environment Programme Finance 2010 0.580 NA Initiative (UNEP FI) on a project called the 2011 2 ( ) 0.568 0.6093 Portfolio Carbon Initiative to develop a set of standard methodologies for the accounting of 2012 NA 0.621 greenhouse gas emissions attributed to financial 2013 NA 0.5645 products and services. Bank of America has served on the initiative’s Advisory Committee 2014 NA 0.5700 and technical working group, and is also providing 2015 NA 0.5678 financial support to the initiative. We anticipate (1) Bank of America was unable to compile data for 2009. (2) Using newly expanded emissions data, we have recalculated our utility portfolio emissions intensity for 2011. 70 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Paper G4-EN1 | ​Materials used by weight or Paper use is a significant contributor to our Recycled Content Paper volume environmental footprint. We have three paper use Bank of America is actively working to G4-EN2 | ​Percentage goals we’ve worked to achieve by 2015: increase the use of sustainable paper of materials used that solutions within our operations, including are recycled input • Decrease our overall paper use by 20 percent. materials the paper that is used to print convenience • Use an average of 20 percent post-­consumer checks. In addition to paperless check G4-EN27 | ​E xtent recycled content by weight. options, we make convenience checks of impact mitigation of environmental impacts • Only use paper sourced from certified forests. available to our customers who still prefer of products and services paper. Checks use a special magnetic ink that In 2015, we continued to focus on transitioning allows automated readers to align the checks customers to online banking, reducing employee with customer account and routing numbers, printing, and increasing the digital delivery of and there was concern that recycled content key documents. Since 2010, we’ve reduced our would interfere with readers and cause errors. paper use by 28 percent, significantly exceeding our goal. We increased the percent sourced In partnership with our vendors, crossfrom certified forests from 93 percent in 2011 functional teams that included the Global to 99 percent in 2015, falling just short of our Environmental Group, Consumer Marketing, 100 percent goal. The primary reason for not Enterprise Services, and Document achieving this goal was the difficulty of tracing Fulfillment Services, we developed a robust the chain of custody for some paper-based office testing plan supporting the addition of supplies such as notebooks and post-it notes. 10 percent recycled content into convenience We’re pleased, however, that nearly all of the check paper. These checks were evaluated other paper products we purchase, such as office by four independent experts in the industry. paper and paper for marketing materials, are In addition, we decided to select a small sourced from certified forests. segment of “preferred paper” customers to test the new recycled content approach. The While we’ve significantly increased the percent result was a huge success with no usage of post-­consumer waste content in our internal impacts. This single change will reduce our copy paper — ​moving to 30 percent post-­ annual use of virgin paper by 550,000 pounds, which translates to avoiding the use of roughly 6,600 trees and preventing the addition of 258 metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere annually. TOTAL PAPER USAGE (Metric tons and percent decrease from base year) consumer waste paper in most of our employee 66,614 locations — ​it has not significantly improved our overall percentage of recycled content, currently 47,925 at 9 percent. This is because a majority of our paper consumption comes from printed materials for customers. Integrating recycled content paper into these production streams is complex and requires the development and testing of new processes and equipment. We’ve learned a 2010 2015 lot through the process and are committed to 28% continuing to increase the recycled content of our paper. Decrease 71 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT LEED Certification one of our facilities in Texas, which is projected G4-EN8 | ​Total water withdrawal to save 100,000 gallons of water annually. The We are pleased to have exceeded our goal to by source facility team installed smart irrigation controllers reach 20 percent LEED certified square footage and a drip irrigation system, and planted G4-EN10 | ​ in our workspace, by achieving 23 percent at Percentage and drought-tolerant, native vegetation across the the end of 2015. LEED is a globally recognized total volume of campus. We will employ both lessons learned water recycled standard identifying achievement in green and elements of this pilot at other locations, and reused building design, construction, and operations especially in drought-prone areas. encompassing multiple environmental efforts such as water and energy efficiency, sustainable In addition to our efficiency programs, our purchasing, and effective waste management. approach to water sustainability now includes expanded reporting routines. In 2013, 2014, and We have effectively integrated LEED certification 2015, we voluntarily responded to the annual into our project and property management CDP water survey, through which we discuss processes, and our success is reflected in the details of our water usage as well as the risks nearly 19 million square feet of LEED certified and opportunities presented by water quality workspace across all building types in our and scarcity. portfolio. We’ve completed more than 5.5 million square feet of certified projects in 2015 and at year’s end, 129 of our financial centers had achieved LEED certification, comprising more than 550,000 square feet. With nearly TOTAL WATER USAGE 670,000 certified square feet outside the U.S., (U.S. gallons in billions) we’ve made progress globally as well, including 13 LEED certified offices across the Asia Pacific region. In 2015, we were recognized by U.S. 34% Green Building Council for being among the top 10 financial service companies in total LEED Total square footage. reduction Water in water Water is essential to our operations, and we use take very seriously our responsibility to carefully manage our water resources. As of 2015, we’ve reduced our annual global water usage by 34 percent, or by nearly 1.2 billion gallons from our 2010 baseline, exceeding our goal to reduce water use 20 percent from 2010 to 2015. In addition, we recycled and/or reused more than 21 million gallons of water throughout our facilities in 2015. In 2014, we piloted drought-tolerant landscaping at six California financial centers. In 2015, this program saved more than $20,000 and 4.8 million gallons of water, and we expect these savings to continue going forward. These efforts helped us comply with California Executive Order B-29-15, which calls for a 25 percent reduction in 3.55 2.34 potable urban water usage by 2016. Expanding on this program, we implemented 2010 2015 a water-efficient landscaping pilot project at 72 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT and landlords to identify waste streams and G4-EN23 | ​Total weight of waste by California Drought Response develop sound methodologies to estimate where type and disposal actual data is not available. We have made method In response to the severe drought in significant improvements in data collection and California, Bank of America implemented a management since we first began to report California Drought Management Program waste data, but we still have more work to do. to identify solutions to save water at approximately 700 properties in 2015. We In addition, in order to improve our tracking of exceeded a state water reduction mandate by construction and demolition waste, we now reducing our own water use by 31 percent in require general contractors to report on all waste those 700 properties, compared to 2013. generated during construction projects. We’ve also developed a method to identify gaps in To achieve these results, we analyzed our reporting to better enforce this requirement. water use to identify facilities with significant Recycling of plastic, aluminum, and cardboard usage, worked with our teams to spot and mitigate reasons for increased usage, and is now available in 54 percent of our global implemented correction plans accordingly. workspace. In 2015, we continued to expand We worked with landscaping contractors our own recycling programs, while partnering to inspect irrigation lines to find and repair with landlords to increase recycling at leased damage, overspray, and malfunctioning properties. Our waste and recycling programs time-­clocks, and prioritize irrigation systems continue to save money each year, resulting in to support large plants over turf. Within cumulative savings of more than $1.25 million our buildings, we proactively detected and since 2010. In 2015, Bank of America launched repaired leaks and retrofitted bathrooms with our first global recycling campaign, Recycle low-flow fixtures. Exterior surfaces, such as Now — ​a six-week, six-market competition aimed sidewalks and entryways, are now cleaned at encouraging employees to recycle 100 percent with a non-water, environmentally responsible of all items in the workplace that can be cleaning solution in lieu of pressure washing. recycled. Read more about Recycle Now in the My Environment section on p. 82 of this chapter. We report regulated waste, such as hazardous waste, used oil, asbestos, kitchen grease, Waste Management and Recycling and universal waste, including batteries and Our goal was to achieve a 70 percent diversion mercury-containing lamps, on a one-year time rate by 2015. While our 64 percent diversion rate lag. Complete regulated waste information isn’t fell short of our goal, this rate is a significant available until mid-year, so this approach allows improvement from 2011, and we will continue more comprehensive and accurate reporting of to work diligently to increase waste diversion. these waste streams. We are focused on three major areas: increasing We’re also working to reduce the impact of availability of recycling services, employee our electronic waste streams. In 2010, we education, and expanded rollout of composting. became an e-Stewards® enterprise and in Through these initiatives, we fully anticipate 2012, we committed to disposing of all of our improving our diversion rate over the next electronic waste through certified, responsible few years. disposal vendors by 2015. In 2015, we disposed One of the greatest challenges in managing of 98 percent of our e-waste using certified, our waste is simply identifying all of our waste responsible vendors, falling just short of our goal streams and measuring waste generation of 100 percent. throughout our organization. In order to improve our waste tracking, we work with our vendors 73 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT 2015 GLOBAL WASTE (Metric tons) G4-EN23 | ​Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Construction & Secure demolition waste destruction of Workplace recycling: (including carpet): paper & media: 9,010 23,728 Workplace 595 Secure destruction trash: e-Waste: 35,184 Workplace compost: of paper & media: 33,885 2,463 Construction & demolition waste Total 1,135 Regulated waste: Kitchen grease: Regulated waste: (including carpet): waste 571 3,990 497 589 generated 111,649 Total waste Total waste Total waste to compost to recycling to landfill 1,135 70,155 40,359 Note: Numbers may not sum exactly due to rounding. Our 2015 Data power from specific suppliers or sources, such as renewable energy. The l­ocation-based We continue to track and manage the method considers average emission factors for environmental impacts of the bank’s operations the electricity grids that provide electricity to a and refine our methodology in order to most reporting organization and reflects operational accurately collect and report on this data. performance. This change is reflected in the Our 2015 environmental activities data tables that follow, which report are reported here using the Global WASTE & emissions using both methods. Reporting Initiative G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, as well as its RECYCLING Our ­market-based emissions include Financial Services Sector Disclosure. the impact of renewable energy PROGRAMS certificates (RECs) purchased in In 2015, new Scope 2 GHG emissions SAVINGS: the U.S. All U.S. RECs purchased guidance was issued by the Greenhouse $1.2M SINCE by Bank of America are Green-e Gas Protocol, the international standard 2010 certified. Emissions reflect ­supplier-­ for the reporting of greenhouse gas specific emission rates where (GHG) emissions, by corporations, available, all of which comply with governments, and organizations. Scope 2 Guidance criteria. Emissions reflect The most significant change introduced by the residual mix factors for European facilities. guidance is the requirement that companies Residual mix factors are not currently available must quantify and report two electricity for facilities outside of Europe. ­Location-based emissions totals, using a ­location-based method emission factors are used to quantify ­electricity-­ and a m ­ arket-based method. The ­market-based related Scope 3 emissions. method considers contractual arrangements under which the reporting organization procures 74 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT G4-EN15 | ​Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions greenhouse gas (GHG) (metric tons CO2e) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 emissions (scope 1) Scope 1 and L ­ ocation-Based Scope 2 Emissions G4-EN16 | ​Energy indirect greenhouse Scope 1 Direct Emissions 141,929 133,854 120,935 116,760 111,233 98,911 gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) L ­ ocation-Based Scope 2 1,670,103 1,563,502 1,420,164 1,335,600 1,224,004 1,028,359 G4-EN17 | ​Other Indirect Emissions indirect greenhouse Total Scope 1 and L ­ ocation-Based gas (GHG) emissions 1,812,031 1,697,356 1,541,099 1,452,359 1,335,237 1,127,270 Scope 2 Emissions (scope 3) Reduction in Total Scope 1 and N/A 6% 15% 20% 26% 38% G4-EN19 | ​Reduction ­Location-Based Scope 2 Emissions of greenhouse gas Scope 1 and M ­ arket-Based Scope 2 Emissions (GHG) emissions Scope 1 Direct Emissions 141,929 133,854 120,935 116,760 111,233 98,911 ­ arket-Based Scope 2 M 1,670,509 1,576,515 1,435,957 1,351,026 1,236,660 1,036,822 Indirect Emissions Total Scope 1 and M ­ arket-Based 1,812,438 1,710,369 1,556,892 1,467,786 1,347,893 1,135,732 Scope 2 Emissions Reduction in Total Scope 1 and ­ N/A 6% 14% 19% 26% 37% Market-Based Scope 2 Emissions Scope 3 Indirect Emissions (metric tons CO2e) Category 1: Purchased Goods N/A 2,692,749 2,368,832 2,102,616 2,026,561 1,674,213 and Services Category 2: Capital Goods N/A 110,711 94,215 80,307 104,018 85,933 Category 3: Fueland ­Energy-­ 322,267 304,418 285,267 270,999 251,073 215,561 Related Activities Category 4: Upstream Transportation 56,735 56,512 37,734 26,186 20,231 14,818 and Distribution Category 5: Waste (Traditional Disposal) N/A 22,964 21,985 19,842 17,150 16,525 Category 6: Business Travel 190,350 193,313 179,171 216,218 173,455 184,613 Category 7: Employee Commuting 707,216 528,895 494,216 446,186 417,262 388,595 Category 9: Downstream N/A N/A 1,300,000 1,200,000 1,100,000 900,000 Transportation and Distribution Category 11: Use of Sold Products N/A N/A 10,000 10,000 10,000 9,000 Category 12: End-of-Life of N/A N/A 30,000 25,000 23,000 24,000 Sold Products Supplemental Information Avoided Emissions from Recycling N/A -155,645 -160,350 -151,747 -149,745 -145,582 and Composting We follow the WRI and WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard to calculate Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. We use an operational control approach to define our boundary. The base year for emissions reductions is 2010. Emissions are recalculated back to the base year when a change to a prior inventory would result in a change in emissions of 0.5% or greater. Scope 1 and 2 calculations are based on site-­specific data for fuel consumed and utilities purchased, applying published emissions factors and global warming potentials (GWPs). Scope 3 calculations are based on data for the relevant activity, applying published emissions factors and GWPs. Where actual data is not available, estimates are made based on actual data collected in prior years. The gases included in the calculation of Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions are CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs and PFCs. 75 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT G4-EN15 | ​Direct 2015 ­Location-Based Emissions 2015 M­ arket-Based Emissions greenhouse gas (GHG) Total Total emissions (scope 1) Scope 1 Scope 1 Greenhouse Scope 1 Scope 2 and Scope 1 Scope 2 and G4-EN16 | ​Energy Gas Emissions Direct Indirect Scope 2 Direct Indirect Scope 2 indirect greenhouse by Region Units Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) Metric tons U.S. & Canada 87,850 884,845 972,694 87,850 882,707 970,557 CO2e G4-EN19 | ​Reduction Metric tons of greenhouse gas Asia Pacific 2,874 80,778 83,653 2,874 80,778 83,653 CO2e (GHG) emissions Metric tons EMEA 7,648 60,547 68,196 7,648 71,147 78,795 CO2e Metric tons Latin America 538 2,189 2,728 538 2,189 2,728 CO2e 2015 ­Location-Based Emissions 2015 M­ arket-Based Emissions Total Total Scope 1 Scope 1 Greenhouse Scope 1 Scope 2 and Scope 1 Scope 2 and Gas Emissions Direct Indirect Scope 2 Direct Indirect Scope 2 by Country Units Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Metric tons United States 87,718 884,534 972,251 87,718 882,396 970,114 CO2e Metric tons United Kingdom 5,959 55,078 61,037 5,959 64,596 70,555 CO2e Metric tons India 2,384 46,140 48,524 2,384 46,140 48,524 CO2e Metric tons China 186 16,214 16,399 186 16,214 16,399 CO2e Metric tons Japan 89 5,896 5,985 89 5,896 5,985 CO2e Metric tons Australia 9 3,251 3,260 9 3,251 3,260 CO2e Metric tons Ireland 662 1,129 1,791 662 1,884 2,546 CO2e Metric tons South Africa 12 1,632 1,643 12 1,632 1,643 CO2e Metric tons Canada 132 311 443 132 311 443 CO2e Southeast Asia — ​ Singapore, Malaysia, Metric tons 107 6,849 6,957 107 6,849 6,957 Philippines, Thailand, CO2e and Indonesia Metric tons Mexico 81 584 664 81 584 664 CO2e Metric tons Russia 122 810 932 122 810 932 CO2e Metric tons Germany 9 168 176 9 266 275 CO2e Metric tons Italy 52 237 289 52 250 302 CO2e Metric tons Brazil 63 408 471 63 408 471 CO2e Metric tons France 11 46 57 11 24 35 CO2e Metric tons Saudi Arabia 5 84 90 5 84 90 CO2e Metric tons Rest of World 1,310 4,990 6,300 1,310 5,227 6,537 CO2e 76 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT G4-EN3 | ​Energy NOx, SOx, and Other consumption within the Significant Air Emissions organization from Direct Combustion Units 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN6 | ​Reduction SOx Metric tons 17 17 15 10 1.2 0.9 of energy consumption G4-EN19 | ​Reduction NOx Metric tons 45 42 37 35 30 25 of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions CO Metric tons 56 53 47 48 46 38 G4-EN20 | ​Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) VOC Metric tons 3.9 3.7 3.3 3.3 3.0 3.7 G4-EN21 | ​NOx , SOx , PM Metric tons 7.3 6.9 6.1 5.6 4.5 2.5 and other significant air emissions Ozone Depleting Metric tons 14 13 13 22 23 17 Substances CFC 11e Data is sourced from the Scope 1 and 2 inventory and records kept through our compliance program. We use the same boundary in calculating energy consumption as in our GHG emissions calculations. Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption (Gigajoules) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Electricity 11,796,489 11,021,687 10,583,245 9,793,244 8,950,905 8,041,148 Other indirect (purchased steam 200,907 201,335 200,361 158,006 169,045 152,199 and cooling) Natural gas 1,489,657 1,401,520 1,240,870 1,290,967 1,230,066 1,024,295 Other direct (fuel oil, jet fuel, 348,755 323,555 273,260 236,229 199,212 194,410 gasoline, diesel fuel, propane) Data is sourced from utility bills where possible. Where utility bills are not available (such as in a leased property), we estimate based on internal estimation intensities by building type. These estimation intensities are calculated annually based on actual data. We use the same boundary in calculating energy consumption as in our GHG emissions calculations. Reductions in Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Consumption Units 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Projected annual Metric tons emissions savings from N/A 21,000 28,418 23,419 24,810 20,752 CO2e reduction initiatives Projected annual savings from energy Gigajoules N/A 149,353 215,787 186,824 182,735 165,881 efficiency measures Data is sourced from records kept by Real Estate Services, which records each project undertaken and relevant details, including project annual electricity or fuel savings and projected annual monetary savings. 77 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT G4-EN1 | ​Materials Indirect Energy Consumption used by weight or by Fuel Mix 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 volume Coal 36% 35% 33% 34% 34% 38% G4-EN3 | ​Energy consumption within the organization Natural gas 3% 5% 2% 2% 2% 1% Nuclear 30% 32% 31% 32% 32% 30% Renewable 23% 22% 24% 23% 22% 19% Petroleum 9% 8% 10% 10% 10% 11% Indirect Energy Consumption by Primary Fuel Source (Gigajoules) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Coal 13,057,661 11,764,344 10,746,803 10,255,225 9,555,961 9,619,829 Petroleum 780,226 1,196,110 454,949 363,929 338,155 179,420 Natural Gas 8,239,761 8,220,850 7,759,924 7,441,705 6,660,655 5,753,330 This data represents total source energy consumed to produce the intermediate energy (electricity, steam, chilled water) used. Non-­Renewable Material Usage — ​ IT Equipment (Number of Units Procured) 2012 2013 2014 2015 Desktops and Workstations 78,786 81,148 42,167 36,483 Laptops and Tablets 35,070 59,054 27,757 54,474 Printers and Multifunction Printing Devices 2,267 8,322 11,318 6,008 Servers 1,076 1,541 1,132 894 Monitors 96,213 131,481 82,663 74,846 Not Not Not Thin Clients 3,180 Applicable Applicable Applicable IT equipment is purchased from external suppliers. Data is sourced from direct measurements based on invoices from our paper vendors. 78 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT G4-EN1 | ​Materials Renewable Material used by weight or Usage — ​Paper Units 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 volume Paper Total usage 66,614 66,693 56,529 50,166 47,570 47,925 G4-EN2 | ​Percentage (metric tons) of materials used that Percent decrease are recycled input N/A 0% 15% 25% 29% 28% from base year materials Recycled input G4-EN8 | ​Total water 8% 9% 9% 9% 8% 9% materials by weight withdrawal by source Certified input N/A 93% 95% 97% 98% 99% G4-EN10 | ​ materials by weight Percentage and total Paper is purchased from external suppliers. Data is sourced from direct measurements based on invoices from our paper vendors. volume of water recycled and reused Electronification of Paper Units 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Suppression Metric tons of paper 5,280 8,430 8,608 9,870 10,999 10,999 avoided Metric tons of CO2e 14,296 24,312 23,196 26,596 29,885 29,885 avoided Electronic Payment Metric tons of paper 1,032 1,052 1,091 1,241 1,231 1,231 avoided Metric tons of CO2e 2,794 3,032 2,940 3,344 3,344 3,344 avoided Print Monitoring Metric tons of paper 0 1,526 1,409 869 922 922 and Control avoided Metric tons of CO2e 0 4,398 3,797 2,343 2,480 2,480 avoided Image ATM Envelope Metric tons of paper 1,361 1,485 1,547 1,496 1,425 1,425 Elimination avoided Metric tons of CO2e 3,922 4,280 4,169 4,031 3,871 3,871 avoided Note: Values held constant from 2014, as 2015 data was not available. Water Units 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Water Consumption Billion U.S. gallons 3.55 3.53 3.25 2.90 2.59 2.34 Million cubic meters 13.5 13.4 12.3 11.0 9.81 8.87 Reduction in Total Percent decrease N/A 1% 9% 18% 27% 34% Water Consumption from base year Water Reused or Thousand U.S. N/A N/A N/A 26,350 19,420 21,740 Recycled gallons Estimated Annual Thousand U.S. N/A 43,229 244,412 42,263 19,965 60,963 Savings from Water gallons Reduction Projects Data for water withdrawals is sourced from utility bills where possible. Where utility bills are not available (such as in a leased property), we estimate based on internal estimation intensities by building type. These estimation intensities are calculated annually based on actual data. We use the same boundary in calculating energy consumption as in our GHG emissions calculations. Water is withdrawn from municipal sources and discharged to municipal sewer systems. Data for water reused or recycled is sourced from meter readings of the water reuse systems in place. 79 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT G4-EN23 | ​Total Disposal weight of waste by Waste Units method 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 type and disposal Non-­Hazardous Waste Landfill and method Metric tons 48,317 45,731 43,288 37,542 35,779 (office, confidential) incineration Recycling Metric tons 46,509 49,221 45,854 45,288 44,030 and compost Diversion rate 49% 52% 51% 55% 55% Landfill and Non-­Hazardous Waste Metric tons 1,826 3,376 3,661 6,115 3,990 incineration (construction and demolition, carpet) Recycling Metric tons 8,288 20,482 15,893 19,305 23,728 and compost Diversion rate 82% 86% 81% 76% 86% Non-­Hazardous Waste Landfill and Metric tons 0 0 0 0 0 (kitchen grease) incineration Recycling Metric tons 40 43 307 701 571 and compost Diversion rate 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Landfill and e-Waste Metric tons 0 0 0 0 0 incineration Recycling and Metric tons 3,931 3,761 4,932 4,898 2,463 remarketing Diversion rate 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Certified 84% 87% 89% 91% 98% disposal rate Hazardous, Universal, Landfill and Metric tons 470 2,320 695 345 589 Used Oil, and incineration Asbestos Waste Recycling, reuse, Metric tons 462 267 421 192 497 and salvage Diversion rate 50% 10% 38% 36% 46% Landfill and Total Waste Metric tons 50,612 51,428 47,644 44,001 40,359 incineration Recycling and Metric tons 59,230 73,774 67,408 70,385 71,290 other diversion Diversion rate 54% 59% 59% 62% 64% Data is sourced from vendors that provide waste removal services. A detailed description of the methodologies employed is available in the Waste Management and Recycling section. Note: Numbers may not sum exactly due to rounding. 80 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT G4-EN24 | ​Total Facilities Units 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 number and volume of LEED significant spills Net square feet 12,537,553 17,102,514 17,076,583 17,548,097 17,542,460 18,990,678 Certifications G4-EN29 | ​Monetary Percent of total value of significant fines 10% 15% 16% 18% 19% 23% workplace and total number of Metric tons non-monetary sanctions Carpet 530 2,136 1,376 1,425 1,504 1,358 for non-compliance purchased with environmental laws Recycled input Not Not Not and regulations 27% 40% 40% materials by weight Available Available Available Environmentally Square feet cleaned Sustainable using qualifying 77,000,000 78,000,000 72,300,000 62,243,807 57,250,002 50,169,159 Cleaning products Percent of total 64% 67% 66% 63% 63% 59% workplace Transportation Units 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Employee Annual miles traveled 1,962,652,062 1,516,150,982 1,375,785,444 1,274,259,233 1,200,239,636 1,127,432,624 Commuting Low-­Carbon Vehicle New participants 669 842 1,168 1,093 824 603 Reimbursement Program Metric tons of CO2e avoided 771 1,254 1,726 2,154 1,777 1,390 by new participants Telepresence Number of calls 13,201 56,991 64,469 81,204 97,811 123,759 Compliance Units 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Non-­ Fines paid $23,854 $16,240 $16,350 $28,200 $0 $1,000 Compliance in $USD with Non-­ Environmental G4-EN30 | ​Significant monetary 9 19 7 1 4 3 Regulations environmental impacts violations of transporting Number 2 2 1 3 7 0 products and other Reportable goods and materials Spills for the organization’s Volume — ​ operations, and 3 1,340 400 23 330 0 U.S. gallons transporting members Data is sourced from our compliance management system, in which we record all instances of non-­compliance with environmental of the workforce regulations and spills. G4-EN31 | ​Total environmental protection expenditures Environmental Spend Units 2012 2013 2014 2015 and investments by type Data not Compliance Management $USD available by $16,600,000 $14,100,000 $10,700,000 category Data not Environmental Assessment and Remediation $USD available by $4,300,000 $5,500,000 $5,300,000 category Data not Waste Management $USD available by $200,000 $200,000 $100,000 category Total Environmental Protection Spend $USD $21,100,000 $21,100,000 $19,800,000 $16,100,000 Data is sourced from our compliance management system, in which we record all instances of non-­compliance with environmental regulations and spills. 81 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT My Environment My Environment members also participated in global International Coastal Cleanup events. Each year, thousands of employees assist in In 2015, we celebrated the fifth anniversary of collecting millions of pounds of debris from the My Environment® program. We created the oceans, lakes, and rivers around the world. Over My Environment program as a way to 2,000 volunteers participated in engage and empower employees to more than 40 cleanup events. act as better environmental stewards MORE THAN In 2015, we launched Recycle in all areas of their life — ​at work, 2,000 Now, our first global campaign to at home, and in the community. VOLUNTEERS educate and inspire our employees Today the program has grown to to do more recycling. As part of include more than 19,000 employee PARTICIPATED the campaign, we engaged our members in 32 countries, totaling IN 40 employees in several ways including almost 10 percent of our workforce. INTERNATIONAL an interactive online recycling Employees have contributed more game, short videos and an atCOASTAL than 227,000 environmental volunteer home recycling guide. In addition, hours since 2010. CLEANUP EVENTS there was a six-week, six-market To commemorate the five-year competition. Employees in these anniversary of the My Environment program, markets tried to recycle 100 percent Bank of America teamed up with The Nature of workplace items that could be recycled in Conservancy to plant one tree for each My their markets. The winning market, Boston, Environment member as of September 2015 — ​ earned a $25,000 grant for a local environmental totaling more than 17,122 trees. nonprofit, and the most improved market, Hong Kong, received a $10,000 grant. A highlight of the competition was sculptures made from recyclable materials by local non-profit partners and put RECYCLE NOW COMPETITION — on display in several office buildings during RECYCLING RATES the challenge. As a result of this campaign, our recycling rate in these markets increased 14% by an average of 14 percent. We continue to focus on recycling and reducing waste across Overall the enterprise. increase in As part of My Environment, we also provide our employees incentives to incorporate recycling environmentally friendly technologies in their home lives. For 10 years we have offered employees in the U.S. a subsidy on the purchase 1st 77% Boston of lower carbon vehicles and recently expanded to include the UK. The program has been very 2nd 72% London successful and our employees are 2.5 times as likely as the average American to drive a hybrid 3rd 71% Charlotte or other clean energy vehicle. In keeping with our goal to increase adoption of emerging low4th 69% Hong Kong & carbon technologies, we updated our employee program in 2015. The program now provides North Texas incentives for the next generation of lower 5th 68% NYC carbon vehicles — ​highway-capable electric or hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. Eligible U.S. and UK employees can receive a $4,000/£3,000 reimbursement for the purchase of a new, eligible electric vehicle or $2,000/£1,000 for a new lease. 82 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Philanthropy in the early morning and evening, and create a night time gathering place in communities G4-15 | ​E xternally developed economic, environmental and social that lack basic access to electricity. In addition charters, principles, Philanthropic partnerships play an important to supporting hundreds of school lighting or other initiatives to projects, the funds will also support solar job which the organization role in our broader strategy to help finance subscribes or which it the transition to a lower-carbon, sustainable training, research, and development in off-grid endorses economy. That’s why we continue to partner communities. The GivePower Foundation expects with leading organizations that are helping to to bring light to remote villages in Kenya, Nepal, drive a low-carbon energy future, expanding Nicaragua, Haiti, Tanzania, Ghana, DR Congo, access to clean and safe water, and researching Senegal, and Ethiopia. next-generation solutions to these challenges. Examples of two of these partners are Water.org and the GivePower Foundation, which are, respectively, providing access to clean water and Environmental bringing clean energy to the developing world. Governance and Water.org Access to clean water is one of the most Policies pressing issues of our time. In 2015, we announced a $1 million grant to Water.org, a Bank of America maintains environmental and global organization that provides innovative, social risk policies related to climate change, community-led and market-based solutions that forests, energy, and certain high risk sectors. change lives. Our grant will empower 100,000 We make our policies publicly available to people in southern India to obtain safe water provide transparency and clarity about our and sanitation solutions through position on these issues. In 2015, WaterCredit, a program that enables we launched a significant review of people in need to access small OUR $500,000 our existing policies with the goal loans for water connections and GRANT TO of creating a new, comprehensive toilets. Through our connection GIVEPOWER Environmental and Social Risk with Water.org, we are improving Management Framework (ESRM environmental and global health, FOUNDATION Framework) for the company. As while creating educational and PROVIDED part of this process, we made economic opportunities for women SOLAR-POWERED significant changes to our coal and girls. Our grant will benefit policy and continued to evolve our LIGHT TO 1,000 three local WaterCredit partners in rigor around certain higher risk the region. As the loans are repaid, ADDITIONAL sectors including Palm Oil. The the funds will provide a sustainable SCHOOLS IN 2015 new ESRM Framework, which sets source of affordable water and forth the parameters for how we sanitation financing in the region. identify, measure, monitor, and control risks related to environmental and social GivePower Foundation issues, will be available on our website later We also provided a $500,000 grant to the this year. GivePower Foundation, SolarCity’s charitable Coal Policy nonprofit organization, to address energy poverty through solar-powered lighting in schools in the In 2015, Bank of America became one of the developing world. Our grant helped GivePower first banks to update its coal policy to focus on provide much-needed solar-powered light to risk issues in the sector beyond mountain top 1,000 additional schools in 2015. GivePower removal mining (MTR) of coal. Foundation donates solar panels, batteries, and lighting to schools to extend classroom hours 83 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT In our latest policy, Bank of America committed The table below is a summary of transactions G4-15 | ​E xternally developed economic, to reduce our credit exposure to companies that required enhanced environmental environmental and social that mine coal. This policy applies globally to and social risk review beyond standard due charters, principles, both companies focused on coal mining, and to diligence processes. or other initiatives to divisions of diversified mining companies that which the organization subscribes or which are focused on coal. While we have reduced our it endorses credit exposure to companies focused on coal, including those companies engaged in MTR, Enhanced Enhanced G4-45 | ​Highest review by review governance body’s role we have significantly increased our exposure to in the identification environmental by global renewable energy projects. At the end of 2015, and social risk reputation risk and management our exposure to renewable energy projects was Sector specialists committee of economic, environmental and nearly 9.5 times our exposure to coal extraction. social impacts, risks, Oil & Gas 4 0 and opportunities You can read the full content of Bank of America’s Coal Policy on our website. Mining 31 0 Palm Oil Policy Initiatives Forestry & 7 0 Last year, we strengthened environmental due Agriculture diligence processes for clients who operate in Energy 24 1 the Palm Oil sector, including requiring clients Infrastructure whose business is focused on ownership Transportation 4 0 and management of palm oil plantations and operations (growers and mills) to have their operations certified, or have in place an outlined Chemicals 2 0 Action Plan and schedule for certification. We use the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Other 6 0 (RSPO) certification or an equivalent certification standard as a minimum requirement. Building upon this process, in 2016 we will engage with stakeholders including clients, our own bankers, Compliance Procedures — ​Environmental and non-governmental organizations to discuss Management System (EMS) this complex issue and continue to advance policy to help mitigate the social and environmental We employ an Environmental Management risks attributed to palm oil production. System (EMS) that relies on a comprehensive compliance database to help Real Estate Environmental Risk Management/​ Services Environment Risk identify, manage, Due Diligence and mitigate risk, and improve performance across our corporate real estate portfolio. Our As outlined in the Business Standards Report, EMS encourages: we follow a risk-based framework that provides for clear ownership and accountability for • Stringent compliance with applicable managing risk. environmental laws and regulations In 2015, we were not engaged in any project• Pollution prevention and environmentally related corporate loans, advisory services, or sustainable practices project finance (as defined by the Equator • Continuous improvement in all areas of Principles) that reached financial close during environmental management the reporting period. Our reporting and tracking are in accordance with the third edition of the Equator Principles (EP III). 84 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT BELOW ARE THREE EXAMPLES OF TRANSACTIONS G4-15 | ​E xternally developed economic, THAT REQUIRED ENHANCED REVIEW: environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to Sector Transaction type Issue Outcome summary which the organization subscribes or which Mining Capital Markets — ​ Assurance around child We decided not to renew a relationship with a it endorses Equity labor, protection of client that had made poor progress on public sensitive ecosystems and commitments to increase transparency or endangered species forward movement on an action plan to address environmental and social issues raised by stakeholders. Oil & Gas Acquisition Exploration and While the client and acquisition target’s activity Finance production in a sensitive passed through significant environmental impact arctic ecosystem assessments in a highly regulated environment, we felt that the company did not have adequate capital and size to manage through potential risks inherent in the region. As a result, we declined involvement in the transaction. Electric Tax Equity Finance Impacts to Avian Transaction risk included disagreements between Power wildlife from expansion permitted activity for expansion of a wind farm, of a utility scale wind and unsettled issues with one regulator. The farm in rural western disagreement focused on the scope of wildlife impact United States assessments on a project expansion. We moved forward with supporting the transaction subject to the client working through the regulator issues and their commitment on transparency to all investors regarding both their actions to address wildlife impacts, and notifying investors of outstanding issues being worked out with the regulator. Our EMS covers all key areas, including roles and responsibilities, training, inspections, inventory Looking Ahead procedures, formal targets, documentation, measurement, complaint response, and Achieving the goals that we have set as a company, emergency procedures. One component of as well as supporting the public and private sector our EMS, Integrated Data for Environmental in reaching the goals set at COP21, will require Applications, is an online tool that allows our a new model of partnership. Enabling this kind employees and partners to understand and of progress requires financial services firms — ​ manage environmental compliance across our including Bank of America — ​to bring scale, global real estate footprint. Our strong record of influence, and the ability to innovate. There is no compliance across our real estate portfolio is the better example of responsible, sustainable growth direct result of our rigorous EMS. than when we can help to address significant global issues while also seeing a business return. Environmental Fines This is the definition of shared success. The bank paid $1,000 in environmental fines in 2015, which is de minimis for an institution of our size. 85 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | ​HIGHLIGHTS | ​ENVIRONMENT | ​SOCIAL | ​GOVERNANCE | ​ABOUT THIS REPORT SOCIAL In this Our Approach Social Impact • Simplifying Banking Delivering Through and Investing Our People section • Building Thriving Economies • Embracing the Diversity of Our People • Advancing Better Money Habits • Helping Employees Grow and Thrive • Supporting Our Employees’ Wellness • Employee Satisfaction and Engagement Connecting small businesses to CDFI loans and mentoring 86 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | ​HIGHLIGHTS | ​ENVIRONMENT | ​SOCIAL | ​GOVERNANCE | ​ABOUT THIS REPORT Investing in Women In support of our work to advance thriving economies and as part of our SOCIAL commitment to diversity and inclusion, “I’m honored to carry the we invest in women’s leadership and economic empowerment, torch ... It shows there really helping women make meaningful contributions — within our own Connecting are no limitations. We can all do things that people company and around the globe. to Capital never thought we could.” • More than 50% of our global workforce is female and more A key way we help economies thrive Patricia Saucier than 30% of our senior leadership is by offering various methods for 15-year Bank of America employee in are women connecting customers, clients, and Support Services and Special Olympics communities to the capital they need. athlete. Our Support Services group • We offer leading benefits that A few examples in 2015: is a fulfillment operation that employs support women and working families including our expansion of more than 300 individuals with Community parental leave benefits to 16 weeks intellectual disabilities. Development Banking • Through the Global Ambassadors uses a wide variety of financing Program, a partnership with Vital Voices, and our work with solutions to help provide affordable Fostering Inclusion housing, improve education, and the Cherie Blair Foundation, create jobs, thereby improving the In order to spread a message of we’ve connected women quality of life for residents in those diversity and inclusion, we expanded entrepreneurs from more communities. our 30-year partnership with Special than 80 countries to mentoring Olympics to present the first-ever • Provided more than $4.5 billion • The Tory Burch Foundation Unified Relay Across America, a in lending and investing Capital Program, powered by 46-day event, during which more than • Helped to create 14,400 housing 115 employee teams helped carry Bank of America, connects women units, including 13,400 units of the Flame of Hope torch coast-toentrepreneurs in the U.S., like affordable housing, for individuals, coast in lead-up to Special Olympics bunglo-owner Shay Spaniola families, veterans, seniors, and the World Games. (pictured below), to affordable loans. previously homeless Administered by CDFIs, $10 million • 80 community celebrations held was loaned to women business Community Development as part of relay — set record as single owners in 2014 and 2015, with largest fundraising event in Special Financial Institutions (CDFIs) $20 million in loans expected over Olympics history, raising $4.3 million the next two years. provide affordable loans, technical from 18,000+ individual donors assistance, and other resources to those who may not be able to get • $5 million donated through loans through traditional channels. the Bank of America Charitable Foundation to support the 2015 • Invested more than $1 billion in Special Olympics World Games CDFIs, including extending more than $235 million in loans to support • True global employee affordable housing, small businesses, celebration — ​from cheering on and economic development their Special Olympics’ national teams in Singapore, Hong Kong, Small Business Banking Australia, and Japan, to other • Extended nearly $10.7 billion in employee volunteers in Europe, new credit to small business owners, the Middle East and Africa, who resulting in total small business helped with registration, events, lending of nearly $25.2 billion presentations, and team send-offs 87 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Social Goals and Progress We invite you to read details of our progress toward meeting selected social targets and goals in 2015. O U R TA RG E T S O U R P RO G R E SS S TAT U S $2 billion The Bank of America Charitable Foundation provided more than $183 million(1) in global philanthropic investments, including cash ON in philanthropic investments, giving and in-kind donations to address issues TRACK globally, by 2019 fundamental to economic mobility in 2015. Achieve Our employee volunteers contributed approximately 2 million 2 million hours in 2015 addressing a range of community needs, including mentoring youth, ON hours of volunteer service and engage packing food donations, teaching better money TRACK our employees to be more active citizens habits, and building affordable housing. $1.5 trillion Since 2009, we’ve extended $799 billion Progress in community development lending and reflects slight investments in the U.S., including approximately performance for community development lending $62.34 billion in 2015.(2) improvements; and investments in the U.S. by 2019 see pp. 103 to 105 Hire 10,000 Since 2014, we have hired 4,000+ service members toward hitting our goal veterans, guard and reservists ON over the next several years of 10,000 veterans, guard, and reservists. TRACK (1) More than $14.67 million of our total philanthropic giving (2) T hree years from our 10-year, $1.5 trillion community development was from in-kind property donations. The remaining goal, total loan and investment volumes in some categories $168.46 million was from cash giving. declined due in part to changes in our business strategy and a more stabilized housing market. 88 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Our Approach The programs we have in place are a direct result of our employees’ feedback. Our continued G4-LA12 | ​ Composition of governance bodies effort to respond to their feedback has increased and breakdown As a financial institution, the impact we can make employee satisfaction with our company. Our of employees per most recent engagement survey results showed employee category in local communities, to solve issues big and according to small, is significant. We are uniquely positioned 76 percent of our workforce would recommend gender, age group, to help individuals advance better money habits, Bank of America as a great place to work. Our minority group survey results indicate that our employees are membership, and support the growth of small businesses, and other indicators help homeowners. We also bring to aligned to our core values, are of diversity bear the breadth of our operations optimistic about the company’s OUR MOST future, and are proud to work for us. G4-EC6 | ​ and relationships with suppliers Proportion and important partners to solve RECENT We work hard to find ways to evolve of senior global issues that matter to our EMPLOYEE our employee benefits and programs management hired from the communities around the world. ENGAGEMENT so we can simplify and improve local community This starts with our commitment SCORE: their experience, meet their diverse at significant needs, and help them succeed in locations of to our own employees. Our people are the foundation for improving the financial lives of our customers, 76% our goal of making financial lives better. By listening carefully to operation clients, and the communities we employee feedback, we were able serve. That’s why we invest in our employees, to make significant strides in several key areas listen to their feedback, and support them throughout 2015. both personally and professionally. It’s one of many reasons why Bank of America is a great place to work. By nurturing a diverse workplace where our Embracing the employees feel appreciated and engaged, we help them become better in their jobs and at Diversity of Our People building their careers with us. We strive to give all employees the support they need to be Our workforce reflects the communities where their best at work and at home, so that they we live and work, and we know that these diverse can make a genuine impact and contribute to backgrounds and experiences make us stronger. the sustainable growth of our business and the communities we serve. Disciplined Approach to Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and inclusion are part of our values and define who we are as a company. We hold Delivering Through our leaders accountable for ensuring they Our People build diverse teams and foster an inclusive environment where employees feel free to speak their minds and feel valued for who they are. We are a diverse and inclusive company where This accountability starts with our Global employees are encouraged to share their Diversity and Inclusion Council (GDIC), which perspectives on how we run our business and is chaired by our CEO Brian Moynihan and support one another. We help our employees comprised of senior leaders from around the learn and develop at every stage of their career so world who are responsible for setting and they can reach their full potential and contribute upholding diversity and inclusion goals and to the growth of our company. We also support practices. our employees’ physical, financial, and emotional wellness by offering a wide range of benefits and resources to help them be their best. 89 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT GLOBAL AND REGIONAL WORKFORCE G4-10 | ​Total number of employees by employment contract and gender G4-LA1 | ​Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover 182,171 9,648 by age group, gender NORTH AMERICA and region EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA G4-LA12 | ​ Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 722 according to gender, age LATIN AMERICA group, minority group GLOBAL WORKFORCE 23,477 membership, and other ASIA PACIFIC indicators of diversity BY GENDER 216,018 MEN WOMEN Total global workforce 103,878 (48%) 112,140 (52%) Global management team 62% 38% DIVERSE RACES AND (1) “Officers and managers” refers to executives, as well Board of directors ETHNIC BACKGROUNDS( 2) as senior, midand first-level 69% 31% managers, who together constitute approximately 16.9 percent of our U.S. workforce. Other employees U.S. WORKFORCE BY GENDER 44% U.S. WORKFORCE not included in this group include professional staff, technicians, sales workers and administrative support workers. 181,475 U.S. OFFICERS AND (2) As defined by the Equal Employment Opportunity 84% OF GLOBAL WORKFORCE MANAGERS(1) 31% Commission: “Diverse and ethnic background” refers to individuals in all racial and ethnicity groups, except White. Specifically, it consists of persons of Hispanic or Latino U.S. WORKFORCE (EXCLUDING background and those in MEN WOMEN 46% U.S. OFFICERS AND MANAGERS(1)) the Black/ African American; Asian; Native Hawaiian/ Other Pacific Islander; Total U.S. workforce American Indian/Alaska Native; and two or more 45% 55% races categories. Officers & managers(1) 53% 47% BOARD OF DIRECTORS 23% Workforce (excluding officers & managers(1)) 43% 57% 90 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Global Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Business Councils (DIBC) G4-10 | ​Total number of employees by Organization (GDIO) All of our lines of business and regions have employment contract Led by our Chief Diversity & Inclusion Officer, the DIBCs, charged with planning and implementing and gender GDIO partners with our businesses and regions diversity strategies for their business or region. G4-LA12 | ​ to develop diversity and inclusion strategies, Council members are leaders and senior Composition of recruit diverse talent, and manage our diversity executives who focus on advising and influencing governance bodies and breakdown of employees sponsorships and partnerships. The GDIO also executive management on achieving business per employee category actively supports employee engagement through goals through diversity and inclusion. They also according to gender, age management of global employee networks. In recommend strategies to promote diversity group, minority group membership, and other early 2016, our Chief Diversity & Inclusion Officer, through inclusive employee recruiting, retention, indicators of diversity Geri Thomas, retired from the bank after 45 and development practices. years, and Cynthia Bowman assumed the role. U.S. EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY IN 2015 Native American Hawaiian/ Black/ Indian/ Other Two Total African Hispanic/ Alaska Pacific or more by Job Category Gender White American Latino Asian Native Islander races gender Total Executive/ Male 2,507 89 94 229 6 4 13 2,942 Senior level 4,352 officials and managers Female 1,187 81 57 74 7 4 1,410 First/mid-level Male 9,101 919 1,363 1,920 33 30 109 13,475 officials and 26,358 managers Female 8,491 1,493 1,563 1,134 39 28 135 12,883 Professionals(1) Male 25,446 1,648 2,137 4,953 111 83 418 34,796 54,416 Female 12,838 1,963 1,490 3,009 64 50 206 19,620 All Other Male 13,684 4,580 7,348 3,169 96 138 770 29,785 96,349 Female 29,137 13,289 16,588 5,620 267 301 1,362 66,564 Totals Male 50,738 7,236 10,942 10,271 246 255 1,310 80,998 181,475 Female 51,653 16,826 19,698 9,837 377 379 1,707 100,477 (1) A s defined by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission: “Professionals” refers to job categories that require bachelor and graduate degrees, and/or professional certification. In some instances, comparable experience may establish a person’s qualifications. 91 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Each DIBC has a diversity and inclusion client through our 12 Employee Networks, which have G4-EC6 | ​Proportion of senior management executive who works with the GDIO on the more than 200 chapters made up of nearly 70,000 hired from the local following shared goals: members worldwide. In 2015, our first three community at significant • Promote education and awareness on matters employee networks — ​Leadership, Education, locations of operation of diversity and inclusion Advocacy, and Development for Women; Hispanic/ G4-LA10 | ​Programs Latino Organization for Leadership and for skills management • Create an inclusive and diverse work Advancement; and the Black Professional and lifelong learning environment where all employees flourish Group — ​celebrated their 10-year anniversaries. that support the continued employability • Promote inclusive and diverse employee of employees and assist recruiting, retention, and development practices them in managing career endings • Advise and influence executive management on achieving business goals through diversity Helping Employees G4-LA12 | ​ Composition of and inclusion Grow and Thrive governance bodies and breakdown of employees Continuing to Grow and Develop Our per employee category according to gender, Diverse Workforce Our employees bring diverse experience age group, minority We continue to attract strong, diverse talent and learning styles and they benefit from a group membership, personalized approach to their development. and other indicators while also developing and promoting our of diversity employees so we can help them thrive in To help employees excel, we provide professional their careers. development strategies, tools, and processes dedicated to specific lines of businesses, roles, Hiring a Diverse Workforce and diversity groups across the company. Through our far-reaching recruitment programs and partnerships, we’re bringing the best and brightest from around the world Our 12 Employee Networks: to Bank of America. In order to build the next generation of leaders, we have campus staff • Asian Leadership Network (ALN) dedicated to recruiting and retaining young • Black Professional Group (BPG) talent. The team is also aligned with top diverse • Disability Advocacy Network (DAN) external organizations and conferences in order to build a more diverse workforce. Our most • Hispanic/Latino Organization for recent campus recruiting class was more than Leadership & Advancement (HOLA) 50 percent diverse. • Inter-Generational Employee Starting with early identification programs, we Network (IGEN) connect college freshmen and sophomores to • Leadership, Education, Advocacy & opportunities in finance and technology, and Development (LEAD) for Women we help shape their education with the right • Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Pride skills and training to help them realize their full (LGBT Pride) potential. Through our analyst programs, we pair • Military Support & Assistance thousands of interns with the best minds in the Group (MSAG) industry, to make an impact from the start of their work experience. • Multicultural Leadership Network (MLN) (Europe only) Read more about the programs we have in place • Native American Professional to develop high-performing, diverse employees Network (NAPN) on pp. 40 to 41. • Young Professional Network (Asia Connecting Employees Pacific only) We provide our employees with opportunities to • Parents and Caregivers Network (PCN) build relationships with others who share common Read more on p. 41. interests and backgrounds. One way we do this is 92 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT G4-LA2 | ​Benefits provided to full-time Employee Snapshots employees that are not provided to temporary KEITH HENRY, a Merrill Lynch for changing their industries, politics, or society. or part-time employees, Wealth Management market Karen also serves as a Global Ambassador for by significant locations executive in Bridgewater, the Vital Voices – ​Bank of America partnership. of operation N.J., has been with Merrill The program brings together influential women G4-LA10 | ​Programs Lynch for more than 30 years leaders from the public and private sectors to for skills management and has led the Bridgewater mentor women engaged in small businesses and and lifelong learning social enterprises. that support the market since 2005. During continued employability his career, Keith has focused on bringing in and of employees and assist developing diverse talent, and in 2014 he took ROBERT MARTINEZ, them in managing that commitment further when he accepted Platform Product manager, career endings the role of chairman of the Black/African Global Marketing & Corporate American Leadership Council. The council was Affairs, was recognized as established to empower its members to address a Hispanic Association on the unique issues and opportunities facing black Corporate Responsibility and African American colleagues at the firm. (HACR) 2015 Young Hispanic The council’s key priorities include deepening Corporate Achiever at the 23rd Annual the diverse talent pipeline of African American HACR Symposium in Atlanta. The Corporate leaders and forming strategic alliances with Achiever program recognizes young Hispanic leaders across the company to help talent grow executives who have made significant leadership and develop. contributions in the workplace while upholding a commitment to the Hispanic community. Robert KAREN FANG, managing has more than 14 years of IT experience, which director and head of the includes software development, infrastructure Americas FICC Sales for Bank planning, and platform management. He joined of America Merrill Lynch, has the Bank of America’s HOLA Employee Network been with the company for six in 2007, and shortly after, became involved with years and is recognized among the HOLA Enterprise Leadership Team where her peers as an outstanding he has held various roles such as Enterprise industry leader. Karen was most recently chosen Communications lead, Regional Chair, and for Fortune’s “40 under 40” list for 2015, the today Robert serves as the HOLA Enterprise magazine’s ranking of the most influential young Business Strategy Co-Chair where he seeks people in business. Also in 2015, she was named to enhance collaboration between HOLA and a Young Global Leader by the World Economic our LOBs for the planning and execution of Forum, which represents the next generation products and services pertaining to the Hispanic/ of global leaders and recognizes young people Latino market. Career Development team and connect them to the tools and people they need to succeed. In 2015, we improved We provide our employees with tools and our onboarding process to ensure employees programs to support their success and help them have a smooth integration into their new role. advance their careers. Our goal is to help them We enhanced the experience by creating new grow in their roles, better serve our customers employee and manager onboarding guides and clients, and continue to be rewarded for and new hire welcome kits to help educate their achievements. new hires about our company and culture, Onboarding New Employees our operating principles and values, and the benefits and programs available to them. As a Onboarding is an important part of helping newly result of these new enhancements, there was hired or newly transitioned teammates join the 93 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT an 8 percent increase in overall satisfaction Rewarding Performance that Balances G4-HR2 | ​Total hours of employee training with the onboarding experience among new Risk and Reward on human rights policies hires and a 6 percent increase in satisfaction or procedures We have aligned performance plans and among managers. compensation with risk management tools. G4-HR7 | ​Percentage Read more about the learning resources available In turn, this has enhanced our promotion and of security personnel to our people on pp. 41 to 42. trained in the reward practices and reinforced the importance organization’s human of meeting the needs of our customers and rights policies or Development Programs clients in a way that delivers long-term results procedures We invest in our employees’ development to to our shareholders. For more information on our G4-LA2 | ​Benefits keep our talent engaged and provide them control function feedback, pay for performance provided to full-time every opportunity to contribute and succeed. approach, compensation, compensation plan employees For managers, we launched an innovative reviews, hourly wage strategy, and compensation G4-LA5 | ​Percentage development program called Manager Excellence at senior levels, read pp. 42 to 45. of total workforce in 2014. We also offer targeted programs for represented in formal diverse employees through which they can gain Meeting Expectations for Safety, Risk joint management– worker health and safety access to company leaders and, as key talent, Management and Conduct committees that help advance their careers. monitor and advise on We’re a recognized leader among financial occupational health and Read about both of these efforts on pp. 41 to 42. institutions in the implementation of best safety programs practices in safety and ergonomics, a critical G4-LA7 | ​Workers component of the priority we place on the with high incidence or safety and health of our employees. Since high risk of diseases In 2015, our employees logged 2005, we’ve trained almost 11,000 employees related to their to prevent injury and manage related expenses occupation 9.5 million training hours, taking advantage of thousands of courses while providing extensive training in safety and G4-LA9 | ​Average offered through our employee learning injury prevention across the company. We’ve also hours of training per established ergonomic design standards for all year per employee curriculum. Courses cover a wide range by gender, and by of topics, including banking and finance, of our financial centers, offices, and facilities. employee category sales, marketing, technology, leadership In addition, we have safety committees across businesses working to provide key information G4-LA10 | ​Programs development, and more. for skills management and training onsite to keep our employees safe. and lifelong learning DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND that support the ASPECTS OF HUMAN RIGHTS continued employability of employees and assist 68,000 them in managing Supporting our career endings Total Hours of G4-LA11 | ​Percentage Training in 2015 Employees’ Wellness of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews We know that supporting the physical, financial, and emotional wellness of our employees can help them be their best at work and at home. We provide them with the resources they need to become more knowledgeable about their health and more informed as active consumers. It’s one of the most important things we do as a company and part of what makes Bank of America a great place to work. 94 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Helping Employees Take Charge of • Adoption support: If an employee is G4-LA2 | ​Benefits provided to full-time Their Health planning to adopt, we provide him or her with employees the option to receive up to $8,000 in one year We offer employees comprehensive medical, G4-LA7 | ​Workers for adoption expenses per child. prescription drug, dental, and vision coverage with high incidence or for themselves and their eligible family members. • Flexible work arrangements: Eligible high risk of diseases employees in the U.S. can take advantage related to their We also encourage employees to take charge occupation of their health by participating in voluntary of opportunities that encourage flexibility. wellness activities. These options include flextime and G4-LA10 | ​Programs compressed work weeks, reduced hours, for skills management Finding a Healthy Routine and lifelong learning and alternative work locations. that support the To complement our wellness activities and • Child care reimbursement: Eligible continued employability of employees and assist respond directly to employee feedback about employees can be reimbursed up to $240 per them in managing getting engaged in more physical activity, we month, per child, for child care expenses. career endings introduced Get Active! in October 2013. This We also support employees and their families voluntary program uses team-based activity with a wide range of other programs including: challenges to help employees improve their overall health. • Time away: We allow our 80,000 EMPLOYEES employees to take time off from In 2015, we expanded Get Active! to STEPPED UP TO work for a variety of reasons, include all worldwide employees to whether it is to rest and recharge foster teamwork, encourage better THE FIRST GLOBAL as part of their annual vacation health habits, and persuade a bit of GET ACTIVE! allowance, to fulfill military spirited competition. A remarkable GET CONNECTED service, to heal and recuperate 80,000 employees enrolled in CHALLENGE, from illness or injury, or to care this challenge, forming more than for loved ones. 12,000 teams, surpassing initial TAKING STEPS expectations. • Benefits for commuters: EQUAL TO Employees who commute Benefits for Work and Life 568 TRIPS AROUND can use pre-tax dollars to pay We provide a number of industryTHE WORLD for work-related commuting leading benefits and programs expenses. that give our employees the • Family care services: We offer resources resources they need to help manage the many and referral services to help with everything responsibilities of work and life. from child care services, professional case We support employees who are new parents by management assessments, and elder care offering a number of programs that encourage law services. and facilitate their return to work with us. • Employee discount program: We offer • Parental leave: In 2015, we offered 12 weeks employees a variety of discounts and preferred of parental leave in the U.S. at 100 percent pricing at top retailers and online stores. of base pay for our employees to welcome a • Low-carbon vehicle reimbursement new baby or adopted child into their families. program: Employees can receive a $4,000 An employee can take up to 26 weeks total of reimbursement for the purchase of a new, paid and unpaid leave. We also offer a variety eligible, highway-capable electric vehicle. of pre-natal and parent support resources and Read more about healthcare options, costs, and programs through our health plan providers. employee wellness benefits on pp. 45 to 47. In April 2016, we expanded our parental leave benefits for U.S. employees to include up to 16 weeks of paid time off for adoption, maternity, and paternity leave. An employee can take up to 26 weeks total of paid and unpaid leave. 95 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Improving Our Employees’ Financial Lives Saving Through Our 401(k) Plan G4-EC3 | ​Coverage of the organization’s We want to help our people be financially well Our competitive 401(k) benefits help employees defined benefit plan and realize their financial goals. To educate our increase their savings for retirement through obligations employees about their money, we offer a variety company matching contributions of up to G4-LA2 | ​Benefits of financial education resources to 5 percent of eligible pay and provided to full-time encourage saving for a healthier an additional 2 to 3 percent in employees 89 PERCENT automatic company contributions, future and to meet a variety of financial objectives. OF EMPLOYEES starting after one year of service. Whenever possible, we leverage the PARTICIPATED IN Read more about our 401(k) benefits resources and expertise available A 401(k) PLAN and other financial benefits for through the company, including employees on pp. 47 to 48. Merrill Lynch, Employee Banking & Investments, and Better Money Habits®. Whether Supporting the Emotional Wellness of it is improving credit scores, paying down debt, Our Employees budgeting to buy a car, planning for college Emotional wellness is the ability to understand expenses, or investing for retirement, we want to ourselves and cope with the challenges let employees know we are here to help. life brings. That is why one of the most important things we do is provide support to our employees during Our mid-year 2015 Bank of America major life events that affect their personal and Merrill Lynch Workplace Insights™ professional lives. Our employees and the people Plan Wellness Scorecard looked at who have retired from our company after years of benefit plan participants’ behavior and dedicated service deserve our care and attention found that interest in Health Savings during the moments in their lives that matter Accounts (HSAs) is particularly strong most. To learn more about the specific services among millennials. we offer to support the emotional wellbeing of our employees, read p. 47. • Through June 30, 2015, enrollment in health savings accounts grew by 42 percent, year over year, across all ages. • Baby Boomers have both the highest Employee Satisfaction Health Savings Account (HSA) balances and the fastest balance growth — ​6 8 percent and Engagement since 2012. Members of this demographic are in “savings mode” and see the HSA as We recognize the importance of receiving another way to save for retirement. employee feedback through formal surveys and • Millennials now account for one-third of informal means — ​and in taking action on the HSA enrollments, likely because they are feedback we receive from our teams. We have choosing high-deductible health care plans. employee satisfaction action teams to gain • Millennials’ use of HSAs suggests that a deeper understanding of what is impacting they understand the importance of survey results, prioritize issues and concerns, and additional savings. develop solutions. Results from our most recent employee engagement survey indicate that 80 percent of our employees are proud to work for the company. Read more about employee feedback on p. 41. 96 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT As a recent example, our employees told us it G4-FS14 | ​Initiatives was difficult to interact with the bank when significant life events occur. We now have a Social Impact to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people Life Event Services team of dedicated Bank of America human resource specialists who serve as a single point of content and can help Simplifying Banking employees and beneficiaries navigate these life events. Below is an example of how this service and Investing came to life. Our purpose is to make financial lives better for our customers, clients, and the communities we serve. Life Event Services Helps Family In 2015, we continued to simplify our operations Member Through a Difficult Time and our products — ​from establishing Financial Center specialists to making goals-based wealth Last summer we lost a valued teammate of 11 years, Sherry management more accessible and less complex. Horton, who brought energy and compassion to work every Convenient Ways to Bank day. Sherry’s surviving husband Bank of America is focused on providing George was devastated by the customers ease and convenience KECIA loss of his wife and alone for in mobile and online banking. We MOBILE BANKING the first time in 10 years. He have more than 31 million digital received a call from one of our Survivor Support customers, and mobile banking CUSTOMERS Specialists, Kecia, to help him through the continues to grow with more than LOGGED INTO overwhelming amount of logistics and paperwork 19 million users. Active mobile THEIR ACCOUNTS he had to deal with while grieving. George told customers are growing at a rate of us, “Sherry took care of all the business in our NEARLY 800 5,500 users a day in 2015. marriage ... she always handled the details. I lost MILLION TIMES the love of my life and didn’t know how I was All Bank of America Mobile Banking customers, whether they choose IN Q4 2015 going to get through it. But Kecia was there to help me through it — ​the funeral, the paperwork, to interact through their Mobile all of it. She let me know that everything was Web Browser or the BofA Mobile going to be okay.” App, can check balances on their Bank of America accounts; view detailed transactions for checking, In the weeks that followed, Kecia supported savings, and credit card accounts; view and pay George through each step of the process. Many bills; locate nearby ATMs and financial centers; months have passed, but Kecia and George transfer funds between their accounts; send continue to talk. “Sherry never met anyone who money to anyone using only their email address stayed a stranger,” George said. “She was the and phone number; order replacement credit or momma to us all, taking care of everything. And debit cards; view or order check copies; and set in a lot of ways, Kecia reminds me of Sherry. alerts including overall security alerts as well as I honestly don’t know what I would have done specific account alerts. In addition, customers without her.” Kecia and the Survivor Support Team in Life Event Services show every day that using one of our mobile apps can easily deposit the Bank of America family extends beyond our checks by taking a picture of the check using walls and includes all of the family and friends mobile check deposit functionality. of our employees. In a letter to his Bank Survivor Specialist George wrote, “With tears in my eyes I put pen in hand just to say that through all my sorrow your kind words helped me through my trial. Thank you so much for your strength.” — as told by George Horton 97 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT During the fourth quarter of 2015, mobile offer our customers. Today we now provide three G4-EC8 | ​Significant indirect economic banking customers logged into their accounts checking accounts to new customers that meet impacts, including the almost 800 million times, or 43 times per their needs — ​Core Checking, Interest Checking, extent of impacts user over that period. Customers performed and SafeBalance Banking. G4-FS7 | ​Monetary the following functions, among others, during value of products and those sessions: Simplified Investing services designed to deliver a specific • Deposited 250,000 checks a day through In 2015, Merrill Lynch completed the rollout of social benefit their mobile devices, reflecting 15 percent of Merrill Lynch One®. This integrated investment consumer deposit transactions platform offers a disciplined investment process, G4-FS14 | ​Initiatives to improve access to with pricing transparency. Merrill Lynch One’s • Made 23 million Mobile Bill Payments, up financial services for flexibility enables advisors to offer a portfolio disadvantaged people 30 percent year over year that allows clients to pursue their desired • Made more than 70 million transfers, including G4-SO1 | ​Percentage outcomes. The platform reached $500 billion in of operations with 6 million transfers to email and phone assets at 2015 year-end, representing more than implemented local numbers. This latter method has experienced 1.3 million client accounts. community engagement, incredible growth of 53 percent year over year. impact assessments, and development programs • Received more than 160 million push alerts Access to Mortgages G4-SO2 | ​Operations Bank of America continues to update its Mobile Today, as the economy and housing market with significant actual Banking capabilities. Recently added functionality strengthen, our experts are working with clients and potential negative includes: to identify the right home finance solution at the impacts on local right time for each individual or family. By offering communities • Sign-in using fingerprint authentication responsible financing options, we are committed • Set same-day financial center appointments to helping reset and solidify the industry’s with specialists approach to sustainable home ownership. • View balances and recent transactions on Home Finance Education and Outreach Apple Watch We use our resources to help strengthen the U.S. • Connect directly with a phone specialist at the housing market through education, information, click of a button and access to credit. We offer a variety of tools designed to inform and prepare homebuyers New Products to Simplify Checking and homeowners, including our new Down Our customers asked for a simple set of Payment Resource Center, Better Money Habits, products that are clear, consistent, and easy to community education events, and partnerships use. In 2015, we completed a multi-year project with more than 500 national and regional designed to simplify the checking products we housing nonprofit organizations. These resources HOME FINANCE METRICS Dollars in billions 2014 2015 Value of first mortgages extended to U.S. homeowners $42.3 $54.7 Value of first mortgages to lowand moderate-income customers $7.6 $8.3 Total first mortgage customers 160,585 169,175 Lowand moderate-income first mortgage customers 53,059 49,294 Percentage of total first mortgage customers who are lowand moderate-income 33.0% 29.1% Value of home improvement loans extended to lowand moderate-income customers $1.68 $2.01 98 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT support our commitment to delivering all of our G4-FS7 | ​Monetary value of products and capabilities, product and services, and expertise Simplifying Home Buying services designed to make our clients’ financial lives better. for a Recent College Grad to deliver a specific social benefit In 2015, we extended $54.7 billion in firstFollowing the simple advice she had heard mortgage credit. Through our direct-to-consumer G4-FS14 | ​Initiatives so often from her parents, Catherine Nguyen to improve access to channel, we connect our clients with home earned her college degree from the University financial services for finance solutions and deepen relationships disadvantaged people of Texas and then purchased her first home with creditworthy individuals while extending instead of paying rent to a landlord. credit responsibly. G4-SO1 | ​Percentage of operations with In 2015, the mortgage market increased by To start this journey, eight months into her implemented local 16 percent ($1.5 trillion versus $1.3 trillion in career as a paralegal in Houston, Catherine community engagement, attended a home buyer education class hosted impact assessments, 2014) as refinances and home purchases rose. and development by the Houston Area Urban League. From Our total number of first mortgage customers programs there, she connected with Bank of America and total dollars loaned increased. Consistent Mortgage Loan Officer Liza Jones who G4-SO2 | ​Operations with expectations of the overall market, the with significant actual provided the support she needed to make it number of first mortgages to lowand moderateand potential negative all happen. “As a first time homebuyer, I was impacts on local income (LMI) customers declined because of very nervous about the process,” said Nguyen. communities fewer originations through the government“But Liza explained everything with patience, sponsored Making Home Affordable Refinance knowledge, and confidence.” (HARP) program, which had been frequently used by LMI customers in previous years. To purchase her home, Catherine needed to leverage a variety of available assistance Driven by our partnerships with nonprofit programs. Through the City of Houston’s organizations, our online tools, and outreach Homebuyer Assistance Program, she events, we offer assistance and educational received a loan that will be forgiven after support to provide greater transparency, she’s owned the home five years. She also education, and clarity about the home buying received $2,500 from America’s Home process to meet the diverse needs of LMI and Grant™, a Bank of America program that multicultural communities. In 2015, we continued assists eligible buyers with non-recurring our work with a number of U.S. Department closing costs. Her personal contribution came of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)from funds she’d saved and a little help from approved housing counseling agencies through her parents, too. Connect to Own®, our alliance with nonprofit partners to provide homebuyer education. Catherine purchased a two-bedroom, onebath home directly from the City of Houston. ARMING HOMEBUYERS WITH TOOLS AND RESOURCES 2014 2015 Number of consumers who visited the Down Payment Resource Center 16,649 (since March launch) Number of consumers who viewed Bank of America Home Loan’s online 1,390,129 1,822,425 educational materials Number of consumers who participated in face-to-face counseling with our 1,329 1,674 Connect to Own® partners 99 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT We also continued to encourage customers influenced by public and popular perceptions G4-PR5 | ​Results of surveys measuring to access our online tools, including our Down of the financial services industry as a whole. customer satisfaction Payment Resource Center, and our online In 2008, trust in banks and other financial financial education resource BetterMoneyHabits. institutions decreased during the financial G4-EC1 | ​Direct economic value com, which offers free, objective, and easycrisis; however, by year-end 2015, our internal generated and to-understand tools to help individuals better satisfaction scores reached our pre-crisis level distributed understand the home buying process. and are currently at the highest levels since G4-SO1 | ​Percentage We sponsor and participate in numerous January 2005. In addition, satisfaction improved of operations with homebuyer education events. These events give across the retail, preferred and small business implemented local consumers the chance to attend workshops segments. With this in mind, we’re confident community engagement, that the continuous signs of improvement impact assessments, taught by housing counseling partners and our and development mortgage experts. Examples of topics include our research reveals are broadly in line with programs understanding down payments, finding the right industry trends. G4-SO2 | ​Operations real estate agent, and sustaining successful In addition to internal customer satisfaction with significant actual homeownership. In addition, our home finance surveys, we take into account several syndicated and potential negative impacts on local lending to multicultural borrowers is highest external studies that track customer satisfaction communities among our peers, with 30 percent of the loans and customer experience. A few highlights of we originate going to multicultural consumers. these external studies include: • 2015 J.D. Power Retail Banking Customer Satisfaction Satisfaction Study: Our overall customer Every year, we interact with more than 3 million satisfaction score reached its highest level customers and prospects through our market since 2007. research activities. These survey programs • 2015 J.D. Power Primary Mortgage are an important way to measure and assess Origination Satisfaction Study: We were our customers’ and clients’ satisfaction across ranked third among 13 mortgage originators in all of our lines of business, customer, and overall customer satisfaction. client segments. • 2015 Forrester Customer Advocacy Our surveys and research generate significant Index Study: Our score rose 10 percent over insights into customer appreciation and the prior year as it reached its highest level assessment of the quality of our products, since 2008. services, and customer and client experience, the resonance of our messages, and perceptions • 2015 American Customer Satisfaction of our company. We share these results with Index: Our score declined one point executives across the enterprise as a critical (statistically insignificant) and we remained 4th tool for improving our efforts to anticipate and among big banks. meet customer and client needs. In combination Among our Merrill Lynch advisory clients, with operational metrics, these results help us satisfaction with Merrill Lynch has consistently improve programs designed to enhance the trended in a narrow range at levels near their customer experience. Customer satisfaction all-time highs. goals are also part of our executives’ personal performance scorecards. As we gain deeper insights into client and customer satisfaction, the evidence overwhelmingly indicates that levels of satisfaction with our company are substantially 100 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Building Thriving 2015, this represents a significant reduction from the 1.4 million loan peak of a portfolio comprised G4-EC1 | ​Direct economic value generated and Economies heavily of loans obtained through acquisition. We’ve helped more than 2.1 million mortgage distributed G4-FS14 | ​Initiatives customers through more than 1.5 million loan to improve access to As a global financial institution, we are able to modifications and extinguishments and more financial services for have a significant impact on the world through disadvantaged people than 510,000 short sales and deeds-in-lieu. our day-to-day business activities. We build G4-SO1 | ​Percentage A key component of our work has involved facethriving economies by investing in small business; of operations with to-face assistance for customers in need. Since implemented local providing the necessary financial and intellectual 2009, we have provided more than 223,000 community engagement, capital to help accelerate the transition to impact assessments, homeowners with in-person counseling and a low-carbon economy; supporting women and development support. In that time, we’ve also assisted more programs entrepreneurs and business leaders around than 181,000 homeowners at more than 1,500 the world by providing capital, mentorship, and G4-SO2 | ​Operations borrower outreach events held across the U.S. training; assisting lowand moderate-income with significant actual customers with home buying and other financial In addition, we’ve worked to build communities and potential negative impacts on local needs; and promoting impact investing as a and neighborhoods through property donations, communities viable investment option. including more than 5,700 properties to nonprofit partners since 2012, of which more than 1,900 homes were for military service members and their families. Our Business Growing Small Businesses Helping Homeowners and Communities Small business owners are looking for Move Forward personalized expertise to help start or expand their businesses. Bank of America Small Business Responsible homeownership is critical to building is devoted to making the financial lives of more and sustaining strong families and communities. than 3 million small business clients better, as That’s why, throughout the economic recovery, well as strengthen the local communities we we’ve remained focused on helping homeowners both serve. Our Small Business Bankers, Client stay in their homes or avoid foreclosure. Managers, and phone, video, and chat specialists As our modification and foreclosure avoidance provide deposit, credit, and cash management programs to assist homeowners have gained solutions to meet the unique, long-term needs of traction and the economy has improved, small business owners throughout the country. delinquencies in our first mortgage portfolio have They take the time to learn about a small declined 93 percent from the peak in January business owner personally, in order to meet his or 2011. While 103,000 loans remained in our her needs today, tomorrow, and beyond. delinquent first mortgage portfolio at the end of FOCUS ON HOMEOWNER ASSISTANCE DRIVES REDUCTION IN DELINQUENT MORTGAGE PORTFOLIO 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 60+ day delinquent first 1,393,000 1,156,000 773,000 325,000 189,000 103,000 mortgage loans Reduction from peak 0% 17% 45% 77% 86% 93% Homeowners assisted 940,692 1,281,906 1,711,078 1,945,459 2,039,520 2,101,546 (cumulative) 101 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT In 2015, we extended nearly $10.7 billion in new We also partner with more than 240 community G4-EC1 | ​Direct economic value credit to small business owners, resulting in total development financial institutions (CDFIs) across generated and small business lending of nearly $25.2 billion. the U.S., which provide affordable loans, technical distributed Of the total amount, $14.4 billion, or nearly assistance, and other resources that may not G4-FS14 | ​Initiatives 57 percent, was extended to smaller businesses be available through more traditional channels. to improve access to with less than $1 million in revenue or less than For many of these reasons, in December 2015, financial services for $5 million in revenue in lowand moderateGreenwich Associates, the leading global provider disadvantaged people income (LMI) communities. As one of the top of market intelligence to the financial services G4-SO1 | ​Percentage lenders in the U.S. Small Business Association industry, named Bank of America the Best Small of operations with (SBA) 504 program, we originated $373 million in Business Brand. implemented local new firstand second-trust deed loans with longcommunity engagement, impact assessments, term, fixed-rate financing in 2015. In addition, Supporting Affordable Housing and and development we offer SBA 7(a) and Express loans for clients, Community Revitalization programs originating $62 million in SBA 7(a) loan volume Community Development Banking (CDB) G4-SO2 | ​Operations in 2015. with significant actual We partner with developers to finance affordable and potential negative We continue to look for innovative ways to serve rental housing projects across the country that impacts on local small business owners. Since 2010, we’ve hired address pressing community communities more than 1,200 small business development issues vital to bankers in communities across IN 2015, WE each community’s long-term the country. Beginning in 2012, we economic health. We support have produced a semiannual small DEBUTED AN affordable housing, neighborhood business owner survey called the UNSECURED LINE OF preservation, and community Bank of America Small Business CREDIT PRODUCT revitalization initiatives that serve Owner Report to provide research individuals, families, veterans, TO FOCUS ON and insights for the small business seniors, and the formerly community. In 2015, we debuted THE SMALLER homeless. In addition to safe an unsecured line of credit product END OF THE CREDIT and affordable housing, our to focus on the smaller end of the SPECTRUM FOR projects provide health care, jobs, credit spectrum for small business education, and community services owners. In addition, we now have SMALL BUSINESS to local residents, in our continuing more than 2.3 million active online OWNERS effort to create healthy and and mobile banking users among thriving communities. Examples small businesses who bank with us. Additionally, of our community development banking our Practice Solutions channel delivers bestwork includes: in-class banking, credit and cash capabilities to dentists, veterinarians, physicians and other • Landing Road Shelter and Apartments: practice groups. Bowery Resident’s Committee in New York City developed this first-of-its-kind project As part of our commitment to small business, consisting of a 200-bed employment shelter Bank of America works with local communities to and 136-unit apartment complex in a single promote business diversity and access to capital new construction building. With separate in a variety of ways. We support the growth entrances, the shelter provides transitional of diverse businesses through our supplier care to single adults who have been employed relationships with minorities, individuals with or are employable, while the apartments house disabilities, and businesses owned by veterans, formerly homeless, low-income adults, and women, and the LGBT community through our families. The bank provided an $8.2 million supplier diversity program. In addition, we are construction loan and $11.2 million letter active participants and national sponsors of the of credit. National Association of Women Business Owners (NAWBO) Women’s Business Conference, as • 65th Infantry Regiment Veterans well as the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Housing: Located four miles west of national convention. downtown Chicago, this 49-unit new 102 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT construction supportive housing development the economic shift of the past few years — ​ G4-EC1 | ​Direct economic value sponsored by Hispanic Housing Development including a more normalized housing market, generated and Corp will offer mental health counseling, lower credit demand, and stricter requirements distributed wellness screenings, transportation, for lending and credit — ​has put constraints on G4-FS14 | ​Initiatives nutritional/financial education, and meals our overall results. to improve access to on wheels in partnership with Norwegian Driven by our partnerships with nonprofit financial services for American Hospital and Jesse Brown VA Medical organizations, our online tools, and outreach disadvantaged people Center. The bank provided a $7.5 million events, we provide greater transparency, education, G4-SO1 | ​Percentage construction loan, $11.3 million direct tax credit and clarity about the home-buying process to meet of operations with investment and a $1 million subordinate loan. the diverse needs of lowand moderate-income implemented local community engagement, (LMI) customers and multicultural communities. impact assessments, Lending and Investments in Lowand and development With our focus on helping consumers at all points Moderate-Income Communities programs of the income spectrum, one out of every three By assisting a diverse set of partners ranging mortgages originated by Bank of America in 2015 G4-SO2 | ​Operations from corporate, institutional investors and, in was to an LMI borrower. with significant actual and potential negative the U.S., retail investors, we help finance a more We also remain the largest investor in community impacts on local sustainable economy. We have also responded to communities development financial institutions (CDFIs), with changing demands from institutional investors more than $1 billion invested in more than and individuals interested in creating positive 240 CDFIs across the U.S., providing affordable change with their investments. Read more about loans, technical assistance, and other resources our community development financial institutions that may not be available through more (CDFI) investment on p. 52. traditional channels. In 2009, we established a 10-year, $1.5 trillion By extending credit to individuals, local businesses, community development lending and investment and community organizations, we help drive goal, supporting communities across the local economic growth and sustainability, while U.S., including Phoenix, San Francisco, focusing on a fair return for our shareholders. In Chicago, Columbia, and many others. The goal the U.S., we use the Community Reinvestment promotes local economic growth in four key Act (CRA) to guide our efforts to extend credit categories: 1) affordable housing, 2) small and make investments to maximize our impact business, 3) consumer lending, and 4) economic in LMI communities (the U.S. government defines development. We’re pleased with the $799 billion LMI as individuals and households with income lent and invested from 2009 to 2015, including less than 80 percent of area median income). $62 billion in 2015. However, we recognize that During the previous review period (2Q’09 to 2011), we performed at an “outstanding” level, but were downgraded to a “satisfactory.” We expect Community Development to receive our next rating for review period (from Banking Has Record2012 to 2016) performance in 2018. Setting Year Impact Investing Our Community Development Banking (CDB) Impact investing is investing to make a financial group partners with developers across the county return as well as generate a measurable, to finance affordable rental housing projects that beneficial social or environmental impact. Today, address pressing community development issues more and more people from all walks of life want vital to long-term economic health. In 2015, CDB to learn about how their money can be used to completed its single largest transaction — ​the create social impact. San Francisco Rental Assistance Demonstration (SF-RAD). The bank provided $770 million as We’ve also found that these types of investments investor and lender on the deal, which will give viable returns, contrary to long-held beliefs transform more than 1,400 public housing units that impact investing was purely altruistic at 15 properties into safe and sustainable lowand not a sound financial investment. Not so. income housing for San Franciscans. Investing according to your values can produce positive returns, like other investments. 103 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT In 2015, Bank of America offered a wide range of G4-EC7 | ​ Development and Banking for Impact investment products that make it easy to invest in impact of infrastructure keeping with one’s social or environmental values. investments and Through our banking services for business, we U.S. Trust added a Carbon Reserve Free option services supported offer loans, credit card processing, and other to its Socially Innovative Investing program, financial services to enable businesses to G4-EC8 | ​Significant which also includes strategies that consider indirect economic make an impact on their community. Here are corporate practices related to Women and Girls impacts, including the three examples: extent of impacts Equality, Human Rights and Recognition, and Gulf and Ohio Railways, Inc. In 2015, we Environmental Stewardship and Sustainability. G4-FS7 | ​Monetary value of products and provided a $12 million line of credit and a Merrill Lynch is also tailoring programs for services designed $6 million aircraft loan to Gulf and Ohio investors who want to build portfolios that align to deliver a specific Railways, Inc., a short line railroad and tourist with their values. In 2015, Merrill Lynch added social benefit train holding company, to develop patented sustainable impact multi-asset class portfolios G4-SO1 | ​Percentage technology and build a manufacturing facility to its expanding platform of impact portfolios to of operations with that re-powers and transforms old locomotives serve clients interested in using their investment implemented local into highly fuel-efficient “green” locomotives capital for positive social and environmental community engagement, that meet or exceed the EPA highest emission impact assessments, purposes. In addition, the firm will provide its and development standards. The concept is one of the few 14,000 financial advisors new resources to programs commercially available solutions for railroads help clients understand the impact of their to meet the current EPA standard for locomotive G4-SO2 | ​Operations investments in these portfolios. with significant actual emissions and is especially important in areas and potential negative of the country that are not currently meeting Bank of America’s wealth and investment impacts on local the existing EPA air pollution standards. management businesses launched their impact communities investing platform in 2013 with a range of Achievement Prep Wahler Place Campus investment offerings across asset classes A combination of an $8.3 million new markets and themes. tax credit investment and $21.3 million in debt to finance renovation and construction As of September 2015, Bank of America’s of an expansion to this charter school. Serving investment businesses had more than $9.7 billion 960 pre-kindergarten to eighth grade students in assets with a clearly defined impact investing primarily from low-income families, the school approach. Of these assets, approximately is one of the highest performing public charter $8.1 billion are assets under management and schools in Washington, DC. The project is being $1.6 billion are advised assets. These businesses built to LEED Gold standards. include Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, U.S. Trust, Merrill Edge, and the institutional Butterfly Effects In 2015, we awarded a investment business. $3.5 million loan to Butterfly Effects, a leading national provider of applied behavior analysis In a whitepaper published in 2015, “Impact (“ABA”) therapy for individuals affected by Investing: The Performance Realities,” Merrill autism. The loan supported the continued Lynch’s Wealth Management Institute analyzed growth of Butterfly Effects and the acquisition positive structural changes by the U.S. of an ABA provider serving the Northern Department of Labor and the growing body of California market, significantly expanding their evidence showing that investors can do well presence on the west coast. financially by investing in organizations that are doing what’s right for the environment and society. The paper tracks key developments in the impact investing arena, pointing to rapid growth and innovation that are due largely to growing client demand over the past decade, as well as the improving quantity and quality of ESG data. Read more about our impact investing initiatives on p. 53. 104 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LENDING AND INVESTMENT G4-EC8 | ​Significant indirect economic GOAL INCLUDES THE FOLLOWING CATEGORIES, PRIMARILY impacts, including the SERVING LMI CUSTOMERS AND COMMUNITIES: extent of impacts 2015 Results 2014 Results G4-FS7 | ​Monetary Category Description ($ in billions) ($ in billions) value of products and services designed LMI and minority single-family mortgages; loan modifications to to deliver a specific Affordable existing mortgages; and financing for predevelopment, construction, social benefit Housing $37.62 $37.88 and termand equity-financing for singleand multi-family housing that are affordably priced or located in designated LMI communities. G4-12 | ​Organization’s supply chain Conventional small business loans, term loans and lines of credit for Small G4-EC9 | ​Proportion companies located in designated LMI communities; small business Business $14.41 $15.38 of spending on local loan modifications; funding to small business investment companies Lending suppliers at significant (SBICs) and minority and inner-city business venture capital funds. locations of operation Full range of consumer financial services for LMI individuals and G4-FS7 | ​Monetary Consumer value of products and families, such as auto loans and personal loans and lines of credit. $3.88 $3.24 Lending services designed Credit card borrowings are not included. to deliver a specific social benefit Investments into nonprofits such as CDFIs, Community Development Economic Corporations (CDCs), financial intermediaries and tax-exempt entities Development for lending and direct investments that promote neighborhood $6.42 $4.06 revitalization in communities designated as LMI, urban, rural, and Native American. HOW WE DEFINE IMPACT INVESTING Socially Sustainable Thematic Impact first responsible Screen out entities Proactively choose Investment Investments dedicated based on faith-based entities that excel at a opportunities that to addressing specific or other personal range of environmental, focus on environmental social or environmental preferences social and governance or social themes concerns using market(ESG) factors based solutions EXAMPLES EXAMPLES EXAMPLES EXAMPLES Avoid investments Seek investments in Target areas of Pursue investments associated with: companies that: growth in: that aim to: • Environmental harm • Promote and achieve • Green initiatives, such • Improve early sustainability as climate change or childhood education • Tobacco, firearms, water security alcohol • Encourage and • Reduce prisoner measure corporate • Gender equality and recidivism • Practices that are in social responsibility diversity conflict with religious • Address beliefs • Are leaders in fair • Healthcare and the homelessness trade and factory global trend toward worker safety obesity 105 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Our Operations BANK OF AMERICA DIVERSE SUPPLIER SPEND TREND G4-12 | ​Organization’s supply chain (Total $ Spent With Diverse Suppliers, in billions) G4-EC9 | ​Proportion Supply Chain of spending on local suppliers at significant Community-Based Suppliers $2.5B locations of operation Following the 25th anniversary year of G4-FS7 | ​Monetary value of products and Bank of America’s Supplier Diversity Program and a number of successful initiatives to $2.3B $2.3B services designed to deliver a specific commemorate this milestone, the company is social benefit well positioned to create meaningful impact $2.1B for the next 25 years. Through the continued promotion, support, and advancement of diverseowned businesses, Bank of America continues 2012 2013 2014 2015 to deliver economic growth and development in communities that we serve across the U.S. Our Supplier Diversity and Development Program managers collaborate both externally and managers. This has facilitated an ongoing internally to support the inclusion of diverse dialogue with our suppliers, which promotes suppliers across the company, resulting in more collaboration and provides a meaningful than $2 billion of procurement spending with opportunity to recognize leadership among our these businesses during 2015. highest-performing suppliers. In addition, we continue to engage in a number The CDP Supply Chain questionnaire also of proprietary and industry diverse supplier allows our suppliers to communicate proposals development initiatives, which aim to identify to reduce our environmental impact. In 2015, high potential diverse supplier firms, increase more than 35 percent of supplier respondents the capacity of diverse suppliers by means of proposed ideas to mitigate our environmental technical assistance and mentoring programs, impact and the impacts of the products and and expose diverse suppliers to diversification services that we offer. These proposals include of revenue and expanded growth opportunities. innovative ideas such as closed loop recycling, Read more about our supplier diversity on p. 52. advanced credit card production methods that reduce energy use, route optimization to reduce Suppliers and Environmental Impact transportation emissions, and lean manufacturing Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain practices that reduce waste. These proposals indicate a willingness to reduce emissions Since 2009, we’ve invited suppliers to respond and a long-term desire to engage with us on to the CDP Supply Chain questionnaire, environmental sustainability. which helps us accurately track and measure greenhouse gas emissions and associated risks Twelve suppliers that we invited to respond to that impact our global supply chain. In 2015, the CDP Supply Chain survey are on the Supplier we requested disclosures from 200 suppliers, Climate A List, a ranking based on their survey an increase of eight suppliers over last year. responses and demonstration of strong and Despite the expansion in the number of survey transparent climate strategies and emissions respondents, we achieved a best-in-class reduction programs. We were also named to response rate of 93 percent, up from 88 percent the Supplier Climate A List for the quality of our in 2012, 90 percent in 2013, and 91 percent in own response to the survey, placing us and our 2014. In the wake of the survey, we provided suppliers named to the Supplier Climate A List individualized feedback regarding each supplier’s among the top 2 percent of suppliers focused level of transparency and performance to on the management of climate change and the participating suppliers and their vendor related issues. 106 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Sourcing G4-EC7 | ​ Development and Apart from engaging our own supply base in Inspiring the Future impact of infrastructure CDP, we’ve continued to integrate environmental investments and In the UK, youth unemployment is one of services supported sustainability criteria into our supplier sourcing the biggest social and economic concerns processes by providing our sourcing managers for government and local communities. G4-EC8 | ​Significant specific questions regarding supplier sustainability indirect economic There exists a significant skills mismatch impacts, including the practices and scoring criteria. The result has between what young people are learning extent of impacts been an increased incorporation of sustainability and what skills are needed in the future. criteria into requests for proposals and requests G4-SO1 | ​Percentage That is why we partner with The Education of operations with for information from our suppliers. In 2014, these and Employers charity to ensure that every implemented local questions were updated and revised to better school and college across the country has community engagement, reflect desired environmental criteria of goods effective partnerships with an employer. impact assessments, and development and services purchased by Bank of America. Bank of America Merrill Lynch is the programs In addition, our contract templates contain lead corporate supporter of the charity’s representations and warranties to ensure that Inspiring the Future and its Inspiring Women G4-SO2 | ​Operations campaigns, which provide first-hand insight with significant actual our suppliers use environmentally beneficial and potential negative practices relevant to and meeting the minimum into the variety of careers available to young impacts on local standards of their particular industry. people. Through the company’s involvement, communities our employees help young students improve We’re also happy to announce that in 2014, their employability awareness through visits we developed and published a Vendor Code to schools, careers fairs, networking events, of Conduct, which outlines the expectations and mock interviews. Since the program’s we set for our suppliers to demonstrate their 2012 launch, volunteers have inspired the next commitment to basic working conditions and generation on more than 1 million occasions. ethical business practices. To learn more about In the last academic year alone, volunteers this new code, please visit p. 6. from a range of businesses inspired 365,000 young people across the UK. Our Partnerships economic mobility. Through the Bank of America Building Thriving Communities Charitable Foundation, we direct funding to meet through Philanthropic Investments the needs of low-income communities, with a and Volunteerism particular focus on issues impacting economic health and sustainability, including revitalizing As part of our company’s commitment to the neighborhoods, educating the workforce for 21st communities we serve, we develop strong century jobs, and addressing basic needs, such as partnerships with nonprofit organizations hunger and homelessness. serving community needs, bringing our collective networks and expertise to help communities Our partnerships address broader issues, grow and thrive. We’ve taken an approach of including environmental sustainability, global responsive philanthropy through local, U.S., health, arts and culture, and diversity and and global partnerships that address societal inclusion. In addition to focusing on the needs challenges and broader economic concerns. of underserved, low-income communities, we As a financial institution, we integrate better work to address the specific needs of veterans, money habits across our funding to help move the unemployed, individuals with disabilities, individuals and families out of poverty and and women. toward long-term stability. One great example of how we do this is Our goal is to build pathways to economic Neighborhood Builders®. More than a decade progress, including addressing social justice ago, we designed Neighborhood Builders to issues that are fundamentally connected to help nonprofits develop stronger strategic plans, 107 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Arts Matter Bank of America’s program of arts support reflects In October 2015, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, our belief that the Arts Matter: they help economies along with the Antiguo Colegio de San Ildefonso in thrive, help individuals connect with each other and Mexico City, presented Conversations: A Photographic across cultures, and educate and enrich societies. Collection by Bank of America. The exhibition, We support nonprofit arts institutions that deliver composed of 108 photographs by prominent both the visual and performing arts, provide photographers and contemporary artists, offers inspirational and educational sustenance, anchor a lens into the development of photography from communities, create jobs, complement school the mid-19th century to date. The exhibition curricula, and generate substantial revenue for local opened in October during the 2015 Foto-Mexico businesses. On a global scale, the arts speak to us International Photograph Festival and was on view in a universal language that provides pathways to until February 2016. greater cultural understanding. We believe the neighborhood playhouse can be as Partnerships important as the world class museum or orchestra Each year, we also partner with dozens of nonprofits, in its value to the community, in the lives of its 2015 programs include: citizens, and in the education of its young people. Combined with our charitable foundation employee Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater Matching Gifts program we support more than In 2015, we were proud to sponsor the Alvin 2,000 arts organizations worldwide. Ailey American Dance Theater’s major traveling appearances which included a four-week engagement Some examples of our support in 2015 follow: at Paris’ Théâtre du Châtelet for Les Étés de la Danse International Dance Festival and, after 17 years, Bank of America Art a historic return to South Africa with performances in Johannesburg and Cape Town. Conservation Project Our Art Conservation Project provides grants to National Portrait Gallery nonprofit museums to conserve historically or As part of Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s culturally significant works of art, including works sponsorship of Giacometti: Pure Presence at London’s that have been designated as national treasures. National Portrait Gallery from October 2015 to Since 2010, Bank of America has provided grants January 2016, we supported a transformative artto museums in 28 countries for 85 conservation based education program for students with special projects. Works conserved in 2015 include a needs. A series of Giacometti-inspired, artistmarble figure of the Buddha Amitābha (585 C.E. led workshops was organized for the students, Sui dynasty) at the British Museum, London; four culminating in a display of their works along paintings and one mural at the OCA Museum, with a private view and photo call. The program São Paulo; Uemura Shōen’s Jo-no-Mai (Noh Dance encouraged the young visitors to make, present, Prelude) at The Tokyo University Art Museum and and discuss their own artwork; increased their Manet’s Woman in Evening Dress at the Guggenheim confidence; helped them to see the Gallery as a in New York. resource for inspiration and learning. Detroit Institute of Arts Art in Our Communities (AIOC) Bank of America helped support the Detroit Institute The Bank of America Art Collection has been of Arts’ (DIA) blockbuster exhibition, Diego Rivera converted into a unique resource from which and Frida Kahlo in Detroit that explored the life and museums and nonprofit galleries may borrow works of Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo during their complete or customized exhibitions at no cost, stay in Detroit. The exhibition, exclusively on view which generates vital revenue for these institutions. in Detroit during the spring and early summer of Since the program’s launch in 2008, more than 120 2015, brought together 65 works of art that depicted museums worldwide have borrowed exhibitions. an important period in the evolution of these two careers. To accommodate a surge in attendance, the DIA extended its open and closing hours — ​leading to highest attended exhibition since 2000. 108 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT enhance funding opportunities, and create In 2015, we provided more than $183 million in G4-EC7 | ​ Development and greater impact in the community. The program global philanthropic investments to more than impact of infrastructure operates as a capstone to our work to address 4,700 nonprofits, including cash-giving and ininvestments and needs related to community development, kind donations, totaling more than $1.5 billion services supported workforce development and education, and basic toward our 10-year, $2 billion philanthropic goal G4-EC8 | ​Significant needs by delivering flexible funding through a established in 2009. In addition, we’ve developed indirect economic $200,000 grant and leadership development strong partnerships to raise awareness about impacts, including the resources to help nonprofit leaders do more. pressing challenges and connect our customers extent of impacts Today, we recognize that the nonprofit sector and employees to meaningful ways to G4-SO1 | ​Percentage has undergone a transformation, still in progress, address these. of operations with which requires nonprofits to expand beyond implemented local We move quickly to assist in the immediate-, community engagement, philanthropic and government support to position midand longer-term recovery efforts that impact assessments, them for measurable growth in an evidencedcommunities face when rebuilding from natural and development based environment. Through Neighborhood programs disasters, humanitarian issues and in times of Builders, we’ve invested more than $180 million tragedy and civil strife. Last year, we helped G4-SO2 | ​Operations in more than 900 nonprofits in 45 communities address community needs in the aftermath of with significant actual and engaged nearly 2,000 nonprofit executives and potential negative the earthquake in Nepal, flooding in Chennai, impacts on local in strategic conversations about growth, funding India, and civil strife in Charleston, South Carolina communities diversification, and board development as they and Baltimore, Maryland. chart a path for organizational success. Community Development Through our philanthropic investments, we support affordable housing, neighborhood Advancing Education in India preservation, and community revitalization initiatives; as well as the delivery of integrated In support of the government’s efforts to services connecting individuals and families with drive private-sector involvement in solving financial education tools, resources, and benefits the most critical issues facing this developing to achieve their financial goals. In 2015, we economy, we have invested in programs that provided more than $24 million to more than 800 support education for India’s youth, particularly disadvantaged young women. Through nonprofit partners addressing these issues. partnerships with Akshaya Patra, the Akanksha Partners: Habitat for Humanity Foundation, Teach for India, and the Kherwadi We’ve partnered with Habitat for Humanity for Social Welfare Association, we were able to help more than 25 years. Habitat remains one of our approximately 30,000(1) schoolchildren, teachers, most popular volunteer activities, with employees school leaders, and disadvantaged youth in 2015. giving about 35,000 hours of volunteer hours Akshaya Patra helps prevent school drop-outs by providing much-needed midday meals for through board service, home builds, and financial underprivileged children in government schools. literacy to homeowners. On World Habitat Day Akanksha and Teach for India are focused on (October 5, 2015), we launched our second improving access to and quality of education for Habitat for Humanity Global Build, a week marginalized communities, while Kherwadi offers during which approximately 2,000 employees skills training to young people seeking jobs. Our around the world built affordable housing and approach to helping educate India’s youth also participated in community revitalization projects includes supporting the drive to raise awareness in 75 communities in seven different countries. of hygiene and sanitation to improve lives in the Volunteer activities took place across the U.S. country’s poorest communities. as well as in Jakarta, Sydney, Hong Kong, Manila, Toronto, and London. (1) Figure compiled from grants monitoring and evaluation reports. 109 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Initiative for a Competitive Inner City G4-EC7 | ​ Development and In 2015, Initiative for a Competitive Inner City (ICIC) impact of infrastructure celebrated the 10-year anniversary of the Inner City investments and services supported Capital Connection program, which was launched through our lead support. We’ve partnered with G4-EC8 | ​Significant ICIC to support the Inner City Capital Connections indirect economic impacts, including the (ICCC) program, which identifies small businesses extent of impacts in economically distressed communities and helps them build capacity and gain access to the capital G4-SO1 | ​Percentage of operations with they need to thrive in today’s competitive economy. implemented local The program has successfully raised more than community engagement, $1 billion in capital and created nearly 11,000 jobs. impact assessments, and development With our support, ICCC has identified more than programs 800 investment-ready companies in 189 inner-city communities and 39 states around the U.S. Our G4-SO2 | ​Operations with significant actual employees make this work possible by volunteering and potential negative their expertise to coach inner-city business leaders impacts on local in financial management and leadership, helping communities them to achieve long-term sustainable growth. Workforce Development and Education We’re supporting workforce development and education opportunities that will put individuals, including young people, on a path to success. Our Operations, and our employees have provided investments include philanthropic partnerships pro-bono support through NPower to deliver with nonprofits, business initiatives to technology consulting to nonprofits. establish employment pathways, and employee • We’re connecting young people to summer volunteerism such as mentoring and teaching jobs that offer them workforce experience, better money habits. We’ve focused our giving leadership skills, and opportunities to gain to connect individuals and young adults to better money habits. Through Student Leaders® employment and improve education and training we recognize more than 200 communityfor our workforce. In 2015, we provided more minded high school students in 45 communities than $22 million to more than 1,300 nonprofit across the U.S. each year, providing them with partners addressing these issues. a paid summer internship with a nonprofit National partners organization such as Habitat for Humanity and We’ve formed partnerships that connect young Boys and Girls Clubs of America, and building adults to the workforce through education, their skills through a leadership summit. Since training, and mentoring, moving beyond a purely 2004, we’ve connected more than 2,200 young philanthropic relationship to engage our lines of people to summer jobs, enhancing their business and human resources. understanding of the role of nonprofits in communities and developing them as • NPower’s Technology Service Corps engaged citizens. In 2015 we continued our (TSC) program prepares individuals to begin partnership with U.S. mayors to support information technology careers through free more than 1,000 paid summer internships technical classes, mentoring, paid internships, for at-risk teens. Through our Summer career development workshops, industryYouth Employment Program we offer these recognized certifications, job placement young adults valuable work experience services, and a robust alumni network. Our and opportunities to learn to manage their Human Resources team works with NPower first paycheck, paving the way for future to hire interns within Global Technology & career success. 110 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Basic Needs Addressing hunger G4-EC1 | ​Direct economic value Many lowto moderate-income individuals With 805 million people around the world generated and continue to struggle to provide basic necessities struggling to find their next meal, hunger is a distributed for their families and face complex financial major global challenge with long-term impact on G4-EC7 | ​ challenges — ​such as how to increase their economic growth. We’ve formed partnerships Development and income and reduce expenses. We’re focused on with community organizations leading the impact of infrastructure investments and addressing these basic needs, including hunger, fight against hunger, engaged our customers services supported services for the homelessness, and lack of access and clients, and rallied our employee volunteer to benefit resources. We partner with nonprofits efforts to help provide hunger relief. Since 2008, G4-EC8 | ​Significant indirect economic that assist individuals and families at their we’ve invested more than $69 million in charitable impacts, including the immediate point of need, as well as organizations grants in hunger relief programs. In 2015, we gave extent of impacts that deliver longer-term solutions such as access $13 million and nearly 70,000 employee volunteer G4-SO1 | ​Percentage to financial education and coaching. We support hours in 12 countries — ​Argentina, Mexico, Hong of operations with integrated services that help them overcome Kong, Singapore, UK, U.S., Belgium, Turkey, Spain, implemented local barriers, develop better money habits, and Italy, Israel, and South Africa — ​to fight hunger. community engagement, impact assessments, become financially secure. We partner with the Global Foodbanking Network and development around the world. One example is our work with programs Feeding Hong Kong. We’ve partnered with the G4-SO2 | ​Operations with significant actual and potential negative Supporting our employees as engaged citizens impacts on local communities Our employees are passionate about improving donating nearly $30 million, which was doubled the lives of individuals and families, offering in impact through our matching gifts program their time, expertise and philanthropic giving to for a total of nearly $60 million in funding to help create more sustainable communities, and we are address pressing social issues. In addition, through proud to support their efforts. Volunteerism is our Employee Giving Campaign, our U.S. employees part of our company’s DNA and has evolved into a donated $17 million to address local community strategic and comprehensive platform, integrated needs including education, basic services, youth with our business, philanthropic, and marketing programs and more. initiatives, including partnerships with (RED) and Special Olympics. In addition to enriching local Examples of our volunteers in action: communities, volunteerism provides our employees Serina Ramkhelawon, a Global Volunteer Awardee with opportunities for leadership, team building, in Global Transaction Services (London, UK), and skills development. was recognized for her efforts to mobilize bank We celebrate our volunteers in a variety of ways, volunteers to teach interviewing skills, hold resume including our highly competitive annual Global workshops, and mentor young adults just starting Volunteer Awards, which last year highlighted the out in their career. These efforts support our efforts of 22 outstanding employee volunteers partnership with City Year, UK, a youth social action across the globe, giving them the opportunity to charity that challenges 18 to 25 year-olds to tackle direct a grant to the nonprofit of their choice. We educational inequality through a year of full-time, also offer volunteer grants to nonprofits where voluntary service in schools. employees volunteer regularly, a quarterly honor roll Tracy Morton, a Global Volunteer Awardee from highlighting employees recording at least 25 hours Global Human Resources (Charlotte, NC) led a team in a calendar year, and the President’s Volunteer to design and deliver a skills-based mentoring Service Award recognizing employees recording at program to help jobseekers in Charlotte. In least 200 volunteer hours annually. partnership with the Urban League of the Central Through their passion, time, and expertise, our Carolinas, she worked to design a strategy for the employee volunteers contributed approximately program, recruit mentors, and created a process to 2 million hours in 2015. In addition, employees gave match Urban League clients with volunteers. generously to support causes important to them, 111 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT organization to reduce the amount of food sent Addressing global health issues G4-SO1 | ​Percentage of operations with to Hong Kong’s landfills, while also helping to We’ve joined others on the world stage to help implemented local fight hunger through a record-breaking food address global health issues, starting with HIV/ community engagement, drive and funding for Feeding Hong Kong’s new AIDS in Africa. Our partnership with (RED) helps impact assessments, warehouse. In addition, we’ve leveraged expertise and development raise awareness and support the global fight programs from our lines of business to help inform clients against HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa. Since and investors about financial and economic issues the partnership originated in January 2014, G4-SO2 | ​Operations that impact how families are able to access with significant actual $10 million has been provided to the Global Fund and potential negative affordable food. to fight AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. impacts on local communities • Partner: For the past four years we’ve In January 2016, we announced an expanded partnered with Feeding America®, the largest U.S. partnership with (RED) to include an additional G4-FS13 | ​Access hunger relief provider and its network of more points in low-populated $10 million over five years to the Global Fund, or economically than 200 food banks, on Give A Meal. Through continuing efforts to raise awareness, end disadvantaged areas this program, we extend the impact of individual mother-to-child transmission of HIV, and achieve by type donations, including those of employees, an AIDS-free generation. With the expansion, the customers and clients, through a corporate overall total will reach $20 million by 2020. This match. For every dollar donated to Give A Meal, will provide antiretrovial medication to women the Bank of America Charitable Foundation in Africa with HIV, enabling them to lead healthy gives an additional two dollars. This past holiday and productive lives, and preventing the virus season, thanks to these collective donations, we from passing to their unborn children. helped provide more than 40 million meals for the hungry in communities across the U.S. We’ve also partnered with Global Health Corps, which deploys fellows to work in hospitals and clinics in countries around the world, particularly Africa. And we’re working with SEED Global Health, Code for Change Makes a which supports global health fellows in Africa. Difference for our Charity Each of these organizations has worked with Partners the Global Fund on the shared goal of building sustainable and resilient health systems in Africa. In a pioneering effort that harnessed the expertise of our employees in Asia Pacific, nine teams from our Global Technology & Operations (GT&O) division created applications and provided technology support to our partner charities Advancing Better to help them improve their impact on the communities they serve. About 60 employees Money Habits in Singapore, Hong Kong, Tokyo, and Mumbai took part in Code for Change. The beneficiaries From saving for a down payment on a major were Habitat for Humanity, Feeding Hong purchase, planning for and living in retirement Kong, and Mission for Migrant Workers in Hong to funding a college education, people make Kong; Friends International in Thailand; Habitat dozens of financial decisions every day. At for Humanity and Teach for India in India; Care Bank of America, we are here to help our clients Community Services Society and New Hope and the communities we serve make educated and Community Services in Singapore; Yayasan informed decisions about their financial future. Balita Sehat in Indonesia; and TOMODACHI We do this by offering a simple set of products in Japan. Development of these technology solutions continue. that are clear, consistent, and easy to use, and by providing free and objective financial education Employees and GT&O leaders voting on the resources. When individuals feel financially secure outstanding apps of the program gave top and are able to achieve their financial goals, marks to the Habitat for Humanity team, which communities are made stronger. Here are a few of created an app to track on-the-ground data our solutions that help people manage everyday on the usage of sanitation facilities that the finances and establish a sound financial future. organization is providing in India. 112 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Simplified Money Solutions G4-FS13 | ​Access points in low-populated • FICO Score for Free “Ideal learning pairs real-world or economically disadvantaged areas As part of our commitment to provide more needs with on-demand learning. by type clarity and transparency for customers, we now offer FICO Scores for Free to all of our credit Resources like Better Money Habits card customers, including those with Merrill and Khan Academy keep this in mind Lynch and U.S. Trust cards. FICO scores — ​also as we collaborate to empower young known as credit scores — ​reflect credit history and data and have an impact on many financial people for the 21st century.” transactions. We began offering this service in Sal Khan late 2015 and completed the phased rollout in in a conversation about education and early 2016. the link to financial literacy • SafeBalance Banking SafeBalance Banking is an alternative that helps customers avoid overdraft fees on their account. They spend only what’s in 2015 BETTER MONEY HABITS METRICS their account and can also take advantage of many of the same features of a traditional On-site video views: checking account — ​with a predictable monthly maintenance fee. 3.1 million • BankAmericard®Secured Credit Card For customers who are looking to build or Site unique visits: rebuild credit, BankAmericard® Secured Credit 5 million Card helps establish and strengthen credit history by reporting payment behavior to the three major U.S. credit bureaus. The card also On-site content views: features a flexible credit line determined by the (videos, infographics, worksheets, checklists) user’s income and security deposit. 5.7 million • Keep the Change® The Keep the Change savings service provides a simple, convenient way to build savings Total content views: while making everyday purchases. Qualifying (Better Money Habits website, checking and savings account purchases made YouTube, additional distribution) with a debit card will be rounded up to the nearest dollar amount, and the difference will 68.1 million be automatically transferred from the checking to the savings account. Read about more ways we’re helping people Total content views since 2013: manage their finances on p. 19. 91.6 million 113 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Providing Financial Empowerment “Real-world experience in G4-FS13 | ​Access points in low-populated Resources making financial decisions or economically disadvantaged areas Developed in partnership with Khan Academy, empowers kids. It allows them to by type a nonprofit with the mission to provide a free world-class education for anyone, anywhere, see how they’ll personally benefit Better Money Habits® pairs Khan Academy’s from making good choices.” expertise in online learning with our financial know-how. The program delivers simple, easyJohn Rogers to-understand information on a wide range whose Ariel Community Academy was created of personal finance topics. In 2015, we added to provide a world-class K-8 education where more than 90 pieces of content for a total of financial literacy is taught and practiced. more than 200 pieces of original content on our website, BetterMoneyHabits.com. Content on the site covers a wide range of personal finance topics, including saving, budgeting, building coaches and counselors easily find the content credit, paying down debt, paying for college, that is relevant to their lessons and deliver buying a house, and other important topics. the information to the people who need it In 2015, we’ve expanded content on the site the most. to include: • Military/Veteran Transition: Using the • Families and Money: Financial education expertise of our employee Military Support and begins at home, and we provide tools Assistance Group, as well as the knowledge specifically to help parents teach their children gained from our partners, we now have about money. The content is divided into topics content focused on the financial challenges appropriate for parents of elementary, middle, involved in making the transition from military and high school-aged children, including to civilian life. The resources cover everything topics such as establishing allowances, setting from understanding the difference between a up money rules, and introducing children military and civilian paycheck to understanding to banking. civilian retirement plans. • Paycheck-to-Paycheck: We worked with Preparing The Next Generation For several nonprofit partners to better understand Real-World Challenges the needs of individuals and families who are struggling each month to make ends meet. Millennials, ages 18 to 34, are a group who We developed action-oriented content to help will shape the nation’s economic, political, and those living paycheck-to-paycheck achieve public policy landscape for decades to come. As financial stability. We also developed the they are quickly coming of age, it’s important Education Resource Center to help financial to get them the financial tools they need to be successful. In 2015, we initiated several efforts to provide insights and resources for Millennials on the topic of financial education: • In October, Better Money Habits hosted “We haven’t completely cracked the an event in Chicago that featured a code on financial education. We do discussion between Khan Academy founder Sal Khan and John W. Rogers, Jr., Founder, know it’s a lifecycle issue and if you Chairman and Chief Investment Officer, build good financial habits at a Ariel Investments, moderated by Andrew young age, they tend to translate Plepler, Bank of America’s ESG executive. The panelists and audience members — ​ into stability as you get older.” comprised of business and non-profit leaders Andrew Plepler ESG Executive 114 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT and financial education advocates — ​talked Delivering Financial Education Through G4-FS13 | ​Access points in low-populated about barriers to income mobility, innovations Nonprofit Partnerships or economically that address them and ways to provide the disadvantaged areas When we combine our financial education next generation with life readiness skills in by type tools and expertise with our existing nonprofit today’s economy. partnerships and employee volunteers, we are • Attended by Congressional staffers from able to help more people improve their financial the House and Senate, a Capitol Hill Staff lives. Here are some examples of our work in Briefing, hosted by Better Money Habits in providing financial education and energy and June, engaged staffers on a topic that is both resources through employee volunteers in 2015: personally and professionally relevant. Andrew Plepler was joined by a diverse panel of experts LIFT to discuss how financial education is evolving LIFT’s mission is LIFTing people out of poverty to reach a new generation. for good. In 2015, LIFT case managers used our • In 2015, we released two Bank of America/ Better Money Habits programs to help LIFT USA TODAY Better Money Habits Millennial clients achieve financial goals and manage their Reports, which provided critical insights into personal finances. LIFT is one of our valued the millennial mindset when it comes to partners to help youth access the experiences money. For example: that they need to drive community change. We partnered with them to help our Student Leaders • Millennials look to their parents for advice gain perspective on the challenges of living in and guidance on financial matters, and the poverty and how to make changes that lead to millennials whose parents talked to them better financial lives. about finances tend to exhibit good financial habits. Click here to review the Spring In addition in 2015, Shriver Corps — ​an initiative 2015 report. founded by Maria Shriver in partnership with A Woman’s Nation, CNCS, LIFT, and the • A majority of millennials surveyed said Bank of America Charitable Foundation, in they have savings, while decreasing debt, conjunction with AmeriCorps — ​marked its managing spending, and building an first anniversary. The initiative celebrated emergency fund are priorities. Click here to achievements such as connecting more than review the Fall 2015 report. 2,500 low-income people to jobs, housing • Bank of America partnered with VICE News resources, and educational opportunities. to create a new online talk show — ​“ The Business of Life” — ​which held conversations Points of Light on the financial impacts of topics most top In partnership with Points of Light, the world’s of mind to today’s young adults. The show largest organization dedicated to volunteer featured a panel of experts who explored service, we created the Financial Opportunity topics like higher education, immigration, the Corps in 2013 as way to help lowand moderatemiddle class, start ups, and much more. Our income households achieve financial stability. ongoing partnership with VICE News gives us The Financial Opportunity Corps recruit and train a new way to engage with Millennials in an volunteers as financial coaches who work with authentic way through a channel they trust and families and individuals to build their financial is relevant to them. knowledge and develop strategies to reduce debt, start saving for emergencies, access benefits, and build assets. To date, 87 percent of people who received coaching took steps that improved their financial stability such as developing a budget, planning to build credit and organizing bills. Further, 41 percent of coaching clients ended their coaching tenure with $1,500 or more in savings, an increase of 21 percent from the beginning of their coaching relationship. 115 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Looking Ahead As part of our new offerings, Merrill Lynch financial advisors will receive detailed reports about the ESG characteristics of the sustainable As we look ahead, we will continue to invest impact multi-asset class portfolios and their in supporting our employees, clients, and constituent funds, the majority of which have communities to help create shared success. ESG mandates. The reports are designed to help advisors better assess whether the investments Our People meet clients’ impact investing goals, thus providing added transparency. In addition, we We invest in our employees because they are are continuing to look for ways to provide our the key in making financial lives better for our customers with products that help advance customers and clients around the globe. The their better money habits, including helping conversation with our employees is ongoing. borrowers achieve successful and affordable Their feedback, suggestions, and active long-term homeownership. participation have helped us to improve the employee experience, but we aren’t finished yet. Our Partnerships Throughout 2016, we will continue our focus on simplifying and improving the employee We’re focused on advancing nonprofit experience. By celebrating diversity and sustainability in order to create thriving practicing inclusion, by helping our employees economies, including how to position nonprofits reach their full career potential, and by for growth in an evidenced-based environment. supporting their wellbeing and listening to their As one example, we’ll continue to enhance our feedback, we will make our company an even Neighborhood Builders® program as we approach better place to work. the milestone of 1,000 nonprofit alumni, connecting these leading nonprofits to expertise Our Business in the sector, providing forums for discussion and opportunities to access capital through Innovation to meet demand in the impact our network of CDFI partners. And across the investing arena is a key area of focus for globe, we continue to examine how we can bring Bank of America Merrill Lynch in 2016. We plan the full capabilities of our company to address to provide our 14,000 financial advisors with pressing societal issues, such as global health new resources to help clients understand the and employability. impact of their investments in these portfolios. 116 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE In this • Our Approach • Board of Directors and Governance • ESG Governance section • Risk Management • Environmental and Social Risk Management • Stakeholder Engagement • Key Governance Topics • Looking Ahead 117 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT ESG Governance Changes To strengthen our oversight of Environmental, Social and Governance GOVERNANCE (ESG) issues, we have expanded the Global CSR Committee to include more senior business leaders, given the committee additional responsibility “Our Board regularly reviews for governance issues, and renamed management’s strategy it the Global ESG Committee to create long-term as a reflection of the company’s responsible, sustainable growth value for stockholders. Expansion of strategy. The new committee structure ensures that we understand which I’ve spent a great deal of National ESG issues are most material to our business, are managing those areas time in 2015 and 2016 meeting with many of our Community well, and are responding quickly and effectively to emerging trends. investors. This engagement Advisory Council has been instructive to 2015 marked the addition In addition to our global governance of ESG, we established regional our Board as we continue of new members to the committees in Latin America (LatAm) to drive our company’s National Community Advisory and Europe, the Middle East and Africa Council (NCAC) representing progress and add value to environment and sustainability (EMEA) to guide our ESG strategy and ensure accountability on a regionyour investment. You are expertise. The NCAC includes leading nonprofit organizations specific level. The chairpersons of represented by a strong, these committees are members of across the country in the areas of the Global ESG Committee, ensuring independent Board with civil rights, consumer advocacy, and that their respective activities are diversity of experience environmental policy. They work closely with us, providing perspective well coordinated. and perspective, and we and advice on key issues of the day. welcome further dialogue Formed in 2005, the council with you.” initially helped advise the bank on its community development lending Our Corporate Governance Jack Bovender and investing activities. While Guidelines exceed the Lead Independent Director continuing its focus on community NYSE listing standards development and consumer policy and require a substantial topics, the council’s concentration majority of our directors to has evolved into a broader focus be independent. Twelve of our on ESG issues and performance, 13 directors and each member including consulting on how to of our Audit, Compensation improve our environmental business and Benefits, and Corporate initiative; offering feedback on our Governance committees are approach to governance; and guiding independent. our commitment to community impact, as well as consulting on our workplace policies. Read more on p. 51 of this report. 118 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Our Approach G4-34 | ​Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the At the heart of governance at Bank of America highest governance body is building and maintaining a foundation of G4-35 | ​Process trust with our clients, customers, employees, for delegating and shareholders — ​critical to implementing authority for economic, environmental and our responsible growth strategy. This requires a social topics from the strong board of directors, skilled management, highest governance body and clear and effective governance practices. to senior executives and other employees This also requires us to educate employees on the behaviors that are expected of them and G4-36 | ​Whether enable them to feel comfortable to speak up the organization has appointed an when something is inconsistent with our Code of executive-level Conduct and values. Throughout this section, we position or positions invite you to learn about the structure, principles, with responsibility for economic, and practices that govern our company. ESG Governance environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the Board of Directors and We know how important it is to prioritize our ESG practices. That is why we formed highest governance body G4-42 | ​Highest Governance the Global ESG Committee. The Global ESG Committee is chaired by Anne Finucane, our vice governance body’s and senior executives’ roles chairman, and is comprised of senior leaders in the development, approval, and updating When determining the composition of our board, across every business line and support group. of the organization’s we constantly assess our board members’ The committee meets at least three times a year, purpose, value or capability to guide overall company strategy, is accountable to the chief executive officer, and mission statements, strategies, policies, including their ability to recognize and anticipate reports regularly to the Corporate Governance and goals related current and potential environmental and social Committee of the company’s board of directors. to economic, impacts. Our directors possess backgrounds, environmental and The Global ESG Committee provides oversight of social impacts qualifications, attributes, and skills that, when the company’s ESG activities including: taken in aggregate, provide our company G4-43 | ​Measures with a broad range of experience and diverse • Helping to ensure responsible business taken to develop perspectives that offer independent oversight. practices and enhance the highest governance A full list of current board members can be • Identifying and addressing various body’s collective environmental and social risks knowledge of economic, found on our corporate site, and additional environmental and information on the board of directors can be • Identifying and adopting ESG best practices social topics found starting on p. 7. • Determining key metrics for success for G4-51 | ​Remuneration ESG initiatives policies for the highest governance body and • Helping to align enterprise resources and senior executives third-party relationships to accomplish G4-52 | ​Process environmental, social, and other goals for determining remuneration • Championing and driving awareness of our ESG targets, goals, and commitments among G4-53 | ​How business and support functions stakeholders’ views are sought and taken • Approving the company’s Community into account regarding Reinvestment Act (CRA) goal and policy on an remuneration annual basis 119 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT The Global ESG Committee has two formal subcommittees: Risk Management G4-35 | ​Process for delegating authority for economic, • Governance Subcommittee: This newly environmental and Managing risk well is foundational to our business social topics from the established group is responsible for oversight highest governance body of efforts to promote effective corporate and our ability to deliver responsible growth. It to senior executives governance and will serve as an information contributes to the strength and sustainability of and other employees clearinghouse for the relevant activities of our company for the future, and it supports the G4-36 | ​Whether the Office of the Corporate Secretary, the work we do today to serve our customers, clients, the organization Investor Relations team, the ESG team and the community, shareholders, and employees. This has appointed an relies on the sound judgment of every employee executive-level Corporate Benefits Committee. position or positions across the entire company. with responsibility • Environmental Operations for economic, Subcommittee: This subcommittee oversees Risk Is Everyone’s Responsibility environmental and the company’s environmental operational goals social topics, and and is responsible for developing strategy and Risk is everyone’s responsibility at the company whether post holders implementing initiatives for the achievement and every employee has an important role to report directly to the highest governance body of these goals. play in managing risk. We’ve worked to create an environment where employees feel valued, G4-42 | ​Highest A number of other groups and councils also meet are empowered to share their perspectives, and governance body’s and regularly during the year to oversee, manage, and discuss risk issues and concerns openly. senior executives’ roles communicate internally about ESG opportunities in the development, We believe this leads to the best outcomes. approval, and updating and issues. These include the Bank of America of the organization’s Charitable Foundation board of directors; the Key components of our risk management purpose, value or Low-Carbon Banking Group; and the Global approach include our Code of Conduct, Risk mission statements, strategies, policies, Diversity and Inclusion Council. These groups are Framework, Culture, Risk Appetite, Risk and goals related accountable through executive representation Management Processes, and Three Lines of to economic, on the committee. Defense. Together, these components clearly environmental and social impacts delineate the level of risk that we are willing to take, lay out our approach to managing G4-43 | ​Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and GLOBAL ESG COMMITTEE: Led by Vice Chairman, accountable to CEO and social topics Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors G4-47 | ​Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and Chairman of Global Corporate and Global Human Resources Head of Global Wealth and social impacts, risks, Investment Banking (New) executive (New) Retirement Solutions and opportunities President of Preferred & Global Risk Chief Operating Pacific Southwest Region executive, Small Business Officer (New) Market President, Greater G4-49 | ​Process Los Angeles (New) for communicating President of Retail Banking Global Corporate Services critical concerns executive (New) President, Asia-Pacific CIO, Technology & Operations (New) to the highest Deputy Corporate General Auditor President, Europe, Middle East governance body Corporate General Auditor and Africa Co-Head of Global Fixed Income, Deputy General Counsel and Legal Currencies and Commodities President, Latin America executive, GBAM Sales (New) Global Corporate Communications Global Compliance executive Enterprise Credit Risk executive and Public Policy executive Global Diversity and Inclusion Head of Global Corporate Banking Vice Chairman, Global Wealth and executive and Global Leasing (New) Investment Management Global General Counsel (New) Head of Global Research ESG executive 120 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT risk, define each employee’s risk management these concerns are integrated into our business G4-14 | ​W hether and how the precautionary approach responsibilities, and provide the basic guidelines decisions and are understood and managed at or principle is addressed by for business practices and professional and the highest levels of the company. the organization personal conduct. For more than a decade, We also take a proactive role in identifying G4-37 | ​Processes for we’ve provided employees with an Ethics and and mitigating environmental and social risks consultation between Compliance (E&C) Hotline to report unethical stakeholders and the by engaging with our clients, highest governance body activities confidentially. To learn vendors, and other stakeholders on economic, environmental more about the E&C Hotline, please and social topics MANAGING on environmental and social visit p. 43. issues that could have an adverse G4-42 | ​Highest governance RISK WELL IS body’s and senior executives’ From an organizational viewpoint, impact on the bank, employees, our eight lines of business own FOUNDATIONAL TO shareholders, and the communities roles in the development, approval, and updating and manage all types of risk, OUR BUSINESS we serve. We consult with internal of the organization’s our global risk management and external stakeholders to help purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, group challenges and provides us determine those issues that policies, and goals related independent oversight of our business, and present the greatest probability of impacting our to economic, environmental our internal audit independently assesses and customers and financial communities around the and social impacts validates our risk processes and controls. We globe. We also receive input from shareholders G4-44 | ​Processes for continually work to improve our risk management who voice their social and environmental evaluation of the highest governance body’s practices and capabilities. Read more about concerns to our board and management performance with respect our Code of Conduct, Risk Framework, Culture, through the annual proxy process. The sum of to governance of economic, Risk Management Process, and Three Lines of this external feedback gives us an increased environmental and social topics Defense, starting on p. 25. understanding of the level of potential exposure G4-45 | ​Highest our businesses have to particular environmental governance body’s role and social issues. in the identification and management of Environmental Within our company, our teams consider social and environmental risk factors when making economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and Social Risk business decisions and are guided by a number and opportunities of applicable internal policies and guidelines, G4-46 | ​Highest governance body’s role in reviewing Management including our Code of Conduct, Credit Policy, Human Rights Statement, Vendor Code of the effectiveness of the organization’s risk Conduct, environmental policies related to management processes for energy, forests and the like, and others. To economic, environmental As part of our efforts to manage all types of and social topics risk, we have established processes to manage further our proactive management of these issues, we will be establishing an Environmental G4-47 | ​Frequency of environmental and social risks in a responsible the highest governance manner. Our commitment to fair, ethical, and and Social Risk Management Framework (ESRM body’s review of economic, responsible business practices, as we engage Framework), which sets forth the parameters for environmental and how we identify, measure, monitor, and control social impacts, risks, with our employees, clients, vendors, and and opportunities communities around the world, is embodied in risks related to environmental and social issues. The ESRM Framework will be available on our G4-49 | ​Process for our culture and governance structure. communicating critical website later this year. concerns to the highest To provide oversight of potential risks and governance body opportunities to our business, including social Read more about our Risk Framework, oversight, and environmental issues, our board of directors Culture, principles, and Code of Conduct, starting G4-57 | ​Internal and on p. 25. Read more about our policies on external mechanisms for reviews risks through well-established processes seeking advice on ethical and in our board committees, including the Enterprise our website. lawful behavior, and matters Risk and Audit Committees. Our Global ESG related to organizational integrity, such as helplines Committee also regularly considers emerging or advice lines issues, as well as concerns raised by advocates, G4-58 | ​Internal and regulators, and other stakeholders, to ensure that external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity 121 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Stakeholder Key Governance Topics G4-24 | ​A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the Engagement organization Executive Compensation G4-25 | ​The basis for identification and Through our work, we seek to reflect what Over the past several years, there has been an selection of stakeholders stakeholders — ​including our stockholders — ​ increased focus on executive compensation and with whom to engage expect of global companies today. At all times, the importance of aligning compensation with a G4-26 | ​Organization’s we’re listening to and engaging with a diverse set full range of factors that drive shortand longapproach to stakeholder of stakeholders who are interested in or directly term performance of a company, including those engagement affected by our company’s business. As part of related to ESG. G4-27 | ​Key topics our stakeholder engagement process, including Our compensation philosophy ties our executive and concerns that have our stockholder engagement, we listen to the been raised through officers’ pay to company, line of business and stakeholder engagement feedback of our constituents to help inform our individual performance over the short and long decisions. Through continual debate and dialogue terms. Our executive compensation program G4-45 | ​Highest with all of these groups, we are positioned to governance body’s role provides a mix of salary, incentives, and benefits in the identification make better informed, more balanced decisions. paid over time that we believe aligns executive and management To learn more about our stakeholder engagement officer and stockholder interests. Each year, of economic, environmental and (including our Market Presidents and more about our Compensation and Benefits Committee social impacts, risks, our National Community Advisory Council), reviews our executive officers’ performance and opportunities read p. 51. using a balanced and disciplined approach to determine their base salaries and variable Global Advisory Council compensation awards. In addition to assessing Our Global Advisory Council (GAC) is a nonour financial results and the contributions fiduciary advisory board chaired by our CEO Brian of executives to overall company and line of Moynihan consisting of internationally recognized business performance, directors evaluate our business, academic, and public policy leaders who progress in delivering on our five operating assist us with global strategy. The council shares principles — including putting our customers at its expertise and insight on the global economy the center of our decision-making, creating a and the bank’s global engagement and helps us great environment in which to work, and driving further strengthen our worldwide relationships. a strong culture of managing risk well. We GAC members offer advice on our global strategy continually evaluate our compensation policies and operations, provide insight and perspective and practices in light of ongoing developments, on local market opportunities and trends, regulations, and best practices in the area of and assist in expanding our relationships and incentive compensation. opportunities around the world. The key features of our executive compensation In 2015, GAC members made grant program can be found in our 2016 Proxy recommendations for charitable donations Statement, including the specific compensation to 30 worthy causes around the world. These practices we have implemented to drive were implemented by the Bank of America sustainable results, encourage executive Charitable Foundation. retention, and align executive and stockholder interests. In addition, we also identify certain pay practices we have not implemented because we believe they do not serve our risk management goals or stockholders’ long-term interests. 122 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Information Security and Privacy Policies losses or other material consequences relating G4-16 | ​Memberships of associations (such as to technology failure, cyber attacks, or other We’re committed to keeping customer and client industry associations) information or security breaches. and national or personal and financial information protected international advocacy and secure through responsible information Our Code of Ethics and privacy and security organizations collection, processing, and use practices. As part standards and procedures require confidential of that effort, we have comprehensive global treatment of customer information consistent G4-PR8 | ​Total number of substantiated information security and privacy programs led by with applicable laws and regulations and reinforce complaints regarding the Bank’s Chief Information Security Officer and our commitment to the responsible processing breaches of customer Chief Privacy Officer. of personal data. Individuals who access bank privacy and losses of customer data computer systems and information are required We demonstrate our commitment and to complete annual information protection and accountability to protecting information privacy training, and employees in privacyby implementing information security and sensitive roles receive additional training specific privacy policies and programs. These policies to their position. Annual training is supplemented and programs align with external criteria and with additional educational content that incorporate senior management and board reinforces desired employee behaviors, creates of director level oversight, including regular a heightened level of accountability, and status updates to our board of directors on our acknowledges good behavior. Vendors are information security and privacy programs. also regularly assessed to ensure they have The bank is subject to ongoing regulatory appropriate security and privacy controls. oversight and examination related to information The bank maintains an Enterprise Privacy Office, security and an independent Corporate Audit led by our Chief Privacy Officer, and a Global function conducts examinations of our lines of Information Security organization, led by our business to ensure compliance with standards Chief Information Security Officer. and applicable legal requirements. The bank also partners closely with industry associations The Chief Privacy Officer oversees the such as the American Bankers Association, the effectiveness and implementation of the privacy Financial Services Roundtable, the Financial program in business processes across the Services Information Sharing and Analysis Center company ensuring adequate governance and (FS-ISAC), the Center for Information Policy oversight is in place; changes to applicable laws Leadership, and the Future of Privacy Forum and regulations and recognized best practices to develop global solutions for privacy and the are accounted for; standards and policies are responsible use of data as well as to identify, maintained; employee training is developed and prevent and protect against industry or bankadministered; and that Bank of America routinely targeted cyber events. monitors, assesses and measures business operations to ensure that processes and privacy In addition, Bank of America has aligned its management practices are compliant and in line information security controls to the National with our standards. Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure The Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Cybersecurity (Cybersecurity Framework). The develops and executes an enterprise-wide bank incorporated the NIST Cybersecurity information security strategy that helps protect Framework into its annual Policy management Bank of America and its customers’ information, cycle and has designed and implemented internal complying with applicable legal and regulatory risk-based frameworks that align with NIST. standards. As part of this role, the CISO manages the development, implementation, Understanding the constantly evolving nature and maintenance of the information security of data protection, we continuously monitor infrastructure; oversees the protection of Bank for emerging risks and dedicate significant of America’s computer-based assets by providing resources to help ensure customers’ information monitoring, detection, analysis, event handling, is protected. During the last two years, to our and containment of security incidents; monitors knowledge, we have not experienced any material information security trends internally and 123 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT externally; and informs senior leadership about • Social Security Number Policy: Our G4-PR8 | ​Total number of substantiated information security-related issues and activities Social Security Number Policy protects the complaints regarding affecting the organization. confidentiality of Social Security numbers, breaches of customer In accordance with applicable laws globally, the prohibits unlawful disclosure of Social privacy and losses of Security numbers and limits access to customer data bank provides customers with Privacy Notices that clearly explain our information collection, Social Security numbers. sharing, and use practices. Customers can also • Identity theft assistance: Our Identity access privacy notices and additional information Theft Assistance Center offers resources to about privacy and information security online help with identity theft recovery, prevention, through our privacy and security web pages. and education. Our Online and Mobile Banking For all but credit card and certain affinity Security Guarantee covers Bank of America products, we do not share sensitive and/or accounts, the security of customer and personal information with unaffiliated third client information, and the time spent parties unless regulations allow it, such as with processing payments. a vendor that performs a service on our behalf. • Secure access to accounts: Our Security Credit card and affinity customers can still Center offers customers mobile and online exercise control over and limit the sharing of their banking tools to securely manage their personal information with a third party outside a finances, including options for signing into statutory exception. and monitoring activity on their accounts. While we do share information between our Customers can manage their digital banking affiliated companies for our everyday business security settings in one place, and can opt in purposes, customers are offered an opportunity for an extra security feature at sign-in that to limit other types of affiliate sharing and/or use. helps verify the customer’s identity with a The bank also makes it easy for customers to one-time authorization code sent via text or limit certain types of marketing. Customers can email each time they sign in. opt out of telemarketing, email, and direct mail Tax Strategy and Reporting marketing, and we provide training to employees on these options and how to guide customers Bank of America advocates for tax reform through the process. legislation in the U.S. that simplifies our tax laws, encourages economic growth, and helps Finally, we maintain physical, electronic and American companies compete in today’s global procedural safeguards to protect against economy. Bank of America communicates unauthorized access to customer information. with policymakers both independently and as • Secure technology: Our fraud prevention part of the Alliance for Competitive Taxation and security systems help protect customers (actontaxreform.com), a group of more than and clients with encryption technology and 40 U.S. companies that supports lowering the secure email communications. We are a corporate rate, paid for by broadening the tax recognized leader in fraud and identity safety, base, and establishing a modern competitive tax with strong performance in fraud prevention, system that aligns with the rest of the world. detection, and resolution, based on industry We are encouraged that a bipartisan consensus assessments by Javelin. is emerging on Capitol Hill that tax reform is • Debit cards: Our Total Security Protection® urgently needed. package provides defense against theft, loss or Bank of America employs rigorous tax fraudulent use when accessing a checking or governance and risk management routines across savings account with a debit card. In addition, the enterprise to ensure that we comply with bank customers are able to lock and unlock all applicable tax laws and regulations. The bank their Consumer and Small Business ATM/debit files income tax returns in more than 100 state cards through self-service options in mobile and non-U.S. jurisdictions each year. The IRS and online banking. and other tax authorities in countries and states in which the company has significant business 124 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT operations examine tax returns periodically (continuously in some jurisdictions). Looking Ahead Internationally, we adhere to the UK Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks. Most of our As we look ahead, we will continue our work to global business is conducted in locally regulated simplify the company and manage risk more entities, such that intercompany interaction rigorously than ever before. We remain diligent to is subject to regulatory driven arms’-length ensure the structure, principles, and practices we standards, in addition to the U.S. tax authority’s have in place to govern our company are efficient overarching arms’-length standard. and effective. While not an exhaustive list, some of the We will continue to focus on our customers internal routines in place to ensure we comply and clients with renewed clarity, and to deliver with tax laws and regulations are Corporate the full range and depth of our resources and Tax Department Risk Management Forum; global reach to help them achieve their goals. Tax Shelter Reporting, List Maintenance, and We continue to deliver this through a strategy of Disclosure Policies relevant for principal activities responsible, sustainable growth. Through strong and advisory activities; participation in the ESG management, we’re building more financially UK Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks; secure communities — recognizing that we only policies allowing for escalation of any matter succeed when our customers, clients, employees, to Reputational Risk Forums; Tax personnel and our communities thrive. participation in various forums throughout the enterprise, including Finance escalation routines and business New Product Review Forums; oversight that can include inquiry into tax practices and risks by various regulators globally; and various Control frameworks, including Sarbanes-Oxley and oversight by our Compliance, Corporate Audit, and Risk functions. We provide financial information by region in Note 26 of our 2015 10-K. Included in this disclosure are assets, revenue, income (loss) before taxes, and net income (loss). In addition, many of our subsidiaries in the UK and other countries prepare “statutory accounts,” which consist of financial statements and footnotes that are publicly available in the UK and many other countries. Our 10-K disclosures provide a public explanation as to why our global effective tax rate may differ from the U.S. statutory tax rate. Also, some of the above-mentioned statutory reports contain tax footnotes that reconcile the subsidiaries’ effective tax rates to the relevant statutory tax rates. In addition, we regularly provide information to help investors forecast the company’s tax expense. This includes effective tax rate guidance on earnings calls and information in SEC filings, such as drivers of tax risks and drivers of deferred tax asset carrying values. Please see the 2015 10-K for complete information on the topic. 125 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT In this • Advocacy and Memberships • Awards • GRI Content Index section • Environmental, Social and Governance Materiality Assessment • External Assurance • Assurance Statement • Contact Us • Report Parameters 126 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT G4-16 | ​Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations ABOUT THIS REPORT “Being named Best Global Bank for Corporate Social Responsibility is confirmation of our commitment to making Advocacy and financial lives better. Ensuring Memberships that sustainable practices are integrated into our products, Bank of America often shares interests with services, and business activities groups that advocate and shape public policy allows us to best serve our clients positions on relevant issues. To view a complete list of these groups, please visit the Political and communities around the world. Activities page on BankofAmerica.com. Through strategic partnerships and the responsible deployment of our assets and resources, we can effect In addition, we also engage with the following organizations on issues that long-term positive change.” are important to us: Andrew Plepler U.S. Water Partnership ESG Executive U.S. Green Building Council U.S. SIF — ​Forum for Sustainable and Responsible Investment World Business Council for Sustainable Development CSR Europe HR Policy Association Equal Employment Advisory Council Awards To learn about our recognition in 2015, please visit our website. 127 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI Content Index report is “in accordance” with the core option and has gone through the GRI Materiality G4-32 | ​‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen; GRI Content Disclosure Service to confirm that G4 Materiality Index; Reference to the The 2015 Bank of America Environmental, Disclosures are correctly located in both the External Assurance Report Social and Governance (ESG) Report aligns Content Index and in the text of the final report. with the G4 framework set forth by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In addition, this report also uses the Financial Sector Supplement to address topics specific to our sector. The chart below outlines which indicators are included in the report and where they are located. This General Standard Disclosures STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS General Standard External Disclosures Page Assurance G4-1 Business Standards Report, CEO Letter; page ii No Anne Finucane’s Letter; ESG site 2015 Annual Report, CEO Letter; pages Cover–13 G4-2 Business Standards Report, CEO Letter; page ii No Anne Finucane’s Letter; ESG site 2015 Annual Report, CEO Letter; pages Cover–13 About This Report, Environmental, Social and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE General Standard External Disclosures Page Assurance G4-3 2015 ESG Report; page i No G4-4 2015 Annual Report, Welcome to Bank of America; pages 14–15 No G4-5 2015 Annual Report, Financial Highlights; page 14 No G4-6 2015 Annual Report, Financial Highlights; page 14 No About This Report, Report Parameters; page 146 G4-7 Certificate of Incorporation available at bankofamerica.com/investor. No G4-8 2015 Annual Report, Financial Highlights; page 14 No G4-9 2015 Annual Report, Financial Highlights; page 20 No G4-10 Social, Delivering Through Our People, Embracing the Diversity of Our No People, Workforce Breakdown charts; pages 90–91 128 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT General Standard Disclosures Continued G4-32 | ​‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen; GRI Content Index; Reference to the External Assurance Report ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE CONTINUED General Standard External Disclosures Page Assurance G4-11 Direct answer: No U.S.-based employees are subject to collective No bargaining agreements. G4-12 Social, Social Impact, Building Thriving Economies, Supply Chain, No pages 106–106 G4-13 2015 Annual Report, CEO Letter; pages Cover–13 No G4-14 Governance, Environmental and Social Risk Management; page 121 No G4-15 Business Standards Report, Chapter 4, Responsible Growth: Managing Risk, No Principles of Managing Risk; page 26 Business Standards Report, Case Study: Reinforcing Responsible Business Practices — ​Environmental, Social and Governance Committee, The Formulation of a Human Rights Statement and Vendor Code of Conduct; page 6 Environment, Environmental Governance and Policies; pages 83–85 G4-16 About This Report, Advocacy and Memberships; page 127 No Governance, Information Security and Privacy Policies; page 122 Business Standards Report, Chapter 4, Memberships and Contributions; page 50 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES General Standard External Disclosures Page Assurance G4-17 2015 Annual Report, Financial Highlights; page 14 No G4-18 About This Report, Environmental, Social and Governance Materiality No Assessment; page 140 About This Report, Report Parameters; page 146 G4-19 About This Report, Environmental, Social and Governance Materiality No Assessment; page 140 G4-20 About This Report, Environmental, Social and Governance Materiality No Assessment; page 140 About This Report, Report Parameters; page 146 G4-21 About This Report, Environmental, Social and Governance Materiality No Assessment; page 140 About This Report, Report Parameters; page 146 G4-22 Direct answer: Re-statements are clearly marked in this report. No G4-23 Direct answer: Any significant changes are noted alongside data within No the report. 129 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT General Standard Disclosures Continued G4-32 | ​‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen; GRI Content Index; Reference to the STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT External Assurance Report General Standard External Disclosures Page Assurance G4-24 Governance, Stakeholder Engagement; page 122 No Business Standards Report, Chapter 4, Stakeholder Engagement; pages 50–51 G4-25 Governance, Stakeholder Engagement; page 122 No Business Standards Report, Chapter 4, Stakeholder Engagement; pages 50–51 G4-26 About This Report, Environmental, Social and Governance Materiality No Assessment; page 140 Governance, Stakeholder Engagement; page 122 Business Standards Report, Chapter 4, Stakeholder Engagement; pages 50–51 G4-27 About This Report, Environmental, Social and Governance Materiality No Assessment; page 140 Governance, Stakeholder Engagement; page 122 Business Standards Report, Chapter 3, Enhancements in Response to Stockholder Feedback; pages 11–12 Business Standards Report, Chapter 4, Stakeholder Engagement; pages 50–51 REPORT PROFILE General Standard External Disclosures Page Assurance G4-28 About This Report, Report Parameters; page 146 No G4-29 About This Report, Report Parameters; page 146 No G4-30 About This Report, Report Parameters; page 146 No G4-31 About This Report, Contact Us; page 146 No G4-32 About This Report, GRI Content Index; pages 128–139 No G4-33 About This Report, Assurance Statement; pages 141–145 No 130 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT General Standard Disclosures Continued G4-32 | ​‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen; GRI Content Index; Reference to the GOVERNANCE External Assurance Report General Standard External Disclosures Page Assurance G4-34 Governance, Board of Directors and Governance; page 119 No Business Standards Report, Chapter 3, Governance and Leadership; pages 7–12 G4-35 Governance, ESG Governance; page 119 No Governance, Risk Management; page 119 G4-36 Governance, ESG Governance; pages 119–120 No G4-37 Governance, Environmental and Social Risk Management; page 121 No G4-38 Business Standards Report, Chapter 3, Current Composition of the Board; No pages 10–11 2016 Proxy Statement, Director Independence; page 11 G4-39 Business Standards Report, Chapter 3, Board Leadership Structure; page 8 No G4-40 Direct answer: We assess board members’ capacity to guide overall No company strategy, including their ability to understand environmental and social impacts. Additional information is available in our 2016 Proxy Statement and on investor.bankofamerica.com in the Committee Composition section. G4-41 Direct answer: Bank of America’s Code of Conduct guides all staff and No management on conflicts of interest. G4-42 Governance, ESG Governance; pages 119–120 No Governance, Environmental and Social Risk Management; page 121 G4-43 Governance, ESG Governance; pages 119–120 No G4-44 Governance, Environmental and Social Risk Management; page 121 No G4-45 Governance, Environmental and Social Risk Management; page 121 No Environment, Environmental Governance and Policies, Environmental Risk Management/Due Diligence; page 84 Governance, Stakeholder Engagement; page 122 G4-46 Governance, Environmental and Social Risk Management; page 121 No G4-47 Governance, Risk Management; pages 120–121 No Governance, Environmental and Social Risk Management; page 121 G4-48 About This Report, Environmental, Social and Governance Materiality No Assessment; page 140 G4-49 Governance, ESG Governance; page 120 No Governance, Risk Management; pages 120–121 131 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT General Standard Disclosures Continued G4-32 | ​‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen; GRI Content Index; Reference to the External Assurance Report GOVERNANCE CONTINUED General Standard External Disclosures Page Assurance G4-51 Governance, Board of Directors and Governance, Executive Compensation, No page 120 2016 Proxy Statement, Compensation Governance and Risk Management; pages 19–21 G4-52 Governance, Board of Directors and Governance, Executive Compensation, No page 120 2016 Proxy Statement, Compensation Governance and Risk Management; pages 19–21 G4-53 Governance, Board of Directors and Governance, Executive Compensation, No page 120 2016 Proxy Statement, Compensation Governance and Risk Management; pages 19–21 Business Standards Report, Chapter 3, Ongoing Stockholder Engagement Program; page 11 G4-55 2016 Proxy Statement, 2015 Summary Compensation Table; page 44 No ETHICS AND INTEGRITY General Standard External Disclosures Page Assurance G4-56 Business Standards Report, Chapter 2, Our Values and Responsible Growth; No pages 2–5 Business Standards Report, Chapter 2, Case Study: Reinforcing Responsible Business Practices — ​Environmental, Social and Governance Committee; page 6 G4-57 Governance, Environmental and Social Risk Management; page 121 No Business Standards Report, Chapter 4, A Culture of Risk Management; page 43 G4-58 Governance, Environmental and Social Risk Management; page 121 No Business Standards Report, Chapter 4, A Culture of Risk Management; page 43 132 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Specific Standard Disclosures G4-32 | ​‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen; GRI Content Index; Reference to the ECONOMIC External Assurance Report Material External Aspects DMA and Indicators Omissions Assurance Economic G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No Performance and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-EC1: No G4-EC1: Social, Building Thriving Economies; G4-EC3: No pages 101–103 G4-EC4: No Social, Building Thriving Economies, Supporting Our Employees as Engaged Citizens; page 111 2015 Annual Report, Financial Highlights; pages 21–22 G4-EC3: Social, Delivering Through Our People, Supporting our Employees’ Wellness, Improving our Employees’ Financial Lives; page 96 2015 Annual Report, Note 17, Pension and Postretirement Plans, pages 213–214 G4-EC4: Direct answer: Bank of America did not benefit from any direct capital or liquidity assistance from the U.S. government in 2015. Market Presence G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-EC6: No G4-EC6: Business Standards Report, Chapter 4, Supporting Communities Around the Globe; pages 52–53 Social, Delivering Through Our People, Continuing To Grow and Develop Our Diverse Workforce; page 92 Social, Delivering Through Our People, Embracing the Diversity of Our People; page 89 Indirect Economic G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No Impacts and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-EC7: No G4-EC7: Social, Social Impact, Building Thriving G4-EC8: No Economies, Community Development Lending and Investing Chart; page 105 Social, Social Impact, Building Thriving Economies, Building Thriving Communities through Philanthropic Investments and Volunteerism; pages 107; 109–111 G4-EC8: Social, Social Impact, Building Thriving Economies, Building Thriving Communities through Philanthropic Investments and Volunteerism; pages 107; 109–111 Social, Social Impact, Building Thriving Economies, Impact Investing; pages 103–105 Social, Social Impact, Building Thriving Economies, Access to Mortgages; page 98 Procurement G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No Practices and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-EC9: No G4-EC9: Social, Social Impact, Building Thriving Economies, Supply Chain; pages 105–106 Business Standards Report, Chapter 4, Investing in Our Communities, Supplier Diversity; page 52 133 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Specific Standard Disclosures Continued G4-32 | ​‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen; GRI Content Index; Reference to the ENVIRONMENTAL External Assurance Report Material External Aspects DMA and Indicators Omissions Assurance Materials G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-EN1: G4-EN1: Environmental Sustainability, Our Yes; pages Operations, Paper; page 71 142–145 Environmental Sustainability, Our Operations, G4-EN2: Our 2015 Data, Non-Renewable Material Usage — ​ Yes; pages IT Equipment/Renewable Material Usage — ​Paper; 142–145 pages 78–79 G4-EN2: Environmental Sustainability, Our Operations, Paper; page 71 Environmental Sustainability, Our Operations, Our 2015 Data, Renewable Material Usage — ​Paper; page 79 Energy G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-EN4: The G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 information is G4-EN3: Yes; G4-EN3: Environmental Sustainability, Our currently unavailable. pages 142–145 Operations, Our 2015 Data, Direct and Indirect However, Bank of America does report G4-EN4: No Energy Consumption Data Tables; pages 77–78 GHG emissions G4-EN5: No G4-EN6: Environmental Sustainability, Our associated with Operations, Greenhouse Gas Emissions; G4-EN6: Yes; Scope 3 activities. pages 142–145 pages 68–69 G4-EN5: The G4-EN7: No Environmental Sustainability, Our Operations, Our Standard Disclosure 2015 Data, Reductions in Greenhouse Gas Emissions or part of the and Energy Consumption Data Table; page 77 Standard Disclosure G4-EN7: Environmental Sustainability, is not applicable. Transformational Finance; pages 62–66 Bank of America does not use intensity as a metric to track performance. Water G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-EN9: The G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 Standard Disclosure G4-EN8: Yes; G4-EN8: Environmental Sustainability, Our or part of the pages 142–145 Operations, Water; page 72 Standard Disclosure is not applicable. G4-EN9: No Environmental Sustainability, Our Operations, Our Bank of America G4-EN10: Yes; 2015 Data, Water; page 79 withdraws water pages 142–145 G4-EN10: Environmental Sustainability, Our from municipal Operations, Our 2015 Data, Water; page 79 sources, which are Environmental Sustainability, Our Operations, Water; not significantly page 72 affected by these withdrawals. 134 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Specific Standard Disclosures Continued G4-32 | ​‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen; GRI Content Index; Reference to the External Assurance Report ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED Material External Aspects DMA and Indicators Omissions Assurance Emissions G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-EN18: The G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 Standard Disclosure G4-EN15: Yes; G4-EN15: Environmental Sustainability, Our or part of the pages 142–145 Operations, Our 2015 Data, Greenhouse Gas Standard Disclosure is not applicable. G4-EN16: Yes; Emissions Data Table; pages 75–76 pages 142–145 Bank of America does Environmental Sustainability, Our Operations, not use intensity G4-EN17: Yes; Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Scope 1 and 2 as a metric to track pages 142–145 Emissions; pages 69–70 performance. G4-EN18: No G4-EN16: Environmental Sustainability, Our Operations, Our 2015 Data, Greenhouse Gas G4-EN19: Yes; Emissions Data Table; pages 75–76 pages 142–145 Environmental Sustainability, Our Operations, G4-EN20: Yes; Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Scope 1 and 2 pages 142–145 Emissions; pages 69–70 G4-EN21: Yes; G4-EN17: Environmental Sustainability, Our pages 142–145 Operations, Our 2015 Data, Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data Table; page 75 Environmental Sustainability, Our Operations, Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Scope 3 Emissions; page 70 G4-EN19: Environmental Sustainability, Our Operations, Our 2015 Data, Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data Table; pages 75–77 Environmental Sustainability, Our Operations, Greenhouse Gas Emissions; pages 68–70 G4-EN20: Environmental Sustainability, Our Operations, Our 2015 Data, NOx ,Sox and Other Significant Air Emissions from Direct Combustion; page 77 G4-EN21: Environmental Sustainability, Our Operations, Our 2015 Data, NOx ,Sox and Other Significant Air Emissions from Direct Combustion; page 77 Effluents and G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-EN22: The G4-DMA: No Waste and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 information is G4-EN22: No G4-EN23: Environmental Sustainability, Our currently unavailable. These data are not G4-EN23: Yes; Operations, Our 2015 Data, Waste; page 80 pages 142–145 available. Environmental Sustainability, Our Operations, Waste G4-EN24: Yes; Management and Recycling; pages 73–74 G4-EN25: The Standard Disclosure pages 142–145 G4-EN24: Environmental Sustainability, Our or part of the G4-EN25: No Operations, Our 2015 Data, Compliance; page 81 Standard Disclosure G4-EN26: No is not applicable. Bank of America does not export hazardous waste. G4-EN26: The information is currently unavailable. These data are not available. 135 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Specific Standard Disclosures Continued G4-32 | ​‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen; GRI Content Index; Reference to the External Assurance Report ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED Material External Aspects DMA and Indicators Omissions Assurance Products and G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-EN28: The G4-DMA: No Services and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 Standard Disclosure G4-EN27: Yes; G4-EN27: Environmental Sustainability, Our or part of the pages 142–145 Operations; pages 67–71 Standard Disclosure is not applicable. G4-EN28: No Bank of America does not manufacture products sold in packaging. Compliance G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-EN29: Yes; G4-EN29: Environmental Sustainability, Our pages 142–145 Operations, Our 2015 Data, Compliance; page 81 Transport G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-EN30: Yes; G4-EN30: Environmental Sustainability, Our pages 142–145 Operations, Our 2015 Data, Transportation; page 81 Overall G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-EN31: G4-EN31: Environmental Sustainability, Our Yes; pages Operations, Our 2015 Data, Environmental Spend; 142–145 page 81 Supplier G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-EN32: The G4-DMA: No Environmental and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 information is G4-EN32: No Assessment currently unavailable. These data are not G4-EN33: No available. G4-EN33: The information is currently unavailable. These data are not available. Environmental G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-EN34: The G4-DMA: No Grievance and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 information is G4-EN34: No Mechanisms currently unavailable. These data are not available. 136 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Specific Standard Disclosures Continued G4-32 | ​‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen; GRI Content Index; Reference to the SOCIAL: Labor Practices and Decent Work External Assurance Report Material External Aspects DMA and Indicators Omissions Assurance Employment G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-LA1: No G4-LA1: Social, Delivering Through Our People, G4-LA2: No Workforce Diversity; page 90 G4-LA3: No G4-LA2: Social, Delivering Through Our People, Helping Employees Grow and Thrive; pages 92–94 Social, Delivering Through Our People, Supporting our Employees’ Wellness; pages 94–96 G4-LA3: Business Standards Report, Chapter 4, Great Place to Work, Work-Life Benefits; page 46 Occupational G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No Health and Safety and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-LA5: No G4-LA5: Social, Delivering Through Our People, G4-LA7: No Helping employees Grow and Thrive, Meeting Expectations for Safety, Risk Management and Conduct; page 94 G4-LA7: Social, Delivering Through Our People, Supporting our Employees’ Wellness; pages 94–95 Training and G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No Education and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-LA9: No G4-LA9: Social, Helping Employees Grow and G4-LA10: No Thrive, Development Programs; page 94 G4-LA11: No G4-LA10: Social, Helping Employees Grow and Thrive; pages 92–95 Social, Embracing the Diversity of Our People, Continuing To Grow and Develop Our Diverse Workforce; page 92 Business Standards Report, Chapter 4, Great Place to Work; pages 41–43 G4-LA11: Social, Delivering Through Our People, Helping Employees Grow and Thrive, Rewarding Performance That Balances Risk and Reward; page 94 Business Standards Report, Chapter 4, Great Place to Work, Rewarding Performance That Balances Risk and Reward; pages 42–45 Diversity and G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No Equal Opportunity and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-LA12: No G4-LA12: Social, Delivering Through Our People, Embracing the Diversity of Our People; pages 89–92 137 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Specific Standard Disclosures Continued G4-32 | ​‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen; GRI Content Index; Reference to the SOCIAL: Human Rights External Assurance Report Material External Aspects DMA and Indicators Omissions Assurance Investment G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-HR2: No G4-HR2: Social, Delivering Through Our People, Helping Employees Grow and Thrive, Development Programs; page 94 Freedom of G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No Association and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-HR4: No and Collective G4-HR4: Direct answer: No U.S.-based employees Bargaining are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Security Practices G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-HR7: No G4-HR7: Social, Delivering Through Our People, Helping Employees Grow and Thrive, Meeting Expectations for Safety, Risk Management and Conduct; page 94 SOCIAL: Society Material External Aspects DMA and Indicators Omissions Assurance Local G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No Communities and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-SO1: No G4-SO1: Social, Social Impact, Simplifying Banking G4-SO2: No and Investing, Access to Mortgages; pages 98–100 G4-FS13: No Social, Social Impact, Building Thriving Economies; pages 101–104, 107, 109–112 G4-FS14: No G4-SO2: Social, Social Impact, Simplifying Banking and Investing, Access to Mortgages; pages 98–100 Social, Social Impact, Building Thriving Economies; pages 101–104, 107, 109–112 G4-FS13: Social, Social Impact, Advancing Better Money Habits; pages 112–115 G4-FS14: Social, Social Impact, Simplifying Banking and Investing; pages 97–99 Social, Social Impact, Building Thriving Economies, Growing Small Businesses/Lending and Investments in Lowand Moderate-Income Communities; pages 101–103 Anti-corruption G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-SO3: No G4-SO3: Direct answer: 100 percent of business G4-SO4: No units are analyzed for risks related to corruption. G4-SO4: Direct answer: 100 percent of Bank of America employees are trained in anticorruption policies as part of Bank of America’s Code of Ethics training. 138 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Specific Standard Disclosures Continued G4-32 | ​‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen; GRI Content Index; Reference to the External Assurance Report SOCIAL: Society Continued Material External Aspects DMA and Indicators Omissions Assurance Public Policy G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-SO6: No G4-SO6: Business Standards Report, Chapter 4, Delivering for Shareholders and Other Stakeholders, Lobbying and Political Activities; pages 49–50 Anti-competitive G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No Behavior and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-SO7: No G4-SO7: 2015 Annual Report, Litigation and Regulatory Matters; pages 198–203 Compliance G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-SO8: No G4-SO8: 2015 Annual Report, Litigation and Regulatory Matters; pages 198–203 SOCIAL: Product Responsibility Material External Aspects DMA and Indicators Omissions Assurance Product Portfolio G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA (FS): and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 No G4-FS6: 2015 Annual Report; pages 4, 7, 8, 22 G4-FS6: No and 30 G4-FS7: No G4-FS7: Social, Social Impact, Building Thriving G4-FS8: No Economies, Impact Investing; pages 103–106 Social, Social Impact, Simplifying Banking and Investing, Access to Mortgages; pages 98–99 G4-FS8: Environmental Sustainability, Transformational Finance; pages 62–66 Product and G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No Service Labeling and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-PR5: No G4-PR5: Social, Social Impact, Simplifying Banking and Investing, Customer Satisfaction; page 100 Customer Privacy G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-PR8: No G4-PR8: Governance, Information Security and Privacy Policies; pages 123–124 Compliance G4-DMA: About This Report, Environmental, Social G4-DMA: No and Governance Materiality Assessment; page 140 G4-PR9: No G4-PR9: 2015 Annual Report, Litigation and Regulatory Matters; pages 198–203 139 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Environmental, Social determine which ESG issues are most relevant to both external stakeholders and the company’s G4-2 | ​Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities and Governance core business strategy. Issues were weighted, prioritized and plotted on G4-18 | ​Process for defining the report Materiality Assessment the following ESG Materiality Assessment Map according to their relative degree of importance. content and the Aspect Boundaries The Materiality Map was then reviewed and G4-19 | ​Material In 2015 and 2016, we undertook a process approved by the company’s ESG Group and Aspects identified in to evaluate the environmental, social and Global ESG Committee. It is important to note the process for defining governance (ESG) issues that are most material report content that all issues on the Map — ​regardless of to our company. As part of this process we asked where they fall — ​are relevant to the company. G4-20 | ​A spect a third party, Business for Social Responsibility These issues were drawn from a broader set of Boundary within the (BSR), to conduct confidential interviews with organization potential areas, many of which were deemed 30 senior executives from across our lines not to be pertinent to the bank. For clarity, we G4-21 | ​A spect of business and control functions and 15 grouped issues as Governance, Environmental, Boundary outside the leaders from civil rights, consumer, community organization Society, or People (i.e., dividing Social issues into development and environmental organizations, external and internal categories). G4-26 | ​Organization’s and socially responsible investment firms. approach to stakeholder We used the results of our ESG Materiality engagement BSR used the company’s Responsible Growth Assessment to guide our disclosure in this report Strategy and Operating Principles as a and to ensure transparency with regard to ESG G4-27 | ​Key topics and concerns that have framework for the interviews and subsequent issues of greatest importance. been raised through analysis. The goal of the assessment was to stakeholder engagement G4-48 | ​Highest committee or ESG MATERIALITY MAP position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s MATERIAL ESG ISSUES FOR BANK OF AMERICA sustainability report and ensures that all material Important to Significant to Aspects are covered Importance to Stakeholders stakeholders: business and Sustain/ Stakeholders: communicate prioritize Increasing Importance to Stakeholders Relatively lower Important to priority to both: business: Monitor, comply, Continue manage internal efforts Importance to Business Success Other ESG areas and topics that may be relevant to other industries were not identified as material ESG issues for our company. Increasing Importance to Business Success 140 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT ESG MATERIALITY MAP Governance Social Environment People Data privacy and security Ethical Employee incentives behavior Transparency, accountability, and risk culture and reporting Consumer financial health Access to finance Community investment Increasing Importance to Stakeholders Wealth inequality Zero-tolerance conduct/ Systemic risk management Consumer grievance mechanisms financial Employee diversity protection Financing transition to low-carbon economy ESG integration in financial analysis Human rights Employee knowledge practices of ESG issues Retail branch strategy/presence Investor activism Equal pay and and proxy voting wage gap Operating within the legal and Lobbying and public regulatory environment policy engagement Natural resource Board diversity and management in operations independence and supply chain GHG/Non GHG emissions in internal operations and supply chain Employee practices and benefits Employee volunteerism Talent attraction and retention Workforce reductions Responsible sourcing Increasing Importance to Business Success External Assurance A world leader in testing, inspection and rights, society, product responsibility) against G4-33 | ​The organization’s policy certification services, Bureau Veritas North the principles of the GRI Reporting Framework and current practice America (BVNA) conducted an independent as defined in the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting with regard to seeking review to confirm the accuracy and reliability of Guidelines (see Bureau Veritas North America’s external assurance for environmental data and select labor information. statement). Senior leaders across the company the report In addition, Bureau Veritas evaluated other are involved in this assurance and review process. reported data (e.g., economic, social, human 141 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Assurance G4-33 | ​The organization’s policy and current practice statement with regard to seeking external assurance for the report BUREAU VERITAS NORTH AMERICA BUREAU VERITAS NORTH AMERICA BUREAU VERITAS INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE NORTH STATEMENT AMERICA INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Introduction and objectives of work Introduction and objectives of work Bureau Introduction Veritas North and objectives America, of workwas engaged by Bank of America Merrill Lynch to Inc. (BVNA) Bureau conduct Veritas North America, an independent assurance Inc.of (BVNA) the selected engaged by Bank wasenvironmental of America and social MerrillinLynch data reported its 2015 to conductBureau Veritas North independent anSocial America, assurance Inc.selected of the (BVNA) was engagedand Bank data by social of America Merrill Lynch to Corporate Responsibility Report (the Report).environmental This Assurance Statement reported applies in its to the 2015 related conduct an independent assurance of the selected environmental and social data reported in its 2015 informationSocial Corporate includedResponsibility within the scope Reportof(the work Report). describedThisbelow. Assurance Statement The intended applies users to the of the related assurance Corporate information Social included Responsibility within the scope Report of ofwork (the Report). described This below. Assurance Statement applies to the related statement are the stakeholders of Bank America Merrill Lynch.The Theintended overall aim users of the of this assurance process is to information statement are theincluded stakeholderswithinofthe scope Bank of of work described America Merrill below. Lynch. The The intended overall aim ofusers this of the assurance process is to provide assurance to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s stakeholders on the accuracy, reliability and providestatement assurance are totheBank stakeholders of included America of Bank Merrill Americastakeholders of Lynch’s Merrill Lynch.on The theoverall aim of accuracy, this process reliability and is to objectivity of select information in the Report. provide assurance to Bank of America objectivity of select information included in the Report. Merrill Lynch’s stakeholders on the accuracy, reliability and objectivity ofand This information select information included its presentation in the Reportin the Report. are the sole responsibility of the management of Bankinformation This of America and its Lynch. Merrill presentationBVNAin was the Report are the not involved in sole responsibility the collection of the the management of information or of the of Bank This America of of information Merrill and its presentation Lynch. BVNA wasinnot Report are theinvolved in the sole responsibility thecollection of the management of the information or of the of drafting the Report. Bank drafting of America of the Report. Merrill Lynch. BVNA was not involved in the collection of the information or of the drafting of the Report. Scope of work Scope of work Bank Scope of America of work Merrill Lynch requested BVNA to include in its independent review the following: Bank of America Merrill Lynch requested BVNA to include in its independent review the following:  BankReasonable Merrill Lynch of AmericaAssurance of therequested EnvironmentalBVNA to data and in include its independent information includedreview in thetheReport following: for  the calendar Assurance Reasonable of the Environmental year 2015 reporting data and information included in the Report for period, specifically: Reasonable  calendar the Assurance year 2015 reporting of the specifically:data and information included in the Report for Environmental period, o Materials (Total, the calendar and2015 year percentage recycled reportingofperiod, input materials) specifically: o Materials (Total, and percentage of recycled input materials) o Energyo Materials (Direct and(Total, and percentage Indirect Consumption; of recycled input materials) Energy saved due to conservation; Initiatives to o Energy provide (Direct and Indirect energy-efficient or Consumption; Energy saved renewable energy-based products; and InitiativesInitiatives due to conservation; to reduce to o Energy provide (Direct and or energy-efficient Indirect Consumption; Energy saved due to conservation; Initiatives to indirect energy consumption)renewable energy-based products; and Initiatives to reduce provide indirect energyenergy-efficient consumption) or renewable energy-based products; and Initiatives to reduce o Waterindirect energy consumption) (Total withdrawal and volume recycled) o Water (Total withdrawal and volume recycled) o Water(Greenhouse o Emissions (Total withdrawal and volumeDirect gas emissions: recycled) Scope 1 and Indirect Scope 2 emissions o Emissions Emissions ofgas by weight; (Greenhouse emissions: Direct ozone-depleting Scope 1 by substances IndirectInitiatives andweight; Scope 2 to emissions reduce byo weight; Emissions greenhouse (Greenhouse Emissions gas emissions gas emissions: Direct Scope of ozone-depleting and reductions substances achieved; and 1 and Indirect by Nitrous weight; Oxides Scope Initiatives 2 emissions to reduce (NOx), Sulfur by weight; greenhouse gas Emissions and emissions of ozone-depleting reductions substances achieved; and by weight; Nitrous Oxides Initiatives (NOx), to reduce Sulfur Oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions) Oxides greenhouse (SOx) and gas significantand otheremissions reductions achieved; and Nitrous Oxides (NOx), Sulfur air emissions) o WasteOxides (SOx) Quantities and and other significant air emissions) Disposition o Waste Quantities and Disposition o Total o Waste numberQuantities and volume andofDisposition significant spills o Total number and volume of significant spills o Totaland o Products number and volume Services of significant (Initiatives to mitigatespills environmental impacts of products and o Products services) and Services (Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and o Products and Services (Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services) o Compliance services) (Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with environmental o Compliance (Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with environmental laws & regulations) o & laws Compliance regulations)(Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with environmental o Transport laws (Significant & regulations) environmental impact of transporting products and other goods and o Transport materials (Significant used for the environmental organization’s impact of transporting operations, products andmembers and transporting other goods of and the o Transport materials used (Significant for the environmentaloperations, impact of transporting organization’s and products transporting and otherofgoods members the and workforce) materials workforce) used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the  Limited Assuranceworkforce)of Optional Scope 3 Emissions and select Social data and information  Limited includedAssurance in the Report of for Optional the calendarScopeyear 3 Emissions and select period,Social 2015 reporting data and information specifically:  Limited included Report forof in theAssurance calendar Scope the Optional year 20153 Emissions and select reporting period, Social data and information specifically: o Optional includedScopein the 3Report emissionsfor the weight; year 2015 reporting period, specifically: bycalendar o Optional Scope 3 emissions by weight; o Labor o Optional Practices Scope emissions and 3Decent Work weight;Workforce, Skills Management and Learning, by(Total o Labor BreakdownPractices and Decent of employees Work (Total by gender, Workforce, age group, minority Skills Management and Learning, group) o Labor of Breakdown Practices employees andbyDecentgender, Work (Total Workforce, age group, minority group) Skills Management and Learning, Breakdown of employees by gender, age group, minority group) 142 2015 ESG ADDENDUM April 2016 Page 1 April 2016 Page 1 INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Assurance G4-33 | ​The organization’s policy and current practice statement with regard to seeking external assurance for the report continued  Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to collect, analyze, and review the environmental information reported;  Evaluation of the reported data against the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Framework as defined in the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information relating to:  Text or other written statements associated with Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s 2015 CSR Report  Activities outside the defined assurance period Methodology BVNA undertook the following activities: 1. Interviews with relevant personnel of Bank of America Merrill Lynch (45 individuals including employees and external contractors at the corporate level); 2. Review of internal and external documentary evidence produced by Bank of America Merrill Lynch; 3. Audit of environmental performance data presented in the Report, including a detailed review of a sample of data; and 4. Review of Bank of America Merrill Lynch information systems for collection, aggregation, analysis and internal verification and review of environmental data. Our work was conducted against Bureau Veritas’ standard procedures and guidelines for external Verification of Sustainability Reports, based on International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 that was used as the reference assurance standard. Review of the data was planned and carried out to provide reasonable or limited assurance, as noted above. We believe that our assurance provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions. Our findings Based on the assurance process and procedures conducted, we conclude that:  The reviewed environmental data is materially correct and is a fair representation of the data and information; and  Bank of America Merrill Lynch has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of relevant environmental information, and has implemented underlying internal assurance practices that provide a reasonable degree of confidence that such information is complete and accurate.  Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the reviewed Scope 3 emissions and social data within the scope of our verification are not materially correct or otherwise not a fair representation of the actual Scope 3 emissions and social data for calendar year 2015.  The performance indicators included within the scope of work conform to the GRI G4 Guidelines. 143 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Assurance G4-33 | ​The organization’s policy and current practice statement with regard to seeking external assurance for the report continued Statement of independence, impartiality and competence BVNA is an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing independent assurance services, and an annual 2015 revenue of $4.6 billion Euros. No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with Bank of America Merrill Lynch, its Directors or Managers beyond that of verification and assurance of sustainability data and reporting. We have conducted this verification independently and we believe there to have been no conflict of interest. BVNA has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day business activities. The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an excellent understanding of BVNA standard methodology for the Assurance of Sustainability Reports. Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. San Ramon, California April 2016 144 2015 ESG ADDENDUM INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Assurance G4-33 | ​The organization’s policy and current practice statement with regard to seeking external assurance for the report continued VERIFIED DATA Energy Emissions Direct Consumption 1,218,706 GJ Scope 1 GHG Emissions 98,911 tCO2e Indirect Consumption 8,193,347 GJ Scope 2 GHG Location-Based Emissions 1,028,359 tCO2e Energy Saved Due to Conservation 165,881 GJ Scope 2 GHG Market-Based Emissions 1,036,822 tCO2e Scope 3 GHG Emissions Water Purchased Goods and Services 1,674,000 tCO2e Total Withdrawal 2.34 Billion gallons Capital Goods 86,000 tCO2e Volume Recycled 21,740 Thousand gallons Fueland Energy-Related Activities 216,000 tCO2e Upstream Transportation and Distribution 15,000 tCO2e Waste Quantities and Disposition Waste (Traditional Disposal) 16,500 tCO2e Non-Hazardous Waste (Landfill & Incineration) 40,000 Metric tons Business Travel 185,000 tCO2e Non-Hazardous Waste (Recycling & Compost) 68,000 Metric tons Employee Commuting 389,000 tCO2e IT Waste (Recycled & Remarketed) 2,500 Metric tons Downstream Transportation and Distribution 900,000 tCO2e Hazardous, Universal, Used Oil, and Asbestos Use of Sold Products 9,000 tCO2e 589 Metric tons Waste (Landfill & Incineration) End of Life Treatment of Sold Products 24,000 tCO2e Hazardous, Universal, Used Oil, and Asbestos Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances 17 Metric tons 497 Metric tons Waste (Recycling, Reuse & Salvage) NOx, SOx, and Other Significant Air Emissions from Direct Combustion Materials Nitrous Oxides (NOX) 25 Metric tons IT Equipment Sulfur Oxides (SOX) 1 Metric tons Desktops & Workstations 36,483 Units Procured Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) 4 Metric tons Laptops & Tablets 54,474 Units Procured Particulate Matter (PM) 3 Metric tons Printers & Multifunction Printing Devices 6,008 Units Procured Carbon Monoxide (CO) 38 Metric tons Servers 894 Units Procured Monitors 74,846 Units Procured Facilities Thin Clients 3,180 Units Procured LEED Certifications 18,990,678 Net square feet Paper Total Paper 47,925 Metric tons Total Number and Volume of Significant Spills Recycled Input Materials by weight 9% Number of Spills 0 qty Carpet Volume of Spills 0 Gallons Purchased 1,358 Metric tons Recycled Input Materials by weight 40% Compliance Environmentally Sustainable Cleaning Monetary value of significant fines for non$ 1,000 USD Square feet cleaned with qualifying products 50,169,159 compliance with environmental laws & regulations ` Compliance Management Spend $ 10,700,000 USD Products and Services Environmental, Assessment and Remediation Spend $ 5,300,000 USD Electronification of Paper Paper Avoided 14,577 Metric tons Waste Management Spend $ 100,000 USD CO2e Avoided 39,580 tCO2e Total Environmental Protection Spend $ 16,100,000 USD Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Transport Total Training Hours 9.5 Million Hours Annual Miles Employee Commuting 1,127,400,000 Training Hours related to Diversity & Inclusion 69 Thousand Hours Traveled Total Employees by Region North America 182,000 Total Employees by Gender APAC 23,000 Male 104,000 EMEA 10,000 Female 112,000 LATAM 1,000 Total 216,000 Total 216,000 Diversity American Native Black/ Two or Hispanic/ Indian/ Hawaiian/ Total by Job Category Gender White African Asian more Total Latino Alaska Other Pacific gender American races Native Islander Executive/Sr level officials and Male 2,507 89 94 229 6 4 13 2,942 4,352 mgrs Female 1,187 81 57 74 7 4 1,410 First/mid-level officials and mgrs Male 9,101 919 1,363 1,920 33 30 109 13,475 26,358 Female 8,491 1,493 1,563 1,134 39 28 135 12,883 Professionals Male 25,446 1,648 2,137 4,953 111 83 418 34,796 54,416 Female 12,838 1,963 1,490 3,009 64 50 206 19,620 All Other Male 13,684 4,580 7,348 3,169 96 138 770 29,785 96,349 Female 29,137 13,289 16,588 5,620 267 301 1,362 66,564 Totals Male 50,738 7,236 10,942 10,271 246 255 1,310 80,998 181,475 Female 51,653 16,826 19,698 9,837 377 379 1,707 100,477 145 2015 ESG ADDENDUM April 2016 Page 4 INTRODUCTION | HIGHLIGHTS | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | ABOUT THIS REPORT Contact Us G4-6 | ​Number of countries where the organization operates We appreciate your interest in Bank of America’s Dan Letendre | Managing Director, G4-18 | ​Process for defining the report ESG efforts and welcome your feedback on Community Development Financial Institutions content and the Aspect this report. We’d like to hear from you, so please dan.letendre@bankofamerica.com Boundaries send us an email. Alex Liftman | Global Environmental Executive G4-20 | ​A spect Anne Finucane | Vice Chairman alexandra.liftman@bankofamerica.com Boundary within the organization anne.m.finucane@bankofamerica.com Tish Secrest | CRA Program Executive tish.secrest@bankofamerica.com G4-21 | ​A spect Andrew Plepler | ESG Executive Boundary outside the andrew.plepler@bankofamerica.com Andrea Sullivan | International ESG Executive organization A-T Connell | ESG Communications Executive andrea.sullivan@baml.com G4-28 | ​Reporting ann-tyler.connell@bankofamerica.com Kerry Sullivan | President, Bank of America period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for Rena DeSisto | International ESG and Charitable Foundation information provided Global Arts and Culture Executive kerry.h.sullivan@bankofamerica.com G4-29 | ​Date of most rena.m.desisto@bankofamerica.com Connect with us on Twitter @BofA_News recent previous report (if any) G4-30 | ​Reporting Report Parameters functions was responsible for drafting this report, published in May 2016. It provides an account cycle (such as annual, biennial) of Bank of America’s ESG work and business impacts between Jan. 1 and Dec. 31, 2015. Our G4-31 | ​Contact In 2015 we’re providing information on Bank of point for questions America’s ESG activities in two main formats: last CSR Report covered 2014 and was published regarding the report or in June 2015. its contents • Business Standards Report and ESG Addendum: Responds directly to the Global The goal of this report is to present pertinent Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 sustainability information about the global business of reporting guidelines as well as to the Financial Bank of America and its major subsidiaries Services Sector Supplement, MSCI, and DJSI. including Merrill Lynch Global Wealth It provides extensive impact data, examples, Management, U.S. Trust, and Bank of America and an explanation of our approach to Merrill Lynch, in more than 40 countries and managing our most material ESG issues. across our six business divisions, as described in our 2015 Form 10-K. It also discusses important • Website: Additional information, environmental, social, and economic impacts in key news, and case studies related to ESG geographies. Our ESG Report should be reviewed at Bank of America can be found on our alongside the 2015 Bank of America annual website at about.bankofamerica.com/. financial report in which we provide additional Our website also hosts quarterly and annual facts, figures, and analysis. WSP Environment & financial reports, SEC filings, and executive Energy USA was responsible for the collection of presentations, as well as environmental environmental performance indicators including sustainability reports and other relevant greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption, news, reporting, and analysis. waste generation, and water usage. Wherever We provide additional ESG information through possible, data was collected in conformance our annual submissions to the Carbon Disclosure with GRI principles. Non-environmental data was Project, our 2015 Annual Report, our 2015 collected by teams embedded across our business proxy filing and our online newsroom. Also, as lines and functions, including Human Resources, an Equator Principles Financial Institution, we The Bank of America Charitable Foundation and consider the social and environmental impacts Procurement. The completeness and accuracy of of the development projects we finance and this data was thoroughly checked in accordance report annually on our work. A team from across with Bank of America’s internal line of business, Bank of America’s business lines and corporate legal, and compliance review process. 146 2015 ESG ADDENDUM Investment products: Are Not FDIC Insured Are Not Bank Guaranteed May Lose Value Global Wealth & Investment Management is a division of Bank of America Corporation (“BofA Corp.”). Merrill Lynch, Merrill Edge™, and U.S. Trust, are affiliated sub-­divisions within Global Wealth & Investment Management. Merrill Lynch and The Private Banking and Investment Group, make available products and services offered by Design by Addison www.addison.com AR7WQWVR Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (“MLPF&S”) and other subsidiaries of BofA Corp. Merrill Edge is available through MLPF&S, and consists of the Merrill Edge Advisory Center (investment guidance) and self-­directed online investing. U.S. Trust, Bank of America Private Wealth Management operates through Bank of America, N.A., and other subsidiaries of BofA Corp. Banking products are provided by Bank of America, N.A., and affiliated banks, Members FDIC and wholly owned subsidiaries of BofA Corp. Please recycle. The annual report is printed on 30% post-consumer waste (PCW) recycled paper. © 2016 Bank of America Corporation. All rights reserved.
