Sustaina ble ∤ Soc ially resp onsible ∤ Innovativ e Responsibility Report 2016 PensionDanmark A/S CVR no. 16163279 04 06 08 10 2016 administration fee Accumulated return of of DKK 297 per member Member communication more than 80% since 252,000 member at eye level 2008 treatments in 2016 Our members are our main concern PensionDanmark has assets in excess of DKK 200 But our ambition does not stop here. We are commitbillion under management. These assets belong to ted to finding new and innovative solutions to imporour members. We invest across the globe, and it is tant societal problems – be they new ways of funding our responsibility to invest and manage these assets climate-friendly investments, preventive healthcare responsibly. plans or pioneering the use of digital customer service solutions. As a labour market pension fund, it is our job to supplement public pension, healthcare and funds for life We are at the cutting edge when it comes to intelong learning. Our objective is to secure solid pengrating sustainability in our investments. It therefore sions for our members and, through our health, precomes naturally to us to support and work actively to vention and continuing education efforts, to ­enable achieve the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. them to remain active members of the workforce for longer. We contribute to retaining our members in These goals reassure us that the way we invest is the labour market and help them return if they fall consistent with the direction in which the world ill along the way. With the retirement age gradually needs to develop. Further to this, we also remain a increasing, these measures will become increasingly committed member of the UN Global Compact. important in the years ahead. 2 Responsibility Report 2016 14 18 20 22 Value-adding dialogue Automatic payment of Green power with 272 companies 173,675 sqm of insurance benefits in for all members sustainable property difficult life situations Our business revolves around securing attractive and carefully planned pension and security schemes for our members and their families. Our members are our main concern. Torben Möger Pedersen CEO, PensionDanmark 3 The members’ funds It is PensionDanmark’s responsibility Low administration fees to manage and develop the pension Each member of PensionDanmark paid an adminisschemes provided for by collective tration fee of DKK 297 in 2016, 25% less than in 2013 agreements so they generate the and one of the lowest administration fees among Danish pensions providers. In the years ahead, we maximum value for our partners: our expect to keep costs low and member services high. members, the companies they work Low costs and good member services are possible for and the unions and employers if we seize the potential offered by digitalisation of organisations. processes and products. A typical member will pay at least 12% of his or her Besides pension, insurance and healthcare schemes, monthly wage or salary to PensionDanmark. It is PensionDanmark manages a number of educational essential that our members feel confident that their funds that offer supplementary training and skills money is not spent on costly administration and that upgrading to our members throughout their working they and their families will always get what they are lives. entitled to in the event of an accident or disease. Contributions mainly go to retirement savings Ninety per cent of contributions go to members’ retirement savings schemes, while the rest goes to insurance cover, the healthcare programme and administration. Administration takes up 1% of ­contributions. 4 Responsibility Report 2016 PensionDanmark’s retirement pension disbursements exceeded DKK 2 billion in 2016. Healthcare 1 % Critical illness 2 % Death benefits 2 % Administration 1 % Disability pension and flex job 5 % Giving our members what they are entitled to Pension payable in installments Through integration of public registers, we make Life long pension sure that our members or their surviving relatives always receive what their insurance entitles them to. Integration of registers also allows us to offer assistance to long-term sick members and members in flex jobs. Savings 90 % Responsibility Report 2016 5 Investing our members’ money PensionDanmark’s core business When the first PensionDanmark members retired in since we were established in 1992 is 1993, they received an almost symbolical lump sum to provide our members with attracbecause they had only paid 0.9% of their wages or salaries since the beginning of the year. Today, when tive and stable pensions. Accordingly, a member retires after being a member of Pensionwe continuously strive to achieve solid Danmark since the beginning, he or she can expect returns on our investments without to receive an annual retirement pension of more than assuming excessive risks. DKK 60,000 because their regular payments have increased, and because PensionDanmark has earned PensionDanmark’s members own assets of DKK a return on their savings, growing the assets of each 200 billion. This amount is bound to grow over the individual member. coming years, as member contributions will continue to exceed retiree disbursements. In 2016, PensionDanmark earned a return of more than 7%. Since 2008, we have earned accumulated returns of more than 80%. While we strive to achieve Real estate and infrastructure the highest possible return, we do not wish to put PensionDanmark has built a portfolio of assets our members’ savings at risk. Accordingly, we adjust characterised by stable earnings significantly each member’s investment portfolio throughout his higher than bond returns and by low risk. This or her life so as to minimise the risk of a major loss portfolio includes real estate and infrastructure right before the member retires. assets such as wind farms and biomass-fired Aligning investment risk with retirement power plants. Such assets make up a fifth of inage vestments until a member reaches the age of 75, after which the share is gradually reduced. While a member’s retirement is still many years off, PensionDanmark will invest his or her savings in 6 Responsibility Report 2016 In 2016, PensionDanmark earned assets with a higher risk in order to obtain a higher return. Accordingly, a larger share of young mema return of more than 7%. Since bers’ savings is invested in equities and high-yield 2008, we have earned accumulatbonds, which typically pay a high return over time, ed returns of more than 80%. but also involve a higher risk. As members approach their retirement age, the risk is reduced. Around the time when members reach the age of 40, the share of their savings invested in equities is gradually reduced and replaced by lower­ risk bonds and loans. % Asset composition 100 Government and Mortgage Bonds 80 60 Equities Senio r Ban k Deb 40 t Credit 20 Real Estate and Infrastructure 0 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 Age PensionDanmark invests member savings in age pools, continuously aligning the composition of assets and the risk profile with the age and investment horizon of each individual member. Responsibility Report 2016 7 Digital solutions add value It is important that our members are messages, e-Boks, pension.dk and by phone) on a aware of the possibilities in their penregular and automated basis using the member data sion schemes, including the scope for available to us – including age, address, occupation, occupational history, insurance schemes and use of adjusting their insurances. We conour healthcare programme. tact our members when they need to review their insurance. Satisfaction surveys show that our members react positively when we reach out to them through several Not all of our members know the details of their pencommunication channels. The more channels our sion schemes, and we therefore offer personalised members can access us through, the more pleased advice when they need to adjust their insurances. We they are. communicate through various channels (e-mail, text 8 Responsibility Report 2016 “I received an e-mail from an sible and available on their preferred communication adviser informing me of the adchannels. Our members can obtain information vantages of having all my pension through pension.dk, phone, chat, webcam advisory interviews and Facebook. schemes with a single provider. I logged on to pension.dk through We want information to be easily accessible to our the link in the e-mail and moved members. Accordingly, we upgraded our pension.dk all my pensions to PensionDanwebsite in 2016 to make it easier to use and more mark. It was so easy, and by comvisual through the use of animations and videos. bining my pensions I get a better overview and avoid having to pay Our new website can be fully accessed through PC, smartphone and tablet. 60% of our members use a administration fees to several smartphone or tablet to access pension.dk. providers.” Stefan Meller, electrician In addition, our customer advisers visit companies and unions to inform our members of the options available to them under their pension schemes. Available and accessible through multiple channels It is important to us that members with questions about their pension schemes feel that we are accesResponsibility Report 2016 9 Prevention is a long-term investment By prioritising health and prevention, cess to free preventive treatment in one of 125 local we contribute to improving our memhealthcare clinics operated by physiotherapists, bers’ quality of life and enable them chiropractors, masseurs and reflexologists. As a doctor’s referral is not required, access to prevento stay in the labour market longer. tive treatment is simple and fast. A total of 252,000 This enables companies to retain treatments were performed in 2016. A fast diagnosis skilled employees and helps reduce programme is also available to our members. Helpexpenses for sickness and anticipaing sick members diagnose their condition, the fast tory pension benefits. diagnosis programme ensures that our members start the right treatment quickly and without unnecPensionDanmark took the first steps to establishing essary delay. a preventive health plan for our members in 2005. Today, almost all sectors covered by collective agreeThe programme also encompasses health advice by ments have agreed to make this health plan part of phone, offering psychological counselling, substance members’ pension schemes with PensionDanmark. abuse counselling, etc. Targeted at members 13,000 members have completed PensionThe health plan is targeted at our members, be they Danmark’s health test skilled or unskilled and many of whom perform Towards the end of 2015, PensionDanmark introphysically demanding work. The plan contributes to duced a health test that members can take on our preventing attrition and ensures that minor sympwebsite or using our app. Among other things, the toms do not develop into long-term sickness, chronic test calculates the test subject’s body age and, disease and, at worst, anticipatory retirement. depending on the test results, advises members to make use of one of more of the offers available to Through the health plan, our members have acthem under their health plan. 10 Responsibility Report 2016 “According to the test, I showed signs of stress. I had a good talk with a nurse, who referred me to a psychologist. I had five phone sessions with a very competent psychologist, who helped me sort out my mind and talked me New collaboration between through my divorce. It was very Pension­Danmark and “Bam-bus” helpful.” In the spring of 2016, PensionDanmark and the Construction Sector Safety and Health PrevenJesper Krogh, dairyman tive Service Bus (Bam-bus) – a mobile consultancy service promoting the development of safe and healthy working conditions for construction sites, construction companies and their employees – worked together to put prevention of physical and psychological problems in the construcOne year after its introduction, almost 13,000 memtion sector on the agenda. Bam-bus visited more bers have taken PensionDanmark’s health test, than 1,500 construction sites and construction and many of them have subsequently received help companies in 2016. During the autumn, the sothrough their health plan. One of them is dairyman called Tool Truck visited 30 vocational schools, Jesper Krogh, who took the health test after going teaching 5,100 students and 420 instructors at through divorce. Based on his test results, he was construction training facilities across the country advised to contact PensionDanmark’s health team, how to prevent attrition. which is operated by nurses and social workers. Responsibility Report 2016 11 Steen got help from the health team he got into contact with NeuroFys.dk, who specialise Steen Sandholm is 30 years old and a trained carin rehabilitation of cerebral blood clot patients. penter. When he suffered a cerebral blood clot, he received DKK 100,000 through his critical illness “However, it would have been very expensive if I had insurance. Steen also got a care call from Pensionto pay it out of my own pocket. So I checked out my Danmark’s health team. Not in need of help at that options with PensionDanmark’s health team. I spoke time, Steen went back to work. with a very understanding nurse, who arranged a four-month programme for me at NeuroFys.dk. And However, after two weeks he had to report sick due she checked up on me on a regular basis,” says to severe nerve pain in his arm. But Steen is not the Steen Sandholm, who has now recovered and is back type of man to just give up. He insisted on rehabilitatin his job as a carpenter. ing and getting on with his life, and through a relative Members saved DKK 1.6 million Members falling ill may, at worst, end up on disabi­ Steen Sandholm back in his job as a carpenter lity pension. This entails both personal and financial consequences for the member concerned, and is a costly affair for society and PensionDanmark. The payoffs are obviously greater for all parties involved when we help younger members to remain at their jobs and avoid anticipatory pension. Had Steen Sandholm ended up on anticipatory pension, he would have had 34 years on anticipatory pension with supplementary anticipatory pension benefits (DKK 72,000 a year) from PensionDanmark ahead of 12 Responsibility Report 2016 Muscoskeletal disorders are the In 2016, 1,400 members with long-term illnesses contacted PensionDanmark’s health team. 1,100 were most frequent cause of anticipareferred to one of the offers under the healthcare tory retirement among Pension­ programme, and the rest were referred to their own Danmark’s members. doctor or received advice from the health team. And our efforts have paid off: 70% have returned to work. him. In order to cover that amount, PensionDanmark would have had to take DKK 1.6 million from our members’ insurance premiums. Instead, this money now goes to pension benefits for the benefit of all our members. Data integration helps members with long-term illnesses Since October 2014, PensionDanmark has worked with the Danish Agency for Labour Market and RePensionDanmark’s health team cruitment (STAR) to integrate sickness absence data. PensionDanmark’s health team consists of nur­ ses, social workers and pension advisers. The As a result of this collaboration, members on medteam is focused on assisting members who are ical leave who have been absent for more than or risk becoming absent due to illness, providing four weeks will receive a letter from STAR advising advice and recommending other offers (interdisthem to contact PensionDanmark’s health team for ciplinary treatment, fast diagnosis, psychological information about their health plan options and help therapy, specialist treatment, scans, etc.). getting back to work. Responsibility Report 2016 13 Providing financial security when an accident or illness strikes Pension schemes contain a number of DKK 100,000, and our savings balance protection of important insurances that become system keeps up retirement savings payments so operative on death, certain critical that the old age living standards of members on anticipatory retirement are not impaired. illnesses and the granting of disability pension and flex jobs, providing a Thanks to the cooperation with STAR, flex job memrobust safety net for our members bers are also notified that they are covered by savings and their families. Through integrabalance protection and that their retirement savings tion with public registers, we make will consequently not suffer although members sure that everybody gets what they switching to flex job employment typically work and pay less than before. are entitled to. As a result of coordination with the Danish National When a member dies, his or her surviving relatives Hospital Discharge Register, members suffering critare entitled to death benefit. Thanks to coordination ical illness who have not already contacted Pensionwith the Civil Register, the relatives are automatically Danmark themselves are automatically notified that notified of their rights. they are entitled to a lump sum of DKK 100,000. A member who is granted public disability pension is PensionDanmark pays the first year’s membership automatically notified of his or her rights, i.e. monthfee to the relevant patients association for critically ill ly supplementary anticipatory pension benefits of members to ensure that they receive advice specifibetween DKK 3,000 and DKK 6,000 before tax on top cally designed to help them return to a normal family of his or her public anticipatory pension benefit. In and work life. In 2016, 2,200 members were granted addition, the member receives a tax-free lump sum one year’s paid membership of either the Danish 14 Responsibility Report 2016 “I was fortunate enough to receive Cancer Society, the Danish Heart Foundation, Danish an e-mail from PensionDanmark in Stroke Association, Parkinsonforeningen (Parkinmy e-boks informing me that, being son’s disease association) or the Danish Multiple Sclerosis Society. in a flex job, I was covered by pension savings balance protection.” Taking care of our sick members Jesper Jensen, service coordinator Each year, a number of our members suffer longterm illness and are absent from work for more than four weeks. They receive a letter from STAR advising Aided by savings balance protection them to contact PensionDanmark’s nurse team. The Jesper Jensen, a service coordinator with JS Venpurpose of our healthcare programme is to help our tilation A/S, has been awarded a flex job due to a members stay fit for work as long as possible. bad back. Working fewer hours, he now pays less into his retirement savings account. “I was fortunate enough to receive an e-mail from PensionDanmark in my e-boks informing me that, being in a flex job, I was covered by pension savings balance protection. That means I get compensated in my pension contributions for the fewer hours I work,” says Jesper Jensen, and he adds: “This means that I’m not worse off than when I was working normal hours and that, when I retire, my savings will be bigger than they might have been.” Responsibility Report 2016 15 Supporting the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals Committed to managing member For us as investors, some of the goals are a natural savings in a responsible manner, we extension of our commitment to investing member follow developments in relation to new savings in a responsible manner, and that is where we can make a difference. international responsibility and sustainability agreements and standards. Taking part in the dialogue In 2016, PensionDanmark participatOur responsible investment guidelines build on a ed in several events revolving number of broadly recognised international convenaround the Sustainable tions and norms that set the framework for our work Development Goals. Recwith responsibility and sustainability in the investognising our efforts and ment portfolio. One of the major themes for investors in 2016 and the years ahead is the implementation of the UN’s UN Sustainable 17 Sustainable Development Goals. At PensionDanDevelopment Goals mark, we support these goals because we consider In September 2015, the UN adopted a set of them to be an important step towards a more affluSustainable Development Goals to replace its ent and sustainable world. 2015 goals. The 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals and 169 sub-goals address some of the The UN Sustainable Development Goals provide inworld’s major sustainability issues, setting out to teresting investment opportunities that will contribend extreme poverty and hunger, reduce inequalute to generating attractive returns for our members ity and combat climate change by 2030. and to the world reaching the goals by 2030. 16 Responsibility Report 2016 expertise in this area, the OECD invited Pension­ Examples of how PensionDanmark manages its Danmark CEO Torben Möger Pedersen to join the responsibility as an investor in practice, and how this advisory body for the new OECD Centre on Green contributes to generating solid returns for our memFinance and Investment. bers, are given on the next pages. PensionDanmark offers its memWhen acting as an owner, Pensionbers a healthcare programme Danmark requires that buildings focused on, among other things, are certified to be sustainable. That prevention of muscoskeletal dis­ reduces its environmental and cliorders. mate footprint. More than 10% of PensionDanPensionDanmark is an investor mark’s portfolio is invested in susin the Danish Climate Investtainable energy such as wind farms ment Fund, which works to supply and biomass-fired power plants. modern, sustainable technology to developing countries. Part of PensionDanmark’s portfolio PensionDanmark contributes is invested in infrastructure supexpertise and experience in climate porting the green transition. change finance and engages in sustainability dialogue with multiple enterprises. Responsibility Report 2016 17 Sustainable buildings contribute to a sustainable bottom line PensionDanmark owns a DKK 16 Certified buildings are rated on a number of paramebillion portfolio of properties located ters, including energy use, materials and the impact across Denmark. In 2016, we contracton the local environment in the form of rainwater clearance etc., but also on the social and functional ed to construct five new sustainable quality of the building benefiting especially its daily buildings that will not only earn a solid users. return for our members over the coming years, but also create jobs for our For PensionDanmark as an investor, sustainable members in the construction sector. buildings pay off in a number of ways. Already in the construction phase, the sustainability objective UN sustainable development goal no. 11 concerns helps define the framework of the project, reducing sustainable buildings and cities, and its sub-goals the risk of errors and delays, and when the building address pollution, carbon emissions and waste from is finished, it is more attractive to potential tenants buildings. This goes hand in hand with PensionDlooking for modern facilities for their employees and anmark’s real estate strategy, according to which all buildings that match their own sustainability profile. new residential and non-residential properties must be sustainable. Sustainability reduces investment risk A property built today will typically stand for more Investing safely in certified buildings than 50 years, which means that the choices made This means that all new commercial properties must today will also have a major impact on future users be certified to the highest score possible by recogof the building. Integrating future developments into nised certification programmes such as DGNB, LEED the construction, ensuring, e.g, that the building or BREEAM. can be converted from office use to other purposes, 18 Responsibility Report 2016 In 2016, PensionDanmark’s domicile in Langelinie Allé was awarded the gold certificate by Green Building Council Denmark in connection with its new DGNB certification of existing buildings. Certification In 2016, PensionDanmark was awarded the DNGB gold certificate for contracting firm reduces the risk of the building standing idle if its MT Højgaard’s new domicile in Søborg, which current tenants vacate it. PensionDanmark has built and owns. This took the number of certified buildings in Pension­ For a long-term investor like PensionDanmark, this Danmark’s property portfolio to nine, all of which helps increase the long-term value of our property have scored top points. portfolio, and at the same time the sustainability strategy serves a risk management purpose in relaPensionDanmark has four residential property tion to our real estate portfolio. projects under construction or being planned in the Copenhagen area – Havnebryggen on Islands We require that all builders working at PensionDanBrygge, Kronløbsøen in Nordhavn and two housmark’s construction sites are covered by a Danish ing projects in Virum and Ørestad Syd – which collective agreement, and we uphold particularly will all be granted the highest DGNB ratings and strict requirements regarding occupational health be among the first residential properties to be and safety. certified in Denmark. Responsibility Report 2016 19 Investing in energy and infrastructure with a positive climate impact PensionDanmark has been a leadstrategy and our target of investing 10% of our assets er in renewable energy financing for in infrastructure such as wind farms, biomass-fired several years, generating solid and power plants and transmission plants. stable returns for our members and Supplying our members with CO2-neutral contributing to climate control. power One result of this strategy is the building of bioThe December 2015 Paris Agreement was a histormass-fired power plants in the UK, where Danish ical step towards a more sustainable future. This companies supply the technology, while Pension­ is consistent with PensionDanmark’s investment Danmark and other investors supply the financing. In 20 Responsibility Report 2016 PensionDanmark’s investments plants with green power capacity in excess of 2,500 MW − more than all the power consumed annually in wind, biomass and solar by PensionDanmark’s members and their families plants represent capacity excombined. ceeding the annual power consumption of PensionDanmark’s members and their families. Climate investments in developing countries 2016, Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners, in which Increasing investments in developing countries, PensionDanmark is an investor, undertook to build where the investment climate is less mature the fourth biomass-fired power plant in the UK. than in developed countries, is a challenge in relation to the Sustainable Development Goals. This financing model demonstrates how a strong PensionDanmark is an investor in the Danish collaboration between Danish investors and Danish Climate Investment Fund (KIF) and the Danish technology suppliers can open up the world to DanAgribusiness Fund (DAF), both public-private ish climate technology while at the same time giving partnerships investing in projects in developing PensionDanmark’s members an attractive return on countries. their savings. Both funds employ blended finance, meaning PensionDanmark has invested in and committed to that public funds help attract private funds to invest in renewable energy and transmission assets projects that under normal circumstances would worth DKK 23 billion and consequently has investbe too risky for private investors. ments in renewable wind, solar and biomass energy Responsibility Report 2016 21 Active ownership creates value for all parties At year-end 2016, PensionDanmark The objective of active ownership is to implement had investments in 1,400 listed compositive change in our portfolio enterprises that will panies. Although we are a minority benefit us as shareholders as well as the enterprise and its local community. shareholder, co-ownership of a business entails responsibilities. That is The Committee on Corporate Governance issued why PensionDanmark has laid down Denmark’s first stewardship code in 2016. Pension­ guidelines for responsible investment Danmark supports this work and we will report on and active ownership. our progress in relation to these recommendations going forward. 22 Responsibility Report 2016 Dialogue focused on value creation Long-term active ownership pays off Active ownership has been an integral part of PenOur website, pensiondanmark.com, provides exsionDanmark’s work for almost ten years. Hermes amples of dialogues with portfolio companies, and EOS, our external partner, engages in dialogue with additional information about the work performed companies across the world on behalf of PensionDby Hermes EOS on behalf of PensionDanmark and anmark and a number of other investors. other investors may be found on Hermes EOS’s website. PensionDanmark’s guidelines for responsible Hermes focuses its efforts on the enterprises offerinvestment are based on a number of international ing the greatest potential for exerting positive influconventions and norms, including the UN’s Universal ence and on enterprises in which its clients have the Declaration of Human Rights, ILO conventions, Globlargest positions in aggregate and thus the greatest al Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational exposure and influence. PensionDanmark collaboEnterprises, etc. rates with an external partner because working with like-minded investors provides the best opportunities In 2016, PensionDanmark was engaged in dialogue for driving positive change. with 272 enterprises on 787 subjects and voted at Case: Bayer Hermes EOS has engaged in regular dialogue on a number of issues with German-based chemicals and pharmaceuticals conglomerate Bayer since 2008. The dialogue began when Bayer was linked to child labour in cotton seed fields in India by a Dutch NGO. Bayer’s efforts against child labour are now often cited as a best practice example. In addition, Hermes EOS has worked to strengthen Bayer’s interaction with other stakeholders affected by Bayer’s operations. Responsibility Report 2016 23 1,583 annual general meetings, voting for 89% and we look into the matter and, if a breach is verified, against 11% of board recommendations. ask Hermes to engage in dialogue with the enterIf made aware of a possible breach of our guidelines, prise. If establishing a dialogue with the company Hermes pursues a number of Case: McKesson Environment general priorities that provide › Climate the framework for its active McKesson is a US health services company supownership efforts › Water plying a range of services to US hospitals, phy› Forestry and agriculture sicians and health plans. Although the company appeared to be well-run, it became the subject Social of scrutiny a few years ago due to its corporate › Human rights governance practices – including the remunera› Labour rights tion of its CEO and the composition of its board. › Diversity › Supply chain management Hermes opened a constructive dialogue with › Bribery and corruption management and, assisted by other investors, › Tax eventually made McKesson implement a range of changes in relation to executive pay and Active ownership and corporate strengthen the board structure by adding new, governance independent members. › Board composition › Remuneration › Shareholder rights To us, this is strong evidence of the value to be › Audit gained from a constructive investor dialogue. › Integrated reporting 24 Responsibility Report 2016 Dialogue with enterprises is impossible and/or dialogue does not produce the – by subjects (787 subjects in total) intended progress, this may ultimately lead to a divestment of our investment and exclusion of the Environmental company from our investment universe. Strategy and Risk 15 % 18 % In 2016, we barred South Korean E-Mart for breachHuman and ing basic labour rights as prescribed by ILO convenlabour rigths etc. 25 % tions. A total of 22 companies had been barred at Governance end-2016. 41 % PensionDanmark’s equity portfolio is disclosed at pensiondanmark.com. Votes against board recommendations – by subjects (2,008 issues in total) Miscellaneous 19 % Board structure Shareholder 39 % resolution 10 % Capital structure 13 % Remuneration 19 % Responsibility Report 2016 25 Our own affairs PensionDanmark’s CSR policy reguGender composition lates a number of internal matters, PensionDanmark’s Board of Directors has adopted including environmental and climate a policy on the gender composition of the compamatters, suppliers and tax. ny's executive management. This policy lays down a target for the presence of the under-represented gender in the Board of Directors reflecting the actual Environment and climate composition. Four of the 16 incumbent members of With a view to limiting our impact on the environPensionDanmark’s Board of Directors are women. ment, we have mounted solar cells on the roof of our domicile property in Langelinie Allé, and the cooling The share of women in top management fell from system uses seawater. In 2016, PensionDanmark ob29% in 2015 to 25% in 2016 because we expanded tained the gold certificate under the DGNB sustainaour management team in 2016. PensionDanmark bility certification system for existing buildings. is pleased to note that the proportion of women in mid-level management increased from 25% in 2015 PensionDanmark owns half of Nysted Havmøllepark, to 42% in 2016. Our 2016 target was 20%. an offshore windfarm. We keep part of the RECS certificates produced by the windfarm for purposes When recruiting new managers, PensionDanmark’s of CO2-neutralising our power consumption. management makes a point of interviewing qualified candidates of either gender, and our staff policy and According to PensionDanmark’s staff policy, our terms of employment offer equal career opportunities employees must endeavour to limit or avoid environin the company regardless of gender. Attracting the mentally unsustainable behaviour. best qualified applicants remains our first priority. 26 Responsibility Report 2016 Working with suppliers According to our supplier policy, our suppliers must: Whistleblower PensionDanmark operates a whistleblower › respect the right of employees to unionise and to scheme allowing employees who feel they are collective bargaining; not being heard by their superiors to report un› promote health and safety at work and prevent acceptable conditions. No reports were made to work-related accidents, attrition, etc.; the whistleblower scheme in 2016. › discourage discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity, religion, age, disability, gender, sexual orientation, trade union membership or political conviction; › pay their employees wages and salaries that are in accordance with relevant collective agreements and ensure fair living standards relative to national standards; › dissociate themselves from forced labour and child labour; › work persistently and systematically to comply with national environmental legislation and limit their impact on the environment; and › discourage and work actively against tax evasion, bribery and other kinds of corruption. Responsibility Report 2016 27 If we find that a supplier fails to live up to our policy In accordance with our tax policy, we: and guidelines, we will initiate a dialogue with that supplier. If this dialogue does not lead to any im› design our tax structure so that it complies with provements, we will stop working with the supplier. national legislation in the countries in which we No breaches of PensionDanmark’s supplier policy invest; were registered in 2016. › plan our taxes so that, overall, we do not pay more than we have to, and Tax › act quickly and carefully to minimise tax risks. In 2016, PensionDanmark paid DKK 2.1 billion in direct and indirect taxes to the Danish government on behalf of our members. 28 Responsibility Report 2016 Networks and memberships PensionDanmark is a member of a PensionDanmark is committed to participating number of organisations and netactively in the public debate – in particular in areas works. This enables us to share our affecting us and our members. By doing so, we can influence our community, set new standards and knowledge and thus to influence the bring new insights to our organisation. framework conditions under which PensionDanmark invests in Denmark PensionDanmark supports the UN’s Global Compact, and globally, and to bring new insights the leading global corporate sustainability initiato our organisation. tive. The ten Global Compact principles have been a driving force in our screening and active ownership PensionDanmark’s networks and efforts for several years and, as a natural consememberships include: quence, we now report on our progress in relation to the ten principles. › UN Global Compact › World Economic Forum In addition to Global Compact, we participate in a › Green Building Council Denmark number of initiatives setting out to improve frame› Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change work conditions for renewable energy investments › Dansif and raise awareness of the sustainability of various asset classes, including real estate and infra­ › GRESB Infrastructure structure. › Sustainable Build › Board Leadership Society › Business Forum for Social Responsibility Responsibility Report 2016 29 UN Global Compact reporting This table lists the pages covering the UNGC principles. WE SUPPORT Human rights pages 22-25, 26-28 1. The company should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. The company should make sure it is not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour rights pages 18-19, 22-25, 26-28 3. The company should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. The company should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. The company should support the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. The company should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment pages 16-17, 18-19, 20-21, 22-25, 26 7. The company should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. The company should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. The company should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption pages 24, 26-28 10. The company should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 30 Responsibility Report 2016 This report constitutes PensionDanmark’s statutory report on corporate social responsibility in pursuance of sections 132 and 132a of the Executive Order on financial reports for insurance companies and multi-employer occupational pension funds. Printed: In Denmark in 2017 by GSB Grafisk, an eco-certified printing house Paper: MultiDesign Original White Photos: Ole Mortensen, Jakob Boserup, Adam Mørk, Simon Klein Knudsen, Claus Bonnerup, Magnus Klitten, Peter Jørgensen, Emil Jakobsen, Ursula Bach and DONG. Responsibility Report 2016 31 PensionDanmark A/S Langelinie Allé 43 2100 Copenhagen Ø, Denmark Tel.: +45 3374 8000 E-mail: info@pension.dk Web: pensiondanmark.com
