Canom Europe Ltd.― UN Global Compact(UNGC)Commumication on Progress Canon Europe Ltd. became a signatory to the C)lobal Compact in 2014. We reafflll虫 Дour CO■ 1lnitment to the ttGC and its Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti― corruption. This is ourthird Communication on Progress,summarising the actions the company has taken to implement the Ten Principles,We provide links to the more detailed infonilation on our website and in the Canon 2017 Sustainability report. み r蕨/F紗 笏 遭「 !七 :'7卜 ラτ レ 'と '今 1 Principle Canon Europe’s response References HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Business should support We support and defend human rights across our business. Respecting 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, and respect the protection human rights is fundamental to Canon’s corporate philosophy kyosei. p. 94-96 of internationally Kyosei is the aspiration to create society in which all people, regardless proclaimed human rights. of race, language or culture, harmoniously live and work for the Canon Europe website common good into the future. The Canon Group Code of Conduct includes human rights criteria such Canon Group Code of Conduct as prevention of harassment and discrimination. Canon prohibits (clause III, 5) discrimination based on race, nationality, gender, religion, and creed. Canon Group promotes the active participation of woman under VIVID 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, (Vital workforce and Value Innovation through Diversity). p. 82 Canon Group supports LGBT (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, Transgender) community and other sexual minorities. p. 83 In line with Canon Group’s CSR Basic Statement, we respect human 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, rights, prohibit human trafficking and request that our business partners p. 7 align with this statement. Canon Europe takes allegations of modern slavery and human Canon Anti-Slavery and Human trafficking very seriously and developed an Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy 2016 Trafficking Policy in 2016. This is in response to the Modern Slavery 2 Act 2015, providing transparency in our operations and supply chains. Canon Europe website In addition to Canon Inc.’s due diligence programme to review suppliers, Canon Europe launched a supplier assessment programme in 2016. Canon Europe has local grievance mechanisms in place for employees Canon Europe website that are unable to raise their concerns on any issue, including human rights. In 2013, Canon Europe introduced a Supplier Code of Conduct that Canon Europe website applies to all its suppliers and is embedded in our General Purchase Terms and Conditions. Canon Supplier Code of Conduct p. 6 2. Business should make We manage our operations and supply chain responsibly. Our Supplier 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, sure that they are not Code of Conduct aligns with the Universal Declaration of Human p. 129-130 complicit in human rights Rights, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the abuses. International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. In addition, Canon Group’s CSR Basic Statement complies with 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental p. 7 Principles and Rights at Work, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, Our suppliers are carefully selected and evaluated with regards to the p. 129-130 supplier code of conduct and Canon Group’s CSR Basic Statement. We also address the issue of Conflict Minerals. As of May 31, 2017, 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, Canon has conducted a full-scale inquiry on this matter. No specific p. 131 parts or materials have been found to have contributed to funding armed 3 groups in conflict regions as defined by U.S. legislation. In addition, Canon Inc is a member of the Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) which plays a leading role in response to the conflict minerals. Our Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy (2016) explains our Canon Anti-Slavery and Human commitment to transparency and non-complicity in human rights. Trafficking Policy 2016 Canon Europe website LABOUR 3. Business should uphold Canon Europe respects basic workers’ rights including freedom of 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, the freedom of association association, from work councils to trade unions. p. 95 and the right to collective bargaining. Canon’s employees have the right to collective bargaining and the right 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, to engage in labour disputes. p. 95 Canon Europe website 4. Business should uphold Canon Europe emphasises the importance of the elimination of forced 2017 Canon Sustainability Report the elimination of all labour in: Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy (2016), Canon p. 95 forms of forced and Group’s CSR Basic Statement (clause 14) and Canon’s Supplier Code of p. 7 (clause 14) compulsory labour. Conduct (clause 1). Canon Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy 2016 Canon Supplier Code of Conduct p. 6 Canon Europe website 4 5. Business should uphold Canon Europe prohibits child labour throughout its operations and 2017 Canon Sustainability Report the effective abolition of supply chain. Our policies outline our position on this matter: p. 95 child labour. Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy (2016), Canon Group’s p. 7 (clause 14) CSR Basic Statement (clause 14) and Canon’s Supplier Code of Conduct (clause 2). Canon Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy 2016 Canon Supplier Code of Conduct p. 6 Canon Europe website 6. Business should uphold Canon Group maintains and improves its working environment. The 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, the elimination of executives and employees of Canon Group must respect each other as p. 7 (clause 12); 83; 95; 123; 130 discrimination in respect individuals and must not discriminate against others for reason of race, of employment and religion, nationality, gender, age, or any other improper classification. Canon Group Code of Conduct occupation. We embedded discrimination in Canon Group Code of Conduct (clause (clause III, 5) 5), Canon Group’s CSR Basic Statement (clause 12) and Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy (2016). Canon Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy 2016 In 2012, Canon Inc. established Vital workforce and Value Innovation through Diversity (VIVID) to promote diversity. VIVID carries out 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, company-wide activities. p. 82 Canon Global actively promotes participation of women and offers women’s leadership training. 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, p. 82-83 Canon Global supports LGBT and other sexual minorities. 5 With regards to discrimination or any other issue, Canon has an internal hotline for employees wishing to speak with a specialist counsellor. ENVIRONMENT 7. Business should support Canon Europe has established Environmental Management System Canon Europe website a precautionary approach (EMS) and is certified ISO 14001:2015. Our EMS ensures continual to environmental changes. improvement and helps to anticipate environmental issues. 2017 Canon Sustainability Report p. 45 Canon Europe follows Canon’s Global Environmental Charter in tandem 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, with its EMS. p. 40 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, Canon Group’s CSR Basic Statement emphasises our responsible p.7 (clause 5) approach towards environmental changes. Our Code of Conduct and General Purchase Terms and Conditions Canon Group Code of Conduct including Supplier policies include environmental aspects. (clause II, 3) We developed environmental value propositions that support our General Purchase Terms and business. We communicate them directly with our customer. Conditions Canon Global gives attention to the operations and of partners that Green Procurement Standard supply parts and raw materials. Suppliers must comply with Canon’s 2017 Sustainability Report, Green Procurement Standards. p. 47 Canon Global recognises biodiversity as essential for a sustainable 2017 Sustainability Report, society. Under our Biodiversity Policy, we carry various activities to p. 66 conserve and protect species. 6 8. Business should Canon Europe contributes to a circular economy. Canon aims to use 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, undertake initiatives to resources responsibly and recycle or remanufacture its products. Canon p. 55-60 promote greater creates energy-saving products and improves energy efficiency at environmental operational sites. It also remanufactures its devices and recycles toner responsibility. and ink cartridges. Canon Europe monitors Green House Gases (GHG) emissions and aims Canon Europe website to decrease CO2 emissions every year. In recognition of Canon Group’s effort on climate change, the CDP has 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, selected Canon for the inclusion in its “Climate A List”, CDP’s highest p. 54 ranking. Canon Global fully supports the concept of Earth Hour and encourages 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, all sites to take part in the initiative. p.49 9. Business should Canon Group strives to improve quality across the entire product 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, encourage the lifecycle. A Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) methodology has been p.46 development and diffusion introduced in the product development stage to help reduce of environmentally environmental impact. This system ensures that CO2 emissions can be friendly technologies. calculated from the development and design stages. 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, Canon Group endorses the development of a low-carbon society by p. 50 introducing smaller and lighter equipment, using recycled materials, and using energy-saving designs. In 2017 in Europe Canon has received the Award for iF Design for the 2017 Canon Sustainability Report, 23rd consecutive year and the Award from Technical Image Press for the p. 147 13th consecutive year. 7 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Business should work Canon Europe employees are trained internally on the aspect of bribery Canon Europe website against corruption in all and anti-corruption. This training is mandatory and is supplemented by forms, including extortion face-to-face training in higher risk areas. and bribery. Canon Supplier Code of Conduct Canon Global has a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption and (clause 10) expects the same from its suppliers. General Purchase Terms and Conditions (clause 19.5) 8
