COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2016/2017 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE SDG 2 End hunger, As a leading agribusiness and food company, Bunge strives to be a shaper of sustainable practices within our achieve food security and sector. improved nutrition and promote We’re more than 30,000 employees helping farmers produce sustainably. We deliver responsible ingredients, sustainable consumer foods, animal feed and renewable fuels. In operation for nearly 200 years, and working in more agriculture than 40 countries, our activities include:  Origination and transport of oilseeds and grains from the world’s primary growing regions to customers worldwide;  Crushing oilseeds to make meal for the livestock industry and oil for the food processing, food service and biofuel industries;  Producing bottled oils, mayonnaise, margarines and other staple food products for consumers;  Milling wheat and corn for food processors, bakeries, brewers and other commercial customers;  Crushing sugarcane to make sugar, renewable ethanol and electricity;  Selling fertilizer to farmers. Our Sustainability Pillars We aim to  build 21st Century Value Chains, free of deforestation and human rights issues, and which make positive contributions to economic wellbeing;  address climate change through our own operations, by reducing deforestation and by enhancing the efficiency and resiliency of global trade;  reduce our own environmental footprint; and  act transparently and with world-class governance. Our philosophy is to “Act, Conserve and Engage.” We intend to move, even when the path is not clearly marked; to find new ways to reduce our footprint; and to collaborate actively with other value chain participants and civil society. Read more at http://bunge.com/sustainability Food Security An expected surge in global population and the unpredictability of rainfall and other weather patterns due to climate change are making it necessary for agribusiness and food companies to plan for increased food production and less food waste, and to take measures to combat and manage the risks of climate change. Bunge is preparing to help feed 9.5 billion people by 2050 on several fronts: we are investing in new facilities; working to increase the efficiency and integration of our supply chains; promoting sustainable agriculture and striving to ensure resiliency to climate change in various regions of the world. Recently, we have invested in processing facilities in Europe and the Americas, improved our logistics assets and introduced new products. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2016/2017 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Partnerships SDG 2 We are doing this work collaboratively, partnering with peers and civil society. Recently we helped create a End hunger, achieve food new collaboration platform called the Soft Commodity Forum, which is part of the World Business Council for security and Sustainable Development (WBCSD), a CEO-led organization working to galvanize businesses around the world improved nutrition and to help create a sustainable future. We continue to partner with NGOs and regional consortia to promote promote sustainable practices. You can read more about our efforts at http://bunge.com/sustainability/partnershipssustainable and-projects and on our regional Web sites. agriculture Responsible Sourcing Bunge has supported The Nature Conservancy in a multi-year partnership in the Brazilian states of Pará, Mato Grosso and Bahia. Our $5 million investment has promoted environmental registration among farmers via the CAR system, increased municipal governance, mapped impacts related to agriculture, produced instructional materials for producers, and developed tools for evaluating the best way for agriculture to expand sustainably. Specific achievements have included: Municipal Environmental Portals: the municipalities of Luís Eduardo Magalhães, São Desidério and Formosa do Rio Preto, in the West of Bahia, as well as Ruropolis and Itaituba (Para) have received a free online system that will help officials plan for sustainable agricultural expansion and monitor deforestation. Good Agricultural Practices Guide: a free online guide to help rural producers make their farms more sustainable by focusing on 13 simple and affordable agricultural techniques, which increase productivity and sustainability in the field. We have also sponsored and contributed to the development of Agroideal.org, an online tool for traders and other players in the soy sector that helps identify the best areas to invest in new production, sourcing, infrastructure and commercial activities. The tool’s multiple data layers enable a clear vision, on actionable scales, of where soy can expand sustainably, with minimal social and environmental impacts. At the same time, entrepreneurs, governments, and others can use the same information to develop strategies and supportive policies for sustainable local development. It is an innovative system that allows customized analysis of data that, to date, has been unavailable or not integrated effectively. In the U.S., we have enhanced our Centerfield program, a online system, based on the Field to Market Fieldprint Calculator, which aggregates farmer environmental data, enabling them to compare their performance to peers and identify opportunities to improve sustainability. Information can also be shared with customers to promote more sustainable sourcing decisions. We prioritize the safety of our employees above profit and production. We also support diversity and professional development, engagement with all our stakeholders, local communities and the protection of human and labor rights in our value chain. See our labor policy at http://bunge.com/sustainability/labor. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2016/2017 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE SDG 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable Community Development quality Bunge participates in and sponsors activities that support the communities in which we operate around the education and world. promote lifelong learning opportunities Through the Fundacao Bunge, the company promotes responsible development and the assessment of social for all and economic needs in different Brazilian communities. The Fundacao has developed Integrated Management Plans, which provide guidelines for private social investment in collaboration with local leaders in the States of Tocantins and Pará (Brazil). AND Activities with non-governmental organizations, including Childhood, are fighting sexual exploitation of SDG 8: children by engaging with families and truck drivers. Promote sustained, Select locations are also targets for educational programs that support students in finding their first jobs. inclusive and Forums and public consultations have reached more than 300,000 people. sustainable economic growth, full and You can read more at http://www.fundacaobunge.org.br/en/projects/ productive employment In the Southern Cone of South America, Bunge is investing to fight poverty through various programs. An and decent example is the XXI Century Rural School, an educational program run by Fundación e.dúcate Uruguay. It is work for all supported by Reaching U and sponsored by Bunge Southern Cone. It focuses on strengthening educational activities in the rural communities of Soriano Department. These organizations join forces to ensure the right to education among children and teenagers by deterring child labor. Other projects and latest news on social development for the region are available at http://www.bungeargentina.com.ar/en/ciudadania/responsable. Families living in farms face a range of safety risks, such as those associated with grain silos and tractors. Educating children about safety is one of the ways Bunge gives back to rural communities. Bunge North America Foundation is the lead sponsor of Progressive Agriculture Safety Days, which educates more than 80,000 children and adults each year about how to stay safe and healthy on the farm, ranch or home. More information about this and other projects are publicly available at https://www.bungenorthamerica.com/about/citizenship COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2016/2017 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE We engage in best practices to attract a richly diverse workforce and aim to include all voices in our operations. Our employee-training offerings are an investment in our workforce and the future of our SDG 5 Achieve gender business. equality and empower all women and Diversity & Inclusion girls To sustain our future, better reflect the communities we serve and foster innovation, Bunge has developed a multi-year global strategy to foster a more diverse and inclusive (D&I) workplace where each employee feels valued and respected. Diversity and inclusion is the right thing to do, and it also increases employee retention, attracts top talent and improves business performance. We take proactive measures to increase employees’ participation and inclusion. We also examine comments received on our Ethics & Compliance hotline and website and our regular global employee engagement survey to gauge employees’ sense of inclusion. To support diversity of professional viewpoints, we also aim for crossfunctional representation on our internal teams. The company maintains a diversity council that serves as an advisory board for the company. It is made up of employees who lead, advocate for, coordinate, inform, and monitor the strategic diversity management process. In the course of this year, the company created a Multicultural Business Leaders group, whose mission is to support and empower employees of underrepresented cultures and ethnicities with the goal of developing a global leadership team that reflects the diversity of the markets we serve and the communities in which we work. Activities are focused around: Identifying and participating in opportunities for diversity recruitment Providing feedback and professional guidance to members to encourage retention and professional development Fostering group interaction through professional events and community service activities that complement Bunge’s corporate exposure Global Employee Statistics. 2016 All Genders Male Female All Operating 34,101 27,682 6,419 Companies 2016 All Genders Male Female Average Workforce Tenure All Operating 7.4 7.5 6.9 Companies 2016 All Genders Male Female Average Workforce Age All Operating 38.7 39.1 37.4 Companies COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2016/2017 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Water SDG 6 Ensure Because water plays a central role in ag and food, and because access to safe, clean water is a UN-recognized availability and human right, managing the limited availability of freshwater around the world is a central concern for the sustainable management of agribusiness and food sector. Agriculture is generally considered to use roughly 70% of the world’s available water and freshwater. Trade in global agricultural commodities has been shown to reduce the total consumption of sanitation for all freshwater for ag production by nearly 10% per year. Assessing and managing water risk Using the CEO Water Mandate’s definitions, Bunge assesses water stress and water risk in watersheds or other areas where our facilities are located using:  Internal company knowledge  Regional government databases  The WBCSD Global Water Tool© (GWT) and Aqueduct A 2016 comprehensive analysis showed that Bunge operates 16 facilities we call Tier 5 that are in areas of high water stress, are subject to increasing costs or regulatory burdens and source from the local area. Water risks at these facilities, on a standalone basis, are not substantive. Water Reduction Goals During our latest three-year period for environmental goals, 2014-2016, we reduced water use/mt of production by 8%. Our new goal is to reduce water use/mt of production by an additional 10% over the next ten years, while reducing use/mt by 25% in regions of high water stress. Water Use Direct Use: With the exception of sugarcane milling, which relies on freshwater for processing and, in some cases, irrigation of crops, Bunge's production facilities use water primarily for heating and cooling purposes, as well as certain production processes. Water is not a material ingredient in our principal products. Indirect Use: Bunge sources agricultural commodities from thousands of independent farmers. The majority of suppliers do not use irrigation. Generally, data on water use has been closely held by farmers. The complexity of collecting and aggregating this information at scale is cost prohibitive. Bunge's diversified supply chain has a natural effect of mitigating the risk of impacts related to water. We are working in specific regions to improve data collection and water efficiency on farm. Some of the farmers from whom we source are located in areas reliant on irrigation. A reduction in the availability of groundwater in these localities could impact the quantity of crops available for purchase. Bunge sources a significant amount of crops from regions employing rain fed production. Our sugar production depends on the volume and sucrose content of the sugarcane that we cultivate or that is supplied to us by third-party growers. Both sugarcane crop yields and sucrose content depend significantly COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2016/2017 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE on weather conditions, such as rainfall and prevailing temperatures. As such, unfavorable weather conditions have had and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our sugar operations. Our 8 facilities for Sugar and Bioenergy segments are in areas of low water stress but are subject to higher degrees of seasonal variability. SDG 6 Water Withdrawal (megaliters/year), 2016 Ensure availability and Fresh surface water 44.426,83 sustainable Brackish surface water/seawater 23.694,63 management of Rainwater 0,00 water and sanitation for all Groundwater renewable 0,00 Groundwater non-renewable 14.003,94 Produced/process water 0,00 Municipal supply 9.797,46 Wastewater from another organization 0,00 Total 91.922,85 Engagement and Partnership We have ongoing engagement activities with agricultural suppliers. Among other projects, we have produced a guide for farmers in West Bahia, Brazil, an area that has historically faced water stress. The guide brings best practices for farmers in order to support watershed recharge and was produced in partnership with The Nature Conservancy. The guide is available at https://www.nature.org/media/brasil/oeste-bahia.pdf. We are also a founding member of Field to Market, which is a consortium of industry, grower groups, NGOs, academics and government agencies committed to improving the sustainability of production agriculture. Field to Market has developed peer reviewed metrics (including water use and CO2 emissions) for determining the environmental profile of crop production, issued national reports on agricultural sustainability performance and developed an online tool for growers to assess their own operations and identify areas of improvement. The group is developing metrics on water quality and biodiversity. www.fieldtomarket.org The company is also a member of Bonsucro, a global certification body for sustainable sugar and sugarcane ethanol production. The Bonsucro standard includes parameters for water use per ton of product and the preservation of environmentally sensitive areas, including wetlands, as well as for agronomic practices that impact water quality, such as input application and tillage. More info at www.bonsucro.com COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2016/2017 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE We produce sugarcane products sustainably in Brazil, with two mills producing Bonsucro®certified products. SDG 7 Ensure access Our mills also produce sugarcane ethanol, an advanced biofuel, and run on bagasse, a renewable-energy to affordable, byproduct of sugarcane processing. As a result, the plants generate carbon-neutral electricity. Surplus reliable, sustainable and electricity is sold into the local power grid. In 2016, we sold 589,000 MWh, enough to meet the annual power modern energy needs of more than 300,000 households in Brazil. for all A notable recent achievement was our 16% reduction in waste disposal per metric ton of production between SDG 12 Ensure 2014 and 2016. sustainable consumption and production Looking ahead, we have a 10-year goal of reducing waste disposal/mt by an additional 10% and total waste patterns generation/mt by 20%. In South America, where we operate a large consumer product business, we run programs aimed at reducing post consumption waste. The program, Soya Recicla, spans over 100 cities and more than 3,000 locations, including schools, supermarkets and restaurants. In 2016, around 845 ton of used cooking oil were collected, as well as 17.6 tons of PET packaging. Created in 2006, it is currently the largest voluntary used cooking oil collection program in the country, and has collected almost 5 million liters of used oil since its launch. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2016/2017 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Energy Use, Emissions and Climate SDG 13 Take urgent As an agribusiness and food company, Bunge seeks to support adaptation and resilience to climate change in action to our operations and supply chain by managing the origin location and diversity of crops we source; by reducing combat climate change and its our own energy use and emissions in our operations; and by protecting forests. impacts Emissions and Energy Reduction Bunge has made meaningful progress in reducing our non-renewable energy use and emissions. Between 2014-2016, we reduced CO2 emission/mt of production by 8% and energy use/mt of production by 2%. We accomplished these reductions through the use of renewable energy and by implementing a variety of efficiency programs and investments. In 2016, we set a new, long-term goal of reducing emissions/mt of production by 10%, and, for the first time, have set emissions reduction goals for our logistics operations. Our efforts to reduce deforestation in our supply chains—we have committed to eliminating deforestation from our supply globally—also contributes to climate change mitigation. Managing climate change risks Adverse weather conditions have historically caused volatility in the agricultural commodity industry and consequently in our operating results by causing crop failures or significantly reduced harvests, which may affect the supply and pricing of the agricultural commodities that we sell and use in our business, reduce demand for our fertilizer products and negatively affect the creditworthiness of agricultural producers who do business with us. The potential physical impacts of climate change are uncertain and may vary by region. These potential effects could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels that could adversely impact our costs and business operations, the location and costs of global agricultural commodity production and the supply and demand for agricultural commodities. These effects could be material to our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. Public policy advocacy We seek to influence public policy on bioenergy through direct engagement with policy makers and participation in the trade associations of FEDIOL, ABIOVE and UNICA. We participate in the governance structure of all of these groups. Our engagement focuses on issues related to biofuel production, marketing, sustainability and trade. The company supports market based approaches to promoting economically and environmentally efficient first generation biofuels. We report avoided emissions to the CDP Climate Change program for our low-carbon products: ethanol, biofuel, biomass and bioelectricity. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2016/2017 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Emissions and Energy Statistics Total Emissions (in metric tons)* SDG 13 Take urgent 2016 action to Direct CO2 emissions from fuel use in facilities 1.66M metric tons combat climate change and its Indirect CO2 emissions from purchased electricity and steam 1.72M metric tons no impacts change * Bunge collects activity data and calculates Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions using the Brazil GHG Protocol Programme, the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006), and the U.S. EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule; national sources such as the U.S. EPA, the Argentine Secretary of Energy, and the Brazilian Ministry of Science and Technology; and local sources. Energy Consumption (Scope 1 and Scope 2, MWh)* Scope 1 Natural gas 7,382,751 Gasoline 1,981 Light oil 6,577 Diesel 74,051 Fuel oil/heavy oil 59,366 Shale oil 0 Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) 26,101 Wood or wood waste 1,607,373 Seed hulls 860,822 Other primary solid biomass 596,736 Sugar cane waste 9,273,540 Ethanol 22,859 Coal 836,616 Total direct energy consumption 20,506,069 Consumed Consumed Total Total electricity Total renewable electricity renewable that is electricity electricity that consumed electricity Comment purchased produced is produced by (MWh) produced (MWh) (MWh) company (MWh) (MWh) Renewable electricity produced and consumed in 2678305 2155705 1368331 1019485 436545 the plants with biomass cogen in Brazil COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2016/2017 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE HOW WE CONSERVE: Sustainable Agriculture We are committed to Sustainable Agriculture and the creation of traceable, trustworthy 21st Century Value SDG 15 Protect, restore chains. Our activities include: and promote sustainable use of terrestrial Enhancing the traceability of our supply chains and mapping suppliers in key areas ecosystems, Extending the Soy Moratorium in the Amazon Biome sustainably Blocking farmers in Brazil who violate labor and deforestation regulations manage forests, combat Certifying sugarcane mills under the Bonsucro system desertification, Launching public grievance and supplier verification mechanisms for palm oil and halt and Working with The Nature Conservancy and a coaltion of companies, NGOs and government agencies reverse land degradation to develop open source tools to help identify areas for sustainable expansion of agriculture and halt Expanding volumes of certified products biodiversity Partnering with The Forest Trust to improve the sustainability of the global palm oil industry and our loss own supply Participating in numerous multi-stakeholder groups committed to promoting sustainable agriculture, including Field to Market in the U.S. We disclosed our performance to the CDP Forests program for the first time in early 2016 Non-Deforestation Commitments Bunge believes all agricultural value chains should be free of deforestation, environmentally sustainable and economically beneficial to local communities. We established a comprehensive, NDPE sourcing policy for palm oil in 2014. Full information on our supply and activities can be found at http://www.bunge.com/sustainability/palm-oil-dashboard For oilseeds and grains, we have a clear strategy of promoting traceability, sustainable expansion over suitable areas and proper incentives for conservation. Learn more and read our latest public updates at http://bunge.com/sustainability/zero-deforestation. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2016/2017 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Transparency Bunge is considered to be a good partner by stakeholders within our value chains, a professional team with SDG 17 Strengthen the whom organizations can engage in dialogue around sustainability. We are respected for being honest about means of what we are doing and for reporting our progress in sustainability in a balanced way. implementation and revitalize the global Public Reporting partnership for We publicly disclose our efforts and progress through several sustainability reporting mechanisms, including sustainable development through the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework, and through CDP programs. Sustainability reports Bunge issued our first global Citizenship report in 2008. Bunge’s 2014 Citizenship Report was our first GRIbased report at the global level, and the 2016 edition was our first global report in compliance with the Core indicators of the GRI G4 framework. We have been reporting on sustainability at the regional level longer: Bunge Brazil released its fourteenth report this year — its fourth GRI Comprehensive report. Bunge Southern Cone, which has been reporting on its performance since 2009, published a 3rd party audited GRI standard report for operations in Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and Bolivia this year. Bunge North America also published its Citizenship report with information on our performance in Canada, USA and Mexico. CDP programs & the CEO Water Mandate Bunge discloses its sustainability performance via the CDP Water, CDP Climate Change and, for the first time in 2016, CDP Forests programs. In 2015, we became a signatory to the CEO Water Mandate. Charters and Principles Bunge belongs or is a signatory to several charters and principle frameworks, including the UN Global Compact and Brazil’s Soy Moratorium. Read more at http://bunge.com/sustainability/reports-and-governance. Member Organizations Bunge is a member of the following organizations, all of which are working toward a more sustainable agribusiness and food industry. ABIOVE (Brazilian Association of Vegetable Oils Industries) Bonsucro, Board participation (2013–2016); chair in 2015/16 FEDIOL (Federation representing the European Vegetable Oil and Protein meal Industry in Europe), Board presidency in 2016 Field to Market : consortium of industry, grower groups, NGOs, academics and government agencies committed to improving the sustainability of production agriculture. UNICA World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD) COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2016/2017 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Anti-corruption Bunge operates a robust ethics and compliance function that oversees corruption issues. We also operate a public whistleblower hotline and sustainability grievance mechanism. Lear more at http://bunge.com/investors/code-conduct, http://bunge.com/investors/report-concern,
