1|Page Ninestars Information Technologies Pvt Ltd. Communication on Progress From: November 2016 to November 2017 2|Page 3|Page About Ninestars Information Technologies Private Limited Introduction Today’s tech-enabled digital landscape thrives on content and things like digital, mobile and social are no longer trends but mainstays. As these channels continue to evolve, they give rise to new trends like Internet of Things, Machine learning, Artificial intelligence, and Cognitive computing. These digital disruptions have redefined core fundamental dynamics and success no longer remains a one-dimensional facet. Even though digital integration has unlocked enormous opportunities for businesses, it has also brought on challenges that didn’t exist a decade ago. As digitization rewrites the rules of competition and the pace of business continues to accelerate, the success is determined both by the ability to deliver personalized digital experiences as well as to use speed to combat competitors. At Ninestars, we understand that harnessing the digital force is a journey and not a destination and our seamless assortment of expertise and experience puts us in the perfect position to help our clients futureproof their digital journey. Our strategy at Ninestars operates at the juncture of technology and business by bringing together our capabilities and years of experience to help our clients execute industry-specific strategies for Media, Government Agencies, BFSI, Communications & PR, Libraries, Technology, Publishers and Enterprises to gain sustainable profits, efficiency, and growth. We do not follow the market trends but create them! With over 18 years in the industry, Ninestars has been instrumental in revolutionizing the digital space with innovative products and services. It has contributed to the digital transformation journey of more than 150 organizations worldwide. Our Service Spectrum We offer a wide range of bespoke services focused on three key service streams: Digitization, Digital, and Media Monitoring to help organizations excel. With a customer-centric approach, our core services help organizations work more effectively and achieve positive transformation. We offer a full spectrum of end-to-end services adding value at each juncture from digital conversion to consumption. Digitization Services As one of the oldest and finest names in the industry, we offer leading-edge digitization services. Our hallmark is our personalized solution including both pure-play digitization and conversion to new age formats. From analog to digital, the services span from scanning and data entry to advanced OCR with 99.995% accuracy, indexing and meta-tag integration in both English and Non-English languages. Having digitized over 400 million pages, we understand the intricacies of digitization including fragile and rare items. Our state-of-the-art technology can convert any form of data from a variety of source into specific digital formats and allows us to provide turnkey solutions. Our homegrown products and services are fully integrated and versatile to take the business requirements from archive digitization to current content delivery across web and mobile. Ninestars’ domain expertise and homegrown tools provide a superior degree of automation and customization, helping us address a diverse set of specifications and industry standards without any compromise on the scale. We specialize in Newspaper archive digitization and have worked with some of the biggest names in 4|Page the industry including global media firms, libraries, and content aggregators, delivering a cumulative 400 million pages. More recently, we have been working with Publishers, both trade and education, to convert books into digital formats such as ePub and mobipocket. Key customers: India: Flipkart, Pearson, Rupa Publications, Penguin, McGraw Hill India, National Book Trust, The Times of India, The Hindu, Life Insurance Corporation of India (through HP), Aircel, and several other media firms and government agencies. International: The New York Times (on behalf of ProQuest), National Library of Australia, The State and University Library of Denmark, National Library of Norway, ProQuest, Newsbank, JSTOR, The South China Morning Post, and several media and publishing firms. Media Monitoring Services In the interest of business continuity and to stay ahead of competition, keeping up to date with what’s being talked about, is the fundamental first step! Ninestars proprietary tools can help businesses stay at the top of their game by offering in-depth knowledge, timely insights, and analyses. We have a robust strategy in place to help create value for customers. Ninestars partners with 28 media monitoring agencies across time zones (New Zealand to Canada), digitally extracting articles, and images based on custom specifications, from global media coverage, and has achieved a record milestone of 300 million content clips. Our Media Monitoring Services:  Content clipping (print, broadcast, web)  Content tracking and matching (text and image)  Summarization (print and broadcast media)  Transcription (video and audio content) Key customers: NLA Media Access, Precise, Gorkana, Kantar Media, iSentia, Opoint, among others. Digital Services The 21st century 360-degree connected digital lifestyle means going digital is no longer an option but an imperative for organizations! Ninestars digital services can help unleash and uncover the complete capabilities of your business, making it more efficient, collaborative, and productive. Our comprehensive digital strategy helps you adapt and implement innovative technologies to create unique value for your customers. Outpace your competitors and transform your business by leveraging the true potential of digital with our custom digital solutions. Our digital strategy is focused on the user experience to create unique value for your customer’s omni-channel digital journey. Unlike a typical build-transfer approach, Ninestars offers a Build-Operate-Manage approach where the risk and reward are shared. Our Digital Services:  Mobile App Development o Supports iOS, Android and Windows 8 o Intuitive user experience o Content publishing engine 5|Page o Advertising and subscription integration  eStore design and development o Content distribution platform on web and mobile o Dynamic eCatalogs Key customers: The Hindu, BusinessLine, Amar Chitra Katha, National Book Trust, Katha, Covenant. Artificial Intelligence Solutions At Ninestars, digital intelligence is always at work! In this era of constant digital disruptions, shorter go-to-market is the norms. Our constant hustle to achieve high degree of automation has culminated into plenty of innovative products and services. We have automated our software, tools, workflow, and processes to achieve high degree of automation and bring about super lean operations in our internal operations. Our automation has evolved from programmatical automation to one that analyzes and learns with help of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning techniques. This shift enables organizations in the application of AI in content analysis, development, extraction, monitoring, licensing from business documents resulting in high level of accuracy and significant increase in ROI. Our AI solutions connect our customers with their day-to-day work and empower their growth by providing unique insights, innovation and growth and better business outcomes. Our Certificates As an ISO 9001:2015, ISO 27001:2013 and CMMI® Maturity Level 3 certified company, we ensure that we are consistently producing exceptional products, pro cesses, and services that meet worldclass standards and ascertain our ongoing commitment to quality and continuous improvement. Summary Ninestars is a forward-thinking, agile company that has evolved with the digital content industry, responding to market requirements, and innovating consistently. We continue to sustain long-term engagements and exclusive partnerships as well as successfully deliver projects across the world. Organizations including government agencies trust us for our ability to manage scale, volume, complexity, and technology without compromising on quality or security of the content. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed right to equality in wages. 6|Page Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our Commitment/Policies Ninestars Information Technology Pvt Ltd (henceforth addressed as “Ninestars”), lays out strict guidelines for protecting the rights of employees and other stakeholders. Our HR Policy and Policy for Wage and Facilities Equality enshrine female employees’ rights to fair wages, rest and recreation and protection from harassment, like their male counterparts. Our safety standards aim to provide a safe and healthy environment to employees, interns and guests. The sustainability policy commits to providing all employees across all the locations with clean, safe, healthy and fair working conditions. All Ninestars employees must commit to adhere to the existing laws and regulations, contractual obligations, internationally acclaimed human rights and the demands that good business conduct and commonly approved personal conduct require. Our Actions: Ninestars has ensured that female employees enjoy all the privileges despite having domestic duties to perform and report to work on time. Female employees have been allowed to choose their work timings in accordance with their household work. The HR committee to oversee the implementation of the Policy for Equality for Wage and Facilities has ensured that a zero-tolerance approach towards any discrimination against the female employees implemented across the company locations. Ninestars strongly believes in Freedom of expression and the right to privacy. And we will continue to strive to protect them for our users, employees, partners and stakeholders. Ninestars will take the required measures to protect our users’ basic right to privacy and freedom of expression. The Outcomes: 100% of our female employees, including casual, temporary and contractual employees are quite satisfied with the policies. We received no employee complaints of any kind of harassment or complains suggesting discriminatory actions of any nature from them. No claims regarding any human rights violation pertaining to Freedom of expression and the right to privacy has been made in the period covered by this Communication on Progress. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 7|Page Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 3: Our Commitment Ninestars Information Technologies is one of the progressive and highly employee oriented organisation with an absolute transparent & open employee and employer relationship recognizes the freedom of assembly, including the right to form any representing forum and right to become member of any labour unions, and the right to collective bargaining. Whereas the company has been enjoying an undisputed faith & confidence of the employees ever since the inception of the organisation through a formal & structured internal Employee Grievances Redressal System and a Process oriented Resolution method. As part of our response the company never had any employee litigation in any of the forums till date and no such pending issues are there before any courts in India. Our actions: In accordance with the international Labour laws, discrimination of employees based on union membership or assembly associations is strictly not allowed in Ninestars. Measurement of outcome: Discrimination of employees based on union membership or assembly associations has not occurred at Ninestars in the period covered by the Communication on Progress. Principle 4: Our Commitment Ninestars respects international conventions prohibiting compulsory labour, such as the ILO Convention that concerns forced or compulsory labour. Our actions: Forced or compulsory labour has not and will not take place at Ninestars. All employment with Ninestars is based on a mutual agreement between employer and employee. Measurement of outcome: Forced or compulsory labour has not taken place at Ninestars in the period covered by this Communication on Progress. Principle 5 8|Page Our Commitment: Ninestars respects international conventions and legislation abolishing child labour, such as the ILO Convention concerning Minimum Age for Admission to Employment. And the company shall never entertain any digression to the international laws in this regard. Our actions: Ninestars does not directly or indirectly use or entertain child labour. It strictly adheres to the international labour laws and the ILO convention. Measurement of outcome: Child labour has not been used/entertained/supported by Ninestars during the period covered by this Communication on Progress. Principle 6: Our Commitment Equal Opportunities policies of Ninestars is strictly in place and has been followed during the duration of this COP. 1. Ninestars is committed to promoting equal opportunities to all its employees. 2. As an organisation, Ninestars values diversity and encourages fairness and justice. 3. Equal work opportunities is created for everyone in Ninestars to work, learn, and live free from discrimination and victimisation. 4. Ninestars will always combat discrimination throughout the organisation and will use its position of influence, wherever possible, to help overcome discriminatory barriers. Our Actions: In order to achieve fair policy, Ninestars has encouraged equality of opportunity for all people and actively promote good relations. The principles of equal opportunities and non-discrimination are present throughout the organisation and in all company activities. When recruiting, we use assessment methods such as programming tests and test cases to give equal opportunities to all qualified applicants. Similar approaches are exercised when promoting, offering training opportunities, etc. To eliminate any conditions, procedures and individual behaviour that can lead to discrimination even where there was no intent to discriminate, Ninestars is committed to use its discretionary powers to resolve such unwanted exceptions. At Ninestars, we strive to offer our staff members a safe, healthy and inspiring work place. We have a highly culturally diversified workforce, where we emphasize the importance of a healthy work-life balance, encouraging our employees to take time to focus on family and friends. The company’s harassment policy is presented during the orientation and encourages employees to report any and all forms of harassment they either witness or hear about without reprimanding or breach of confidentiality to the HR team. Measurement of outcome: There have been no reports of harassment or discrimination at Ninestars in the period covered by this Communication on Progress. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9|Page Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 7: Our Commitment/Policies Ninestars is environment friendly by the very nature of business it pursues. We help companies go paperless contributing to conservation of forests and reduce the carbon footprints consciously. Our Actions Ninestars strongly believes that conservation of environment is key to its existence and its future. Policy objectives listed here will ensure that we operate in an environment that is safe and healthy to its employees and the community we operate in. 1. Promote usage of environment friendly, bio degradable and recyclable material wherever possible. 2. Conserve water by using it wisely, and by rain water harvesting. 3. Usage of renewable energy such as solar for lighting and heating. 4. Responsible waste management to prevent pollution Principle 8: Our Commitments: Ninestars understands the importance of supporting the environment and seeks to prevent any negative environmental impact our activities might have. Ninestars has incorporated our environmental policy as a part of the Ethical Code of Conduct. Our Actions: Pollution prevention 1. Ensure that the electric generators which uses diesel as fuel will adhere to prescribed levels of oxides of nitrogen, carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons and particulate by local pollution control authorities 2. Diesel generator sets used will be encased in an integral acoustic enclosure with a proper exhaust muffler. Water Conservation 1. Regular inspection and replacement of faulty water tanks, taps, faucets and commodes to prevent leakage of water. 2. Minimal use of water in cleaning of floors, walls and other common areas. 10 | P a g e Rainwater harvesting 1. Install rainwater harvesting equipment to prevent loss of rain water. 2. Ensure water harvested will be used to recharge underground water table 3. Usage of harvested water in gardening Waste 1. Waste generated during routine office activity is segregated based on its type into organic and Inorganic. 2. Organic waste can be composted and used as fertilizer in gardening 3. Inorganic waste such as plastic, paper, wood etc are properly packed and handed over to garbage collection trucks and not dumped 4. We also encourage safe and clean disposal of electronic waste generated and handover our electronic material to certified agencies for dismantling and disposal. Principle 9: Our Commitment: Ninestars is committed to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Our actions: Ninestars shall: 1. Act according to environmental laws to limit the environmental burden on earth, air, water and ecosystem. 2. Commit to using environmentally safe products in the workplace. 3. Educate staff about company environmental regulations. 4. Evaluate the consumption of energy and other resources to determine means of control. 5. Ensure the development of environmentally protective procedures. Usage of Paper Ninestars has designed systems, which prevents indiscriminate printing of emails, documents and other material. Ninestars currently supports various mobile operators in converting data collected on customer acquisition forms into electronic format. Our R & D department has come up with a unique concept of utilising hand held devices to do away with these paper based customer acquisition forms altogether and capture customer data electronically including signature and photographs. Measurement of Outcomes: 11 | P a g e Ninestars supports the environment and seeks to prevent negative environmental impact our activities might have brought in. As a consequence, all employees are obliged to follow the Ethical Code of Conduct, containing the company environmental policy. We are continually evaluating green technology possibilities at our R&D department and subsequently bringing in other measures to reduce our environmental impact. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Commitment: Ninestars abstains from anti-corruption and works actively to combat corruption, including extortion and bribery. Corruption distorts economic decision-making, deters investment, undermines competitiveness and, ultimately, weakens economic growth. Our actions: There is no single, comprehensive, universally accepted definition of corruption. Therefore, each Ninestars employee must adhere to the existing laws and regulations in his/her country of operation. Ninestars anti-corruption internal regulations apply to all its employees. Controls are made to ensure that the rules are followed. Ninestars strictly puts down that the employees must neither directly nor indirectly receive payment, gifts, travel, overnight stays or other benefits from the company’s business partners when these are: Gifts It is a normal part of business life to exchange business courtesies, such as meals, transportation, recreation, facilities or small gifts. Such an exchange of business courtesies must always follow local laws and regulations and not put any employee in the position of a sense of obligation to return the favour, compromise professional judgment or create the appearance of compromise or corruption. Ninestars employees should always check with their manager or the HR department, if in doubt, and consider whether the exchange of business courtesy would be acceptable if it should become publicly known. No person acting on behalf of Ninestars is allowed to accept any amount of cash or cash equivalents (such as gift certificates or market securities and similar), regardless of sum. Money laundering Money laundering is the process of concealing illicit sources of money. Ninestars employees are forbidden to engage knowingly in transactions that facilitate money laundering or result in unlawful diversion. Bribery No person acting on behalf of Ninestars shall attempt to influence someone in the conduct of their post, office or commission by offering an improper advantage. Nor shall improper advantage be offered to anyone for the purpose of influencing third parties in the conduct of their post, office, or commission. Correspondingly, no person acting on behalf of Ninestars shall request, accept or 12 | P a g e receive improper advantage in connection with his/her position or assignment or for the purpose of influencing a third party. Improper advantage can take different forms, including but not limited to money, objects, credits, discounts, travel, accommodation and other services. Measurement of outcome: All Ninestars employees must adhere to the existing laws and regulations in his/her country of operation. Staff must further obey by the internal guidelines regulating anti-corruption. There has been no report of corruption, including extortion and bribery, in the period covered by this COP report.
