allark.no Sustainability report 2017 Contents 01 02 03 04 05 01 About Alliance arkitekter 06 07 08 09 02 About Global Compact 10 11 03 The Principles 12 13 14 15 04 Statement of Continued Support This Communication of progress has been discussed, reviewed and approved by our 16 17 05 Living the principles board and all our employees. 18 19 This report is published on the 20 21 06 Achievements in the report period United Nations Global Compact website 22 23 www.unglobalcompact.org 24 25 and our own website 26 27 07 Sustainable design in our projects www.allark.no Oslo Harbour 28 29 Haslum River Park 30 31 allark.no 2 Økern S 32 33 2020Park 34 35 Nordre Gate 36 37 Kalfarveien 77 38 39 Bjergsted Trio 40 41 Kronstadveien 20 42 43 Harestad School 44 45 46 47 08 Our Goals for the next year All Illustrations by Alliance arkitekter Graphic design by tyde.no 48 ALLIn the spring of 2007, as the first architectural IANoffice in Norway, we became members of the UN’s Global Compact, where members commit to aligning their operations with ten principles concerning environment, anti-corruption, human rights and labour. Our involvement so far is mainly concerned with environmental sustainability and labour CE01 standards. Furthermore, we promote the role of architecture as a trigger in encouraging About the public to participate on environmental The scope of our work spans from case studies and social issues. As architects we aspire to and area planning to the development and comencourage the discourse on our current and pletion of building projects. Our projects range future urban development, where the interests Alliance from detailing a 50 m² boat house to developof private developers may diverge from the ing 500 000 m² area plans. We primarily work needs of the society. with new construction, but are also involved in renovation, restoring and extensions to existing arkitekter structures. The majority of our commissions consist of residential and commercial developments. We do developement design from Our stated vision: concept to completion. We make architecture allark.no 4 Our studio is organized as a non-hierarchical/ for a better world horizontal structure and we continuously seek Alliance arkitekter AS is a Norwegian archito collaborate with groups and individuals from tectural studio established in June 2005, other disciplines. We believe that such collaboration contributes to a positive synergy effect with offices both in Oslo and Stavanger. as well as add inspiration and learning to the The studio collaborates with various work processes, resulting in creative methods and original results. We carefully assemble offices and disciplines, and we frequently teams with the necessary requested experiparticipate in architectural competitions. ence in combination with innovative strategies. This represents the energy and an attitude that inspire us in our daily work. We also have a set of values that we strive to implement in all we do: CURIOUS, RESPONSIBLE and CHALLENGING. 6 allark.no COMPACT About 8 02 global compact The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten As social, political and economic issues — at home or in other regions — increasingly affect business, many companies recognize The Global Compact is a practical framework for the development, implementation, and disclosure of sustainability policies and allark.no universally accepted principles the need to collaborate and partpractices. Offering participants on human rights, labour, enviner with governments, civil socia wide range of work streams, ronment and anti-corruption. By ety, labour and NGO’s like the UN management tools and resources, doing so, business, as a primary Global Compact. This ever-increasthe framework is designed to help driver of globalization, can help ing understanding is reflected in advance sustainable business markets, commerce, technology the Global Compact’s rapid growth. models and markets. and finance advance in ways that With over 12.000 corporate particibenefit economies and societies pants and other stakeholders from everywhere. over 145 countries, it is the largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative in the world. PRINCIP-03 The principles LES 10 This year, the Architectural industry of Norway has labelled us «the office of sustainability» and “the Challenger”. This motivates us to continue to contribute to an environmentally as well as financially allark.no sustainable architecture and urban development! Anti-corruption Human Rights #1 Businesses should work against Alliance arkitekter is committed to work #6 Businesses should support and Alliance arkitekter is committed to the protection of internacorruption in all its forms, includagainst corruption in all its forms. respect the protection of international human rights within our sphere of influence. ing extortion and bribery. tionally proclaimed human rights. Alliance arkitekter fulfils all its responsibilities #7 Make sure that they are not comaccording to Norwegian law, including implementing a plicit in human rights abuses health and safety management system. The company holds a third party certification as a “Sustainability lighthouse” (Miljøfyrtårn), with obligations on healthand safety management beyond the legislative minimum. Progress is Labour reported annually since 2012. #2 Businesses should uphold the Alliance arkitekter is committed to protect freedom of association and the labour rights, including freedom of association, effective recognition of the right to abolition of forcedand child labour, and the collective bargaining. elimination of any type of discrimination. Environment #3 The elimination of all forms of Alliance arkitekter fulfils all its responsibilities forced and compulsory labour. according to Norwegian law. Beyond the legis#8 Businesses should support a preAlliance arkitekter is committed to the promotion of greater allark.no lative demand, Alliance arkitekter has appointed 12 #4 The effective abolition of child employee representatives in both office locacautionary approach to environmental challenges. environmental responsibility and precautionary approaches to environmental challenges in our sphere of influence. labour. tions as council and neutral support for employ#5 The elimination of discrimination ees on issues regarding salary negotiation and contractual dispute. #9 Undertake initiatives to promote We seek to involve users and stakeholders at an early progreater environmental responsibility. ject stage. We design for a healthy living-, workingand in respect of employment and social environment, and believe this is key to a sustainable occupation. Alliance arkitekter sees great value in geographical and ethnic diversity among its work force. #10 Encourage the development society. and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We make an effort to reduce our resourceand energy use in our running of the office and the project development. We aim to achieve best practice for our projects through the use of international building and area planning certification systems, such as BREEAM, and recognized national standards like the passive house principle. SUOslo, May 2017 environmental design. Parallel to this, we have increased our knowledge on sustainable design, offering a broader range of services to our clients. This has led to a more environPPOmentally sound project portfolio. We have implemented different internal measures to improve our social impact. Furthermore, we have attended different network meetings and seminars on sustainable design. We participate in the public debate concerning architect’s social responsibility and role in society and strive for an innovative architecture. RT04 Statement We believe that the social and environmental components Architecture, as a part of the building indusare crucial in the development of long term profits and try, is the largest source of greenhouse gas competitive advantages, and we plan to continue and further emissions worldwide. Every time we design a develop our commitment to the Global Compact principles. of continued building, we project its energy consumption and its greenhouse gas footprint for the next 50-100 Additionally we continue to seek ways to develop our work years. This emphasizes why the building indusand proficiency through workshops, courses, a wide range try and architecture is so critical, and why our of interdisciplinary collaborations, study trips, literature as support membership in The Global Compact is a vital well as the constant exchange of ideas and experience. and relevant tool for our practice. Since the office was launched in June 2005, allark.no we have been focusing on how to utilize the ten 14 principles within our sphere of influence and how to encourage other companies, partners and collaborators to act likewise. After ten years of Global Compact activities, it’s clear to us that even a small architectural office can make a considerable contribution in our common efforts to improve the world. During the last few years, our most successful strategy towards the principles has been Charlotte Helleland through changing our client’s attitude on Studio manager, Oslo IN It is now more than ten years since we took on board The Global Compact in our office. The first years, we grew fast in both project volume and staff, including setting up a second REAoffice in Stavanger. Following the G.C. principles, we have put a lot of effort into developing both a good work place and great projects. This has required a continuous process of defining, reaching for our goals, and to develop a framework of implementation. Our main achievements to date have been achieving a third party certification as an environmentally sound business L LIpractice that we continue to improve, to regularly map staff priorities for the resources at hand and put them into life, Living the such as a shorter workweek and a better pension scheme. Now that we have settled in as a medium size company with 05 We have put extra effort into health and safety issues such some years’ experience, we also have a growing understandas optimizing the workspace through consulting an occupaing for diving deeper into the Global Compact and more tional therapist and investing in our hardware, and providing resources at hand. We are committed to raising the bar on principles a good health insurance for the staff. The office has develboth the types and number of projects with high sustainable oped a fixed salary system for the first eight years of pracqualities, and in terms of developing skills in our organizaFE tice, securing a fair salary development in the initial years of tion and a stronger management framework. We welcome practice, regardless of gender, parental leave or negotiation the initiative from G.C to take onboard emerging sustainable skills. The office practices competence mapping of the staff global issues through the Global opportunity report, where in addition to obligatory annual individual talks to ensure the five most significant global sustainable threats are that the competence at hand is used wisely, uncover needs identified. We have included new goals within fields relevant allark.no and wishes for new skills and career directions. The office to our business in our annual goals update and will work has a low staff turnover compared to the market in general. towards reaching these in the current report period. We have 16 In terms of securing high standards for sustainability in focused on “accelerating transport emissions”, “a generAs architects we have a remarkable opporour planning and building projects, the office has chosen ation wasted” and “global food crisis” as areas where we tunity to influence the building industry in BREEAM as the preferred platform for environmental implehave means to contribute. mentation and assessment. We also work with other enviareas considering the contractual frameronmental standards such as the passive house standard or We have participated in the Global Compact Nordic Network, design, methods and materials. We area specific sustainable programs. We also seek to develop work (GCNN) forum that facilitates outreach, learning, policy new areas of expertise through education and courses, stradialogue, collective action and partnerships. We hope to take advantage of this opportunity as often tegic cooperation with other companies and by encouraging engage further in the network and explore opportunities as we can. staff to enter the public arena through debates, lectures, and for partnerships for concrete initiatives and projects in the teaching. current period. Local town Overvik, Trondheim allark.no 18 ACHHuman Rights in-house IEVEstablish a partnership relation for a specific project with a Norwegian or foreign NGO working with human rights. We have not yet reached our goal, and continue to pursue the issue in our efforts for the current year. EMAchievements Human rights Anti-corruption 06 in building projects in-house in the report Recommend materials where human rights are Continue with a transparent economy and considered in the producing process. company administration open to all employees. ENThe company continues to disseminate knowlAll staff has open access to our administrative period edge on sustainable and responsibly sourced material not underlying any pledge of confidenmaterials within its staff, and actively suggest tiality. The office economy and strategies are such material alternatives in our projects, shared with the staff on a regular basis as part allark.no including awareness on recognized material of office philosophy to have everyone on board certification. to tackle opportunities and challenges. 20 TS In 2016 we set specific goals for the principles for the next year. Anti-corruption in building projects Our goals and achievements are described in the following. Continue to promote the principles by implementing our ethical standard in contracts, in dialogue with our project groups and through our publications and social media activities. Goal We have achieved our goal for 2016 and will pursue this goal further for the next report period. Result Labour Labour Environment in-house in building projects In-house Measure the quality of the indoor climate Define at least one innovation factor in each Decrease the number of flights per year. We aim Reduce the amount of waste by 10 %. We will regarding oxygen levels. Also, explore the project to promote learning and quality to reduce our flights with 10% and to increase especially stress the importance of updating possibility of green plants in the office. awareness. the number of video conferences or alternative the calendar to make sure we order the correct communication by 10% amount of lunch. We have not measured the quality of the We have several projects where we have manindoor climate regarding oxygen levels during aged to implement innovation/learning factors, We failed to reach this goal for 2016, due to We have reached our goal, going down 58,2% this report period. We have, however, conbut can improve both on the percentage of unforeseen circumstances in our Stavanger from 2015 (2015 included a major clean-up, tinued with our office clean-up, and we have projects and on making these factors evident office that made it necessary to be presbut the average waste has still decreased). As tried to digitalize our archive, and changed to the entire staff and to our clients. We uphold ent from the Oslo office. We have however we now will move to a new office building, we our routines for digital archiving. We still have this goal for the next period. increased our focus on having Skype meetings will continue to encourage to sort waste, and green plants, and as we now move to new whenever this is possible, and we intend to facilwe hope that our new building manager will offices during 2017, we intend to increase the itate for this at our new office. accommodate us with full recycling possibilinumber of green plants during the next report ties. We mention the importance of using the period. Make sure that most of our purchases are public calendar, so we can order the correct eco-labelled, organic or Fairtrade products. amount of lunch weekly, and the food waste Have presentations of both ongoing and finhas decreased. Every computer is set on ished projects to inspire and share knowledge This is an ongoing goal, but we continue 2-page printing to reduce the paper waste. between co-workers to choose eco-labelled, organic and Fairtrade-products, and we have increased the Continue to use less electricity in the office by We have not yet fully reached this goal, but we number of suppliers in this group by 3,5% from taking actions such as: influencing the house allark.no have established the concept of “Friday lunch 2015. We have also increased the number of owner management on standard temperature 22 presentations”, were employees can share suppliers that are environmentally certified levels, avoiding unnecessary use of the elevator, thoughts and results from both on-going and (ISO/EMAS, the Nordic “Svanen”, the EU Ecoadjusting lights and heat according to climate, finished projects. We are also working with label “Blomsten” or the Norwegian Eco-Lightand turn off computers and other equipment at another lunch seminar project, where we get house) by 63,6% from 2015. the end of the day. visits from different suppliers we find it interesting to work with. We will continue to uphold Energy consumption has unfortunately this goal for the next period. increased since 2015 by 6,82%. According to measurements, the energy consumption for the entire building has increased and not so much our premises alone. This might be a result of a harsh winter and that the added consumption is due to an increase of heating. Lights are always Goal turned off at the end of the work day and employees are encouraged to turn off their PC Result when they leave work. Infill at Nordre gate, Grünerløkka Oslo Environment In Building projects Increase our focus and mapping of results on Reduce the amount of waste on construction While creating zoning plans and early feasibility sustainable development in area planningand site by challenging the suppliers and contracstudies; energy, traffic and use of materials building projects. tors when it comes to material consumption are important issues to achieve objectives of and recycling. Also, consider recycling for the high urban and architectural quality and a low Last year we worked out a number of area plan future when choosing materials. environmental strain and climate footprint in a schemes and building projects with a strong life cycle perspective. We emphasize aesthetics sustainable profile. We also continue to proAlso, extra focus on the Global Compact and quality building, beneficial urban spaces mote sustainable development in a number of 2016 areas of special attention relevant to our and quality of living supporting sustainable public arenas and to our clients. We now have industry: residential environments, simultaneously our first BREEAM Communities urban planning focusing on flexibility while taking into account project on its way, and several other plans with Accelerating transport emissions development in mobility. For example, as a rule strong sustainable monitoring plans as part • flexible mobility while creating zoning plans, we consequently of the development. We continue to promote • crowd transport reduce required space for car parking at the sustainable materials and energy efficient • low transport cities same time increasing space for bicycle parking solutions where possible. We uphold this goal both to an increased extent than required by for the next period. A generation wasted overall guidelines. In our projects we seek, for • futurepreneurs instance, innovative solutions on how to handle Always offer BREEAM certification to our • the digital labour market local storm water, both on roofs and on terrain, projects. • closing the skills gap to a higher degree than the authorities lowest requirement. allark.no We have offered BREEAM certification to a Global food crisis 24 large number of projects. We uphold this goal • New diets In our projects there is often a prerequisite for the next period. • Smart farming • Reduce food waste for high quality roof terraces which proliferate urban food production. External communication We have instigated work on building projects where emissions have been reduced by over Participate on at least three events 50% in comparison with reference projects and on architectural issues related to we work with building sites that are fossil free. the principles, and in particular on We do our utmost in promoting sustainable environmental sustainability. energy solutions, i.e. use of energy wells. In one of our ongoing building projects, we have We have reached this goal, with Goal suggested using recycled brick from one of the participation on Oslo Urban arena, buildings that will be demolished. The bricks Oslo BOBY plus other smaller Result will now be used in the outdoor space. events. SUAn increasing share of our projects consists of area planning, master plans and feasibility studies that lay down the framework for future buildings. Getting the regulatory frameSTAwork right is key to optimizing the future buildings in terms of sustainable issues. We see a need for a broader and more holistic approach to sustainable planning that includes management of the sustainable issues through the process and securing the implemented qualities beyond the planning process. For this reason, we have started to use BREEAM Communities as a tool in several of our planning projects. INAOur philosophy embraces urbanisation as a means for a Sustainable more sustainable future, and to systematically challenge best practice and the restraints concerning what is possible 07 in a task. Focus on the development process is key, including a clear strategy for working progress, sensible phasing design in and for securing quality and involvement for the users during development. If we want the end-users to change their ways in a sustainable direction, we have to provide the BLE tools, the room for involvement and influence, and attractive our projects incentives from the start. For our building projects, we have a growing portfolio where sustainability has been a central focus, and we have brought allark.no forward offices, schools and housing with qualities we are 26 proud of. We strive towards a wider range and volume of We strive to create principles that sustainable projects, and for ever increasing ambition in our sustainable goals. make room for the changes to society and technology in our In the following is a short introduction to some of our planning and building projects and how we have implemented near and distant future. At the the Global Compact principles in the work. same time, the solutions we bring forth in our projects must be feasible and securing the desired social-, economic and environmental qualities of a project. OSLO HARBOUR Urban link between the old and the new town We have collaborated with the property developer HAV Eiendom AS in transforming Fiskeallark.no brygga, located in Bjørvika on a site near the 28 former harbour area. For the past 10 years, it’s been in use as a car parking lot. Our objective has been to achieve an urban link The development has also now between Kvadraturen (old town) and Bjørvika entered the political stage in the (new town). The office building will also contain process. Construction will comprogram for the public. There will be estabmence at the end of 2017, beginlished approximately 20 residential apartments ning of 2018. in this relatively large commercial complex. The new square established along with this project We view this task as a necessary will connect the old town to the seafront. city repair that will ensure the pre-conditions for a sustainable and contemporary settlement within the area. HASLUM RIVER PARK The objective of the zoning and corresponding zoning provisions is to regulate and transform Meandering river development the 12,7 acre plan area into an attractive residential area in accordance with overall guidelines on densification and transformation in collaboration with property developer Vedal. The illustration project shows between 150-170 apartments. An important pre-condition for the landowner has been to develop a project adding qualities to its surroundings, provided for by establishing five separate buildings opening to the landscape. The residential complex increases allark.no the availability to the Øverland river and the 30 adjacent green areas to the local community. The new project facilitates an increased width of the zone at the river’s edge, creating new playgrounds along a common foot path, meandering through the area. The buildings are designed to bring qualities to residents both within and outside the project through a variation of spatial and material qualities and a juxtaposition of volumes at the same time yielding light and space to both vegetation and outdoor, recreational areas. Overall goals are to absorb the increase in traffic mainly through public transportation, bicycling and walking. ØKERN S The future center of Oslo east Oslo is an expanding city and we contribute to its continued development! At the heart of the center of Hovinbyen lies Økern where we are currently at the kick off of a large urban development project on behalf of property developers allark.no KLP Eiendom, ROM Eiendom og Hesselberg eiendom Oslo. 32 We envision developing this area as an urban center with streets, meeting spaces, work places and residential areas. The objective is to establish 140,000 m² city within the 43 acre large area. 2020PARK Ten minute city! 2020park on Forus Stavanger seeks to become the most significant urban borough in the region through the development of an all-embracing area that provides good physical framework for living, working, recreation, local shopping and services. The work is planned in phases and the estimated completion time is 20-30 years. The area will contain roughly 10 000 modern office workallark.no spaces, 500 homes plus a range of shops, cafés and other services. This strategy is based in the principles of the «ten minute city», where as many 34 people as possible should be able to manage their everyday needs within a small area. This reduces the impact of transport on the environment and local infrastructure. The project is part of the NGBC pilot consortium adaption of BREEAM Communities to Norwegian context, and aims for a high certificate rating. The masterplan consists of three areas, which will all be certified for level 1, ensuring the integration of sustainable design principles in the overall plan. The area alongside the main regional busway, connecting Stavanger, Sandnes and Sola, is now in the process of a detailed regulation and will be certified for level 2 and 3 according to the BREEAM Communities scheme. NORDRE GATE Central CLT In collaboration with property developer Aspelin Ramm we have designed 40 contemporary apartments with business premises at ground floor in one of Oslo’s most vibrant, young and hip quarters; Grünerløkka. The main construction is made up of cross laminated timber (CLT), partly revealed in the interior thus benefitting allark.no the indoor climate of the apartments. 36 Verdant roof terraces facilitating a full range and variety of plants and the possibility for nurturing trees. Pollination friendly plants at roof level, aid pollen-bearing insects e.g bees, thus reinforcing one of the city’s main green corridors for insects. Residents gain a green oasis of fruit trees and berry bushes at roof level and The building will open to the street through quite a substantial area has been reserved for shops and a restaurant at ground level. An growing vegetables. The project focuses on arcade facilitates al-fresco serving without facilitating informal social meeting spaces and occupying the sidewalk. The backyard will be arenas for developing a good neighborhood accessible to all residents in the neighborhood through quality design. and will give space to a common playground, completing the green elements as well as other recreative elements. A complex of six units; a detail regulation work of a residential project on behalf of the Signo Foundation, will be situated in Kalfar Road, within close proximity to the Bergen Center for the Deaf and the Deaf Peoples Congregation of Bergen. User complicity is a requirement in the project. KALFARVEIEN 77 A wide variety of spaces The building is situated on an inclination overlooking the beautiful lake, Store Lungegårdsvann. The compartmentalization of the building mass into smaller units, adapt to the scale of the surrounding single-houses area. Adjacent to the site lies the Bergen Center for allark.no the Deaf, former Summer residence for Consul Peter Jebsen from 1869. Historical maps reveal 38 evidence of a larger complex from earlier years. The former wagon shed is in a poor state and is planned to be torn down. However, there is a plan to reuse material and historical elements of value in the proposed building. Each resident has their own private unit and there are common meeting spaces in both the interior and exterior. The form of the building mass generates a wide variety of spaces, deadends and nooks, creating a series of in-between places ready to be experienced. BJERGSTED TRIO Urban farming in the centre of Stavanger Project proposal / zoning for Base Property regarding 30 apartments and a small commercial area in Bjergsted, which is situated just north of Stavanger city centre. allark.no We suggest three residential buildings with 40 a parallel façade towards the pavement of Tananger street, in accordance with the buildwill be well suited for families. The elevated ing tradition in the “wood house city” of Stavaninner courtyard holding the main entrances, ger. By locating them as close as possible to business and parking in 1st floor level facing the street, we also reduce casting shadows on the street. the nearby buildings. By breaking up the buildings in smaller volumes, the project adapts to The green courtyard marks the transition the existing design idiom in the area. between the existing gardens and the new courtyards. Planting is planned with trees, All the apartments are facing south or west, shrubs and perennials with native ancestry and nearly all units face a quiet and sunny inspired from the neighborhood garden culture; courtyard. The apartments on the ground floor fruit trees, berry bushes and flowers. All units have a small, private roof garden for vegetables and berry bushes. KRONSTADVEIEN 20 Infill in Bergen Kronstadveien 20 is an infill development in a residential area in Bergen bordering the city centre. In order to preserve the scale and architectural style of Kronstadveien, the project is divided into a semi-detached house facing the street and a three-unit townhouse towards the back. Both will be constructed in wood and will be built allark.no on top of a shared underground parking garage. The project has been approved by the municipal building authority and 42 received a positive review from the Municipal Council of Architecture and Urban Design. Bergen, like most Norwegian cities, is experiencing a large population growth, highlighting the importance of utilizing undeveloped urban land. In response to the proximity to the city centre, we challenged the municipality to allow a cutback on personal car parking and added covered bicycle parking to accommodate urban living. All parking is underground, with the houses and outdoor areas on top This infill project pays consideration and respect to its built surroundings, while holding an architectural edge. HARESTAD There is an emphasis on a healthy indoor climate, low energy use, hybrid ventilation SCHOOL strategies and provision of daylight. BREEAM has been used as a guidance to good design practice through the design process. Harestad school is a collaboration project between SPINN arkitekter and Alliance arkitekter. Healthy learning Harestad school is planned as both a primary and a secondary school, for a total of 1150 pupils. The first phase consists of the secondary school, as well as a multifunctional hall for cultural purposes and comprises around 9000 m². It is planned completed autumn 2017. The engineering part of the second phase has just startet. Comallark.no pletition of the whole complex with a total of 16 000m² is set for 2019. Space efficient and flexible plans, with a great 44 focus on the possibilities of social interaction, are designed to provide a good platform for learning. GOHuman Rights in-house Environment In-house Labour In-house AL • Establish a partnership relation • Decrease the number of flights per year. We • Measure the quality of the indoor climate for a specific project with a Noraim to reduce our flights with 10% and to regarding dust, humidity and oxygen levels. wegian or foreign NGO working increase the number of video conferences or Also, increase the number of green plants with human rights. alternative communication by 10 %. in the office in order to improve the indoor • Make sure that most of our purchases are climate. In building projects eco-labelled, organic or Fairtrade products. • Have presentations of both ongoing and fin• Recommend materials where • Reduce the amount of waste by 10 %. ished projects to inspire and share knowledge human rights are considered in • Focus on reducing food waste and increasing between co-workers. S 08 the producing process. the number of meat-free lunches. • Offer a student trainee position Goals for the • Continue to use less electricity in the office. • Encourage the use of public transport and bicycles to/from work and during the workday. Anti-corruption In building projects • Increase our focus and mapping of results on In building projects In-house next report sustainable development in area planningand • Define at least one innovation factor in each • Continue with a transparent building projects. project to promote learning and quality awareeconomy and • Always offer BREEAM certification to our ness. Share the knowledge obtained within the • company administration open to projects. office, and where feasible, with our clients and all employees. • Reduce the amount of waste on construction the public. site by challenging the suppliers and contracIn building projects tors when it comes to material consumption • Continue to promote the princiand recycling. Also, consider recycling for the External allark.no ples by implementing our ethical future when choosing materials. 46 standard in contracts, in dialogue with our project groups and • Investigating the possibility of binding CO2 in communication building projects, for example further explore • Participate on at least four events on archiIn order to track our progress on promoting through our publications and the use of wood (CLT) as construction method. tectural issues related to the principles, and in social media activities. the ten principles, we have set specific goals • Continue to focus on smart farming and urban particular on environmental sustainability. food production in our projects. for the coming report period. • Aiming for projects focusing on sustainable development/research. • Establish a partnership relation with consultants/a network who are leading in their field of knowledge regarding sustainable development. Oslo: Akersbakken 12, 0172 Oslo Stavanger: RYFYLKEGATA 22, 4014 Stavanger +47 22 36 40 44 post@allark.no www.allark.no
