BEST INDUSTRIAL COMPANY LIMITED NO. 107-A/42, INDUSTRIAL ESTATE, ZONE (1), KHA YAY ROAD, SHWEPYITHA TOWNSHIP, YANGON, MYANMAR. TEL (Office) . 664804, 665048 EMAIL : BESTIND@mptmail.net.mm TEL (Factory): 610510, 612591, 09 8617453 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals We strongly respect and support the human rights with applicable international and national practices, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Core Conventions and the ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The protection of Human Rights is embedded in our numerous operating processes and control mechanisms. Implementation The Best Industrial Company has gone on to enforce its No Workplace Discrimination policy in the company’s third COP period. Under this policy, we strongly prohibit improper behavior, including discrimination or harassment in any shape, and any breaks will result in corrective action, inclusive of termination or release. We don't discriminate based on Religion, Ethnicity, Race, Gender, Age or against Vulnerable Groups in our engagement process. We have created good conditions for people with disabilities. The Best Industrial Company respects the rights of clients through the provision of objective information about their products / services. In production, we utilize exclusively high-quality raw materials from leading producers. Taking into account the wishes and demands of our clients, we constantly improve the character and increase the variety of our products. Measurement of Outcomes Semi-annual review completed by the senior management team. Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all form of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation BEST INDUSTRIAL COMPANY LIMITED NO. 107-A/42, INDUSTRIAL ESTATE, ZONE (1), KHA YAY ROAD, SHWEPYITHA TOWNSHIP, YANGON, MYANMAR. TEL (Office) . 664804, 665048 EMAIL : BESTIND@mptmail.net.mm TEL (Factory): 610510, 612591, 09 8617453 Assessment, Policy and Goals Best Myanmar Industry strongly emphasizes: Company policy to maintain the freedom of association and collective bargaining The encouragement of each employee to talk about problems they come across with their higher management. (Whistle-blowing) No child labor No use of forced labor slavery and human trafficking in any of our operations Employee rights, responsibilities, compensations and benefits (Yearly Renewed Workers' Manual) Regular staff training and training for employee growth Written company policy—provided to all employees Educate our staff on the fact that our company supports and adopts the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Help out in emergency response for safety Right to desirable work and to join trade union Right to Rest and Leisure Respect disability and responsible business Implementation Our people are our most valuable asset. We believe in investing in our workforce and developing our employees to their fullest potential. The Best Industrial Company supports the wellness of workers and the prevention of occupational diseases by taking out compulsory medical tests. We operate under the direction of experienced masters and specialists. We raise the level of employee engagement and hold more regular communication sessions with employees. Our company organized more dialogue sessions to improve management-staff communication. Various staff engagement initiatives are organized throughout the year to enhance communication between management and staff. Best Industrial Company trains workers at the with funding set aside for training purposes. We take aim with the objectives of development and further selfpreparation of actors through the planning of educational leave. We strongly do not admit the use of individuals below 18 years of age and has partnered with companies that do not employ child labor. We follow National law on working hours, overtime payment. We give a paid holiday on every Sunday according to the law as well as every public holiday and compensate overtime work with double the rate of pay. BEST INDUSTRIAL COMPANY LIMITED NO. 107-A/42, INDUSTRIAL ESTATE, ZONE (1), KHA YAY ROAD, SHWEPYITHA TOWNSHIP, YANGON, MYANMAR. TEL (Office) . 664804, 665048 EMAIL : BESTIND@mptmail.net.mm TEL (Factory): 610510, 612591, 09 8617453 Measurement of outcomes Semi-annual review completed by the senior management team. Environment Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals o Mindful of its responsibility for the conservation of the environment, the company has committed to properly discard of waste and not contaminate the soil. o Reduce waste materials, i.e. paper, water, plastic, etc. o Went through an electronic text file management system to reduce paper use. o Recognizes the harmful effects (if any) used technology on the environment and monitors. o Even care of vehicles, generators and machines for safety and environmentally friendliness Implementation The Best Industrial Company informs laborers about environmental issues and its impact on health in regards to the company. We go to the factory campus clean and encourage throwing waste into bins. We also endorse the projects of organizations that distribute information on environmental protection and implement specific projects on environmental security. This information includes: indicators and their dynamics, reflecting the impact of the measures on the improvement of the environment; investments in fixed capital to the objects of environmental protection, by type of resources (water, earth, air, etc.); dynamics of pollutants emissions reduction; indicators of specific consumption of resources and reduction; gross amount of unused waste; greenhouse gas emissions; reduction of polluting emissions of substances; amount of pollution of the claims of the environment; cost money spent on the training of personnel in the field of ecology; and number of environmental and amount of financing projects. This information is taken from internal reports and external audit reports. BEST INDUSTRIAL COMPANY LIMITED NO. 107-A/42, INDUSTRIAL ESTATE, ZONE (1), KHA YAY ROAD, SHWEPYITHA TOWNSHIP, YANGON, MYANMAR. TEL (Office) . 664804, 665048 EMAIL : BESTIND@mptmail.net.mm TEL (Factory): 610510, 612591, 09 8617453 Measurement of outcomes Semi-annual review completed by the senior management team Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Policy elements combating corruption: • Financial regulations and orders regarding Gifts, Social costs and deductions for executive costs • Procurement Regulations • Regulations on paying or taking bribes (anti-corruption) • Regulations in regard to charitable deposits Implementation The company does not pay money for protection by any institution, individual or group. In the company, there are strict rules regarding charitable contributions. The company has developed a program to combat corruption. Employees are informed about this policy. Employees are allowed to provide anonymous notice of violation of ethical corporate principles and all forms of corruption. The company monitors the anti-corruption activities of companies in order to take from them. The company has joined forces with similar enterprises in the industry and stakeholders. Workers are paid wages officially in full and the company pays taxes regularly. Measurement of Outcomes Semi-annual review completed by the senior management team. BEST INDUSTRIAL COMPANY LIMITED NO. 107-A/42, INDUSTRIAL ESTATE, ZONE (1), KHA YAY ROAD, SHWEPYITHA TOWNSHIP, YANGON, MYANMAR. TEL (Office) . 664804, 665048 EMAIL : BESTIND@mptmail.net.mm TEL (Factory): 610510, 612591, 09 8617453 August 30, 2017 H.E Antonio Guterres SecretaryGeneral United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear H.E. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Best Industrial Company Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In Best Industrial third annual Commitment on Progress, we continue to improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy and daily operations. Sincerely yours,
