SK innovation Sustainabilit y Repor t 2016 Deep Change for Tomorrow Corporate Information SK innovation & Key Subsidiaries About This Report SK innovation has published this annual sustainability report since 2005, as a key communication channel to transparently disclose the direction, activities, and achievements of the company's sustainable management initiative. We listen to diverse group of stakeholders and reflect their feedback into our management activities, to enhance the effectiveness of our sustainable management activities. Reporting Standard This report follows the G4 Guidelines(Core Opinion) and Oil & Gas Sector disclosure of the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) and reflects key global indexes on social responsibility, such as the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals of the UN. In order to select core issues suitable to the company's industry characteristics, reporting issues were chosen based on the SASB(Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) Standards for Industries. Reporting Period and Scope This report includes data from January 1 to December 31, 2016. In the case of certain indexes that require performance trends, the company presents data from the past three years. For some items, data from the first half of 2017 was included, in light of the material nature and timeliness of information. As for the scope of this report, financial data has the same consolidation criteria as K-IFRS(KoreaInternational Financial Reporting Standards). Non-financial data are limited to SK innovation and major subsidiaries’ headquarters in Seoul(SK energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants, SK incheon petrochem, SK trading international), production plants in Jeungpyeong, Cheongju, Seosan, Ulsan and Incheon, Daejeon Global Technology Institute and major subsidiaries and sub-subsidiaries of overseas corporations. This scope includes 99% of sales by the main body of SK innovation and subsidiaries having 100% of shares(except for SK mobile energy and SK battery systems). Some environmental quantitative performance indicators were based on major domestic operations except for overseas corporations; the detailed scope of such data is indicated separately. Reporting Reliability This report has been published upon review by the Board of Directors’ CSR Committee to enhance the appropriateness of the content. In addition, DNV GL, a third-party assurance provider, has evaluated the contents and data of this Report according to ISAE3000, limited level of assurance, to ensure objectivity and transparency. Reliability assurance engagement was performed on certain performance information. The cover of the report is a graphic visualization of SK innovation’s activities and achievements to become a global top-tier energy and chemical company by, developing new growth drivers, engaging in continuous structural innovation, and pursuing stakeholder-centered sustainability management, and adopting a selective and focused strategic direction. Deep Change for Tomorrow Deep Change for Tomorrow 2 3 About This Report SK innovation has published this annual sustainability report since 2005, as a key communication channel to transparently disclose the direction, activities, and achievements of the company's sustainable management initiative. We listen to diverse group of stakeholders and reflect their feedback into our management activities, to enhance the effectiveness of our sustainable management activities. Reporting Standard This report follows the G4 Guidelines(Core Opinion) and Oil & Gas Sector disclosure of the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) and reflects key global indexes on social responsibility, such as the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals of the UN. In order to select core issues suitable to the company's industry characteristics, reporting issues were chosen based on the SASB(Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) Standards for Industries. Reporting Period and Scope This report includes data from January 1 to December 31, 2016. In the case of certain indexes that require performance trends, the company presents data from the past three years. For some items, data from the first half of 2017 was included, in light of the material nature and timeliness of information. Beyond Korea, further into the world As for the scope of this report, financial data has the same consolidation criteria as K-IFRS(KoreaInternational Financial Reporting Standards). Non-financial data are limited to SK innovation and major subsidiaries’ headquarters in Seoul(SK energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants, SK incheon Leading the petrochem, SK trading international), production plants in Jeungpyeong, Cheongju, Seosan, Ulsan and Incheon, Daejeon Global Technology Institute and major subsidiaries and sub-subsidiaries of overseas corporations. This scope includes 99% of sales by the main body of SK innovation and Energy and subsidiaries having 100% of shares(except for SK mobile energy and SK battery systems). Some environmental quantitative performance indicators were based on major domestic operations except for overseas corporations; the detailed scope of such data is indicated separately. Petrochemical Reporting Reliability This report has been published upon review by the Board of Directors’ CSR Committee to enhance Industry the appropriateness of the content. In addition, DNV GL, a third-party assurance provider, has evaluated the contents and data of this Report according to ISAE3000, limited level of assurance, to ensure objectivity and transparency. Reliability assurance engagement was performed on certain performance information. The cover of the report is a graphic visualization of SK innovation’s activities and achievements to become a global top-tier energy and chemical company by, developing new growth drivers, engaging in continuous structural innovation, and pursuing stakeholder-centered sustainability management, and adopting a selective and focused strategic direction. Beyond Korea, further into the world Leading the Energy and Petrochemical Industry Deep Change for Tomorrow 27 Contents 02 Overview 2 8 About This Report Message from the CEO 10 Corporate Information 10 SK innovation Overview 12 SK innovation & Key Subsidiaries 22 26 Value Chain 28 Our Strategy Business Review 32 Research & Development 34 Market Outlook 36 Business Performance 38 Core Sustainability 42 Creating a Health and Safety Workplace 46 Paris Agreement and Climate Change Performance 50 Creating a Sustainable Supply Chain 56 Operation of the Board of Directors 54 59 Risk Management Sustainability 62 Ethical Management 66 Employees Performance 70 Supply Chain Management 73 Social Contribution 78 SHE Management 83 84 Materiality Test 86 Key Sustainability Performance Appendix 95 GRI Index 97 Commitment to Sustainable Management 98 Audit Report 99 Financial Statements 100 Independent Assurance Statement 102 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 103 Membership Status SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Deep Change for Tomorrow 8 Overview Corporate Information Message from &the SK innovation Key CEO Subsidiaries Message from the CEO Dear stakeholders, I would like to start by expressing my deepest gratitude for your support and interest in SK innovation. In the face of an extremely volatile business environment during the past year, the company continued to focus its efforts on innovating its profit structure. As a result, we achieved the most successful annual business performance in our corporate history. Not only did we successfully accomplish the largest turnaround to date, but also paved the basis for future growth by forward-positioning our petrochemical and refinery business in the global market and expanding our electric vehicle battery and I&E material capacity. In addition, efforts to improve our financial position came to fruition as the company achieved its highest credit rating to date from an international credit rating agency in 2017. SK innovation will not rest on these achievements. We will strive to enhance our corporate value through persistent innovation and continuous growth. This sustainability report presents the company's main business, accomplishments, commitment and vision to improve sustainable management and corporate value. Structural innovation of the business model for global growth SK innovation is committed to business model innovation, in accordance with better positioning ourselves for stronger global growth, and enhance our corporate value. The company will aggressively push forward with strategic investments to expand new businesses and boost global growth. To spur meaningful innovation in our business structure, we plan to increase partnerships with leading companies around the world. In addition, the company will engage in a wide range of profit structure innovation by creating a foundation for steady margin generation through optimization, stronger operating competitiveness, and structural cost savings. Enhancing innovation execution by creating a passionate, agile and flexible culture within the organization Based on SK Management System(SKMS), SK Group’s unique philosophy and business management system, SK innovation strives to respond quickly and flexibly to the ever-changing business environment by creating a robust corporate culture and concentrating the abilities of its employees. All employees are encouraged to freely and enthusiastically pursue innovation based on passion, the core of SKMS. In addition, we are strengthening innovation execution by introducing swift decision-making and work processes, flexible corporate culture and stronger communication. Strengthened social responsibility in the pursuit of happiness for all stakeholders SK innovation is exerting its utmost efforts to become a company that pursues the happiness of our stakeholders. We put the utmost priority on the safety and health of our stakeholders. Moreover, the company is committed to fulfill its social responsibility by adopting the global best practice SHE(safety, health and environment) management, pursuing mutual growth with suppliers, strengthening responsibility to our local community, and supporting the global initiative of sustainable management. These efforts will help us maximize social values and work together with our stakeholders to spread happiness. Based on the trust and respect of our stakeholder, SK innovation aims to grow into a global top-tier company in the energy and chemical industry through continuous innovation. We will always listen to your opinion and be happy to communicate with you. Best Regards, SK innovation CEO and President Kim Jun Deep Change for Tomorrow 9 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 SK innovation Overview History Company Overview 1962 Korea National Oil Date Established October 13, 1962 Corporation is established HQ 26 Jongno, Jongno-gu, Seoul Businesses P etroleum, lubricants, petrochemicals, battery, I/E material CEO & President Kim Jun 1980 Sunkyoung Group acquires Korea National Oil Corporation Date Established January 1, 2011 HQ 26 Jongno, Jongno-gu, Seoul 1997 Businesses P etroleum products CEO & President Kim Jun Changed the Company name • CI to SK Corporation Co., Ltd Date Established January 1, 2011 HQ 26 Jongno, Jongno-gu, Seoul 2007 Businesses P etrochemical products CEO & President Kim Hyung-kun The Company is transformed into a holding company U.S. Date Established October 1, 2009 2009 HQ 26 Jongno, Jongno-gu, Seoul Businesses L ubricant and lube base oil CEO & President Jee Dong Seob SK lubricants spin-off 2011 Date Established July 1, 2013 HQ 415 Bongsu-daero, Seo-gu, Incheon Businesses P etroleum and petrochemical Launched SK innovation’s products governance and spin-off of CEO & President Choi Nam Kyu SK energy and SK global chemical Peru Date Established July 1, 2013 2013 HQ 26 Jongno, Jongno-gu, Seoul Businesses C  rude oil and petroleum SK incheon petrochem and products trading SK trading international spin-off CEO & President Song Jin-hwa For more information on the ownership structure of SK innovation and each subsidiary, visit the website(http://www.skinnovation.com). Deep Change for Tomorrow 10 Corporate Information SK innovation Overview & Key Subsidiaries Production Capacity 550 40,000 291 122 million barrels units per year million barrels million barrels Crude oil secured Electric vehicle Annual petroleum Annual petroleum based on proven batteries products production products production reserve supplied capacity(Ulsan capacity(SK incheon Complex) petrochem) 25,842 2.15 7,426 1,311 thousand barrels million barrels thousand tons thousand tons Annual base oil Annual lubricants Annual petrochemical Annual petrochemical production production products production products production capacity capacity capacity(Ulsan capacity(SK incheon Complex) petrochem) Overview of Key Business Locations U.K. LNG project Germany Russia Exploration block Production block Production line Netherlands SK global chemical Japan global network Qatar SK lubricants global network China Dubai Korea SK trading international global network Libya Vietnam India Yemen Oman Singapore Australia Crude oil production block | Peru, Vietnam, U.S., Libya Global Technology | Daejeon R&D Center Crude oil exploration block | China, Vietnam, Australia SK global chemical | Subsidiaries in China, Singapore, Japan and LNG projects | Peru, Yemen, Oman, Qatar America, Germany and Dubai Branch Seosan Plant | Lithium-ion batteries production lines SK lubricants | Subsidiaries in the U.S., China, India, Russia, Jeungpyeong, Cheongju Plant | Battery and circuit material Japan and Netherlands, U.K. and China Branch production lines SK incheon petrochem | Refinery, petrochemical plant Ulsan Complex | Refinery, middle distillates crackers, petrochemical SK trading international | Subsidiaries in the U.S., U.K. and plant, polymer plant, lube base oil and lubricant plant Singapore, Dubai Branch Deep Change for Tomorrow 11 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Korea’s First and Largest Energy & Chemical Company SK innovation As one of the most distinguished energy and chemical companies in Korea and a company with five subsidiaries and two business units, SK innovation aims to become a global leading company through continuous innovation in its portfolio. SK innovation E&P(exploration and production) business strives to generate stable profits by ensuring balanced growth in core regions and establishing a business model based on differentiated technical capabilities. B&I(battery and I/E material) business boosts the value of business by securing differentiated technical competiveness and achieving innovation in cost competitiveness. In the E&P business, SK innovation will accelerate the growth to “Global Top Tier E&P Company” based on North America by utilizing M&A and building an additional platform, while B&I business will continue business valueup by expanding the order of EV batteries and making business from new material items. E&P(exploration and production) Business Overview Major Business Activities Production Blocks As of December 2016, SK innovation operates 12 blocks and 4 LNG projects in 9 countries and Participating has secured crude oil proven reserves(1P) of a total 550 million barrels.1) Country Project Name Since 8 1996 Peru Peru is the country that contributes the most, in terms of production volume and Peru 88(Camisea) 2000 56 2004 profitability to SK innovation’s E&P business. SK innovation built a vertically integratVietnam 15-1 1998 ed local production system after first producing crude oil from Block 8 in 1996. We SK Plymouth 2014 manage the whole value chain from oil exploration to sale of products. U.S. SK Permian 2014 Libya NC-174 2000 Vietnam After acquiring exploration rights for Block 15-1 in 1998, SK innovation has executed the entire process from exploration and to development and to commercial producExploration Blocks tion since 2003. In September 2014, the company developed its fourth oil field, Su Tu Participating Country Project Name Nau where it is currently producing oil. Since 04/20 2015 China 17/03 2015 U.S. SK innovation began making inroads into the US market by acquiring production 15-1/05 2007 assets in Oklahoman and Texas in 2014. By acquiring unconventional E&P technology Vietnam 123 2008 and expertise in the US, we were able to expand our business capacity. Drilling has Australia WA-34R 1998 resumed in the Oklahoma block leading to higher expectations on an increase in production volume. Operational efficiencies, such as reducing drilling time, have also LNG Projects been achieved successfully. Participating Country Project Name Since Peru Peru LNG 2003 China In 2015, SK innovation was the first Korean company to participate in the South ChiYemen Yemen LNG 1997 na Sea Block Project(04/20, 17/03). Recognizing the significant cost and geographical Oman Oman LNG 1996 potential that both blocks have, the company has fully supported the development Ras Laffan of the project by establishing a separate branch in Shenzhen and conducting joint Qatar 1999 LNG development with the China National Offshore Oil Corporation(CNOOC). 1) As of 2015 end Deep Change for Tomorrow 12 Corporate Information SK innovation & Key Subsidiaries Vietnam 15-1 block ocean platform view Batteries and Information & Electronic Materials(B&I) Business Overview Major Batteries FCCL LiBS Products Major Business Activities Battery Division: Increasing Supply of EV Batteries I/E Materials Division: Increasing the Development of SK innovation completed its investment in a third production line Differentiated Products in 3Q 2016, securing capacity of 1.1GWh to supply batteries for up Since completing the sequential stretching process for separators to 40 thousand electric vehicles per annum. In 4Q 2016, the comin 2007 for the first time in the world, SK innovation has been leadpany decided to construct a second battery plant in Seosan, South ing the global separator market with superior technology, such as Chungcheong Province. Once the new No. 4 to 6 production lines, developing the world’s first 5μm thin film and commercializing the which total 2.8GWh is completed, total capacity will reach 3.9GWh world’s first ceramic coating separators(CCS). In 2016, the compa(equivalent to batteries for approximately 140 thousand EVs) by ny embarked on expanding capacity to support annual production 2018. Off the expanded No.1 to 3 lines, batteries for high-quality of 330 million m2 to satisfy demand from China and other global EVs in Korea and abroad will be supplied. This includes KIA SOUL markets. To solidify its market leadership, the company also added EV, BAIC Motors EV 200 and recent orders signed for future Hyunda third and fourth unit for CCS, which provide higher performance ai Motor Company and Mercedes-Benz electric vehicles. than traditional lithium-ion battery separators(LiBS). In addition, SK innovation is planning to grow the circuit material business by releasing differentiated products, such as ultra-thin film and thick film products that require the continuous development of FCCL technology and customized low-k products, to broaden our global customer base. Battery Cell Production Production of LiBS at SK innovation Jeungpyeong Plant Deep Change for Tomorrow For more information, please visit our website 13 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Korea’s Leading Oil Refiner Competing on the Global Stage SK energy Amid a global low-growth environment, the oil refining business enjoys sound refining margins, due to increasing demands for major petroleum products such as gasoline. However, the company is likely to face a more competitive business environment because of uncertain oil price expectations and new additions of refining capacity in the region. Against this backdrop, SK energy is concentrating all efforts to secure sustainable and differentiated competitiveness by innovating its profit structure and establishing a forward-looking business structure. As part of these efforts, the company reinforces the status as No.1 asphalt provider in the region by supplying locally customized asphalt in China and continues value-up in the gas station network based on drive-thru style to generate new profit sources and raise competitiveness in sales. SK energy will leap forward to become Regional Top R&M Company by increasing the competitiveness of the Ulsan Complex, establishing and upgrading to a swift and flexible operating system, and strengthening global partnerships. Business Overview Petroleum Business LPG Business Special Products Business As Korea’s No.1 oil refinery, SK energy supFor LPG business, SK energy boosts customSK energy has a leading competitive edge plies petroleum products in Korea and overer loyalty by introducing a differentiated in the asphalt market, based on its excellent seas through its world-class Ulsan Complex. retail customer care program, with the aim products and services. A prime example is Moreover, the company has strengthened of reinforcing long-term competitiveness SBS Polymer Modified Asphalt(SBS PMA), a the speed and flexibility of the value chain, and securing a stable business foundation. product that the company independently in order to take preemptive action when In addition, customer relationship mandeveloped, commercialized, and patented necessary amid an uncertain business enagement(CRM) programs have been infor the first time as a refiner in Korea. vironment. In addition, we sell petroleum troduced at LPG refilling stations to boost Asphalt products through our gas stations to indinetwork competitiveness and brand value. Superphalt vidual and corporate customers in Korea, Going forward, SK energy is committed to Regular asphalt and provide corporate cargo drivers with reinforcing marketing capabilities to enSK’s comprehensive solution Netruck as a sure sustainable growth and high margins unique customer service. in the future. Fuel Gas Premium gasoline, regular gasoline, diesel, kerosene LPG Deep Change for Tomorrow 14 Corporate Information SK innovation & Key Subsidiaries Front view of the plant from the main building of SK energy Ulsan Complex Major Business Activities Solidifying its Position as the No.1 Asphalt Provider Enhancing the Network Value Adding Value via in the Region QSR Drive Thru In 2016, SK energy produced and sold a total of 2.57 million tons of SK energy has continuously enhanced the value of its gas station asphalt, including exports of 1.87 million tons and domestic sales of network by analyzing the commercial district of each location and 700 thousand tons in Korea. Exports to China reached 1.25 million identifying and positioning the best complimentary business for tons, enabling the company to maintain its No.1 position among the gas station to strengthen its competitiveness. Through these importers in the Chinese market. Based on China’s massive infraefforts, these gas stations are able to increase asset efficiency, structure development plan, asphalt demand for road pavements boost customer traffic by hosting popular outlets, and create new are expected to increase, resulting in an increase in company’s Chirevenue sources by engaging in non-gas businesses. Of the directnese exports. SK energy has concentrated its asphalt research and ly managed and independently owned SK gas stations nationwide local marketing capabilities at SK Asphalt(Shanghai) Co., Ltd. to the company operates 72 gas stations(accumulated basis) that provide customers with high-quality asphalt with the best service. have completed this transformation. Since 2014, the main compliMoreover, the company not only supplies asphalt tailored to local mentary business has been QSR(Quick Service Restaurant) drive markets from five local production bases, such as Ningbo, Chongqthru, which has a high synergy with gas sales. Customers find it ing and Hefei, but it is also diversifying its sales channels in China convenient to visit the gas station to not only fill their tanks, but by increasing local sales through leasing tank terminal to local Chialso enjoy their favorite fast food. In addition, these QSR-drivenese customers. In Japan, we exported 410 thousand tons, making thru-combined gas stations are visually more appealing and recogus the No. 2 supplier after JX Nippon Oil & Energy. In addition, nizable, while the drive-thru provides joyful experience for the the company also supplies 210 thousand tons of asphalt to other customers. markets, such as Southeast Asia, further solidifying SK energy’s position as the No.1 asphalt provider in the region. Deep Change for Tomorrow For more information, please visit our website 15 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Creating a New Future in the Chemical Industry for Customers SK global chemical SK global chemical will step-up growth in the global market, with a key focus on China, the country with the largest demand and growth potential for chemical products. The company will not only continue to reinforce its existing China businesses and carry out strategic cooperation with local companies, but also expand partnerships with global petrochemical firms. Moreover, with the goal of maximizing future profits, SK global chemical will focus on improving its product portfolio by identifying a wide variety of new growth options, including strengthening performance chemical products and high value-added businesses. Through these efforts, SK global chemical will emerge as a global chemical company with marketing platform focused on China and a portfolio of high value-added products based on technology. Business Overview Olefin Business Aromatics Business Performance Chemical Polymer Business EPDM Business Starting with the first The aromatics business Business The polymer division The EPDM Division proNCC(Naphtha Cracking produces and supplies The performance chemispecializes in the producduces and supplies EPDM Center) in Korea in 1972, various aromatic prodcals business produces soltion of Linear Low Densi(Ethylene Propylene Dithe business currently ucts, such as benzene vents used in a wide range ty Polyethylene(LLDPE)1), ene Monomer), a high has the capacity to proand paraxylene, which of products from houseHigh Density Polyethvalue-added synthetic duce 860 thousand tons are used to make genhold goods to high-tech ylene(HDPE) 2) and Polyrubber with outstanding of ethylene. This busieral goods, construction products. The division propylene(PP)3), which it resistance to foul weathness steadily supplies key material, electronics and has independently develsells approximately 800 er, heat and corrosive petrochemical feedstock, textiles. As a result of oped specialty chemical thousand tons per year. ozone. The division aims such as ethylene, propylcontinuous investment production technology The division will proto both strengthen its ene and butadiene to in facilities, the business used in products, such as actively penetrate the competitiveness in the Ulsan Complex, various enjoys the top level of dearomatized products high-end market by creglobal market, including domestic petrochemical production capacity(3 milthat do not have toxic ating new customer value China, and boost customplants, and overseas cuslion tons p.a. 4)) in the ingredients for humans. through products, such er satisfaction through tomers. region. In addition, the Based on our marketing as the high-performance continuous quality conaromatics business strives network and technology polyethylene Nexlene™. trol and technical supto grow into a top playknow-how accumulated Moreover, it also plans to port. er in the global market across three decades, strengthen customer conby expanding its trading we focus on developing tact by providing market business and reinforcing customized customer intelligence and technical its market leadership. products and supporting support. the improvement of user technology. 1) LLDPE: Linear Low Density Polyethylene, which is used in packaging and agricultural film, wire coating, civil engineering and construction pipes and sheets. 2) HDPE: High Density Polyethylene, which is used in containers, food packaging film, water treatment or chemical plants, and vessel civil engineering pipes. 3) PP: Polypropylene, a plastic used to make various types of containers, experiment tools, megaphones, and automobile parts. 4) p.a.: per annual Deep Change for Tomorrow 16 Corporate Information SK innovation & Key Subsidiaries Major Business Activities Penetrating the High Value-added Packaging Ethylene Acrylic Acid(EAA) Business Functional adhesive copolymer primarily used in the SK global chemical is committed to transforming into a adhesive layer of multi-layered film material, such as high value-added chemical business strongly resilient to aluminum foil packaging market cycles in order to realize the vision of becoming a top global energy and chemical company. As part of this strategy, the company signed an agreement to acquire Dow Chemical’s Ethylene Acrylic Acid(EAA) business in February 2017. Under the agreement, the company will acquire two global production facilities — the Freeport production facility in Texas, U.S. and Tarragona production facility in Spain — as well as manufacturing technology, intellectual property and trademark rights for the busi1 ness. EAA is a type of adhesive copolymer primarily used 2 as a packaging adhesive with aluminum foil and polyethylene. Advanced markets, such as the U.S. and Europe, 3 account for the majority of the demand, because of high entry barriers to the technology. In addition, the business 4 is likely to enjoy continuous growth on the back of strong 5 demand from emerging market, such as China. By creating synergy with its existing business, SK global chemical has acquired the capability to expand its portfo1 LLDPE, Nylon, PET, etc. lio in the high value-added packaging business. Moreover, 2 EAA it expects to diversify its high value-added product line-up using the advanced core proprietary technologies gained 3 Foil, PET, etc. through the acquisition. We will lead the high value-add4 EAA ed chemical market in emerging countries, such as China, 5 LLDPE, Nylon, PET, etc. by continuing strategic investments required for business innovation. Front view of SSNC(SABIC SK Nexlene Company) Ulsan Plant Deep Change for Tomorrow For more information, please visit our website 17 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Global Top Lubricants Provider Pursuing Endless Innovation and Change SK lubricants SK lubricants has gradually built-out its global presence, resulting in most of its lubricant products being exported to overseas markets in the U.S., Europe and Asia. In addition, SK lubricants built base oil capacity in Europe and Asia to underscore its position as a leader in the global premium base oil market. Furthermore, the company is consistently strengthening its marketing competitiveness with major customers. In the lubricant business, demand for premium lube oil is on the rise, due to tighter environmental regulations in the global market. Moreover, we will expand our presence in target markets, such as China and Russia, and accelerate growth by pursuing a wide range of partnerships. Through such efforts, SK lubricants aims to become a global top-tier company. Business Overview Base Oil Business Lubricant Oil Business SK lubricants developed its premium lubricant base oil YUBASE with SK ZIC, the company’s leading brand in the lubricants business, adopts its own proprietary technology and began operation of its first VHVI a tailor-made marketing and localization strategy, reflecting the char(Very High Viscosity Index) base oil plant in 1995. Thereafter, the acteristics of each export market. Moreover, we try to maximize profcompany has enhanced the quality of its products through continuits by capturing growth opportunities in emerging markets. The comous technology development, ultimately positioning itself as a leadpany was the first Korean energy company to build an independent er in premium base oil by exporting products to 50 markets around lubricant plant overseas(Tianjin, China). In addition, it is emerging as the world, including the U.S. and Europe. a global brand with its products being recognized internationally by receiving the top quality levels from the two major quality assessment institutions(American Petroleum Institute, International Lubricants Standardization and Approval Committee) in the world. Engine oil Gasoline engine oil LPG engine oil Passenger car diesel engine oil Base oil Commercial diesel engine oil Motorcycle engine oil Other products Automotive and industrial gear oil Hydraulic oil Grease Other products: Engine cleaner, Brake oil, and Antifreeze Lubricant Deep Change for Tomorrow 18 Corporate Information SK innovation & Key Subsidiaries LBO Plant of ILBOC Spain(joint company of SK lubricants and Repsol) Major Business Activities The Launch of SK ZIC X8 Shield In December 2016, SK lubricants released SK ZIC X8 Shield, product with remarkably improved engine protection performance. ZIC X8 Shield is based on the company’s premium lube oil and high-end Group V lube base oil. In light of the fact that consumers put priority on engine protection performance when selecting lube oil. SK ZIC X8 Shield adds organic tungsten to the mix, differentiating itself from regular lubricants. With this combination, we developed a “Double Shield Technology,” which improves wear resistance and achieves 27% better performance in engine protection when compared to other products. As a result, the company has been able to increase the satisfaction level of customers who put priority on engine protection. Upon the launch of the product, the company gained public attention by conducting multi-channel marketing, including its “Double “Double Protection” ad campaign, across a multiple number of platforms, such as the Internet and SNS. Going forward, Protection” SK lubricants will present a broader spectrum of products Ad Campaign to increase the scope of choice for consumers. Deep Change for Tomorrow For more information, please visit our website 19 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Korea’s Leading Energy & Petrochemical Company SK incheon petrochem SK incheon petrochem was established in 2013 as a result of a spin-off of SK energy’s Incheon Complex. The company is responsible for the stable supply of energy to the Seoul metropolitan area and the Incheon International Airport. In 2014, SK incheon petrochem expanded production to include condensate-based high value-added products such as paraxylene. In addition, the company uses its geographical location to export to China and Southeast Asia with future plans to further penetrate the global market. In 2016, the company boosted production efficiency, laying the foundation to generate stable profits. SK incheon petrochem will continue to strive to become a global top-tier oil and petrochemical company with world-class per capita productivity by adopting rigorous process control and environmental management standards Business Overview Major Business Activities Petroleum Business Highest Operating Profit in Corporate History SK incheon petrochem provides customers with eco-friendly and In 2016, SK incheon petrochem recorded its highest operating profit high-quality products by adopting an upgraded refining process, in its history. This record was the result of the strong commitment improving production facilities, and conducting continuous research of all employees to introduce more economic, low-cost crude by on advanced technology for petroleum products, to embody the improving feed flexibility, to increase margins by producing more management philosophy that highlights customer satisfaction and high value-added finished and semi-goods, and to engage in cost quality first. savings. In addition to achieving excellent financial performance, the company has continued its efforts to engage in social contribution Petrochemical Business and policy cooperation with its community in order to create a susSK incheon petrochem uses naphtha derived from condensate or the tainable business environment based on the trust and support of the refining process to produce high value-added petrochemical prodlocal community. ucts, such as PX(Paraxylene) and benzene, via naphtha catalytic reOperating Profit forming processes. This creates a stable profit base for the company, (Unit: KRW 100 million) which enhances the sustainability of the business. 2015 496 2016 3,745 Key Business Areas Petroleum Business Petrochemical Business Process Atmospheric distillation, gas recovery unit, hydrogen desulfurization, vacuum BTX unit, PX unit distillation, and sulfur recovery process Major Products Gasoline Kerosene Jet fuel Diesel LPG Asphalt Aromatics For more information, please visit our website Deep Change for Tomorrow 20 Corporate Information SK innovation & Key Subsidiaries Optimizing Trading through a Global Network SK trading international Product specification is becoming more diverse, due to environmental regulations. Also, the export market within the region is gradually contracting, due to increase of local sourcing in major import countries and exports from the China and India. Against this backdrop, SK trading international has established a differentiated global trading business model based on advanced risk management techniques. In addition, the company monitors the market on a real-time 24/7 basis to trade crude oil and petroleum products under the best terms and conditions. Going forward, SK trading international will broaden its business portfolio by expanding strategic partnerships, while also introducing operational optimization based on market dynamics in order to secure business competitiveness to grow into a global trading company. Business Overview SK trading international provides a global trading platform for SK innovation. For example, it imports crude oil and exports petroleum products for SK energy and SK incheon petrochem, and also sources naphtha for SK global chemical. Beyond simple importing and exporting, the company has established a branch in Dubai and 3 overseas subsidiaries in the Americas, Europe and Singapore, to engage in business development, trading and marketing. Based on these global networks, the company effectively manages the entire trading process from selecting the optimal oil type to contracting, shipping, and payment. Global Network SK energy Americas, Inc. SK energy Europe, Ltd. SK energy International SK trading international Co. (Houston) (London) Pte. Ltd.(Singapore) (Dubai Branch) •  esponsible for oil trading in the R • S ourcing and marketing for SK ener• Purchasing crude oil and petroleum • P  urchasing crude oil and petroleum Americas gy’s petroleum products in Europe products used in Korea products used in Korea • Trading products from the U.S. • Bunkering business in Rotterdam, • Exporting petroleum products • Trading mostly in the Middle East West Coast distillates the Netherlands produced in Korea market • Singapore local trading and bunkering SK trading international SK energy SK incheon petrochem Imports crude oil and naphtha Imports crude oil Exports products, and naphtha including gasoline, Exports products, jet fuel and diesel including jet fuel and diesel SK global chemical Imports naphtha Deep Change for Tomorrow For more information, please visit our website 21 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Dynamic and Responsible Performance for Tomorrow Deep Change for Tomorrow 22 Business Review Business Review Night view of SK energy Ulsan Complex Deep Change for Tomorrow 23 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 2016 Business Performance Highest Rating in the Korean Refining Industry Deep Change for Tomorrow 24 Business Review Business Review ; more growth and profit 26 Value Chain 28 Our Strategy 32 Research & Development 34 Market Outlook 36 Business Performance Deep Change for Tomorrow 25 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Value Chain SK innovation recently has been credited with a series of successful overseas resource developments, such as crude oil and natural gas, in countries including Vietnam, Peru and U.S. Based on our cutting-edge oil refining technology, the company produces not only fuel, such as gasoline, diesel and kerosene, but also high-quality lube base oil, lubricants, and also basic chemical products, chemical solvents and synthetic rubber used in various daily goods. R&D E&P Business SK innovation GT SK innovation E&P Major Products Exploration Crude oil Production LNG Battery and I/E Materials Business SK innovation B&I Global Technology Major Products Anode and Cathode Separator Pouch Materials Separator EV Batteries Cell Module BMS FCCL Copper Polyimide Drying Foil Deep Change for Tomorrow 26 Business Review Value Chain In addition, SK innovation strengthens the competitiveness of existing businesses by optimizing the operation of the whole process from crude importing to product production and sale. Moreover, it strives to create future growth engines based on the technological expertise accumulated during the past five decades. As a result, the company entered into the I/E material sector, which includes EV batteries and battery separators, for which it has received recognition by key customers in the global market. Petroleum Business Trading SK energy, SK incheon petrochem SK trading international Major Products Petroleum Products Refining process Asphalt Exports LPG LPG process Naphtha, UCO Import of crude oil Asphalt process Petrochemical and Lubricant Business SK global chemical, SK lubricants, GLOBAL SK incheon petrochem MARKET Major Products Export・import of Feedstock and Products Petrochemical Products Lubricants Petrochemical and Lubricants process Deep Change for Tomorrow 27 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Our Strategy Structural Innovation Spurring Deep Change As the global business environment gets more unstable, it is imperative not only to secure the stability in business, but also to set the strategic direction by choice and focus and to find and implement a new growth option. Thus, SK innovation continues to pursue structural innovation and strategic investments via global partnerships and M&A to ultimately strengthen the mid-to long-term value of the company. Our Strategy Vision “Global Top-Tier Energy & Chemical Company” Through bold business model innovation, SK innovation aims to achieve corporate value of KRW 30 trillion in the short run to ultimately become a global top-tier energy and chemical company. Global Top-tier Company KRW KRW 30 trillion 14 trillion 2016 Corporate Value Deep Change Deep Change: In order to respond to changes in management environment, breaking and changing the framework of existing customs in terms of business, organizational, and culture. It is included not only business structure but also corporate culture(upgrade of management system, change of working method, etc.), asset efficiency. Deep Change for Tomorrow 28 Business Review Our Strategy 비지니스 모델의 혁신 “ Fully engage in structural innovation to grow into a global top-tier company ” • Business Structure Innovation: Realizing global growth through bold investments Business Identify and develop new growth drivers by leveraging partnerships and M&A Model Strengthening competitiveness in a different way for each business Innovation • Profit Structure Innovation: Building a sustainable profit basis Minimize profit/loss volatility and develop additional profit sources by quickly and flexibly adapting strategic responses Corporate Value Innovation Based on Global Growth and New Businesses Increasing investments to secure sustainable future growth engines SK innovation is accelerating the pace of structure innovation across the company based on profitability and growth potential to secure new growth options. In 2017, the company is expecting CAPEX to reach a maximum KRW 3 trillion. The investment would include M&As and equity investments in the petrochemical and E&P sectors in Korea and abroad, and continuous investment in new business areas, such as expanding the capacity of battery production and expanding the LiBS business. As part of these activities, SK global chemical announced the acquisition of Dow Chemical’s high value-added EAA1) business in early 2017. In addition, the B&I(Battery and I/E material) business built its No. 4-6 production Seosan Battery Plant lines in 2016-17. 1) Ethylene Acrylic Acid(EAA): Functional adhesive resin which is primarily used in the adhesive layer with multi-layered film material such as aluminum foil packaging Strengthening organization and human resource management for global growth SK innovation has relocated our major departments to various global sites in order to more aggressively and effectively take on the global market. For example, the business representative and senior managers of the E&P business were relocated to Houston, U.S, while the CEO and key senior team of SK global chemical moved to China. SK global chemical established a Global Marketing Division in China to concentrate on strengthening local marketing and develop a successful global joint venture business model in this region. In addition, to support the aggressive expansion of the new businesses, we plan to gradually expand the number of new hires across the next 5 years with a plan to recruit a total 1,200 employBlock site in Oklahoma, U.S. ees, including college graduates and new technicians. The company will also contribute to vitalizing the Korean economy market. Deep Change for Tomorrow 29 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Our Strategy Optimization As a leading company in the energy and chemical industry, SK innovation pursues value management, which maximizes the value of raw materials and products, leveraging our business knowledge, data and optimization capabilities. Moreover, the company uses a systematic approach to optimization by converging its capabilities with ICT technology with the aim of applying it to various business areas to create value. Under this initiative, the company is planning to innovate the profit structure of each of its businesses to continuously enhance our corporate value. Optimization-based Value Management As a leader in the petroleum and energy sector over the past five gorithms and engage in modeling to further evolve the company’s decades, SK innovation has gathered significant data and extenoptimization capability. sive knowledge about topics including feedstock, energy refining, By combining these capabilities, we are able to accurately assess markets, and global business environments. Moreover, it created the real value of our feedstock and products, and maximize the an exclusive organization responsible for optimization in 2012 to value of such, against the risk and opportunities in a changing exsystematically manage and analyze data, develop mathematical alternal environment. Enhancing Corporate Value by Spreading Value Management SK innovation has gradually expanded its business scope to include and energy business will be displayed not only to traditional hymore countries across the world, which creates a clear need to endrocarbon businesses, such as resource development, petrochemgage in efficient decision-making at a global level. To this end, the ical, lubricants and trading, but also to other areas, including EV company has accumulated business knowledge, data and optimibattery and I/E business, to enhance the value of these businesses. zation capabilities, which it has converged with ICT technology to SK innovation will continue to strengthen our corporate value by strengthen the scalability of value management. Moving forward, upgrading our optimization platform and achieving innovations in the value management capabilities accumulated in the petroleum the profit structure utilizing the upgraded platform. Purchasing Business knowledge, Data Production Optimizing the global value chain Optimization Optimization and increasing Capabilities Platform the efficiency of decision-making Logistics ICT Sale Deep Change for Tomorrow 30 Business Review Our Strategy Our Strategy Global Partnering SK innovation utilizes its global partnering with other leading companies to acquire advanced industry knowhow and strengthen its competitiveness in the global market. Going forward, we will continue on the path to becoming a global top-tier energy and chemical company by forging win-win partnerships with advanced companies in each industry. Maximizing Value Generation via Global Partnering In 2014, SK global chemical agreed on a partnership with SINOlubricants has emerged as one of the top 3 lube base oil providers PEC, China’s state-governed oil company, creating the largest by engaging in a wide range of global partnership, which started petrochemical joint-venture production facility in the history of with a joint venture PatraSK in Indonesia in 2008. More recently, it Korea-China relations. In 2015, the company signed a partnership established ILBOC, a joint venture with Repsol, Spain’s largest oil with SABIC, the second largest petrochemical player in the world, refining company. to enhance the status of a global chemical company. In addition, SK SK global chemical X China’s state-owned oil company SINOPEC • Name of Joint Venture: Sinopec-SK(Wuhan) Petrochemical Co., Ltd. • Production Capacity: Approximately 2.5 million tons p.a. CHINA • Highlight: Largest joint petrochemical production facility in the history of Korea-China relations SK innovation X BEHC X BAIC SK global chemical X World No.2 Chemical Provider SABIC • Name of Joint Venture: Beijing BESK Technology • Name of Joint Venture: SABIC SK Nexlene Company Pte. Ltd.(SSNC) • Date Completed: Currently in commercial production • Production Capacity: Approximately 230 thousand tons after being completed in 2014 p.a. of high-performance polyethylene products CHINA • Highlight: Strategic foothold to target the Chinese • Highlight: The first global JV creating using SINGAPORE electric vehicle market SK’s proprietary technology *The production is located in Ulsan. SK global chemical X Japan’s No. 1 Energy Corporation SK lubricants X Japan’s No. 1 Energy Corporation JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Energy • Name of Joint Venture: Ulsan Aromatics Co., Ltd.(UAC) • Name of Joint Venture: YUBASE Manufacturing Asia KOREA • Production Capacity: Approximately 1.6 million tons p.a. KOREA Company(YMAC) • Highlight: Strategic partnership with Japan’s largest • Production Capacity: Approximately 26 thousand barrels per day energy corporation • Highlight: Strategic partnership with Japan’s largest energy corporation SK lubricants X Repsol, Spain’s No. 1 Energy Corporation SK lubricants X The world’s No. 2 oil producer Pertamina • Name of Joint Venture: Iberian Lube Base Oils • Name of Joint Venture: PatraSK Company(ILBOC) • Production Capacity: Approximately 9 thousand SPAIN • Production Capacity: 13.3 thousand barrels per day barrels per day Indonesia • Highlight: Partnership extended as the No. 1 Group III base oil provider • Highlight: SK lubricant’s first Group III base oil plant overseas Deep Change for Tomorrow 31 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Research & Development In order to acquire the competitive edge required to create a sustainable future for the company, SK innovation must engage in innovative research and development to provide customers with differentiated products and services. This R&D not only boosts the technical competitiveness of its existing businesses, but also develops new growth engines through open innovation and new technology development to reinforce the company’s position as a global leader. Global Technology In 1995, SK innovation established the SK Daedeok R&D Park to ness, are located within this complex. Global Technology, which is gain the technological leadership critical for its business. Global composed of the petroleum & lubricant R&D center, chemical R&D Technology, which is responsible for technological R&D for SK incenter and base technology R&D center, focuses on creating future novation and its subsidiaries, and the B&I R&D Center, which provalue through unwavering technology innovation. vides technological support for the battery and I/E materials busiR&D Growth Plan SOC Carbon Nano Tube BARC Carbon Fiber PSPBO Energy Electrochemical Carbon Material Long-distance EV Batteries ESS Coating Batteries Transparent PI Next-generation ATF Nexlene Aramid I/E Materials Premium Lube Base Oils EPDM Chemicals & Low-k Coverlay Lubricants Polymers Heat-resistant Separator Oil refining Petrochemicals Low-k FCCL Materials Opportunity Crude added-value Premium Asphalt Crude Performance prediction ATA・AXI Catalyst Deep Change for Tomorrow 32 Business Review Research & Development Key Research Activities Future Plans Multi-wall Carbon Nanotube Technology SK innovation Global Technology performs a wide range of R&D To satisfy the requirement for lighter and more efficient materials, projects and technology support to strengthen the competitiveSK innovation is developing multi-wall carbon nanotube technolness of each subsidiary. By developing a total solution for crude ogy with high conductivity, insulation, mechanical strength and limitations, R&D Center is trying to identify the factors constrainflexibility. The ultimate goal is to mass-produce high-quality caring crude as feedstock to contribute to lower crude import costs. In bon nanotube at lower cost than competitors by using ethylene addition, Global Technology develops more advanced technology and applying a unique catalyst, fluidized bed reactive processing, to be deployed across the value chain, such as base oil feedstock and product technology. Once completed, we expect this techconversion and assessment technology, base oil yield and propernology to be used on heatsinks(LED and electronic devices) and ties forecasting technology, and measures to expand feed used in conductive materials(cable, wires and batteries). Currently, we are producing high-quality base oil. conducting the R&D for pre-marketing. In 2017, Global Technology is planning to focus on commercializing Par-Frac technology, a technology developed independently by the institution, in order to increase oil production and strengthen the competitiveness of the petrochemical business. In the chemical sector, we are planning to develop new production techniques for functional products to penetrate the advance chemicals market, and continue R&D on technology that can reinforce the specialty business, such as technology related to semiconductors and carbon materials. Core Midand Long-term Projects Project Name Project Goal Target Due Date Par-Frac technology for subsidiary integration and value creation Create execution options 2018 Developing a total solution to address crude oil limitations Reduce crude import costs 2019 Developing a leading product for the advance chemicals market Develop two global top 3 products 2020 Expand sales in the semiconductor and Developing fundamental products for the specialty business 2020 chemical display materials sector Developing next-generation technology Develop and commercialize technology 2021 Developing base oil feedstock conversion and Secure Group III base oil feedstock 2021 assessment technology Expand Group III plus base oil feedstock Deep Change for Tomorrow 33 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Market Outlook As the global economy is stuck in a low-growth trap and it has a negative impact on corporate business activities; the energy and chemical industry has also experienced various environmental changes. SK innovation strives to minimize any negative potential impact on our management activities by identifying and analyzing internal and external market trends swiftly and deal with each scenario flexibly. E&P Business Petroleum Business Oil Price Trends Petroleum Products Consumption Trends Dubai crude oil decreased from USD 108 per barrel in June 2014, to Based on accumulative figures as of December 2016, domestic deUSD 26 per barrel in January 2016. Prices thereafter showed some mand for major petroleum products increased by 11.1% year-onvolatility, but posted a recovering trend to reach an average USD year. Demand for fuel used for transportation, such as gasoline, 52 per barrel in December 2016. diesel and jet fuel is continuously increasing. Furthermore, demand for generation and industrial fuel, such as kerosene, middle disEnergy Industry Trends tillates and LPG, also increased compared with previous year. SK A surge in oil production from unconventional sources in the US innovation’s domestic market share in Korea is 32.2%, representing and low international oil prices have led to many changes within a 0.1% decrease from the previous year. the E&P sector. Most companies are scaling down or suspending their investments in high-cost projects, such as deep-water oil Petroleum Business Market Share 1) fields, LNG, and polar oil fields. Against this backdrop, SK innova(Unit: %) tion has aggressively restructured its asset portfolio focusing on profitability. 32.3 32.2 30.1 Petrochemical Business Basic Chemical Trends Since 2009, the petrochemical market has recovered on the back of factors including economic stimulus measures in China. However, 2014 2015 2016 market volatility has increased, due to new capacity additions in China and the Middle East, the Eurozone debt crisis, and slow re1) Based on KNOC Petronet’s domestic sales volume of light crude oil(gasoline, diesel, kerosene, jet fuel). covery from global economic crisis. In addition, we expect the rise of unconventional low-cost feedstock, such as shale gas and coal, to become a key factor driving market dynamics. Chemical Material Trends Though it started as a domestic-demand business, the chemical material business has transformed into an export-oriented business. The growth potential of this business is deeply related to global economic growth. In particular, Chinese demand is a main driver, which means there is a strong correlation to Chinese economic growth. Recently, we have been expanding our business in growing emerging markets, such as Latin America, Southeast Asia and India. Deep Change for Tomorrow 34 Business Review Market Outlook Lubricant Business Battery and I/E Material Business Domestic and Overseas Market Trends Mid to Large-size Battery Business Trends The key feed used in finished lubricant products is base oil, which The midand large-size battery business produces and sells is made by running unconverted oil(UCO), produced as a by-prodhigh-capacity lithium-ion batteries used in eco-friendly electric veuct of upgraded hydrocrackers during the oil refinance process, hicles(EV) and energy storage systems(ESS)1). Tougher environment through additional vacuum distillation and catalysts. As a result, regulations around the world are encouraging the development entry-barriers are high, unless the provider is a refinery capable of of EV technology with increasing emphasis on feasibility. Thus, we making large-scale facility investments. expect high growth in the EV market around the world. With an The lubricant base oil market is categorized into different groups, increasing emphasis on energy security2), interest and demand for based on quality and properties, with each group showing difESS have also increased. ferent demand growth. Group I base oil, which has the weakest product performance and shortest life, has experienced a drop in 1) An energy storage system(ESS) temporarily stores mass produced electricity to be used later when needed. demand, resulting in a smaller total market. The higher-end base 2) Energy security is a concept recognizing the importance of a stable and reasonable energy, oils(Group II and III) enjoy stronger growth, due to tighter environas it is fundamental to all economic activity and deeply related to national security. mental regulations and stronger demand. The domestic base oil market in Korea is dominated by the four major players, which all Information & Electronic Material Business Trends have refineries and upgrading facilities. The local market is in overSK innovation’s I/E materials business is mostly composed of batsupply, which has pushed most companies to export their products tery material(LiBS) and circuit material(FCCL). As a core material overseas, including to Asia, Americas, and Europe. for lithium-ion batteries, Lithium-ion Battery Separators(LiBS) prevents direct contact between the cathode and anode within the Domestic and International Competitive Dynamics battery, while also providing a channel through which the lithiThe lubricant market in Korea is a perfect competition with more um-ion can travel. The LiBS market is consistently growing in line than 200 market participants, including 19 suppliers registered as with the secondary battery market. Flexible Copper Clad Laminate full-members of the Korea Lubricating Oil Industries Association, (FCCL), a combination of copper film and polyimide, is used in flexand numerous other non-registered companies. The main players ible printed circuit boards for smartphones or tablet PCs. The deare SK lubricants, GS Caltex, Kukdong Oil & Chemicals Co., Ltd., mand for FCCL is on the rise together with the growing number of Michang Oil Ind. Co., Ltd., Dongnam Petroleum Ind. Co., Ltd., Valsmart devices, as well as the trend of IT devices becoming smaller voline Korea, Changam CALS, STLC and Hyundai Oilbank. In the with higher performance. Oversupply continues to create strong overseas market, major oil refining companies including Shell, Exxcompetition between producers, but this dynamic is expected to onMobil, BP, Chevron, TOTAL, PetroChina, SINOPEC, FUCHS and improve as FCCL is adopted in a wider range of areas. Ashland(Valvoline) dominate the global market, while regional players also exist in specific markets, creating a challenging environment for Korean companies. Deep Change for Tomorrow 35 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Business Performance Realization of stable financial performance is a core element to have the largest impact on the existence of a company and serves as the foundation of securing future growth engines. With continuous efforts to improve the profit structure, SK innovation has achieved the largest management performance and acquired the highest credit rating in history to lay the foundation of creating sustainable value. Economic Value Creation Key Highlights of Each Business On a consolidated basis, SK innovation achieved sales of KRW 39 Petroleum Business: The R&M business recorded sales of KRW 28 trillion 520.5 billion and operating profit of KRW 3 trillion 228.3 trillion 369.9 billion and operating profit of KRW 1 trillion 939.1 billion, recording the strongest performance in the history of the billion. Though the top-line decreased year-on-year, due to lower company. Even though the annual average oil price(based on Dubai oil prices, operating profit increased by KRW 640.0 billion. This is oil) in 2016 was USD 41 per barrel, the lowest level since 2004, and mainly because refining’s fundamental competitiveness has been top-line sales was approximately KRW 39 trillion, the lowest level significantly improved by diversifying import sources for crude oil since 2009, the company was still able to record its highest operand optimizing production operation. SK incheon petrochem also ating profit in history, as well as an operating margin of 8%, the recorded its highest operating profit of KRW 374.5 billion. In parhighest level since 2004. This performance also indicates that the ticular, this was a result achieved by investing KRW 1.6 trillion in business structure innovation initiated by SK innovation and its 2014 to build 1.3 million ton paraxylene production facilities and subsidiaries is starting to bear fruit. upgrade the portfolio to transform the oil refining business into an Since 2011, SK innovation has invested over KRW 4 trillion, focusing energy and chemical business. on the petrochemical and lubricant business. Some examples of this investment are the portfolio upgrade of SK incheon petrochem, Petrochemical Business: The petrochemical business recorded opUlsan Aromatics(UAC), Sinopec-SK(Wuhan) Petrochemical Co., Ltd., erating profit of KRW 918.7 billion representing an increase from and Spain ILBOC. As a result, the company globally ranks No. 5 in the previous year. The main drivers were strong spreads from major terms of PX(Paraxylene) production capacity, and No. 1 in terms products, such as ethylene and paraxylene, and strong 4Q benzene of premium lube base oil capacity. In addition, the investment in spreads, for which the company pre-emptively invested via a global the petrochemical and lubricant business for the past 5 years has partnering. diversified the company’s margin profile. The company expects to consistently achieve strong business performance, as the results of Lubricant Business: Thanks to lube base oil spreads remaining global partnerships, such as Sinopec-SK(Wuhan) Petrochemical Co., strong, the lubricant business recorded operating profit of KRW Ltd. with China’s SINOPEC, UAC with Japan’s JX Nippon Oil & Ener468.3 billion, up from the previous year, and contributed to the gy, and ILBOC with Spain’s Repsol come to fruition non-refining business recording its best earnings in history. E&P Business: Although oil prices remained low, the E&P business achieved operating profit of KRW 105.2 billion through operational efficiencies. Sales Operating Profit (Unit: KRW 100 million) (Unit: KRW 100 million) Breakdown 2014 2015 2016 Breakdown 2014 2015 2016 Sales 658,607 483,563 395,205 Sales -1,828 19,796 32,283 Petroleum Business 490,563 352,997 283,699 Petroleum Business -9,990 12,991 19,391 Petrochemical Business 126,352 92,880 76,865 Petrochemical Business 3,592 4,310 9,187 Lubricant Business 29,818 26,188 25,358 Lubricant Business 2,899 2,947 4,683 E&P and Other Businesses 11,874 11,499 9,283 E&P and Other Businesses 1,672 -451 -978 Deep Change for Tomorrow 36 Business Review Business Performance Production Volume Credit Rating SK innovation optimizes its production facilities and utilizes its proSK innovation received a BBB+(stable) credit rating from S&P, based prietary product quality control program to produce petroleum on its sound financial policies and steady operating cash flow. As and lubricant products. the highest credit level in the history of the company, the credit rating reflects the company’s efforts to strengthen the financial profile and innovate the profit structure by diversifying its busiProduction Volume ness portfolio to include, the petrochemical, lubricant, E&P and EV Petroleum Business1) (Unit: thousand barrels) battery business. Lubricant Business (Unit: thousand barrels) Chemical Business (Unit: thousand ton) Securing Future Growth Engines Acquisition of Dow Chemical’s EAA Business 346,690 345,776 SK innovation acquired Dow Chemical’s EAA 2) business, which is 316,821 composed of two global production facilities— one in Texas, U.S. and one in Spain—as well as EAA products, ionomer production 17,843 technology, goodwill, and trademark rights. By acquiring core 16,965 technology and production facilities used in the high value-added 16,821 packaging, the company will be able to broaden its portfolio to include high margin technology-based downstream products. By 5,772 5,622 acquiring ultra-high pressure and high-level acid processing tech5,272 nology, we have laid the foundation to further expand our product portfolio and technical capacity in the future. In addition, the 2014 2015 2016 company has created a foothold to dominate the rapidly growing, high-end Chinese chemical market, while also generating addition1) Based on KNOC Petronet’s domestic sales volume of light crude oil (gasoline, diesel, al margins via marketing synergies with existing products. kerosene, jet fuel). 2) E thylene Acrylic Acid(EAA) is a type of adhesive copolymer primarily used as a packaging adhesive with aluminum foil and polyethylene Deep Change for Tomorrow 37 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Right Principles and Best Practices for Tomorrow Deep Change for Tomorrow 38 Core Sustainability Performance Core Sustainability Performance Deep Change for Tomorrow 39 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Key Sustainability Performances LTIR (Lost Time Incident rate) (Unit: cases per million working hours) 0.80 Creating a Health and 0.56 0.46 Safety Workplace 2014 2015 2016 GHG Emission (Unit: tCO 2eq) 13,033,976 12,843,831 Paris Agreement and 12,500,201 Climate Change 2014 2015 2016 Three Year Purchasing Volume (Unit: KRW 100 million) Overseas 9,536 Domestic Creating a Sustainable 7,446 7,436 Supply Chain 51% 50% 51% 2014 2015 2016 Deep Change for Tomorrow 40 Core Sustainability Performance Sustainability Material Issues ; better operation and balance 42 Creating a Health and Safety Workplace 46 Paris Agreement and Climate Change 50 Creating a Sustainable Supply Chain Deep Change for Tomorrow 41 ? SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Material Issue 01 Creating a Health and Safety Workplace What is the impact on Why is it important? the company? 01 The Importance of the Issues • Neglecting SHE(Safety, Health and Environment) management can lead to major accidents and cause signifiStakeholder Impact Evaluation cant damage to business operations, which makes SHE Financial Reputational Operational Strategic an essential element of sustainable management Issue Impact Impact Impact Impact • Recognizing the importance of SHE management, govIndustrial Health & Safety √ ernments around the world are tightening safety and environmental regulations. Companies that do not Management of Environmental √ satisfy these standards receive disadvantages, such as Pollutants being restricted in business activities How is SK innovation How is responding performance to this issue? tracked? SK innovation’s Strategic Approach Performance Measurements • Managing industrial safety across • UCL(Unplanned Capacity Loss) Target the whole value chain Satisfaction Rate • Developing a SHE compliance framework • LTIR(Lost Time Incident Rate) Target • Operating a comprehensive chemicals Satisfaction Rate management system Deep Change for Tomorrow 42 Core Sustainability Performance Creating a Health and Safety Workplace All employees working at a worksite should come to the workplace with confidence that it is a safe environment, and feel a sense of pride about this fact. SK innovation engages in activities to improve the SHE level across the value chain, including not only its own personnel but also those working for suppliers or invested companies. SK innovation strives to become a company trusted by stakeholders to grow and develop together with its society by engaging in activities including assessing the safety culture, improving supplier and invested companies’ capabilities, and developing a laws, regulations and by-law compliance support frameworks. Industrial Safety Management Across the Value Chain Assessing the On-Site Safety Culture To achieve global level of competitiveness in SHE, it is imperative to strengthen the safety culture. In 2016, SK innovation conducted a personnel survey and on-site safety assessment for all worksites. Through this process, the company gauged how mature the safety culture was, and compared the data to leading companies in Korea and abroad. As a result we have identified 120 improvement tasks for each organization and esS tablished execution plans accordingly. In the future, the company will perform periodic safety assessments to improve the level of safety culture in an organized manner. In addition, we Safety will engage in a wide range of activities that can boost compliance and strengthen capabilities. SHE System Compliance at Suppliers SK innovation supports suppliers to improve their safety management beyond just following laws and regulations to a level H that evokes pride in their employees. In cooperation with the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency, SK innovation is promoting a project for suppliers to receive KOSHA and OHSAS Health 18001 joint certification. SK innovation will support the cost for consultation, receiving the certification and building the safety health management system. Through this program, 39 suppliers have been certified. SK innovation will also support them to secure on-site abilities to improve the system and inspect on-site implementation. Supporting SHE for New Global Businesses and Invested E Companies Environment With tougher SHE requirements and regulations in the global community, the significance of global SHE risk management is becoming more important. Employing the capabilities and know-how accumulated by building and operating a SHE management system for local worksites, SK innovation provides support, so new businesses or invested companies can identify and mitigate potential SHE risk and create their own SHE framework and capacity. Through these efforts, not only are we able to create safe and competitive global worksites, but also able to strengthen cooperation with business partners. Deep Change for Tomorrow 43 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Developing a SHE Compliance System With an increasing number of new and restricted safety and through an IT system(Legal Compliance System). This system environment regulations in Korea, legal standards to follow enables employees to manage SHE compliance risk, from inat worksites and relevant risks are continuously increasing. To cluding revised or new regulations in the drafting stage, to minimize these risks, SK innovation has identified the SHE lecheck legal compliance on site. SK innovation is planning to gal requirements for each worksite and managed compliance apply this system to all sites by 2017. SHE Compliance System Policy Trends and New/Revised Laws & Regulations: Gather intelligence on SHE related bills submitted by the government and National Assembly, and track the progress of legal enactments and amendments, to understand the impact on the company’s business activities and to share such information with the business sites Rationalize Legal Interpretations and Regulations: Receive clear interpretations of law and regulations to ensure SHE compliance at the sites, and create a systematic approach to business processes1) between organizations in order to rationalize regulations that do not fit work reality Information on laws and regulations: Building information on requirements in SHE and laws 01 and regulations and systemizing information to enable search and utilization  usiness Process: Request from site → Internal review → Government consultation → Notify results 1) B Law and Regulation Information Comprehensive Regulation DB Compliance Management System Responding Managing to Legal Law and Enactments Regulation and Amendments Compliance Inspections and Audits Execution of Laws and Regulations - Systemize internal and external inspection and Provide information on pre-defined standards via audits to track the implementation of any correcthe system to allow the business sites to comply tive measures to enable sites to share and use such with legal requirements and internal standards in measures a timely manner, and enable compliance management Deep Change for Tomorrow 44 Core Sustainability Performance Creating a Health and Safety Workplace Strengthening On-site Chemical Management A recent series of chemical accidents have highlighted the risks of chemical material and increased social awareness on the topic. In addition, the government revamped the existing legal framework on chemicals management, accident handling, and damage relief, to encourage more extensive chemical management. To be in full compliance with all laws and regulations regarding chemicals, a company is required to not only to collect data and record the current status of chemicals used, but also to create a system to track the management from the point the material enters the organization through the processing, storing, transporting, sale and disposal of the material. This requires the full commitment and capabilities of the corporation. Operating an Integrated Chemicals Management System SK innovation operates a comprehensive chemicals safety management system that tracks the whole process from the point the chemical substance enters the organization through the production of a new chemical product, and the transportation and sale of such product, to protect the environment and safeguard the safety and health of all related stakeholders. Purchasing Chemical Substances: Prior to a new chemical substance being purchased, the 1 company will first assess the level of hazard and toxicity and check to ensure safe storing and usage conditions are in place. The Material Safety Data Sheet(MSDS) is used to confirm basic hazard and toxicity data. Based on this data, a hazard assessment is conducted to evaluate Purchasing Chemicals the risk to our stakeholders, suppliers’ employees, local communities and production facilities, Hazard Assessment after which a decision is made on whether to import the relevant chemicals. If purchasing the Confirm and Improve Safety Legal Compliance chemicals under current conditions is deemed potentially hazardous, necessary actions are implemented to eliminate the risk and to secure conditions for safe usage of such chemicals. In addition, all chemicals are registered in the internal chemicals management system linked to the company’s procurement system. Information on any necessary measures, such as licenses and permits, is supplied to the relevant department, which ensures that key factors for legal compliance related to the chemicals are not overlooked, and information is utilized and managed in a timely manner. Producing chemical products: In order to prevent external chemical exposure externally or 2 Producing chemical to persons handling such material, most of SK innovation’s facilities that store or handle such material adopt a sealed design. In particular, we operate a Leak Detection and Repair(LDAR) system to prevent even minor leaks that many occur in vulnerable areas, such as control panels products or the connectors between different equipment. For all chemicals used or produced within the Process/Facility Safety company, a MSDS is created and used. This MSDS used to train personnel or supplier employees Management Chemicals Inventory about the precautions before they handle the material. In addition, a copy of the MSDS is kept MSDS Drafting and Training onsite to allow everyone to refer to it. Moreover, a full inventory of all chemicals within the organization is created to ensure information, such as the volume produced and the properties, is managed in a comprehensive and organized manner. Transportation and Sale: Chemicals generated in the production process or products that 3 contain chemicals must comply with domestic laws. To export overseas, they must also comply with international conventions, such as Europe’s Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals(REACH). SK innovation has established a process to ensure all chemical products Transport and Sale manufactured are in compliance with these standards and all necessary permits have been obReview and Confirm Legal tained prior to transporting or sale. In addition, we supply the MSDS directly to the customer Standards Provide MSDS to clearly inform them about the safety and health information required for the handling of the material. Stakeholders can easily access this information online through the company’s website. Deep Change for Tomorrow 45 ? SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Material Issue 02 Paris Agreement and Climate Change What is the impact on Why is it important? the company? The Importance of the Issues • In the Paris Convention, Korea proposed the target to cut GHG emission by 37% vs. BAU by 2030 industrials Stakeholder Impact Evaluation 02 will be responsible for 11.7%. Issue Financial Reputational Operational Strategic • Due to the characteristics of the energy-intensive reImpact Impact Impact Impact finery and petrochemical industry, energy costs for the Responding to production process are high. Thus, an increase in the √ Climate Change price of carbon credit or any incremental rise in energy Internal and External Risk √ costs will have a direct and indirect impact on operating Management cost. How is SK innovation How is responding performance to this issue? tracked? SK innovation’s Strategic Approach Performance Measurements • Form an emission trading strategy • Management of GHG emissions target • Pursue new energy businesses • Minimization of risks in the emission trading system • Increase energy efficiency in the production process Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Link to SDGs Deep Change for Tomorrow 46 Core Sustainability Performance Paris Agreement and Climate Change As the government has recently tightened regulations on greenhouse gas(GHG) emission, industries recognize purchasing carbon credit and increasing energy cost as potential risk factors. In particular, the oil refining and petrochemical industry emits not only a large amount of direct GHG, due to fossil fuel combustion, but also a significant amount of indirect GHG related to the use of electricity and steam. Thus, each company needs to minimize the energy cost at their worksite by enhancing energy efficiency and maximize financial value by appropriately responding to carbon trading. The Paris Convention Introducing Tougher GHG Emission Regulations As global interest toward climate change increases, major the overall manufacturing industry, including oil refining and countries such as the U.S. and China, reached a global consenpetrochemical industries, are focusing their efforts to achieve sus on the reduction of GHG emissions during COP211). Particithis target. In addition, the government is expected to further pants committed to put their best efforts into setting a reducstrengthen GHG emission regulations on companies. tion target, 2) which will be submitted every 5 years. In addition, reviews on the implementation of the reduction targets will 1) Conference of the Parties 21: The 21st yearly session of the Conference of Parties to be conducted every five years from 2023. Korea, one of the the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change top ten countries in terms of global GHG emission, proposed 2) Intended Nationally Determined Contribution(INDC) 3) Business As Usual: Emission outlook in the event no efforts to reduce GHG emissions a reduction target of cutting emissions by 37% vs. BAU3) by are made 2030, of which 11.7% will be achieved by industries. Therefore, Responding to Climate Change in All Business Activities Responding to Carbon Trading ecution and purchasing. In addition, it also includes response SK innovation, SK energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants and measures to rising prices once companies start to purchase SK incheon petrochem have been designated by the governcarbon credits, and plans to acquire additional carbon credits ment to receive allowance credits under the emissions trading required to increase production capacity. Moreover, the proscheme. During Phase 1(2015-2017) of the government’s procedures for the Emission Trading Operational Manual defines gram, all SK innovation subsidiaries have adapted to the new the relevant roles of each business division, and the detailed scheme and overachieved their emission targets by conducting procedures of budgeting for emissions trading, organizing an internal reviews to secure early reduction performance. To efInvestment Committee, and executing the budget. In addition, ficiently respond to changes in the market environment and the company has established Investment Guidelines, which reregulations created by the introduction of carbon trading, SK quires it include the price of carbon credits when looking at innovation formed Carbon Trading Strategy and established investment opportunities to ensure the cost of carbon is used Emissions Trading Operational Manual. The Strategy covers as a decision-making standard in prioritizing investment projimplementation measures from each stage of budgeting, exects. Furthermore, SK innovation has adopted a Regulation on the Emergency Response for all affiliate companies. This regulation shall be used to effectively respond to external disasters, including electricity outages and abnormal weather conditions caused by climate change, such as typhoons and windstorms Deep Change for Tomorrow 47 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Managing Energy in Each Operating Process Unit using EII Discovering New Energy Saving Technology SK innovation not only saves energy by replacing equipment SK innovation continuously performs worksite process optimithrough facility investment and process improvements, but zation activities, such as waste heat recovery and heat exchangalso uses the Energy Intensity Index(EII)1) to monitor energy er improvements to reduce energy. In addition, to improve consumption patterns. Using EII, the company sets and monienergy efficiency even more, the company searches for new tors the unit target by energy source, which reflects the optitechnology, such as electricity generation or steam production mum status of each operating process unit. The results of each using waste heat, upgrading to high-efficiency facilities, new week’s energy analysis are shared with each production team processes and catalysts, and energy management solutions. to encourage more specific energy saving activities. With these Once the technological and economical feasibility have been efforts, EII in 2016 decreased by 1.1 compared to 2014; this reconfirmed, the technology is applied to the processes used at duction is equivalent to KRW 12 billion in cost conversion. worksites. For example, changing to a new high-efficiency heat exchanger, which is used to recover heat, can economize fuel costs and reduce GHG emissions. Going forward, we will con1) Energy Intensity Index: As The comparison of the refinery’s actual energy consumptinue to search for new technology and engage in activities to tion to the standard used as a benchmark by industry peers in Korea and abroad. improve the energy efficiency of our production process. 02 Strengthening the Battery Business Expanding New Energy Businesses To prepare for an energy paradigm shift in the future, SK innovation develops and produces EV batteries and energy-storage devices based on lithium ion batteries. This covers the entire battery production process from essential material like separators and electrodes to producing battery cells and battery packs. In particular, SK innovation improves both the driving distance and user-friendly electronic vehicle by possessing cell technology1). Based on this technology, the company has engaged in supplier agreements with major auto manufacturers in Korea and abroad, including Mercedes Benz, Mitsubishi Fuso and Hyundai Motor Group, and is developing EV batteries that meet a wide range performance and customer requirements. In 2016, SK innovation expanded its capacity to product 1GWh of EV batteries, which is equivalent to supplying batteries to Aerial View of Production Unit 2 approximately 40 thousand SOUL electric vehicles per year. In 2017, we are expanding the battery production unit 2 to 3.9GWh and expect to secure the production capacity to supply batteries to 140 thousand electric vehicles by 2018. 1) When energy density gets higher, driving distance is on the increase; when output density is high, accelerating power is excellent. Deep Change for Tomorrow 48 Core Sustainability Performance Paris Agreement and Climate Change Using Recovered Waste Heat SK innovation recycles wasted heat into energy such as savings of KRW 105.6 billion. In addition, recycling waste to enhigh-temperature water, steam and gas. In 2016, the company ergy allowed us to decrease carbon emissions by 413,413 tCO 2 collected total waste heat of 8,180TJ from Ulsan Complex(SK and contribute to using energy more efficiently at worksites. energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants), which led to energy Ulsan Complex Waste Heat Recovery Boiler Business Case Using a Master Plan to Reduce Power Use SK innovation implements an Energy Improvement Master Plan Power Savings to reduce power costs, which account for the largest portion of Total Savings (Unit: FOEB/D, Total amount of reduction KRW 100 million/year) operational costs. From 2015, the Master Plan includes demand and supply-side improvement items for fuel, steam and electricity. 712 673 The Plan is executed in consideration of investment returns and timing for each item. Through these efforts, the company was able to save around KRW 25 billion in energy costs up to 2016. 190 Further, the company identified continuous potential improve337 302 ment items to establish its investment plans for 2017-18. During 140 this period of time, it expects to save KRW 21.7 billion. All potential improvement items are review on technical feasibility, onsite applicability, and investment business economic feasibility to 77 63 ensure their effectiveness. 2015 2016 2017(E) 2018(E) Deep Change for Tomorrow 49 ? SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Material Issue 03 Creating a Sustainable Supply Chain What is the impact on Why is it important? the company? The Importance of the Issues • As partnerships become more diverse and complex, the Stakeholder Impact Evaluation possibility of an ESG risk in the supply chain emerging 03 to impact the reputation of a company is increasing Financial Reputational Operational Strategic Issue Impact Impact Impact Impact •  There is an increasing social demand for a fair and Strengthen transparent business culture with the enactment of the Social √ “Anti-Corruption and Conflicts of Interest Act” and Responsibility of Supply Chain other related regulations Enhance Supplier • With the globalization of the corporate business enviCommunication and Capacity √ ronment, the need for sustainability is being expanded Building to the supply chain. How is How is SK innovation performance responding tracked? to this issue? SK innovation’s Strategic Approach Performance Measurements •Creating value through mutual growth and collaborative •Acquiring and maintaining the best level in the win-win cooperation growth indicator assessment •Raising the level of ESG in the supply chain •Strengthening efficiency in sanctions for suppliers based Spread of ethics practice by suppliers on ESG assessment Supporting the reinforcement of capabilities in the Monitoring ethics management including any unethical supply chain by assessing suppliers behavior by suppliers •Identifying and addressing potential risks in the supply chain Selecting best suppliers by conducting regular evaluations •Establishing and implementing higher standards and •Minimizing compliance risks or potential risks in the procedures than relevant legal requirements supply chain Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all Link to SDGs Deep Change for Tomorrow 50 Core Sustainability Performance Creating a Sustainable Supply Chain In the recent global business environment, there is much more interest in social responsibility within the value chain. Korea is no exception, with the government taking a strong stance towards promoting mutual growth across large, mid, and small sized enterprises by introducing new laws. Against this backdrop, SK innovation is contributing to improving the fundamental competitiveness of the supply chain by providing suppliers with capacity building training, and financial and technical support. The company is expanding the scope of sustainable business management and implementation, by emphasizing fair and ethical business transactions, to create a more transparent supply chain, and establishing a health and safety management system for each supplier to strengthen the level of safety and health within the supply chain. Supply Chain Sustainability Management Policy SK innovation’s Supply Chain Management Policy, which apity for Environmental Damage and Relief Thereof and the Act plies to all supplier contracts, covers 1) total cost ownership , 2) on the Registration, Evaluation, Etc. of Chemicals) are included reliability 3) on-time delivery & customer service level , 4) SHE in the procurement process to reinforce the executive ability (Safety, Health, Environment) and 5) risk management. for compliance of environmental responsibility. In addition, the SK innovation has created a Supplier Code of Conduct1), which company established credit rating management standards in requires the suppliers to develop and grow with SK innovaits by-laws, to make it mandatory for suppliers to submit a credtion in a sustainable manner. The Basic Purchasing Agreement it assessment as part of their vendor registration. where provisions for compliance of fair trade with all suppliers that have a contractual relationship with the company is concluded to make it mandatory to carry out ethics management. 1) Supplier Code of Conduct: http://www.skbiok.com/contents/vd_action_raw.html Environment related regulations(such as the Act on the LiabilSupplier Mutual Growth Activities Supporting Capacity Building CEO seminars which offer business training including business SK innovation supports a range of capacity-building programs strategy, finance and leadership for the supplier’s CEOs. In adfor suppliers with a focus on strengthening their fundamental dition, we also provide detailed curriculums for different posicompetitiveness, rather than providing simple and temporary tions and responsibilities, including training for management support, to ultimately build a sustainable mutual growth founsupport, technical process, capacity building and safety, in ordation with our suppliers. The company hosts mutual growth der to make the training closer to the real work environment. 2016 SK Mutual Growth MBA Deep Change for Tomorrow 51 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 SK innovation also continues to organize Supplier Recruitment and equipment commitment. In addition, suppliers can receive Fairs for youth in Ulsan to not only enable mid-to small-sized financial support through various mechanisms, including direct suppliers to hire the best talent, but to also contribute to resupport in the form of a direct loan, indirect support via netducing youth unemployment and stimulating the local econowork loans, and special support through the Mutual Growth my. The fair provides various types of support for job hunters, Guarantee Agreement. In addition to this support, the Shared such as customized career consultation, vocational psychology Growth Fund was created to provide low-interest financing to tests, and profile photo shoots. In 2016, a total 98 employees suppliers that need emergency operating funds. In 2016, KRW were hired through this event. In addition, the company helps 85 billion of Shared Growth Fund was prepared by depositing to youth with a competitive edge through its SK Employment KRW 34 billion. Stepping-Stone Program, which provides applicants with onthe-job training and internship opportunities. 34 Shared Growth No. of Fund Contributions No. of Program Name Support Provided Participating (As of 2016) People Hired KRW billion Suppliers 2016 SK Mutual Recruitment booths Growth Supplier and auxiliary events, 19 98 Recruitment Fair such job hunting Technology Support SK Employment StepInternship hiring and As an initiative to pursue mutual growth, SK global chemical ping Stone training, training cost 58 160 (SK innovation in total) support engages in joint technology development with suppliers to lo03 calize equipment, register co-patents, and enter into high-valFinancial Support ue added products and global markets together. In particular, To guarantee the stable business activities of our suppliers, SK by jointly developing and registering patents with our suppliinnovation pays suppliers 50 percent of the contract amount ers, they have been able to grow sales by selling new products upon starting the construction, while the remaining balance to related companies including SK innovation, while we have is paid within one week of the construction completion and been able to gain better cost competitiveness by localizing prefinal inspection for major construction related to Ulsan Comviously imported products, resulting in a win-win situation for plex turnarounds, which require significant human resources both parties. Business Case Supporting the Localization of Heat Exchangers Leveraging SME Technology SK global chemical and Seoul Engineering were able to localize the cone used in heat exchangers to recover waste heat by combining the technological expertise and management skills of SK and the specialized technological proficiency of the SME. The heat exchange cone developed by these two companies is a device to recover waste heat, which is generated when naphtha is cracked in the process of making ethylene. The previous issues of cracking and overloads were solved to enable stable operations of the process. Furthermore, Seoul Engineering received investment and R&D support for the localization of heat exchangers from SK global chemical and registered the co-patent with SK global chemical. As a result, it was able to have import-substituting effect by approximately KRW 25.7 billion in exports while saving KRW 4.5 billion in energy costs across the sector in Korea. SK innovation affiliates will continue to seek new ways to create new value and grow together with its suppliers. Deep Change for Tomorrow 52 Core Sustainability Performance Creating a Sustainable Supply Chain Supply Chain ESG Responsibility Strengthening Activities Creating a Culture of Transparent Trade Establishing a Supply Chain SHE System SK innovation has embarked in a campaign with its suppliers To boost the level of SHE management in the supply chain, SK and other external stakeholders to not give or receive holiday innovation pursues to improve the process and makes great or congratulatory gifts to establish a fair and transparent culeffort to comply with environmental regulations to minimize ture across its supply chain. Employees who unavoidably reany environmental impact of suppliers on the SHE society and ceives a gift are required to submit a description of the gift to reflect the company’s SHE management policy for the supply his/her reporting team at each business site. Gifts that cannot chain in contracts. In 2015, SK innovation signed a MOU with be returned are sent to relief agencies and child welfare orthe Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency and major ganizations as part of SK innovation’s social contribution acsuppliers to deploy an SHE management system. Under this tivities. agreement, suppliers established an SHE management system that suited their business. All 39 suppliers that participated in Reducing Supplier Risk the MOU received health and safety management system certiSK innovation continues to check and improve the procurement fication(KOSHA・OHSAS 18001). process with the aim of reinforcing fairness in the standards for To prevent large-scale environment accidents, the company registering and selecting suppliers and enhancing the level of was established a chemical registration and license manageESG in the supply chain. The company reflects any revision in ment process and system, which it shares with its suppliers. the relevant legislations or requirements in social commercial In addition, we have created a company-wide emergency reregulations in the procurement process, discloses changes to sponse framework for large-scale accidents, like ocean spills the outside through the procurement information system and that can occur in the petroleum and petrochemical industry. requests suppliers to comply with the regulations. In registerMock drills on the emergency response are run each year. In ading a supplier, we collect the consent on fair and transparent dition, SK innovation delivers our Operational Safety Guide to trade and ask for following and reinforcing the responsibility suppliers to increase awareness on occupational safety. Morefor the overall ESG factors with the Supplier Code of Conduct. over, it supports supplier risk assessments and safety training through its Industrial Accident Prevention MOU. Deep Change for Tomorrow 53 Value Creation for Stakeholders Customers Employees Shareholders and Investors Local Communities Suppliers Deep Change for Tomorrow 54 Sustainability Performance Sustainability Performance Review 56 Operation of the Board of Directors 59 Risk Management 62 Ethical management 66 Employees 70 Supply Chain Management 73 Social Contribution 78 SHE Management Link to SDGs Goal 1 | End poverty in all its forms everywhere Goal 2 | End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture Social Goal 3 | Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Contribution Goal 4 | Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Goal 13 | Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Goal 14 | Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources SHE for sustainable development Management Goal 15 | Protect terrestrial ecosystems and halt biodiversity loss Deep Change for Tomorrow 55 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Operation of the Board of Directors A healthy and transparent composition and operation of the Board of Directors is an essential prerequisite for a company to achieve robust growth. Though BOD-driven management, SK innovation is committed to assuring the decision-making process is fair and well-balanced, reflecting the views of not only the company, but also a wide variety of stakeholders. Independence of the Board of Directors Independent Composition of Board and Committees dition, all chairs of the six committees under the BOD are indepenTo ensure the Board thoroughly provides a check and balance to dent directors, while a majority of each committee (Audit and CSR the company, SK innovation’s the Board of Directors is composed of Committee all members) are independent directors, which ensures 60% or more independent directors, who are recommended by the the independence and transparency of committee operations and Nomination Committee. As of May 2017, 5 out of a total 8 directors the decision making process. are independent directors, representing 62.5% of the Board. In adBoard Members Name Career Highlights Committee Kim Present) Chairman of Board of Directors, SK innovation HR Committee member Executive Chang-geun Former) Chairman, SK SUPEX Council Director Present) President & CEO, SK innovation Nomination Committee member Kim Jun Former) Head of the Strategic Planning Department, SK energy Strategic Planning Committee member Non-executive Yu Present) President & CEO, SK E&S Transparent Management Committee member director Jeong-joon Former) President, SK Global Growth Committee Audit Committee Chair Present) Visiting Professor, KDI School of Public Policy and Management Kim Dae-ki Strategic Planning Committee and Transparent Management Former) Chief Secretary to the President for National Policy Committee member Kim Present) Distinguished Professor, College of Business Administration at Yonsei University HR Committee Chair Jong-hoon Former) Minister of Trade, Ministry of Trade at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Audit Committee and CSR Committee member Independent Director Present) President & CEO, Kyungbang Co. Strategic Planning Committee Chair Kim Joon Former) President, Korea YEO Audit Committee and HR Committee member Ha Present) Professor, Department of Basic Science at Hongik University Transparent Management Committee Chair Yun-kyoung Former) Director, Association of Korean Woman Scientists and Engineers Nomination Committee and CSR Committee member Present) Professor, KAIST College of Business Nomination Committee and CSR Committee Chair Hahn Min-hi Former) President, Korea Marketing Association Audit Committee Member Executive Director Executive Director Non-executive Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Kim Chang-geun Kim Jun Director Director Director Director Director Director Yu Jeong-joon Kim Dae-ki Kim Jong-hoon Kim Joon Ha Yun-kyoung Hahn Min-hi Board Committees Composition of Directors Committee Executive Non-executive Independent Main duties Director Director Director Conducting audits on the job performance of directors, accounting and management practices, as well as evaluations Audit 0 0 4 on the internal accounting management system. Nomination 1 0 2 Searching and managing a pool of independent director candidates and recommending candidates Strategic Planning 1 0 2 Reviewing mediumand short-term business plans and strategies, including major investments and plans Human Resources 1 0 2 Recommending executive director candidates, reviewing director remuneration ceilings and major HR policies Transparent 0 1 2 Reviewing intercompany transactions and the Fair Trade Compliance Program Management CSR 0 0 3 Reviewing CSR(Corporate Social Responsibility) and sustainability management-related activities and issues Deep Change for Tomorrow 56 Sustainability Performance Operation of the Board of Directors Director Appointment Process Thereafter the committee hosts a series of elaborate discussions SK innovation has established an objective and fair process for apto select a final candidate to recommend to the GSM. During the pointing directors. The credentials and qualities of executive and discussions to select a candidates, the Committee not only reviews non-executive director candidates are reviewed in advance by the the independence of the candidate, but also the expertise, comHR Committee, after which the candidates are recommended to mitment, business mind, reputation, personal image, and other the General Shareholders Meeting(GSM). In the case of indepenevaluation standards. Factors, such as the diversity of the Board dent directors, the Nomination Committee first defines the plans and the business environment at the time of the appointment, are for the recommendation process and selects the candidate pool. also taken into consideration. Independent Director Appointment Process 1 2 3 4 5 Establish Select a pool of the plan for the Select the final Appoint an independent director Finalize the recommendation independent director independent candidates and GSM agenda an independent candidate directors director in-depth candidate discussion General Shareholders Nomination Committee The Board of Directors Meeting Evaluation Criteria of Independent Directors Category Description Expertise Expertise and experience in corporate management, and a career as an director Commitment Committed to attending over 90 percent of BOD & Committee meetings and to contributing positively to advising on current issues Management leadership Leadership acquired from experience in serving as the CEO of a large company or head of an organization Independence Independence from management and shareholders while making faithful, independent decisions Social position A strong reputation recognized by many stakeholders of the company Morality A high level of morality that sets an example for others, with company based objectives taking precedence over personal gain Diversity The diversity of the Board, including gender, age, nationality and ethnicity, has been taken into consideration Others Current issues and social concerns at the time of nomination Standard of Independence for Independent Directors SK innovation ensures the independence of its independent directors to guarantee shareholder interests are reflected in a balanced manner and a fair and transparent decision-making process is followed. To this end, the company establishes and complies with the independent standards for major disqualification reasons for independent directors in compliance with the Commercial Act. Grounds for disqualification of SK innovation Independent Directors • Directors, executive directors and employees who are engaged in the regular business of the relevant company, or directors, auditors, executive directors and employees who have engaged in the regular business of the relevant company within the latest two years; • The principal, his/her spouse, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants, in cases where the largest shareholder is a natural person; • Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of the corporation, in cases where the largest shareholder is a corporation; • The spouses, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants of directors, auditors and executive directors; • The directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a parent company or a subsidiary company of the relevant company; • Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a corporation which has a significant interest in the relevant company, such as business relations with the company • Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of another company for which directors, executive directors and employees of the relevant company serve as directors and executive directors. Deep Change for Tomorrow 57 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 The Systematic Operation of the Board and Committees Systemic Operation of the Board of Directors and Committees Proactive On-site Management SK innovation’s the Board of Directors reviews business plans and SK innovation’s the Board visits key business sites in Korea and medium-and long-term strategies(i.e. the To-be Model) each year. abroad to make sure decision-making is based on expertise and In addition, the Board sets the direction for achieving sustainable an understanding about the worksite. Board meetings are held growth by holding active in-depth discussions about the internal on-site during these visits to implement on-site management pracand external environment and issues for each business area, includtices. These visits provide an opportunity to gain real proficiency ing refining, petrochemicals and EV batteries. about the business by seeing first-hand the situation of the site The Board holds regular meetings on monthly basis. To allow the and listening directly to the views of employees working there. In directors ample time to review the agenda, meeting materials are 2016, a BOD Meeting was held at the Ulsan Complex, during which provided at least five days before a Board meeting and two days directors participated in on-site management together with the before a Committee meeting. In addition, the Board will also hold employees. In addition, the directors visited a key growth area, the ad-hoc meetings for agenda items that require a quick decision to semiconductor business(SK hynix) to develop areas of business colead the transparent business activities of the company. 13 Board operation. and 17 Committee meetings took place in 2016. Board Performance Evaluation & Compensation Operation of the Board Communication Sessions The Board conducts a self-evaluation on the composition, function SK innovation’s the Board of Directors is committed to coordinatand operation related matters once a year. The results of this assessing various stakeholder views and fulfilling its role and responsiment are documented in the Annual Report. The results and opinbility as the most senior decision-making body of the company. In ions of the evaluation are fully reflected in the BOD Operating Plan particular, the Board holds CEO Sessions and Strategy Sessions atto ensure the Board continues to develop in a positive direction. tended by the CEO, key senior management, and independent diIn addition, the company annually participates in the ESG assessrectors, to strengthen its role as a partner in business model innoment conducted by Korea Corporate Governance Service. In 2016, vation. At the sessions, the participants not only openly discussed the company received an A+ in the area of corporate governance, business philosophy, vision, and strategic fit, but also issues that recognizing the strong achievements of the BOD. To ensure fair were raised during the communication process. In 2016, the Board compensation, the HR Committee thoroughly reviews the remuheld in-depth discussion over business philosophy(revised SKMS), neration limit for directors, which is presented for Board approval dividend policy and strategies for the refining business. and final GSM approval. Strengthening the Expertise of the Board of Directors To enhance the effective and professional activities at the Board, In addition, SK innovation Board of Directors holds a strategic sesindependent directors actively participate in training programs sion to improve specialty regarding risk management every halfabout domestic and overseas governance structures and business. year or quarter on a regular basis. Major content of the session The directors have participated in conferences for the two most includes providing materials to support overall decision-making prestigious corporate governance institutions, namely, the NACD such as company-wide and key business strategies, report on the (National Association of Corporate Directors) and ICGN(Internatrend and major risk elements and company’s measures for risk tional Corporate Governance Network). In particular, newly apmanagement. The Board also considers internal and external busipointed independent directors are offered orientation programs ness environments and holds a seminars by inviting legal and comat the headquarters and local business sites to strengthen their munication specialists regarding significant issues. Each quarter, understanding about the company, the industry and businesses. the Board receives the results of internal and third party audits, reviews possible risk issues and actively participates in training related to business cases that have taken place in Korea and abroad. Deep Change for Tomorrow 58 Sustainability Performance Risk Management Risk Management The global energy industry faces various risks amid a rapidly changing business environment. On one side, investors require conventional oil and gas producers and refiners to respond to the risks related to climate change, while on the other, increasing social interest and improved technology related to renewable energy and other forms of eco-friendly energy are in a position to significantly impact the future profit model of the conventional energy industry. SK innovation takes an organized approach to the key risks that it may face to develop the best approach to monitor and respond to each risk. Risk Reporting and Governance Analysis and Monitoring SK innovation categorizes its risks into three categories—financial SK innovation performs analysis and monitoring optimized for risk, business risk, and operational risk. Business risk is managed each type of risk. For financial risks such as oil price and foreign by the Risk Teams at SK innovation and its subsidiaries. Any issues exchange movement, which have an immediate impact on busithat require a decision by senior management are discussed at the ness performance, we analyze short-term direction and mid-term Risk Committee, in which the CEOs and senior executives of the trends for SK innovation and each subsidiary based on various relevant departments participate. Operational risk, including subeconomic indicators. Based on the conclusion, risk thresholds are sidiary risk, is managed comprehensively by reach of the relevant set and managed. In the case of business and operational risk, the departments at SK innovation. In the event of a decision is required company monitors relevant laws and regulations, policy trends, from SK innovation senior management or its subsidiaries, the and key stakeholder opinions on a daily basis. This information is issue will be discussed at the Chief Executive Meeting held each shared through newsletters and the company’s intranet to ensure month based on the type or risk. In addition, due to the close busiall employees are aware of key trends and engaged in their own ness relevance between SK innovation and its affiliates, certain risk prevention measures. key risks will be discussed at the Chief Executive Meeting(held third times a month) under the presence of SK innovation’s CEO and the five affiliate CEOs. If necessary, some risk agenda may be reported to the Board of Directors. Risk Governance Chief Executive Meeting The Board of Directors Various Risk Management Committees Risk Teams in SK innovation and subsidiaries Financial Risk Business Risk Operational Risk Oil Price Ethics Compliance Foreign Exchange Rates Risk Human Resources Category National and Local Political Tax Safety Environment Environment Credit Policies and Regulations Information Security Competitor Trends Corporate Responsibility Deep Change for Tomorrow 59 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Midand Long-Term Risk Identification and Response SK innovation regularly analyzes changes in society and environment to identify long-term risk factors that may impact the overall business, and to form and implement strategies to effectively respond to these risks. Emerging Risks Business Context • A volatility in oil price can impact the refining and petrochemical industry via various channels, including refining complex margins and petrochemical cash margins. Following the steep fall in oil prices triggered by US oversupply in late June 2014, oil prices have started to recover from the first half of 2015, but uncertainties still remain. • In particular, at the current time the company is increasingly sensitive toward global economic trends, due to its large portion of overseas Unstable Oil Price exports. In China, which is one of the largest sources of demand, there is and Financial Risk a prolonging trend of economic slowdown and increasing localization. •In the petrochemical industry, the topic of carbon emissions and climate change is a core agenda. The influence on business has increased since COP 21. •In addition to government’s regulations on GHG emissions, more investment in new renewable energy and GHG emission reduction R&D is expected to initiate and accelerate change in the energy paradigm. Environment and Climate Change •More transparent and fair business activities are required, due to tighter legal regulations on ethical management, and increasing demands from direct and indirect stakeholders, including agents, for broader transparency. • In addition, gasoline supply prices include a mix of different cost factors, such as international gasoline prices, international crude oil prices, and changes in oil import prices. However, lower crude oil prices have been Product Sales and Business Relations not fully reflected in oil supply prices, which have led to consumers (Fair Trade) questioning whether companies are exploiting the situation, which is emerging as a potential risk. • Negative incidents, such as customer personal information being leaked by employees of certain financial institutions in Korea, have led to growing interest in the topic of personal information protection. • More legal and regulatory requirements have been put in place, such as stronger Information Security Management System(ISMS) certification obligations and requirements to notify customers about personal Personal Information information collection and use. Supervision and monitoring by government Protection bodies is also increasing. Deep Change for Tomorrow 60 Sustainability Performance Risk Management Risk Impacts Mitigation Action •Feedstock crude oil and petroleum products entail the risk of P&L and cash flow profiles changing according to international price trends, • Using our deep industry knowledge, the company will apply which could result in unstable margins. optimization to the oil refining process, to distinguish the difference in • Global oil prices are driven by various economic, legal, political oil by region, and pursue oil diversification optimized to the production and climate conditions. Oil imported from locations like the Middle of petroleum products. East require long-distance shipping, which creates a risk due to the • SK innovation has created and executed a fx1) risk management policy difference in the oil price in the month of loading vs. in the month to hedge any expected loss from fx volatility. The company has defined of arrival. Oil price expectations may directly influence financial an acceptable fx risk ceiling and hedges any excess foreign currency performance. positions to minimize the risk from fx movement. • Unexpected moves in fx rates can impact sales volume, prices, and 1) foreign exchange crude oil prices, which ultimately can result in direct gains or losses in profitability. • SK innovation manages GHG emissions at all worksites and mitigates •T here is a risk that the company may need to purchase carbon credit carbon emissions through facility investment. under emission trading, and manufacturing costs may increase due to • In addition, the company will establish a midto long-term response investments needed to cut GHG emissions. strategy to adapt to a paradigm shift in energy sector, and concentrate • We expect demand for petroleum products to decrease on the back of on investing in new businesses and developing technology for the government’s energy consumption mitigation policy. sustainable growth and development. • Fair trade risk is mitigated by creating a fair trade voluntary compliance framework, such as introducing a Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance program. In addition, the company is increasing internal monitoring and •Fair trade related legal and regulatory violations can have serious risk enhancing fair trade awareness within the organization. implications from various fines to damaging a company’s reputation. • In addition to engaging in R&D activities to provide customers with • In addition, changes in sales price due to oil price movements may have differentiated products and services, the company has continuously a negative impact on consumer and brand confidence. enhanced the value of its gas station network by analyzing the commercial district of each gas station and identifying and positioning the best complimentary business for the gas station to strengthen its competitiveness. • With the aim of improving its customer information protection • The gas station business requires strong bonds with our customers, framework and responding to government regulations, SK innovation therefore, proper management of customer information is a key issue to has strengthened its Personal Information Management System(PIMS) growth. An absence of an information management system may lead to certification maintenance and management. Through these efforts, the serious negative influences on customer communication and marketing. company can take preemptive action to respond to possible personal • In light of stronger government regulations, the company’s brand information leaks. can be dealt a serious blow from single incident, such as a criminal • SK innovation is implementing a tighter internal control process, including prosecution against an executive. There have been actual cases where continuous implementation monitoring and strict control on access executives of a major telecom operator in Korea were charged for to customer information. In addition to internal control, the company negligent management of personal information, resulting in damaging conducts regular and non-regular inspections on outsourced service the company’s reputation. providers regarding customer information management, and provides training on improvement measures to prevent events. Deep Change for Tomorrow 61 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Ethical Management Stronger legal regulations on ethical management in the global business environment and an increasing demand from stakeholders for such practices underscore the need for companies to conduct business in a more transparent and legally -compliant manner. Therefore, SK innovation continues to monitor international and local trends to revise its Code of Ethics and Guidelines. The company is committed to strengthening employee awareness about compliance and leading efforts to create a more transparent business culture. Creating Ethical Management Principles Based on the SKMS(SK Management System), SK innovation has with or have a contractual relationship with the company, adopt enacted a Code of Ethics specifying the appropriate actions and and follow the Code. principles that employees should honor. This Code is updated regIn addition, Business Conduct Guidelines that showcase case studularly to reflect recent changes in the business environment, more ies provide a more detail standard for decision making. For any restricted external regulation and practices and lessons learned in questions employees may have, the company has a Business Conbusiness activities. All management and employees of SK innovaduct Guideline FAQ, which it continues to update. tion, its invested companies(including overseas subsidiaries) are obligated to observe the Code, and we also recommend equity investment companies or our business partners, who do business Encouraging Employee Integrity Strengthening Employee Ethics Training 1 SK innovation actively communicates with employees about key Executives ethical issues they may face during work, in order to strengthen st their commitment to integrity and strengthen ethical business Ethical Team Leaders practices. Every year the company conducts ethics training, which Management 51 Sessions it has expanded to cover all employees in 2016. Workshop Topic No. of Participants Total Training Hours Online ethics training in the form of an animation for all employees Ethics training for new employees 5,796 people 2,318 hours 2 nd Ethical Team Leaders Team Members 604 people 604 hours Management 306 Sessions and promotion candidates Workshop Organizing Ethical Management Workshops In 2016, SK innovation hosted Ethical Management Workshop led by leaders to discuss ethical dilemmas and risk case studies. To moderate active discussion, the first and second workshops were hosted by an executive and team leader respectively. This initiative will continue in 2017. Ethical Management Workshop Deep Change for Tomorrow 62 Sustainability Performance Ethical Management Ethical Management Survey As of 2016, a total of 142 reports and consultations were filed. To understand employee’s level of awareness on ethical manageWhen excluding simple inquiries, mistaken reports, double countment and the ethical framework, the company conducted an ethied cases, and reports on other SK companies, the net number is 52 cal management survey on all employees, including those at overcases. All reported content was investigated and sent to the related seas branches and subsidiaries, in 2016. After consultation with the department for follow-up measures, while answers were provided related departments, answers to the main questions employees for consultations. Customer complaints are sent to the customer had that were identified through the survey were shared with service department to be handled. Of the 15 reported cases that all employees. In addition, company-wide efforts to strengthen were investigated, 3 cases were a violation of the employee Code awareness were made by collecting Ethical Management Commitof Ethics. The employees involved in the case were issued warnings. ment Letters from employees after the survey. (Two cases were internal regulation violations, while one case was an employee who was entertained by suppliers) Strengthening Communication about Ethical Management Survey on Supplier Exploitation To implement ethical management based on mutual trust with To create an Ethics Management Culture within the company, SK suppliers, SK innovation conducted a survey to understand if there innovation has opened communication channels, including the Ethwere cases of employees abusing their position against suppliers or ics Consultation Center and Ethical Management Website, through engaging in actions that may violate the Code of Ethics. The survey which it receives reports on unethical behavior and requests for was conducted on 849 suppliers in Korea. To gain deeper underconsultations. We also provide a reward program for informants to standing about the situation, the company visited and interviewed encourage active participation from employees and stakeholders. 47 suppliers. No material unethical activities were identified as a The identity of an information provide by informants are strictly result of the survey. Going forward, the company will continue to kept confidential to prevent any possible backlash. exert its best efforts to establish a fair and transparent relationship with its suppliers. Number of Ethical Management Reports and Number of Ethical Consultations via Ethics Consultation Consultation Cases Center or Ethics Management Website (Unit: Case) Number of Cases by Stakeholder Reports Consultation Complaints Total 101 Customers 15 cases 15 cases Business partners 15 cases 15 cases 81 Employees 1 case 6 cases 7 cases Others & Anonymous 15 cases 15 cases 52 Total 31 cases 6 cases 15 cases 52 cases Breakdown of Cases by Follow-up Cases Transferred to Others(Cannot be ConInvestigation(Audit) Relevant Department firmed or Dismissed) 2014 2015 2016 15 cases 25 cases 12 cases Deep Change for Tomorrow 63 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Fair Trade Compliance Management System SK innovation has established a Fair Trade Compliance Program management measures. This enables SK innovation to manage all (CP) to enhance transparency and increase competition within the employees and business activities of SK innovation and its affiliates supply chain. The CP is divided into Seven Stages with detailed against each of the Stages. The Seven Steps of the Fair Trade Compliance Program Declaration of the CEO’s Commitment · Adoption of the Fair Trade Compliance Declaration and Fair Trade Compliance Standards and Interest · CEO’s declaration of company policies for fair trade compliance · Head of Sustainability Management Division(SK innovation), Head of External Affairs Cooperation Office(SK energy), Appointing Compliance Officers Head of Planning Office(SK global chemical), Head of Management Strategy Office(SK lubricants) Publication and Distribution of · Publication of compliance handbooks Compliance Handbooks · Publication of fair trade compliance guidelines · Hosting fair trade seminars for employees Compliance Training ·C  onducting fair trade experts training and specialized programs for each business area · Creating a Fair Trade Compliance Committee and implementing Compliance Management Regulations Internal Monitoring System ·O  perating a compliance organization · Inspecting fair trade practices · Defining and executing disciplinary measures on employees who Disciplinary Action on Violations violated the Fair Trade Act · Organized management of documentation on compliance Documentation Database activities Responding to External Regulations on Fair Trade In January 2017, the Fair Trade Commission drafted Guidelines on In preparation for the implementation of the Fair Transactions in the Prohibition of Provision of Inappropriate Benefit to Person Agency Act(December 23, 2016), the company conducted an early with Special Interest(Article 23-2, Monopoly Regulation and Fair inspection on all agency transactions in SK innovation in the secTrade Act) tightening the review standards on internal transacond half of 2016. It reviewed all agency transaction contracts and tions by group corporations. SK innovation rebuilt its inspection remedied any insufficiencies. The company built and upgraded a process on internal transactions that may be subject to review, in management system to check transactions subject to the regulaorder to apply stronger standard and mitigate risk in advance. tion and create a process to verify orders. After providing relevant Since the regulatory body is expected to beef up surveillance on organizations with training on the agency transaction process, we unfair support between the affiliates of large conglomerates and are continuously monitoring compliance. unfair business activities between conglomerates and SMEs, the company is planning to disclose large-scale internal transactions and continue monitoring on unfair support via inter-company transactions and supplier exploitation. Deep Change for Tomorrow 64 Sustainability Performance Ethical Management Reinforcing Internal Fair Trade Monitoring published a Fair Trade Guidebook, which covers the work process for all transactions and related fair trade issues. This Guidebook SK innovation conducted investigations on the purchasing teams was distributed to all employees of SK innovation and its subsidand production teams that come into frequent contact with supiaries. In addition, we continue to issue the Fair Trade News Brief pliers to identify unfair business activities between conglomerates and Fair Trade Compliance Letter on a regular basis to raise awareand SMEs and providing training. In addition, the company also ness of fair trade compliance. Moreover, working-level manager made it mandatory to consult the HQ Business Compliance Team participate in Fair Trade Seminars and external training programs before engaging in an inter-company transaction with an affiliate to increase their proficiency on fair trade. to monitor the any possibility of unfair support. Moreover, the company provides fair trade consulting for around 200 cases each Future Plans year. SK innovation is monitoring domestic and overseas regulatory In addition, SK innovation operates a Fair Trade Coordinator protrends to amended the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Guidegram in each business department to encourage the front office lines accordingly. With growing demand for ethical management team to communicate fair trade issues. from stakeholders, SK innovation is planning to engage in a variety Going forward, we will build a compliance ecosystem -which inof organized activities to enhance the understanding and complicludes risk diagnosis → review → training → performance measureance of ethical management across all SK innovation employees. ment – to further reinforce compliance management. In addition, the company will check and monitor the Fair Trade Strengthening Employee Awareness Commissions’ major issues of interest to ensure transparent and on Fair Trade fair business implementation. It will also establish and upgrade its management process for the sustainable and effective operation In light of the initiative to strengthen global operations in 2016, of its Fair Trade Compliance Program. the company provided training on the antitrust laws of each jurisdiction to the overseas business division. We strengthen the fair trade awareness of our employees at key business units, including overseas expats, by reviewing fair trade issues, including abuse of market dominant statues and unfair trade activities. Taking it one step beyond the level of informing employees about fair trade issues on each individual transaction through the existing Guidelines on Interacting with Competitors, SK innovation has Fair Trade Inspections and Training in 2016 Timing Subjects The Singapore subsidiary of SK trading international and SK Training on the Singaporean Competition Act and international cartels June energy-invested Singapore JV Risk assessment on fair transactions with subcontractors, and training July(Inspection) Purchasing Managers at SK innovation subsidiaries on process improvements December(Training) Fair Trade Act training July SK incheon petrochem Inspection on contracts subject to the Fair Agency Transactions Act, August(Inspection) Marketing Department at SK innovation subsidiaries and relevant process training October(Training) Chinese Antitrust Act related risk assessment and training September SK global chemical‘s Shanghai Subsidiary Japanese Antitrust Act related risk assessment and training September SK lubricants and SK global chemical’s Tokyo Subsidiary Coordinators in key marketing departments at SK innovation Online training for Fair Trade Coordinators September – October subsidiaries Online training on Fair Trade Basics October – November All SK innovation affiliated employees Deep Change for Tomorrow 65 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Employees Each member serves a role with crucial competitiveness for corporate growth and development. To ensure sustainable growth of an organization, it is essential to establish sound organizational culture for employees to exercise their capabilities with strong devotion. SK innovation cultivates best global human resources based on its unique HR cultivation system. We also put great effort to create a strong and remarkable organizational culture and enhance the satisfaction level of employees for working environment by vitalizing liberal communication in the company, guaranteeing fair performance-based compensation and operating various welfare systems. Reinforcement of Employees’ Capabilities SK innovation pursues “Caring Professional” to have innovation in his or her own work and working style with passion. For this goal, the company has established its independent HR cultivation system and proactively carried out activities to ensure sustainable growth and strengthen capabilities of employees. SK innovation HR Cultivation System Leadership Next-generation leader Job capability SK Values Support for developing and Proactive cultivation of Reinforcement of specialized Internalization of values exercising leadership by staff a next-generation capabilities in each job with passion and members in charge leader group function professionalism Providing customized diagnoSearching for excellent human Systemic training for specialized Internalizing the core value and sis-feedback based on the Bestresources with high growth pocapabilities strengthening its practice by Fit leadership model optimized tential early and cultivating them Providing midand long-term regular and repetitive training for to each group in a systemic and proactive way training employees P roactive support for developProviding on-site knowhow led Accelerating the innovation of General Team ment through leadership trainManager by leaders and training to pass working style by continuous manager leader ing, coaching and workshop down experience communication and workshop JLDP FLDP HLP (Junior Leader (Future Leader (HIPO Leader Development Development Program) Program) Program) Deep Change for Tomorrow 66 Sustainability Performance Employees Training Support Activities FLDP(Future Leader Development Program) Best-Fit Leadership Diagnosis-Feedback-Cultivation SK innovation appoints outstanding employees with a high potenSK innovation defines the best-fit leadership optimized to each tial for future growth as a leader candidate group and provides group and diagnoses and gives feedback for the effectiveness of proactive training. We help them to have the required capabilities leadership in leaders each year based on the best-fit leadership. as a leader such as a strategic and financial perspective and foster With this system, all leaders are offered customized leadership culprepared leaders in an early stage when it comes to group and HR tivation guide and participate in training required for each individmanagement. ual leader to improve leadership skill. Biz Insight Seminar Employees’ Job Capabilities Reinforcement Program SK innovation holds a regular seminar to share the trend and global SK innovation proactively implements job training based on a cultiinsight for energy and chemical business. This seminar is voluntarily vation plan specialized in each group and provides employees with attended by over 3,500 employees annually and prepares an opsupport to grow as a global expert. portunity for stimulation and learning for innovation. Fair Performance Evaluation and Compensation SK innovation evaluates the capabilities and performance by employees and SK values by establishing a fair and reasonable performance evaluation and compensation system and applies strictly differentiated compensation based on the performance and evaluation of groups and individuals. Performance Evaluation Target Evaluation area Evaluating capabilities, qualities and achievements regularly based SK Values on fair criteria Utilizing the evaluation result as a standard for promotion, shift, education/training and compensation AchieveNo discrimination by gender, age and academic background Capability ment All regular employees Compensation Target Principle Implementing fair and reasonable compensation policy by comprehensively considering performance evaluation of individual employees and shortand long-term targets related to corporate sustainability Giving more compensation to employees with excellent capabilities and performance No unfair differentiated compensation by gender, age and academic Strictly differentiated All employees on the background compensation based on annual wage system performance evaluation Deep Change for Tomorrow 67 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Establishment of Sound Organizational Culture Support for Work and Life Balance Creating Women-friendly Working Environment SK innovation has adopted the “flexible work system” in which With the aim of cultivating women personnel and improving womemployees are able to autonomously adjust their times for comen-friendly working environment, SK innovation makes extensive muting and leaving the office for the first time in the same industry efforts. In 2011, the company created “SK W-Network” and continand autonomously implemented by each team to allow employees uously searches for and proactively addresses tasks with regard to to strike a balance between work and life. The company has also female issues. As part of preventing women’s career interruption launched the “smart work system” to simplify the procedure for due to childcare responsibility, we adopted “Automatic Maternity meeting and reporting so that employees can flexibly adjust their Leave System” in which female employees automatically shift the working times to enhance work efficiency. state into childcare leave for one year without separate application upon maternity leave finishes. SK Happy Childcare Center , which Welfare Benefits for Employees was opened as the in-company childcare center in 2007, increased SK innovation operates various welfare programs to make our the number of children from 49 to 85 by 74%(36 children) and exemployees to have affection toward the company and create the panded the number of employees from 13 to 20 to boost support stable environment in which employees can concentrate on their for employees’ childcare. work. The company not only supports regular health check-up and medical expenses but also operates severance pay system and loan system in case of purchasing and renting a house to maintain a stable living. We have also prepared the long-tenured employees rewards system to boost loyalty and supported employees for their cultural and leisure life by supporting family occasions and providing rooms at resorts and vacation condominiums. Creation of Swift and Flexible Corporate Culture and Employees-centered Communication SK innovation aims to gather the capabilities of employees with the In addition, SK innovation proactively runs face-to-face communicompany’s unique robust corporate culture and deal with the evcation programs to realize communication among CEOs, leaders er-rapidly changing management environment in a swift and flexiand employees in more diverse ways and themes other than exble manner. For this goal, we strive to carry out “SKMS(SK Manageisting online channels, including Leaders Forum, CEO-Employees ment System)” in which all the employees try to realize innovation Communication and Happy Walk. We also select 240 “iCON(innovoluntarily and willingly with their own passion and capabilities vation Communication ON) , who are opinion leaders and serve as based on SKMS, the unique management philosophy and business a bridge for communication between a leader and employees, to management system of SK Group. create corporate culture with sincere communication with focus on Further, the company enhances executive ability for innovation by employees. pursuing “Speed & Flexibility” in both work and corporate culture The company has also strived to improve the system. We have and vitalizes communication by preparing various opportunities for raised the speed in innovation by enhancing existing complicated communication so that honest communication between a leader and approval procedure and decision-making structure, abolished the employees can be ensured for any part in need of change and imtype of approval such as approval request and notification report, provement. To make CEOs, leaders and employees in SK innovation adopted the reporting and approval system by email and simplified and its subsidiaries pursue the same target and ensure swift and systhe approval process to allow completing decision-making only by temic inspection and improvement in each group, the company has sharing minutes. established and operated the system in which management process, workshops for executives and team leaders and workshops for employees are conducted on a regular basis from 2015. Deep Change for Tomorrow 68 Sustainability Performance Employees Expansion of Communication by Employees SK innovation operates online and offline communication channels to realize smooth communication among CEOs, leaders and employees. The company accomplishes communication with sincerity through face-to-face communication programs in various ways and themes such as Leaders Forum, CEO-Employees Communication and Happy Walk and iCON, which is the change facilitator. Operating Channels(Online/Offline) An online bulletin board in which employees suggest ideas for the company such as organizational operation and tong tong system or any inquiries and are given replies on a real-time basis to reinforce two-way communication A CEO’s blog to organize major management philosophy and policy and messages for employees in each theme and Leader’s Blog Online enhance the understanding of employees A multi-directional communication channel that utilizes internal broadcasts to simultaneously share information on Internal broadcast the management activities, current status of major business, activities by each group and news for employees in all (gbs) business sties of SK innovation and its subsidiaries As an in-company communication messenger and change facilitator, iCON proposes an opinion on any agenda which needs to collect employees’ opinions as a representative for employees, shares various thoughts for the current issues iCON of management by frequent communication with leaders and suggests an idea for facilitating change(about 240 iCONs as of 2016). As a newly adopted program in 2016, Happy Walk enables CEO and employees to carry out various cultural and outdoor activities together, communicate with each other without difficulty and share meaningful leisure time(About Happy Walk 100 employees and their family members voluntarily participate in Happy Walk held by CEO of each company on a monthly basis). Offline Role-specific Role-specific workshop shares the management target and tasks for change in each group and prepares an Workshop opportunity for discussion and proposal for tasks. Leaders Forum holds a lecture by internal and external specialists on major business issues and change and innovation Leaders Forum and shares the current business issues on a monthly basis for CEO and all executives and team leaders. As a counseling coaching center that provides support for employees’ mental health and self-development, this Harmonia program provides consultation and coaching in life, career, work and family areas by in-house professional counselors and about ten external experts. CEO-Employees Communication Happy Walk Leaders Forum Further Plan With the aim of becoming a global top-tier energy and chemical In addition, the company will continue to strengthen communicompany beyond a representative company in Korea, SK innovacation between leaders and employees to accelerate innovation tion intends to nurture “leaders to help members” to overcome through swift and flexible corporate culture and realize practical any given task and crisis and “winning employees” with the keyimprovement and development by collecting opinions from emword of “Winning Culture.” ployees for any change required system and process. Deep Change for Tomorrow 69 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Supply Chain Management In corporate business activities, the boundary of business scope is expanding from previous competition between single companies to competition in value chain. Accordingly, it is imperative to diagnose any potential risk in the supply chain in advance and establish a response system for a variety of risks in order to secure stable competitiveness in the global market. SK innovation continuously manages risk in the supply chain by classifying core suppliers based on the unique standards for strict evaluation and monitoring and communicating actively with suppliers with various channels. Governance for Mutual Growth Tasks regarding company-wide procurement strategy and mutuincluding Seoul, Ulsan, Incheon and Daejeon, they are responsible al growth by SK innovation are systemically conducted under the for managing suppliers and implementing detailed procurement leadership of the Procurement Planning Team in the headquarters. activities. When it comes to the suppliers’ safety and environment In 2011, the Mutual Growth Secretariat in SK global chemical was part, each business site and SHE(Safety, Health and Environment) separately launched to enhance the specialty in activities for mudepartment provide partial support. tual growth. In addition, as personnel are placed to each region Mutual Growth Management Organization and its Roles SK innovation SK global chemical Procurement Planning Team Mutual Growth Secretariat SK innovation Global Technology SK energy Ulsan Complex SK incheon petrochem (Daejeon) Each business site and SHE(Safety, Health, Environment) department Supply Chain Classification Risk area Major risk factors Range of risk System and Risk Review Financial risks such as change in credit rating and Economy 0.9% financial information and administrative measures SK innovation classifies and manages core suppliers by comprehenViolation of ethics-related laws and regulations sively considering 1) transaction size, 2) impossibility of substituSociety and unfair trade acts such as collusion 3.1% tion and only approval and 3) current status of core technology Issues regarding human rights and labor possession. Key suppliers of SK innovation are companies which Environmental accidents(oil leak in the ocean, perform large-scale construction or service at a major production Safety & gas leakage, etc.) and physical injury plant, including Ulsan Complex and incheon petrochem or handle 11.3% Environment Violation of environmental regulations and core raw materials with regard to business(battery raw materials, legislations catalyst, etc.). Based on these criteria, 1,733 out of 5,336 suppliers in total were classified as core suppliers in 2016. Deep Change for Tomorrow 70 Sustainability Performance Supply Chain Management Evaluation and Monitoring of Suppliers SK innovation has evaluated various items including supplied Monitoring Process products, service quality, delivery period, ethical management by It is stipulated that any supplier in a transaction with SK innovation suppliers, SHE policy and management level and labor and human should pledge the “Agreement on Fair and Transparent Trade” in rights issues. With this evaluation, the company has found and imregistering a company by procurement portal; the company has proved non-financial risks, which can occur in the supply chain, laid collected the agreement from all registered suppliers. In case any the framework for mutual growth and continuously expanded and illegal and corrupt act is detected based on the agreement, we improved its application. take stringent measures in accordance with the relevant company regulations. Suppliers also have the duty of reporting any case Supply Chain Due Diligence immediately when our employees ask for money, treatment, enterSK innovation continues to identify and manage suppliers in spetainment or convenience or special relations such as the ownership cial relations1) with SK innovation subsidiaries and conducts regular of shares of employees’ relatives occur. In addition, the company evaluation for core suppliers in terms of quality, finance and SHE. monitors real-time change in financial information of suppliers in In case supplier’s workers reside in the business site of SK innovacooperation with credit rating companies and takes proper meation subsidiaries, the company implements self-diagnosis for labor sures in any unusual case. If a supplier acquires remarkable results management and examines any risk in human rights and working by regular supplier evaluation, the company provides the supplier environment. In addition, SK innovation receives documents from with benefits such as exemption of deposit as an excellent supplier registered suppliers including SHE policy and environmental cerand allowing living in the maintenance unit; for any supplier with tificates to evaluate and manage its non-financial risks. We also poor performance, we provide feedback for results as well as educollect SHE proposals from all individual contracts and outsourcing cation and training to improve capabilities. contracts(100%) for production, storage and research facilities. Afterwards, we review and evaluate each proposal and reflect it in Key Performance of Evaluation and Monitoring the contract. Target 2015 2016 1) S pecial relations: Indicates a director, employees or employees’ relatives of SK innovation Suppliers for SK energy Ulsan Complex and SK incheon subsidiaries possessing shares by SK innovation petrochem regular evaluation(*Except for suppliers for 69 72 quality evaluation) Suppliers for SHE proposal evaluation 184 334 Suppliers for the diagnosis of labor management such 46 74 as human rights and labor issues Suppliers participating in signing the agreement for fair Entire Entire and transparent trade suppliers suppliers Vitalization of Supply Chain Communication SK innovation strives to seek further developed measures for mutual growth and cooperation with suppliers by continuous communication. The company operates Mutual Growth CEO Seminar by sharing management innovation cases with suppliers’ CEOs on a regular basis and holds an annual Supplier CEO Meeting between CEO and suppliers to discuss measures for improving quality and SHE management. In addition, the company holds the commission for facility suppliers on a monthly basis to share accident cases and check and training for safety and health. We also regularly hold a meeting for device, inspection, machine and logistics suppliers to discuss measures to boosting SHE management capabilities and tasks. Mutual Growth CEO Seminar Deep Change for Tomorrow 71 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Achievement of Mutual Growth Implementation Future Plan Evaluation of Corporate Partnership Index SK innovation continues to offer support in diverse sectors such as SK innovation makes diverse efforts such as activities for reinforcHR cultivation, technology and fund to enable suppliers to conduct ing support based on actual needs from suppliers and vitalizing sustainable management activities. We will comprehensively conmutual communication with the aim of building happy partnership sider not only the capabilities and financial current status of existwith suppliers. Especially, as SK global chemical was acknowledged ing and new suppliers but also the safety and health of suppliers’ for its performance of mutual growth and cooperation activities employees and impact on the working environment and evaluate based on the group in charge of mutual growth, the company acthe system and give proper feedback to launch a sustainable supply quired the best level in 2016 in the Corporate Partnership Index chain and realize the zero level of potential risk in the supply chain. Evaluation by Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership for four Furthermore, with the aim of taking the lead in broadening and consecutive years for the first time in the chemical industry and implementing ethical management in suppliers, the company will was selected as the best distinguished company. SK innovation will proactively communicate with the management and employees of maintain its best level by carrying out mutual growth activities and suppliers on a regular basis and create and develop the value of providing suppliers with support. win-win relationship with suppliers. Performance of Products Supply Chain As of December 2016, the total amount of product procurement by SK innovation was KRW 953.6 billion; 51% of the total amount was the procurement from domestic suppliers. Amount of Procurement for Three Years (Unit: KRW 100 million) Overseas Domestic 2014 7,446 2015 7,436 2016 9,536 Deep Change for Tomorrow 72 Sustainability Performance Social Contribution Social Contribution As one of the most distinguished energy and chemical companies in Korea and a global top-tier company, SK innovation has the goal of corporate management to generate happiness for stakeholders, and the ultimate aim of corporate management to achieve mutual growth with society by creating not only economic value in business, but also social value. Thus, the company pursues the aim of social contribution to become a “company continuously creating and sharing happiness”. Under the slogan of “Happinnovation(Happiness + Innovation)”, SK innovation seeks constant innovation to deal with fundamental social issues. SK innovation recognizes social contribution as an essential virtue in terms of coexistence and symbiosis beyond the level of social responsibility and aims to achieve innovation with society. Accordingly, we are making efforts to create social value in various sectors, by creating jobs, supporting the socially vulnerable and disadvantaged, cultivating future human resources, fulfilling environmental responsibilities, and investing in local communities. Through these efforts, SK innovation strives to ultimately grow into a respected and beloved company by truly enhancing a rewarding feeling and pride in employees and receiving trust and support from society. Social Contribution Implementation System Along with the company's philosophy, SK innovation defines the jective, SK innovation has organized 67 volunteer corps under the basic aim of social contribution as the “company creating sustaincompany-wide name of “SK Angels(1004) Volunteer Group” and able happiness” by “Happinnovation”. Beyond simple dispensation has continuously carried out volunteer work. In 2016, the company of aid to our neighbors in difficult situations, the company has focused the capabilities of the volunteers to support children with constantly considered fundamental solutions for social issues with developmental disabilities to improve their social adaptation and social enterprises and social contribution. Further, all employees to provide senior citizens living alone with a foundation of emoconsider the issue of corporate social responsibility in the cultural tional support and attempted to approach social issues in a more perspective and fulfill their roles and responsibilities. For this obfundamental manner. SK innovation CSR Framework Happinnovation Innovation for Happiness Social Innovation Green Innovation Happy Innovation Addressing social Sustainable Social issues in an environment contribution innovative manner Social enterprise Environment & Energy Support for the disadvantaged Deep Change for Tomorrow 73 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Value Creation by Fostering Social Enterprises Establishment and Operation of Social Enterprise 2,304 farmers including 1,974 local residents utilized products and “Peru Yachaywasi1),” “Peru My School” services from Yachaywasi; about 630 farms out of all participating As a measure of addressing global social issues through a social farms expressed their satisfaction with the program run by SK innoenterprise, SK innovation has established “ProSynergy,” an instituvation. In addition, the company has supported high-quality edution in charge of social contribution in Peru where the company's cation services by providing low-income students, parents and facE&P business is positioned, for the first time in the SK Group. The ulty members in Peru with a web-based education and information company has also established the 1st and 2nd Yachaywasi Branch and platform through the educational platform, “My School Program”. operated them as a social enterprise in order to promote agriculIn 2017, we will further vitalize the program with the participation tural technology in poor local farms. With the social enterprise, of some local schools thanks to funding by Tacna local government the company supported local agricultural workers in poverty with and support from the Peruvian Embassy in Korea. farming and stockbreeding training such as agricultural technolo1) Yachaywasi: Yachay(Teaching) + Wasi(Place) in Quechuan, meaning a “teaching place” gy, information and consulting. 2) IICA(International Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture) Fund: A social contribution fund, established to support poor rural areas in the world to supply new and renewable Furthermore, the branch generates joint profits for the social energy enterprise by selling agricultural products and contributes to improvements in the quality of farmers’ lives through cooperation with Finca, a local micro-finance program and Catholic University. These efforts have been recognized, and Yachaywasi won the IICA Fund2) worth USD 239,302 from the Department of Foreign Affairs in Finland in 2015 and conducted the business to expand the dissemination of new and renewable energy in rural areas and to raise the energy self-sufficiency rate in farms. In 2016, the total sales Yachaywasi of Yachaywasi increased by 22% compared to the previous year. Yachaywasi Business Model SK innovation Catholic University Lima Branch Financial support Advisory fee Agricultural technology Sale of agricultural products My EcoApplication for participation Market tech Farm Farmers Sales profits (Prosynergy) Agricultural technology and equipment Consulting and training Training Lecture Agreement to provide Loan + Low-interest loan Guarantee fee low interest rate interest repayment College and agriculFinca NGO ture-specialized school (micro-finance) students Projects for Discovering and Supporting Social Enterprises into social enterprises or social cooperatives. From 2015, the comSK innovation puts extraordinary effort into creating an ecosystem pany also expanded the level into more various classes including that allows social enterprises to conduct management activities people with disabilities, women from multicultural families and competitively in this society other than by directly setting up a soNorth Korean defectors in addition to the elderly, existing targets cial enterprise by a company. From 2013, we have started projects for job creation support; as a result of this expansion, a total of 252 to discover and support social enterprises to create jobs for the disquality jobs were generated. We were not just limited to providing advantaged and ensure their independence by fostering social enbusiness expenses but operated the advisory committee, which is terprises. Up to the current time, the company has offered KRW 1.7 composed of academic and social enterprise specialists, and conbillion in business expenses and provided support to launch various tinuously supported customized consulting such as accounting, HR business models by 13 institutions, including parcel service, launmanagement and marketing and consulting for conversion into a dry, catering, agricultural products processing and disused cars and social enterprise to have actual competitiveness in business. leather upcycling; as a result, six institutions have been converted Deep Change for Tomorrow 74 Sustainability Performance Social Contribution Social Enterprise Support Project Performance “Energy Magic School” for Training the Awareness of Energy 1st project(May 2013 – December 2015) and Environment SE 1) SK energy has implemented the “Energy Magic School” for preInstitution name Region Business Jobs conversion schoolers to enable growing children to recognize the significance Production and sale of energy resources and to have a daily routine in saving energy. Yeong S Cooperative2) Yeomin Dongrak of dried agricultural 6 gwang (Jul. 2015) As an experience-based program in combination with entertaining products elements such as magic, the program provided training in energy Production and sale of Sharing People Jeonju 18 SE(Nov. 2016) types and methods of saving and generating energy. The program Jeonju bread Senior parcel service for Preliminary SE for children with developmental disabilities was attended by emDaegu Senior Club Daegu 12 apartment complexes (Aug. 2015) ployees as volunteers who had positive reactions. In 2016, the trainParcel service for Seoul ing program was enjoyed by 4,200 children in Seoul and Anyang. Jongno Senior Club Jongno 58 Metro In 2017, the company will reorganize the school into a program by SK innovation and increase the various contents in which more chil2nd project(June 2014 – December 2016) dren can participate. SE Institution name Region Business Jobs conversion Science Mentors for Growing Children Seongnam Senior Production and sale of S Cooperative Gyeonggi 24 Club rice cake(HACCP) (expected) Since 2013, SK innovation Global Technology has actively particBundang Senior Senior laundry workS Cooperative ipated in the project of “Science Mentor for Growing Children” Gyeonggi 13 Club place (expected) led by Yuseong-gu District in Daejeon. The center invites 100 loCultivation of blueberPreliminary SE cal students who are interested in science and provides them with Daedeok Senior Daejeon ries – Production of 28 (first half of Club interesting opportunities to experience science such as visiting an processed products 2017) Cheongwon Senior Lunch box delivery and S Cooperative exhibition hall, carrying out scientific experiments and boarding Cheongju 27 Club restaurant operation (expected) an electric vehicle. We also carry out science mentoring activities to solve any questions in science with researchers, thus the company 3rd project(July 2015 – December 2017) contributes to help local students grow into scientifically talented SE people as a pillar of future national competitiveness. Institution name Region Business Jobs conversion Gyeongbuk DisCafé for youths with dePreliminary SE Andong 10 abled Youth Center velopmental disabilities (Nov. 2016) Production and sale of Rural Community Jecheon bread by women from 12 SE(Feb. 2016) Research Institute multicultural families Preliminary SE Senior laundry workDobong Senior Club Jecheon 19 (first half of place 2017) Sunrising Café for people with S Cooperative Seoul 14 Clubhouse mental disorders (Aug. 2015) Disused car and leather Preliminary SE PPL(Corporation) Gyeonggi upcycling by North 11 (first half of Korean defectors 2017) 1) Social Enterprise 2) Social Cooperative Energy Magic School Sharing People(Social Enterprise) Science Mentors for Growing Children Deep Change for Tomorrow 75 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Support for the Disadvantaged and Regional Mutual Growth Sharing Up and Happiness Up(Donation by Employees) employees and donated funds to various sectors, including support As a donation program in which SK innovation employees voluntarily for children with leukemia and childhood cancer, medical expenses engage, the “Sharing Up and Happiness Up Program” is a donation for elderly people as victims of domestic abuse, construction of a program which allows employees to donate their desired donation classroom in a remote area of Nepal, a project to repair the artificial target by one sponsorship account for each employee. For 11 years legs of disabled people in remote and isolated areas, and support of since 2007, this program has utilized the generous donations from daily necessities for senior citizens living alone. Project for support Medical sector – KRW 80.9 million Support for living – KRW 78.8 million · Supporting wandering detectors for elderly people with dementia · Providing supplies to households in welfare blind spot · Transplantation and rehabilitation expenses for children with areas childhood cancer · Supporting group home facilities · Supporting emergency medical expenses for the elderly as No. of participants · Supporting the livelihood of senior citizens living alone 1,918 victims of abuse · Supporting the repair of artificial legs for amputation disability people Donation KRW · Supporting occupational training for elderly baristas 221.9 million · Renovation of daily protection facilities for people with · Building a classroom in Pokhari Bhanjyang, disabilities a remote and isolated area of Nepal · Supporting volunteer groups at a regional children center Education – KRW 35.2 million Social contribution – KRW 27 million Happiness Sharing and Bridging Love(Volunteer Work by Emthe program was attended by about 570 children with developployees) mental disabilities in connection with 19 institutions such as special In 2014, SK innovation organized “SK Angels(1004) Volunteer schools and about 1,000 elderly people living alone in cooperation Group” as its volunteer corps, composed of 67 volunteer teams. As with seven institutions based on support centers for senior citizens all employees join the volunteer group, each volunteer team carliving alone. With these changes, it was found that 75% of employried out proactive voluntary work. In 2016, under the social circumees or more enhanced the understanding of the disadvantaged stances with gradually decreasing interest and participation in voland felt an increased sense of pride and reward as an employee of unteer work, the company recognized the volunteer work culture SK innovation than before. as a crucial element not only in social contribution but also corpoCurrent Status of Employees’ rate culture, conducted a campaign for one-time participation by Participation in Volunteer Work (Unit: hours, %) single employees extensively and broadened a bond of sympathy Average hours per person 100 in all employees. In addition, we selected intensive sectors for the Participation rate issues of the elderly living alone and children with developmental disabilities for which social problems become severe and social interest increases. The company also provided support to ease a sense of isolation and recover a sense of pride, while carrying out 68.3 65.1 61.8 57.1 56.9 company-wide volunteer work under the theme of improvement 9.9 of social adaptation for the independence of children with devel8.2 7.8 opmental disabilities in daily life. Apart from economic support, SK 7.3 5.9 5.6 innovation emphasized the emotional aspect and functionalized volunteer work based on social interaction; as a result, about 5,600 employees participated 100% in the activity. Through this activity, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 System for Voluntary Work by Employees Children with developmental Target disabilities Senior citizens living alone To provide training for social adaptation To ease a sense of social isolation and Goal to stand on their own feet in daily life recover confidence Running cultural and concert programs On-site experience learning and social Major activity adaptation training Setting up ties between employees and elderly people living alone Deep Change for Tomorrow 76 Sustainability Performance Social Contribution Regional Mutual Growth Program human resources by improving the education environment, includ• Ulsan ing supporting school uniforms for students in the disadvantaged SK innovation has held the Rose Festival at the Ulsan Grand Park class(total of 497 students in 2016) and scholarship for students in Rose Garden since 2006 when the company built and made a dosurrounding areas(Incheon Scholarship Foundation). nation to Ulsan Grand Park to promote happiness for residents of Moreover, the company opens the business site with cherry blossoms Ulsan. In 2016, we held the 10th Rose Festival in partnership with and holds the cherry blossom festival in every April to entertain loUlsan Metropolitan Government and created beautiful memories cal residents. The Incheon business site also runs various programs for approximately 290 thousand visitors from across the country. In for supporting the local community, including traditional market addition, the company supported five enterprises to create jobs in shopping program, sisterhood ties between one company and one society and carried out various other activities such as supporting the market to contribute to vitalizing traditional markets, campaign to “Bunch of Happiness” to stabilize the living of the socially disadvanencourage using local shops and participation in and sponsorship for taged, providing rice, renovating houses for the elderly living alone “Seogu Kimchi Making Festival for Sharing Love” to show love for and sharing kimchi. neighbors in welfare facilities with senior citizens living alone, children, people with disabilities and homeless people. • Incheon SK incheon petrochem has organized a mutual-growth community • Seosan and Jeungpyeong with local residents and carried out various activities to develop the Seosan Plant actively carries out voluntary work for children with local community. The site focuses on supporting a high-quality edudisabilities and elderly citizens living alone. From October 2016, the cation environment for students in surrounding areas to contribute plant conducted social experience learning such as visiting the chryto cultivating future human resources and developing the local comsanthemum festival and having a Christmas Santa Claus experience munity. The company solved problems regarding the operation of activity with children with developmental disabilities at Issac Special the plant with local residents through two-way communication for Nursery Center. Through these activities, Seosan Plant aims to form a “reliable plant” by announcing the agreement for a win-win relaa sense of empathy with disabled children and prepare continuous tionship with local residents and reliable projects (safety verification, opportunities to lay the foundation for children to adapt to society. health impact assessment). The business site also operates a program At Jeungpyeong Plant, the company offers scholarships to students to create an environment with a virtuous cycle in which local stuin the low-income and disadvantaged class on an annual basis and dents can grow into talented human resources in the future and holds an event for sharing kimchi with senior citizens living alone to return their talent to the local community. They can do this by boosttake the lead in social contribution in the local community. ing the academic performances of local students in an adjacent old downtown, providing fair educational opportunities and improving the poor education environment. The company has enhanced the academic achievement level by providing academic support programs for local students, such as after-school classes for elementary school students and academic mentoring and summer camp for middle school students(total of 571 students benefited from the program in Ulsan Grand Park Rose Festival 2016). The Incheon business site also contributes to fostering future Sports Jeju Youth Soccer Council History of Jeju Youth Soccer Council SK energy operates the Youth Soccer Council by Jeju Special Self-Governing Province to vitalize sports for young people in Jeju. 2014 Established a voluntary association The council creates the environment to offer high-quality soccer training through various programs such as holding a soccer camp 2015 Launched a non-profit corporation and soccer matches, giving a soccer class for the disadvantaged and 2016 Designated as a preliminary social enterprise fostering excellent players and instructors. 2017 Prepared for social enterprise certification Exciting Handball Class with SK Sugar Gliders SK Sugar Gliders, an SK female handball team, has operated the “Exciting Handball Class with SK Sugar Gliders” as part of talent donation since 2013. For elementary and middle schools in the home of the team, Uijeongbu, the handball team provides various classes including the theories and basics of handball and recreation. In addition, the “SK Happiness Sharing Handball Career Exploration Concert” was held to have a meaningful time by talking with young handball athletes about the future vision of handball Handball Class Activity and career exploration as an athlete. Deep Change for Tomorrow 77 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 SHE Management 1) SK innovation applies the concept of CSV(Creating Shared Value), which secures trust from the society and grows and develops with society beyond the conventional concept of social responsibilities such as minimizing accidents and pollutants. As this is the aim of SHE management pursued by SK innovation, we aim to achieve the status of a global top-tier company by establishing and operating higher SHE standards than legal requirements and growing into a role model for similar companies in the industry. SHE Management System SK innovation has analyzed required management factors for safeIn addition, we carry out activities to boost the implementation of ty management by global advanced companies, established 13 maa system based on CEO leadership and perform audits on a regular jor management factors encompassing those analysis results and basis to improve and supplement any insufficiencies to set up and reflected the operating system to implement these factors in the operate a virtuous cycle of “Plan-Do-Check-Action.” company's regulations and sub-procedures. SHE Management System Framework Drive Implementation Occupational Operations and Environment Safety and Health Reliability Stewardship Management Chemicals SHE Incident Emergency Management Investigation Management SHE SHE Leadership and Audit Accountability SHE Capability Management of Contractor SHE Development and Change Management Training SHE Legal SHE Stakeholder Compliance Communication Improvement Feed back 1) SHE(Safety, Health, Environment) Deep Change for Tomorrow 78 Sustainability Performance SHE Management Occupational Safety and Health Spread of Awareness to Internalize Safety Culture Implementation of Joint Emergency Response Drill Ulsan Complex business site held the “Challenge! Ulsan Complex SK innovation has established a company-wide emergency reSHE Champion Contest”. This event was held to recognize the sigsponse drill system. As the scope of emergency drill, which was nificance of SHE practice by sharing the best practices for safety previously conducted based on business sites, has broadened to in each plant and experiencing safety practice by employees in the company-wide range, management members including the person. Various activities were carried out, such as SHE photo and CEO fully acknowledge the roles of each functional group and slogan contest, SHE champion plant selection, sharing best cases emergency response process in case of emergency. We conduct the and Challenge! Golden Bell and experience events. About 1,300 emergency response drill in a regular and repetitive way so that all employees participated in the contests. SK innovation expects this members from management to employees are fully aware of their event to contribute to maintaining zero-accident business sites. roles and process and fulfill their duties in any emergency. Operation of Occupational Safety and Health Commission SK innovation runs the Occupational Safety and Health Commission in each business site in accordance with the Occupational Safety and Health Act. In the Occupational Safety and Health Commission, both labor union and company discuss and decide important safety and health issues to prevent any occupational accidents and improve the working environment for employees. The commission is composed of equal numbers of labor union members and management and includes the representatives of workers and business sites. In 2016, the commission had a discussion over improving working clothes and raising safety awareness and attended the advanced safety culture exhibition jointly by labor union and manEmergency Response Drill agement. Health Management for Employees Operation of Emergency Response System SK innovation operates various facilities and programs to achieve SK innovation operates the emergency response system to cope health promotion for employees. Ulsan Complex runs an in-comwith any emergency situations such as fire, explosion, leakage of pany medical center and provides a support program to present toxic gas or natural disaster. While safety facilities suitable for the the right direction for health management and improve daily roucharacteristics of the process in each process, the company has tine for health. In 2016, the center held lectures to prevent adult an in-company emergency response group to swiftly disseminate diseases, operated a promotion center for health experience and and cope with any incident. It focuses on preventing the spread of provided guidance on weight management and appropriate exerthe incident through early response. Ulsan Complex organizes the cise. A total of 3,204 employees participated in the health manageemergency response group based on the office of emergency manment program. SK innovation helps employees to concentrate on agement and on-site command office under the supervision of a their work based on physical and mental health by systemic health business director and leadership of a plant director, including techmanagement. nical support, contact, administrative support, financial support, on-site support, on-site response, fire extinguishing and prevention squad and personnel control squad. The emergency response group is operated by systemic division based on the size classified into Levels 1 to 5. Deep Change for Tomorrow 79 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Respond to Climate Change Usage of energy GHG emissions (Unit: MWh) (Unit: tCO 2eq) 43,060,578 42,801,988 13,033,976 41,622,210 12,843,831 12,500,201 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Energy Use GHG Emission SK innovation manages the usage of energy based on the “GuideThe amount of GHG emissions is calculated on the basis of the Kolines for the Operation of Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target rea emission trading statement guidelines. The scope of calculaManagement” led by the government and collects data through tion includes the petrochemical, chemical and lubricant business Greenhouse Energy Management System(GEMS). The total amount sectors and R&D, logistics, other business sectors including Ulsan of energy use in 2016 was 41,622,210MWh, down by 2.8% comComplex(SK energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants), SK incheon pared to the previous year. We aim to achieve a reduction of 9.5% petrochem's Incheon business site; overseas business sites and supcompared to BAU by 2020. ply chain are excluded. To deal with the Emission Trading Scheme more effectively, which has been implemented since 2015, SK innovation manages the amount of GHG emissions and basic unit based on the energy use. The total amount of GHG emissions in 2016 was 12,843,831tCO 2eq, which was a decrease of 1.46% compared to the previous year. We aim to achieve a reduction of 9.5% compared to BAU by 2020. Main page of GHG and Energy Management System Deep Change for Tomorrow 80 Sustainability Performance SHE Management Reduction of Environmental Impacts on Business Sites Usage of water Volume of waste (Unit: m3) Designated waste (Unit: metric tonnes) General waste 68,854 62,835 51,719,860 50,258,771 53,825 49,754,884 44,383 42,360 41,148 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Current Status of Water Pollutants Management Business site Wastewater treatment facility Treatment method Place of emission Ulsan Complex Wastewater Treatment Facility Biological + Advanced treatment Public water body(East Sea) SK energy(Ulsan) No. 2 FCC Wastewater Treatment Facility Biological treatment Yongyeon Sewage Treatment Plant PE PP Wastewater Treatment Facility Physicochemical treatment Yongam Wastewater Treatment Plant SK global chemical(Ulsan) EPDM Wastewater Treatment Facility Biological treatment Yongam Wastewater Treatment Plant SK incheon petrochem(Incheon) SK incheon petrochem Wastewater Treatment Facility Biological + Advanced treatment Gajwa Sewage Treatment Plant Management of Water Resource Waste Management The usage of water by SK innovation is calculated based on water SK innovation manages the amount of waste discharge by using an bills for major domestic business sites, including headquarters. Maindependently developed waste management system. Any generjor sources of water intake include Daeam Dam, Daecheong Dam ated waste is processed by self-reclamation, while part of the waste and Asan Bay. The usage of water in 2016 was 51,719,860 tons, is recycled, incinerated and reclaimed by consigning the task to a a partial increase due to activities to improve the process in the specialist company whose consignment ability is verified. Waste oil plant1). is utilized to produce regenerative fuel. In 2016, waste oil collected 1) Activities to reform a part of the process to increase facility output(Revamp) from waste treatment facilities was partially disposed of or recycled and input to a crude oil tank again to reduce the amount and Management of Water Pollutants cost of waste oil generated. In terms of I/E material business, we SK innovation has installed and operated high-efficient and biadopted a waste oil recycling facility and input 65% of waste oil ological wastewater processing facility in which remote water generated in the process, which decreased the amount of waste quality monitoring and control system are applied. Any wastewageneration and saved an annual cost of KRW 1.07 billion as well as ter with pollutants in the production process is finally discharged reduced oil waste. through an activated carbon tower. Processed wastewater is partially recycled as water for fire extinguishing and landscaping to minimize the discharge of wastewater. We also apply a more stringent wastewater discharge concentration level than the legal standards and strictly manage the level. Deep Change for Tomorrow 81 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Management of Air Pollutants SK innovation monitors the current status of air pollutants from major discharge facilities in business sites such as a heating furnace and boiler by using TMS1) on a real-time basis. With the aim of preventing any damage by hazardous air pollutants(HAPs, 2)), the Company also applies LDAR 3) system at arsenic acid discharge facilities such as a pump, flange and valve and monitors such facilities at least once per year. We also operate odor-preventing facilities to sustain pleasant air environment in the local communities and 1) TMS: Telemetering System business sites and run a channel for reporting civil complaints re2) Hazardous Air Pollutants garding environmental 3) Leak Detection and Repair Emissions of Air Pollutants (Unit: metric tonnes) 4,085 385 3,743 3,911 9,180 377 8,546 359 8,188 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 SOx(Sulfur Oxides) NOx(Nitrogen Oxides) VOC(Volatiile Organic Compounds) Efforts to Prevent Oil Spill Prevention of Marine Pollution SK innovation prepares work standards and procedures and reinforces on-site monitoring practices to prevent any marine pollution accidents. A marine pollution prevention manager stays at and manages each facility such as single Buoy4) mooring, Dolphin5), crude oil tank and oil storage tank. In 2016, the Company increased the number of marine pollution prevention managers and appointed additional managers to allow managers to work fully in the nighttime shift. Soil Environment Management SK innovation conducts various activities to prevent soil pollution, which can be caused by leakage of pollutants. As we have agreed on the “Voluntary Agreement for the Preservation of Soil Environment” with the Ministry of Environment, we voluntarily puOil spill response drills rify contaminated soil and prevent any risk of the spread of soil pollution in advance. Furthermore, we conduct voluntary soil con4) Buoy: An oil loading/unloading facility to be installed over the sea to discharge oil from a large-sized oil tanker, which cannot be docked at the pier tamination survey every other year and monitor the level of soil 5) Dolphin: A bridge to be installed heading out to sea from the land to dock a large-sized contamination. vessel Deep Change for Tomorrow 82 Sustainability PerformanceAppendix Appendix 84 Materiality Test 86 Key Sustainability Performance 95 GRI Index 97 Commitment to Sustainability Management 98 Audit Report 99 Financial Statement 100 Independent Assurance Statement 102 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 103 Membership Status Deep Change for Tomorrow 83 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Materiality Test SK innovation draws any material issues, which may have an impact on the company's sustainability management, by taking into account various internal and external issues surrounding the management environment and opinions from stakeholders and discloses such content in the sustainability report in detail. Step 1. Step 2. Step 3. Organize an issue pool by Draw materiality mapping and material issues Make a final decision multi-dimensional analysis Analysis of external Analysis of internal environment environment Reporting issues in Review of internal the same industry materials Review of Analysis of business interest from Review by Media research and Major current issues of susanalysis tainability management relevance stakeholders the Board of Directors Review of international Analysis of major standards announcements by CEO Survey for external Survey for internal stakeholders stakeholders Relevance Impact Stakeholders Issues in 2016 Major communication channels ·O  peration of the call center “Customer Happiness Call Center” · Social contribution for shared growth with the ·O  peration of EnClean.com local community ·A  nnual meeting and event · Creating and distributing economic value ·W  ebsite(SK innovation), Facebook(SK innovation, SK energy, SK lubricants), · Policy on mutual growth blog(SK innovation, SK energy), etc. Customer · Intranet(tongtong, etc.) · Reinforcing essential competitiveness · In-house broadcast(gbs) and newsletter by each company · Policy for mutual growth · iCON(internal communication messenger, Change Facilitator) · S ocial contribution for shared growth with the ·C  EO-Employees communication(Well-Comm. Day) and meeting local community ·H  appy Walk Employees ·G  eneral Shareholders Meetings, Earnings Releases · S trengthening transparent management based ·D  omestic and overseas NDR(Non-Deal Roadshow) on the Board of Directors ·D  omestic and overseas conference · Reinforcing essential competitiveness ·1  :1 meeting, e-mail/phone counseling · Preventing unfair trade ·D  isclosures, etc. Shareholders and Investors · Communication with stakeholders ·M  eeting with local organizations · S ocial contribution for shared growth with the · P articipation in local community committees and living and safety commislocal community sions for the police precinct office in the adjacent region ·V  italizing social responsibilities in the supply · Engagement in welfare facilities and group operating commissions in the chain adjacent region Local Communities · Policy on mutual growth · Regular meeting with suppliers · Reinforcing communication with and capabilities ·S  upplier CEO Meeting of suppliers · Regular meeting with logistics, machines, equipment and inspection · Social contribution for shared growth with the companies local community Suppliers Deep Change for Tomorrow 84 Appendix Materiality Test In 2016, SK innovation strengthened the composition of stakeholder surveys and conducted assessments by dividing the potential impacts of each issue on the company into four aspects—finance, reputation, operation and strategy. Through this process, the company aims to identify any risks which may be caused by each issue and establish a more strategic sustainability management response system. Materiality Test Matrix Policy for mutual growth Material Issue Maintaining work-life balance Strengthening employees Interest from stakeholders(impact) Internal and external risk recruitment and capabilities management and response Occupational safety and health Reinforcing communication with and capabilities of suppliers Creating economic value Coping with climate change Vitalizing social responsibilities in Environmental pollutants the supply chain management Reinforcing essential competitiveness Social contribution for shared Reducing environmental impact growth with the local community on the business site Reinforcing R&D Reinforcing ethics management Resource circulation and recycling Accelerating global growth Enhancing brand value Strategy and system of environmental management Strengthening transparent management based on the Board of Directors Reporting Issue Relevance Stakeholder impact assessment Rank GRI G4 aspects Issue Page Finance Reputation Operation Strategy 1 Occupational health and safety Occupational safety and health √ 42~45, 79 Strengthening employee recruitment 2 Employment, training and education √ 66~69 and building capabilities 3 Emissions Coping with climate change √ 46~49, 80 Internal and external risk management 4 Strategy and analysis √ 59~61 and response 5 Economic performance Reinforcing essential competitiveness √ 28~31 Supplier Assessment for impacts Vitalizing social responsibilities in the 6 √ 50~53 on Society supply chain 7 Economic performance Creating economic value √ 36, 86 Reinforcing communication with and 8 Procurement practice √ 70~72 capabilities of suppliers 9 Effluent and waste Environmental pollutants management √ 45, 81~82 Social contribution for shared growth 10 Local community √ 73~77 with the local community Deep Change for Tomorrow 85 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Performance – Economy Sales and Operating Income by Business Segment (Unit: KRW 100 million) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Sales Percent of sales Sales Percent of sales Sales Percent of sales Petroleum 490,563 74% 352,997 73% 283,699 72% Sales Chemical 126,352 19% 92,880 19% 76,865 19% Lubricant 29,818 5% 26,188 5% 25,358 6% Petroleum 11,874 2% 11,499 2% 9,283 2% development, etc. Operating Percent of Operating Percent of Operating Percent of income operating profit income operating profit income operating profit Petroleum -9,990 12,991 66% 19,391 60% Operating Chemical 3,592 4,310 22% 9,187 28% income Lubricant 2,899 2,947 15% 4,683 15% Petroleum 1,672 -451 -2% -978 -3% development, etc. Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW 100 million) Field Recipient Expenditure/Investment 2014 2015 2016 R&D1) 1,344 1,654 1,453 Corporation 2) Economy Acquisition of tangible assets 16,417 4,609 6,345 Investors Total cash dividend 4,474 5,965 3) Employees Salaries 8,969 11,653 11,116 Suppliers Purchase of suppliers products 7,446 7,436 9,536 Society Community Social contribution investments 306 84 416 Government Corporate tax 4) 4,494 4,072 5,193 1) Based on Annual Report 2016 2) Based on each year’s consolidated audit report, note 10-(2) refers to items in book value of tangible assets labeled ‘acquired.’ 3) Based on each year’s consolidated audit report, note 23 refers to the item under cost by category labeled ‘employee wages.’ 4) Based on Annual Report 2016’s consolidated cash flow statement in consolidated financial statement Deep Change for Tomorrow 86 Appendix Key Sustainability Performance Key Sustainability Performance – SHE Energy Consumption (Unit: MWh, KRW million) Energy Target for 2020 9.5% reduce in comparison to 2020 BAU Classification 2014 2015 2016 1) Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector(Incheon, Ulsan) 42,201,340 41,752,039 40,629,371 Total energy R&D, logistics and other business sector(Seosan, Jeungpyeong, 859,238 1,049,949 992,839 consumption3) Cheongju, Daedeok, Logistics)2) Total 43,060,578 42,801,988 41,622,210 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector(Incheon, Ulsan) 31,253,273 29,778,056 29,553,247 R&D, logistics and other business sector(Seosan, Jeungpyeong, Fuel 741,828 827,383 900,466 Cheongju, Daedeok, Logistics) Total 31,995,101 30,605,439 30,453,713 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector(Incheon, Ulsan) 9,512,487 10,085,171 9,920,573 R&D, logistics and other business sector(Seosan, Jeungpyeong, Electricity 585,192 715,626 733,489 Cheongju, Daedeok, Logistics) Total 10,097,679 10,800,797 10,654,062 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector(Incheon, Ulsan) 7,202,515 7,408,737 6,975,112 R&D, logistics and other business sector(Seosan, Jeungpyeong, Steam Cheongju, Daedeok, Logistics) Total 7,202,515 7,408,737 6,975,112 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector(Incheon, Ulsan) 5,766,935 5,519,925 5,819,561 Non-renewable R&D, logistics and other business sector(Seosan, Jeungpyeong, 467,782 493,060 641,116 energy consumption Cheongju, Daedeok, Logistics) Total 6,234,717 6,012,985 6,460,677 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector(Incheon, Ulsan) 2,504,694 2,185,690 1,656,636 Total energy R&D, logistics and other business sector(Seosan, Jeungpyeong, 50,325 48,205 44,411 consumption cost Cheongju, Daedeok, Logistics) Total 2,555,019 2,233,895 1,701,047 1) Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector: SK energy(Ulsan), SK global chemical(Ulsan), SK lubricants(Ulsan), SK incheon petrochem(Incheon) 2) R&D, logistics and other business sector: Battery production line(Seosan), Battery and circuit material production line(Jeungpyeong, Cheongju), Global Technology(Daedeok R&D Park), Logistics Center 3) Total energy consumption: fuel・electricity・steam purchase non-renewable energy consumption Deep Change for Tomorrow 87 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 GHG Emissions (Unit: tCO 2eq) Greenhouse Gas Target for 2020 9.5% reduce in comparison to 2020 BAU Classification 2014 2015 2016 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector(Incheon, Ulsan)1) 12,261,843 12,742,702 12,550,646 Total GHG emissions R&D, logistics and other business sector(Seosan, Jeungpyeong, 238,358 291,274 293,185 (Scope 1 + Scope 2) Cheongju, Daedeok, Logistics)2) Total 12,500,201 13,033,976 12,843,831 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector(Incheon, Ulsan) 9,896,681 10,386,561 10,358,002 Total direct R&D, logistics and other business sector(Seosan, Jeungpyeong, emissions 135,819 152,634 164,675 Cheongju, Daedeok, Logistics) (Scope 1) Total 10,032,500 10,539,195 10,522,677 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector(Incheon, Ulsan) 2,365,162 2,356,141 2,192,644 Total indirect R&D, logistics and other business sector(Seosan, Jeungpyeong, emissions 102,539 138,640 128,510 Cheongju, Daedeok, Logistics) (Scope 2) Total 2,467,701 2,494,781 2,321,154 1) Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector: SK energy(Ulsan), SK global chemical(Ulsan), SK lubricants(Ulsan), SK incheon petrochem(Incheon) 2) R&D, logistics and other business sector: Battery production line(Seosan), Battery and circuit material production line(Jeungpyeong, Cheongju), Global Technology(Daedeok R&D Park), Logistics Center Water (Unit: m3) Total Volume Target of Water Usage 2020 52,368,645m 3 Classification 2014 2015 2016 1) Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector 49,152,836 48,840,236 50,778,337 Total volume of R&D, logistics and other business sector2) 1,105,935 914,648 941,523 water usage Total 50,258,771 49,754,884 51,719,860 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector 49,152,836 48,840,236 50,778,337 Usage of municipal R&D, logistics and other business sector 1,096,212 904,883 926,839 water supplies Total 50,249,048 49,745,119 51,705,176 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector 0 0 0 Usage of groundwater R&D, logistics and other business sector 8,873 8,969 13,768 (freshwater) Total 8,873 8,969 13,768 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector 0 0 0 Usage of rainwater R&D, logistics and other business sector 850 796 916 Total 850 796 916 1) Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector: SK energy(Ulsan), SK global chemical(Ulsan), SK lubricants(Ulsan), SK incheon petrochem(Incheon) 2) R&D, logistics and other business sector: Battery production line(Seosan), Battery and circuit material production line(Jeungpyeong, Cheongju), Global Technology(Daedeok R&D Park), Logistics Center Deep Change for Tomorrow 88 Appendix Key Sustainability Performance Waste (Unit: metric tonnes – based on a dried form) Target of Total Waste for 2020 103,715metric tonnes Target of Recycling Ratio for 2020 67.5% Classification 2014 2015 2016 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector1) 90,197 84,661 96,021 Total volume of waste R&D, logistics and other business sector2) 13,787 13,547 15,193 generated Total 103,983 98,208 111,214 Discharge Volume by Treatment Method Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector 299 0 0 In-house treatment R&D, logistics and other business sector 0 0 0 (landfill) Total 299 0 0 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector 38,017 31,058 38,233 Outsourced volume R&D, logistics and other business sector 2,345 1,867 1,361 (incinerator / landfill) Total 40,362 32,925 39,593 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector 51,881 53,603 57,788 Outsourced volume R&D, logistics and other business sector 11,442 11,680 13,833 (Recycled) Total 63,323 65,284 71,621 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector 57.5% 63.3% 60.2% Waste recycle rate R&D, logistics and other business sector 83.0% 86.2% 91.0% Total 60.9% 66.5% 64.4% Waste Discharge by Type Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector 29,690 33,338 29,835 Designated waste 3) R&D, logistics and other business sector 11,458 11,045 12,525 Total 41,148 44,383 42,360 Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector 60,506 51,323 66,186 General waste 4) R&D, logistics and other business sector 2,329 2,502 2,668 Total 62,835 53,825 68,854 1) Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector: SK energy(Ulsan), SK global chemical(Ulsan), SK lubricants(Ulsan), SK incheon petrochem(Incheon) 2) R &D, logistics and other business sector: Battery production line(Seosan), Battery and circuit material production line(Jeungpyeong, Cheongju), Global Technology(Daedeok R&D Park), Logistics Center 3) Designated waste: As waste stipulated by the Presidential Decree from the Korean government, designated waste refers to any hazardous material that contaminate the surrounding environment such as waste oil and waste acid in “industrial wastes”, which are generated in the “factory” stipulated in article 2-1 of the Industrial Placement and Factory Construction Act. 4) General waste: Waste generated from a business site except for designated waste and construction waste Deep Change for Tomorrow 89 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Air Pollutant Emissions Volume (Unit: metric tonnes) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Note 1) Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector 9,180 8,546 8,188 Insignificant NOx emissions3) R&D, logistics and other business sector2) 0 0 0 volume generated Total 9,180 8,546 8,188 1) Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector: SK energy(Ulsan), SK global chemical(Ulsan), SK lubricants(Ulsan), SK incheon petrochem(Incheon) 2) R&D, logistics and other business sector: Battery production line(Seosan), Battery and circuit material production line(Jeungpyeong, Cheongju), Global Technology(Daedeok R&D Park), Logistics Center 3) Any NOx emissions which are generated by business trips and commuting by employees are not included. (Unit: metric tonnes) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Note Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector1) 3,743 3,911 4,085 Insignificant SOx emissions3) R&D, logistics and other business sector2) 0 0 0 volume generated Total 3,743 3,911 4,085 1) Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector: SK energy(Ulsan), SK global chemical(Ulsan), SK lubricants(Ulsan), SK incheon petrochem(Incheon) 2) R&D, logistics and other business sector: Battery production line(Seosan), Battery and circuit material production line(Jeungpyeong, Cheongju), Global Technology(Daedeok R&D Park), Logistics Center 3) Any SOx emissions which are generated by business trips and commuting by employees are not included. (Unit: metric tonnes) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Note 1) Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector 377 385 359 2) Insignificant VOC emissions 3) R&D, logistics and other business sector 0 0 0 volume generated Total 377 385 359 1) Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector: SK energy(Ulsan), SK global chemical(Ulsan), SK lubricants(Ulsan), SK incheon petrochem(Incheon) 2) R&D, logistics and other business sector: Battery production line(Seosan), Battery and circuit material production line(Jeungpyeong, Cheongju), Global Technology(Daedeok R&D Park), Logistics Center 3) All VOC emissions which are generated from non-methane VOC’s and stationary sources are included. (Unit: metric tonnes) Classification 2014 2015 2016 1) Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector 0 0 0 Amount of R&D, logistics and other business sector2) 0 0 0 hydrocarbon emissions Total 0 0 0 1) Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector: SK energy(Ulsan), SK global chemical(Ulsan), SK lubricants(Ulsan), SK incheon petrochem(Incheon) 2) R&D, logistics and other business sector: Battery production line(Seosan), Battery and circuit material production line(Jeungpyeong, Cheongju), Global Technology(Daedeok R&D Park), Logistics Center (Unit: metric tonnes) Classification 2014 2015 2016 1) Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector 1,862 1,995 2,024 Methane R&D, logistics and other business sector2) 4 7 6 Total 1,866 2,002 2,030 1) Petroleum, chemical and lubricant business sector: SK energy(Ulsan), SK global chemical(Ulsan), SK lubricants(Ulsan), SK incheon petrochem(Incheon) 2) R&D, logistics and other business sector: Battery production line(Seosan), Battery and circuit material production line(Jeungpyeong, Cheongju), Global Technology(Daedeok R&D Park), Logistics Center Deep Change for Tomorrow 90 Appendix Key Sustainability Performance Lost-Time Incident Rate(LTIR) Target for 2020 1) 0.32 1) Integrated target including all employees and suppliers(cases per million working hours) Occupational safety and health (Unit: case, cases per million working hours) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Employees 1 Case of fatality Suppliers Total 1 Employees 0.51 0.39 0.32 Lost-Time Incident Rate Suppliers 0.97 0.71 0.54 (LTIR) Total 0.80 0.56 0.46 Employees 1.03 0.86 0.64 Total Recordable Incidents Suppliers 1.52 1.27 0.68 Rate(TRIR) Total 1.34 1.08 0.66 Occupational Illness Frequency Rate(OIFR) 0.08 Process safety (Unit: %, cases per million working hours) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Unplanned Capacity Loss(UCL) 0.21 0.07 0.24 Rate of safety accidents 0.03 0.03 in the process(Tier 1) Deep Change for Tomorrow 91 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Key Sustainability Performance – Society Employee Status by Category1) (Unit: Person) Target of Training Hours Per Employee for 20202) 40 hours Number of people(ratio) Category 2014 2015 2016 Total number of people 3) 6,338(100%) 5,820(100%) 6,045(100%) Regular 6,231(98.3%) 5,744(98.7%) 5,915(97.8%) Employment type Temporary contract 107(1.7%) 76(1.3%) 130(2.2%) Male 5,623(88.7%) 5,171(88.8%) 5,388(89.1%) Gender Female 4) 715(11.3%) 649(11.2%) 657(10.9%) Under 30 734(11.6%) 589(10.1%) 522(8.6%) Age 30 to 50 years of age 4,263(67.3%) 3,826(65.7%) 3,687(61.0%) 50 years or over 1,341(21.2%) 1,405(24.1%) 1,836(30.4%) Disabled 130(2.1%) 94(1.6%) 94(1.6%) Minorities Patriots and veterans 329(5.2%) 301(5.2%) 265(4.4%) 1) Except for executives and advisors 2) Training hours per employee in 2016(base year)(27.3 hours) 3) Except for locally recruited employees in overseas business sites 4) The rate of females at the administrative position in 2016 was 4% compared to the total number of people at the administrative position. Use of Childcare Leave and Rate of Return (Unit: Person) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Number of employees who used Male 2 4 2 childcare leave Female 61 65 65 Number of employees returning from Male 1 2 childcare leave who worked at least 12 months following return Female 25 39 48 Ratio of Labor Union Membership Classification Ratio Ratio of labor union/collective bargaining applied 49.6% Deep Change for Tomorrow 92 Appendix Key Sustainability Performance Social Contribution Activities (Unit: KRW 100 million) Target of Local Community Investment Ratio for 2020 75.0% Classification 2014 2015 2016 Expenses for social contribution activities 306 84 416 1) 1) The amount of community investment in the total expenses for social contribution in 2016 was 60.8%. Performance of Volunteer Groups Company Number of activities Hours Number of volunteer teams Participants SK innovation 194 11,365.5 17 1,398 SK energy 1,108 20,067 31 2,369 SK global chemical 284 3,991.5 7 949 SK lubricants 62 1,343.5 3 247 SK incheon petrochem 147 6,442 8 581 SK trading international 9 713.5 1 66 Total 1,804 43,923 67 5,610 Current Status of Major Donations1) Institution for support Program Institution for support Program Supporting training for the Olympics and Korean Foundation for Providing academic support and fostering Korea Handball Federation reinforcing the capabilities of instructors Advanced Studies remarkable human resources and athletes Korea Association of Supporting a volunteer program for senior Community Chest of Korea Donation for helping neighbors Senior Welfare Centers citizens living alone UN Global Compact Korea Paying UNGC annual fee Supporting underfed children, vitalizing The Happiness Incheon Human Resource the ecosystem for social enterprises and Foundation Development & Scholarship Local human resources cultivation program cultivating social entrepreneurs Foundation Social enterprise for developing local Prosynergy Korea Disaster Relief Supporting the restoration of flood communities in Peru Association damage in Ulsan ChildFund Korea Campaign to find lost family members 1) In accordance with “Article 31 Limitations of Donation of Chapter 6 in the Political Fund Act”, political donations are prohibited in Korea. To comply with this law, SK innovation reflects such content to the in-company regulations. Accordingly, there was no separate political donation in 2016. Total Number of Suppliers Mutual Growth Fund Contribution (Unit: Number of suppliers – companies, Amount of product purchase – KRW 100 million) (Unit: KRW 100 million) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Classification 2014 2015 2016 Number of suppliers 5,312 5,336 SK innovation 270 120 120 Mutual Amount of product purchase 7,446 7,436 9,536 SK global Growth Fund 220 220 220 chemical Local1) suppliers’ purchases Contribution 3,710 3,767 4,833 (amount) Total 490 340 340 Local1) suppliers’ purchases 50% 51% 51% (percentage) 1) Limited to the Republic of Korea Deep Change for Tomorrow 93 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Current Status of Corporate Tax Payment1) (Unit: KRW 100 million) Classification Sales Operating profit Corporate tax paid Korea 438,959 33,829 4,752 Netherlands 4,476 29 U.S. 14,955 △53 140 Spain 3,498 145 34 Singapore 162,953 △106 180 U.K. 37,909 △216 △2 Country Indonesia 2,480 176 23 Japan 4,930 13 7 China 14,526 36 52 Russia 483 △58 Others(consolidated) △289,964 △1,512 7 Total 395,205 32,283 5,193 Korea 438,959 33,829 4,752 Asia 184,889 119 262 Region Europe 46,366 △100 32 Others △275,009 △1,565 147 Total 395,205 32,283 5,193 1) It is regional information on the consolidated target(based on the location), and internal transactions between consolidated targets is adjusted and reflected in the category of others. Deep Change for Tomorrow 94 Appendix GRI Index GRI Index General Standard Disclosure Number Disclosure Page Strategy and G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 9, 97 Analysis G4-2 Provides a description of Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 34~35, 60~61 G4-3 Report the name of the organization 10 G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services 12~21 G4-5 The location of the organization's headquarters 10 The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the G4-6 organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in 10~11 the report G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form 10 The markets served(including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and G4-8 10~11 beneficiaries) Organizational G4-9 Scale of the organization 10 Profile G4-10 Total workforce 92 G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 92 G4-12 The organization's supply chain 93 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization's size, structure, ownership, G4-13 No significant changes or its supply chain G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 59~61 List Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which G4-15 97 the organization subscribes or endorses Memberships in associations(such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy G4-16 103 organizations in which the organization G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 10, 31 G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 2 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 84~85 Identified G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Aspect Boundary within the organization 84~85 Material Aspects And Boundaries G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 84~85 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such G4-22 Marked when occurred restatements G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries No significant changes G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 84 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 84 Stakeholder Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Engagement G4-26 84 stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization G4-27 84 has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting G4-28 Reporting period such as fiscal or calendar year for information provided 2 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report(if any) 2 G4-30 Reporting cycle such as annual, biennial 2 Report Profile G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 105 G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen 95~96 G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 100~101 Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 56~58 Ethics and Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and G4-56 62~65 Integrity codes of ethics Deep Change for Tomorrow 95 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Specific Standard Disclosures Aspect Number Disclosure page DMA 36~37 Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 86 Performance Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to G4-EC2 46~49, 60~61 climate change DMA 73 Indirect Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 73~77 Impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 73~77 Procurement DMA 70 Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 72 DMA 46 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 87 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 80 DMA 78 Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 88 DMA 46, 78 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions(scope 1) 88 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions(scope 2) 88 Emissions G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions intensity 88 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions 88 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 90 DMA 78 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 88 Effluents and Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 89 G4-OG5 Volume and disposal of formation or produced water 88 G4-OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon 90 Environment Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonNo significant G4-EN29 Compliance compliance with environmental laws and regulations fines or sanctions DMA 66 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time Employment G4-LA2 68 employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 92 DMA 42 Occupational Health and Safety Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total G4-LA6 91 number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender DMA 73 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, Local Communities G4-SO1 74, 76 impact assessments, and development programs G4-OG10 Number and description of significant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples No significant cases DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 62 Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 62~63 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 62 Public Policy Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and G4-SO7 64~65 their outcomes DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 62 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonNo significant G4-SO8 compliance with laws and regulations fines or sanctions Supplier Assessment DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 50 for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 71 Asset Integrity and G4-OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity 79 Process Safety Deep Change for Tomorrow 96 Appendix Commitment to Sustainability Management Commitment to Sustainability Management The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact In 2007, SK innovation joined the UNGC, the global sustainability management initiative. Since then, the company has supported the ten principles in four major sectors, including human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and strictly complied with these principles by preparing a relevant system such as the policy on safety, health and environment(SHE) and establishing a code of ethics. Classification Policies and activities by SK innovation Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 1 internationally proclaimed human rights. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Human Principle 2 Based on the philosophy of “human-centered management,” SK innovation strives abuses. Rights to commit no violation of human rights in business activities. We also recruit Businesses should uphold the freedom of association employees in a fair and reasonable manner and guarantee equal opportunities Principle 3 and the effective recognition of the right to collective by considering employees’ qualifications and person-job fit. Furthermore, the bargaining. company acknowledges the freedom of association and collective bargaining rights Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. and has regular communications to proactively collect and improve any grievance from employees. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. Labour The elimination of discrimination in respect of Principle 6 employment and occupation. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to SK innovation selects environmental management as its core task and establishes Principle 7 environmental challenges. and complies with its independent environmental standard, which has higher Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental standards than government requirements. The company also minimizes GHG, Environment Principle 8 responsibility. waste water and pollutants to conserve the natural environment and makes great Encourage the development and diffusion of effort to develop eco-friendly technology and achieve the innovation of future Principle 9 energy. environmentally friendly technologies. SK innovation has established a code of ethics for employees based on SKMS, AntiPrinciple Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, which is the unique management system of the group, and prepared concrete Corruption 10 including extortion and bribery. practice guidelines. The company also strives to prevent any unethical behavior by operating an ethics consultation center and utilizing an online reporting channel. UN SDGs(Sustainable Development Goals) SK innovation relates to the objective of SDGs, which were newly presented by the UN in 2015, and seeks to contribute to developing a more sustainable environment on the earth. For this goal, the company has selected a few of the 17 sustainable development goals in total and reinforced activities, which can contribute to achieving the goal. We will establish strategic tasks and expand the related goals to boost our executive ability. Classification Policies and activities by SK innovation Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms everywhere Supporting economic independence by providing local residents in overseas business End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and regions(Peru) with support for agricultural technology(social enterprise) Goal 2 promote sustainable agriculture Supporting senior citizens living alone near local business sites to alleviate a Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages sense of social isolation, recover a sense of self-esteem and helping children with developmental disabilities to adapt to society Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote Providing children from disadvantaged households in Incheon with academic support Goal 4 lifelong learning opportunities for all and improving the environment near the factory Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern Conducting activities to optimize the process in the business site and finding new Goal 7 energy for all technology to reduce energy consumption Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, Supporting SME suppliers to recruit employees and raising young job seekers’ Goal 8 full and productive employment, and decent work for all competitiveness in employment through “SK Employment Stepping Stone Program Implementing activities to cope with climate change in overall business activities such Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts as building strategy for emission trading scheme Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine Preparing work standards and procedure to prevent marine environmental pollution Goal 14 resources for sustainable development and reinforcing on-site monitoring Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial Conducting monitoring for soil contamination level and carrying out soil purification Goal 15 ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, activities and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Deep Change for Tomorrow 97 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Independent Auditor’s Report To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of SK innovation Co., Ltd. We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of SK innovation Co., Ltd.(the “Company”) and its subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, consolidated changes in stockholders’ equity and consolidated cash flows for the years then ended, all expressed in Korean won, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements The management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards(“K-IFRS”) and for such internal control as the management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an audit opinion of these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the Korean Standards on Auditing(“KSAs”). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance on whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonability of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion of the Audit In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of SK innovation Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and their financial performance and their cash flows for the years then ended, in accordance with the K-IFRS. 10, Gukjegeumyung-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul Deloitte Anjin LLC President Ham Jong-ho March 3, 2017 Deep Change for Tomorrow 98 Appendix Financial Statement Financial Statement Condensed Income Statement (Unit: KRW 100 million) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Sales 658,607 483,563 395,205 Cost of goods sold 642,444 441,968 345,617 Gross margin 16,163 41,595 49,588 SG&A expenses 17,991 21,799 17,305 Operating income (1,828) 19,796 32,283 Financial income 26,166 22,505 17,924 Financial costs 29,656 25,706 20,824 Gains or losses from equity method 1,308 2,570 (1,240) Non-operating income 864 2,259 1,027 Non-operating expenses 1,220 4,884 4,937 Income before income taxes (4,367) 16,541 24,234 Continuing operations income before (36) 6,566 7,019 income taxes Continuing operations net income(loss) (4,331) 9,975 17,214 Discontinued operations net income (1,041) (1,299) 0 Net income(loss) (5,372) 8,677 17,214 Other comprehensive income 887 861 (102) Total comprehensive income (4,485) 9,538 17,112 Condensed Statement of Financial Position (Unit: KRW 100 million) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Current assets 148,884 128,422 149,877 Non-current assets 202,129 185,177 175,936 Total assets 351,013 313,598 325,813 Current liabilities 114,034 74,940 87,365 Non-current liabilities 76,369 68,195 55,397 Total liabilities 190,403 143,135 142,763 Capital attributed to owners of the parent 150,003 158,897 171,031 company Capital 4,686 4,686 4,686 Other paid-in capital 57,570 57,481 57,481 Consolidated retained earnings 86,360 94,496 106,708 Other capital 1,387 2,234 2,157 Non-controlling interests 10,607 11,566 12,019 Total shareholders’ equity 160,611 170,463 183,050 Deep Change for Tomorrow 99 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 Independent Assurance Statement Introduction SK innovation Co., Ltd.(“SK innovation”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016(the “Report”). DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. Scope of The scope of assurance includes a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period assurance from 1st January to 31st December 2016. This also includes: > Evaluation of adherence to the principles for defining the sustainability report content set forth in the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0 > Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to material issues and the process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. Basis of The assurance engagement was planned and carried out using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1), our opinion which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000(ISAE 3000). We provided the limited level of assurance. The audit was carried out in May 2017 and the site visits were made to the headquarters in Seoul and Ulsan Complex of SK innovation. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: > challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls; > interviewed representatives from the various departments; > conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; > r eviewed the materiality assessment report; > v isited Ulsan Complex and tested the environmental data gathering process. Limitations The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of SK innovation’s subsidiaries, associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties except for SK innovation and its subsidiaries(SK energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants, SK incheon petrochem and SK trading international) mentioned in the Report(SK mobile energy and SK battery systems were excluded from the scope). DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service(http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as SK innovation’s website(www.skinnovation.com). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. The directors of SK innovation have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of SK innovation in accordance with the terms of reference. Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the adherence to the Principles for defining report content in GRI G4 nor is prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI G4 Core option. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; 1) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL Website (www.dnvgl.com) Deep Change for Tomorrow 100 Appendix Independent Assurance Statement Stakeholder Inclusiveness SK innovation has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, Employees, Shareholders and Investors, Local community and Subcontractors and Suppliers. SK innovation engages with the stakeholders at the conglomerate, company and business unit levels through various channels. The examples of approaches to engage with selected stakeholders and relevant organizations are described in the Report. Sustainability Context The Report shows the strategic direction of SK innovation to stakeholders. In addition, the Report presents the impacts assessment of stakeholders on the key core issues, reasons for selecting material issues, SK innovation's management approach, and performance indicators. SK innovation addresses in the Report what was the key performances achieved in 2016, which would help the stakeholder understand the management approaches toward the material aspects. Materiality SK innovation has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. The relevant 33 issue pool is formed by analysing the key issues from the global sustainability initiatives and standards, the topics which industry peer group considers material and the subjects covered by mass media. The issues in the pool are rated by combining the level of impact on SK innovation’s business and level of stakeholders’ interest in the issue. The prioritization is based on the stakeholder survey results. SK innovation has ended up with 10 material issues through these evaluation processes. In additional, SK innovation has presented the relevance of SK innovation’s financial, reputation, operational, and strategic aspects to selected key material issues. The audit team reviewed the materiality assessment process and confirmed that the relevant material issues prioritized from the process are addressed in the Report. Completeness The Report has covered the sustainability management approach and sustainability performances of SK innovation for the reporting period. The reporting boundary has been set to include SK innovation and major subsidiaries’ headquarters in Seoul(SK energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants, SK incheon petrochem, SK trading international), production plants in Jeungpyeong, Cheongju, Seosan, Ulsan and Incheon as well as Daejeon Global Technology. In addition, Institute and major subsidiaries and sub-subsidiaries of overseas corporations are included. The audit team reviewed that the performance results of material issues within thereporting boundary were reported without omissions in the Report. Accuracy and Reliability The audit team verified the data and information based on sampling methodology during the verification process. Especially DNV GL reviewed the reliability of the indicator data water usage, waste generation, air emissions(NOx, SOx, VOC and hydrocarbons), industrial safety indicators(Lost Time Incident Rate(LTIR), Total Recordable Incidents Rate(TRIR), number of fatality, Occupational Illness Frequency Rate) and process safety indicator(process safety accident rate). The audit team interviewed the Person-in-charge, reviewed the process of gathering and processing data and information, and the supporting documents and records. The depth of data verification is limited to the aggregated data. Based on sampling verification andother reported information and available evidence, nothing comes to our attention that would cause us to believe that the data and information presented in the Report have any intentional error or material misstatement. Competence and DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessIndependence ment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance specialists are present in over 100 countries. The assurance work was performed by independent team which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. The audit team has complied with DNV GL’s Code of Conduct. 31, May 2017 Seoul, Korea In Kyoon Ahn Country Representative DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. Deep Change for Tomorrow 101 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 GHG Verification Summary GHG Verification Summary SK innovation Co., Ltd. 26, Jongno, Jongno-gu, Seoul Special City, Korea Verification Scope Korean Standards Association has conducted reasonable GHG emissions verification based on GHG report provided by SK innovation Co., Ltd. which includes Scope1 and Scope2 emissions. Verification Standards and Guidelines To conduct verification activities, verification team applied verification standards and guidelines. The standards and guidelines are as follows. GHG&Energy Target Scheme guideline(2016-255) provided by Ministry of Environment, Republic of Korea Verification guideline for management of GHG emissions trading scheme(2016-015) provided by Ministry of Strategy and Finance, Republic of Korea KS Q ISO 14064-1,2,3 : 2006 IPCC Guideline Verification Conclusion As a result of verification activities, verification team has found no significant errors. Therefore, Korean Standards Association confirms that following emissions data are adequately quantified. (Unit: tonCO 2 eq) 2016 GHG Emissions Subject SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 Total SK innovation Co., Ltd. 46,020 120,643 166,663 SK energy Co., Ltd. 6,808,004 910,840 7,718,844 SK global chemical Co., Ltd. 2,374,593 775,224 3,149,817 SK incheon petrochem Co., Ltd. 1,206,284 408,035 1,614,319 SK lubricants Co., Ltd. 87,777 106,412 194,189 ※ There is a difference between the total quantity of GHG emission and the sum of each workplace’s emission. (Decimal place is not considered when calculating the emission of each workplace.) May 16, 2017 KOREAN STANDARDS ASSOCIATION Deep Change for Tomorrow 102 Appendix Membership Status Membership Status SK innovation seeks measures to create value considering more various stakeholders and reinforces the executive ability of sustainability management by participating in major associations and supporting initiatives in each economic, environmental and social sector. Economy Korea Economic Research Institute Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development(KBCSD) Korean Fair Competition Federation Korea Industrial Technology Association(KOITA) Association of Energy Future Forum World Petroleum Council(WPC) Korean Member Committee SHE Mae Kyung Safety & Environment Institute Korea Institute of Hazardous Materials Korean Society for Marine Environment and Energy Korean Environmental Preservation Association Korea Environmental Policy and Administration Society Korea Chemicals Management Association Korea Fire Safety Association Oil Refining Safety and Environment Committee Society UN Global Compact Current Status of Contributions for Membership Associations and Groups (Unit: KRW) Total contributions 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total annual contributions 885,634,000 761,240,000 510,297,000 376,944,000 Contribution Major groups for contribution 2013 2014 2015 2016 Korea Economic Research Institute 752,758,000 698,364,000 398,421,000 268,068,000 Korea Business Council for Sustainable 70,000,000 0 50,000,000 50,000,000 Development(KBCSD) Korean Institute of Hazardous Materials 20,000,000 20,000,000 20,000,000 20,000,000 Korean Fair Competition Federation 14,000,000 14,000,000 14,000,000 14,000,000 Korea Industrial Technology Association(KOITA) 7,400,000 7,400,000 7,400,000 7,400,000 Deep Change for Tomorrow 103 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 The History of SK innovation's Sustainability Report 2010’s 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2000’s 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Deep Change for Tomorrow 104 Published in June 2017 Issued by SK innovation Sustainability Planning Team Contact Tel: 82-2-2121-5114 Mail: ski_sr@sk.com Planned and designed by IM creative The SK innovation Sustainability Report 2016 was produced using eco-friendly paper with the certificate of FSCⓇ(Forest Stewardship Council Ⓡ), which is attached only to products using wood produced in an environmental friendly developed and managed forest. This report was also printed using soy ink, which can significantly reduce the amount of air pollutants in the printing process.
