Communication on Progress (COP) Period covered by From: 13-Aug-2015 To: 12-Aug-2017 Page 1 of 6 General Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Page 2 of 6 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals In a part of EZECOM Staff Policy Manual, EZECOM Company Limited will not support projects that use Forced or Harmful Child Labour as defined below. Projects should comply with the national laws of the country and the international Labour standard practices.  ‘Forced Labour’ consists of all work or service, not voluntarily performed, that is exacted from an individual under threat of force or penalty.  ‘Harmful Child Labour’ consists of the employment of children that is economically exploitative, or is likely to be hazardous to, or interfere with, the child’s education, or to be harmful to the child’s health, or physical, mental, spiritual, moral, or social development. Implementation  EZECOM ensures that there is no child labour in the employment via its recruitment policies and processes.  90% EZECOM staffs trained about child-safe from Friend-International organization Measurement of outcomes  Child-safe certificates is handy to staffs who get training.  3 Focal staffs are responsible for Child-safe contact. Page 3 of 6 Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals EZECOM Staff Policy Manual is defined for the rights and privileges of staff members in company and to ensure that the Company operates the full compliance with the Labour Laws of Cambodia. Implementation  All Ezecom employees have full rights to vote in order to elect their representative in the Company in every two years. They can access to their elected representatives freely and at their convenience.  Disable people have been offered jobs at Ezecom.  There is no Ezecom employees are under the age of 18.  All new employees are invited to join the Induction training about this policy.  EZECOM also provides 2 insurances policies from corporate insurance company (Infinity Insurance) to all staffs for personal accident and group hospital and surgical policies. Measurement of outcomes  There is discipline management procedure part in this policy which detail about how to deal with incidents of violations Page 4 of 6 Environment Principles Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals We, EZECOM, considers the environmental impact in our purchases, energy consumption and waste management as stage in Environmental Policy – Corporate Ecological Responsibility. Aims of this policy:  Comply with and exceed all relevant regulatory requirements.  Continually improve and monitor environmental performance.  Continually improve and reduce environmental impacts.  Incorporate environmental factors into business decisions.  Increase employee awareness. Implementation Regard to Environmental Policy, the Green project is implemented within company to:  Reduce waste materials by minimise the use of paper in office, recycling used-paper where possible.  Reduce energy used as much as possible by switch off when not in use.  The energy consumption and efficiency of new products will be taken into account when purchasing.  Use the material in office refurbishment and cleaning materials are as environmentally friendly as possible. Measurement of outcomes  All staffs are mainly response on energy saving and all staffs are participated to this Green project.  Once annually review the policy in consultation with staff and other stockholders where necessary. Page 5 of 6 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals EZECOM Code of Conduct policy is defined to guardian all employees in order to ensure that everyone behaves in the manner consistent with the service integrity and professional practices through which the company operates and seek ways to continually improve quality. Disciplinary Management policy states all forms of corruptions are considered as serious misconduct and subject to disciplinary action. Implementation  All employees have participated to Induction Training which also included the Code of Conduct policy  All employees have participated to Induction Training which also included the Disciplinary Management policy. Ezecom has share this policy to all staff via email and placed it on our internal communication platform called Noodle. Measurement of outcomes Within this policy, the brief of each section states as below:  Confidentiality: all information (company information, customer details, etc.) is protected at all the times. Employee may not use these information to obtain through their employment to further their private interests or families/friends’ interests.  Conflicts and Interest: all employees must disclose all circumstances that constitute and actual or apparent conflict of interest. If in doubt and employee should check firstly with their department manager of the Chief Financial Officer.  Gifts & Entertainment: All offers must be made know to the department head or if value more than 25$ is to have the advanced approval of Chief Financial Officer before accepting and maybe taken by the company rather than the individual.  Supplier Relationship: If employees are found breach this policy penalty will be instant dismissal and my lead to criminal proceedings.  Customer Relationship: If employees are found breach this policy penalty will be instant dismissal and my lead to criminal proceedings.  Business Ethics: Every employee of EZECOM is expected to conduct themselves in all their business practices and at any time they are representing the company in the highest possible ethical manner. If an employee suspects any member of EZECOM staff or management to be in breach of the code of conduct or business ethics which the companies operate, they have a duty to report the breach to their department head, the Chief Financial Officer or directly to the CEO. An employee who reports a suspected breach should not fare any reprisal whatsoever from reporting the suspect incident. Any reported incident will be treated in the strictest confidence with management guaranteeing the anonymity of the reporting employee. Page 6 of 6
