Greenstone Annual Communication on Progress 7th February 2016 – 6th February 2017 Introduction February 2017 I am pleased to confirm that Greenstone+ Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. With this Communication on Progress, we continue to demonstrate our commitment to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. We support public accountability and transparency and we are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Matthew de Villiers Chief Executive Officer 2 Our commitment to UNGC Principles As a sustainable software solutions and services company, Greenstone assists its clients with sustainability reporting. We provide an advanced non-financial reporting service and software solutions to organisations in more than 100 countries. Greenstone's software and services cover Environment, CSR Frameworks, Health & Safety and Supply Chain and any other non-financial KPIs our clients need to report. This enables our clients to take an integrated and robust approach to reporting. We actively use and promote the UN Global Compact Principles as a standard for our clients and are dedicated to improving the transparency of corporate reporting in the 4 key areas – human rights, labour, environment and anti-bribery and corruption. We also promote engagement with the Sustainable Development Goals across our client base and in our software solutions. SupplierPortal – enabling responsible sourcing Through our SupplierPortal solution (http://www.greenstoneplus.com/software/supplierportal/), we are helping our clients to improve transparency of responsible sourcing information across their supply chains. SupplierPortal is an online responsible sourcing tool for suppliers and their buyers to track and monitor environmental, labour, health & safety and anti-bribery & corruption information. Using a series of questionnaires and data wizards, suppliers are able to disclose information about their policies and procedures that they have in place. This helps buying organisations to get a better understanding of the companies they work with across their supply chain to help them make informed business decisions. 3 Materiality assessment With a wide range of sustainability topics organisations can report on, assessing which aspects are most material enables Greenstone to focus our reporting. Both internal and external factors are used to determine ‘materiality’ involving organisational stakeholders such as customers or company investors. Materiality is a key part of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting framework. As a GRI Organisational Stakeholder we aim to align Greenstone’s Communication on Progress (COP) with the GRI G4 guidelines and disclosure aspects. In 2017-18 we will review this alignment against the new GRI Standards. In 2016 we undertook a materiality assessment to determine our key stakeholders: our investors, clients, employees and partners. In our 2017 report we continue to report based on these material aspects. In defining our material aspects we considered the following factors: • Greenstone’s estimated main sustainability impacts • Topics and future challenges highlighted on a sector-wide level • Relevant laws, regulations and international or voluntary agreements • Greenstone’s key organisational values and policies • Expectations or interests of our stakeholders • Significant organisational risks for Greenstone as an SME • Organisational core competencies The assessment of materiality yielded five key areas which were most material to Greenstone and we believe should be reported against and linked to the UNGC Principles. These continue to be included in our 2016-7 COP submission across Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Bribery and Corruption. 4 Material aspects The five aspects determined to be material to Greenstone are the following: • Human Rights training Training on human rights principles and the principles of the UNGC • Diversity and Equal Opportunities policy A robust policy relating to Equality and Diversity • Labour Rights To provide a safe working environment for employees with adequate training and education • Environmental impact To measure and evaluate environmental impact from Greenstone’s carbon footprint • Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy To have in place a robust code of conduct which complies with all relevant legislation on bribery, ‘kickbacks’, facilitation payments, and conflicts of interest 5 Linking to Sustainable Development Goals The five aspects determined to be material to Greenstone link to the following Sustainable Development Goals (SGDs): • SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages • SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls • SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all • SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns • SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts • SDG 14: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development • SDG 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss • SDG 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 6 Human Rights As an employer, Greenstone is committed to providing employees all basic Human Rights guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and UN Global Compact Principles. Actions All new and current staff are reminded of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and are aware of the commitment Greenstone has made to these principles. Any and all updates in legislation are communicated to employees in a timely manner through education and awareness training. Forthcoming Plans By committing to Principle 2 of the UN Global Compact, Greenstone will strive to ensure we are not complicit in human rights abuses connected with our supply chain. We will therefore, where possible, further strengthen our supplier assessment mechanisms with regards to human rights aspects. Measurement of outcomes Since its inception, Greenstone has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights violations. Due to the scope of our activities and number of employees (14) in our organisation, an external audit on human rights performance is not required. 7 Labour Greenstone’s policies and procedures, including our Health and Safety policy, employment contracts, and non-discrimination policies, comply with both UK and EU employment legislation to ensure that our staff are treated fairly and without discrimination. Equality & Diversity Policy Greenstone has a written equal opportunity policy that complies with its statutory obligations under the Race Relations Act 1976, the Sex Discrimination Act 1975, the Disability Discrimination Act 1995, the Equality Act 2006 and the Equality Act (Sexual Orientation) Regulations 2007. As a team, we have a zero tolerance policy for all forms of forced and compulsory labour both within Greenstone and within our clients and suppliers. We also do not tolerate any form of child labour and discriminatory practices. Measurement of outcomes The rights of all employees are continuously reviewed to ensure that the Greenstone team are happy and that they are fulfilled and motivated by their work. Where necessary, we take external advice to ensure that we enforce Labour principles compliant with the Global Compact position. We have never had a breach or complaint about unfair treatment since the Company formation in 2006. 8 Environment Greenstone is committed to acting responsibly and adopting best practice to minimise our environmental impact. We are committed to the continuous improvement of our environmental performance, as part of our overall goal of implementing the principles of sustainable development in all areas of our work. Our aim is to ensure that environmental objectives are integrated into relevant business objectives in a cost-effective manner. Greenstone is continually improving its environmental targets and plans. Our sustainability policy and ongoing goals include: • Comply with all relevant environmental legislation and approved codes of practice in force, cooperating fully with the appropriate regulatory authorities; • Foster an understanding of the environmental issues arising from our business activities among our employees, suppliers, contractors, customers and the local community. • Set out environmental targets for significant activities, and carry out regular environmental audits of these Greenstone activities. Measurement of outcomes We continuously measure and manage our environmental performance (including energy, waste and recycling) using our Enterprise software. We also report our environmental performance publicly on an annual basis to our customers via our SupplierPortal solution. 9 Greenstone’s Carbon Footprint As part of Greenstone’s commitment to evaluating our environmental performance, our carbon footprint is calculated across all relevant scopes. Our 2015/16 footprint was 28.81 tCO₂e. This includes emissions associated with electricity use, business travel, and waste. Our carbon footprint is calculated in Greenstone’s Enterprise software for the period 1st April 201531st March 2016. This year we have decided to include our commuter travel emissions and hotel night stays which has increased our overall emissions compared to the previous reporting period . Overall, our annual commuter emissions contributed to 52% of the company’s total carbon footprint. Greenstone’s Carbon Footprint Scope Emission tCO2e 2015/2016 Air 3 Commuter Travel 14.46 Road Travel 2% 1% Hotels 2 Electricity 9.87 2% T&D 3 Waste 1.7 3% Rail 3 T&D 0.83 2% 3 Rail 0.75 Electricity 34% 3 Hotel Stays 0.49 3 Air 0.46 Commuter Travel 3 Road Travel 0.25 50% Total Emissions 28.81 Waste 6% Road Travel Air Hotels Rail Commuter Travel Waste Electricity T&D * T&D refers to emissions relating to electricity Transmission and Distribution losses in the UK. The UK GHG reporting framework released by Defra states 10 that UK electricity emissions should be split in to scope 2 and scope 3 T&D so that the different scopes are accurately accounted for. Greenstone’s Carbon Footprint Scope 3 Emissions have significantly increased this reporting period due to the inclusion of commuter travel emissions, hotel stays and more accurate waste data provided by our waste contractor. Commuter emissions have been calculated per employee, based on the modes of transport used and the frequency of days travelled to and from the our office in central London. All non-commuter travel is related to business operations. Total annual commute distance (km) Greenstone tCO₂e travel footprint 2015/2016 24,173 Commuter Car 10,368 Commuter Tube Commuter Rail Tube Rail Air 182,588 Car Taxi 0.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 4.00 5.00 6.00 7.00 8.00 9.00 10.00 National Rail Car Tube tCO2e 11 Greenstone’s Carbon Footprint Electricity use is the second largest contributor to Greenstone’s overall carbon footprint. Over a five year period we have reduced our total emissions relating to scope 2 electricity use by 48%. 25 19.2 Total Scope 2 emissions Total Scope 2 emissions (tCO2e) 20 13.9 12.1 15 11.5 9.87 10 5 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Reporting year * Greenstone’s carbon footprint was calculated using Defra 2015 (1st April – 31st Dec 2015) and Defra 16 (1st Jan – 31st Mar 2016). Scope 2 emissions relate to electricity usage within our main office facility in Regent Street, London. Emissions from external data hosting activity by our tier 1 partner Rackspace have not been included. 12 Anti-bribery & corruption Greenstone is committed to operating responsibly wherever we work in the world and to engage with our stakeholders to manage the social, environmental and ethical impact of our activities in the different markets in which we operate. Greenstone does not engage in bribery or any form of unethical inducement or payment including facilitation payments and ‘kickbacks.’ All employees are required to avoid any activities that might lead to, or suggest, a conflict of interest with the business of the Company. We do not make direct or indirect contributions to political parties. Measurement of outcomes The Greenstone Management Team regularly reviews the implementation of this policy in respect of its suitability, adequacy and effectiveness and makes improvements as appropriate. It periodically reports the results of this process to the Greenstone Board, who makes an independent assessment of the adequacy of the policy and discloses any material non-compliance. Greenstone has established feedback mechanisms in order to maintain accurate records which properly and fairly document all financial transactions. Internal control systems are subject to annual audits to provide assurance that they are effective in countering bribery and corruption. 13 5th Floor, Crown House 143-147 Regent Street London W1B 4NR T: +44 (0)20 3031 4000 W: www.greenstoneplus.com
