‘ Communication on Progress (2016-17) Paharpur Business Centre 21, Nehru Place Greens, new Delhi – 110019 T: +91-(0)-11-4120 7171 F: +91 (0)112620 7575 E: qualitylife@pbcnet.com Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page1 W: www.pbcnet.com CONTENT S. No. Content Page No. 1. Chairman’s Statement 3-4 2. Company Profile 5-6 3. Mission, Vision & Policy 7-16 4. Awards & Accolades 17 5. Our Stakeholder 18-20 6. PBC’s commitment to UNGC’s ten principles A. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human 21 rights Principle 2 Ensure that the organization is not complicit in human rights abuses 22 B. Labour Standards Principle 3 Upholding the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right 23 to Collective Bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 23 Principle 5 The organization supports effective abolition of child labour 24 Principle 6 Organization promotes elimination of discrimination in respect of 24-28 employment and occupation C. Environment Principle 7 The organization support a precautionary approach to 29-36 Environmental Challenges Principle 8 The organization initiates promotion of greater environmental responsibility 36-40 Principle 9 Encourages the Development and Diffusion of Environmentally 40-42 Friendly Technologies D. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and 43 bribery 7. The Road Ahead………. 44 Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page2 Chairman’s statement of continued commitment to UN Global Compact and its Ten Universal Principles “Creating a more Optimal Work Environment by combining health pathways and productivity Fosters Healthy Living” Dear Stakeholders, I am delighted to present Paharpur Business Centre’s (PBC) Communication on Progress (COP) for the year 2016-17. In this report, we once again share our progress with regard to the ten Universal Principles of UN Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and our engagement process with all our Stakeholders and Business Partners in furthering the cause of these ten principles. PBC has endeavored to internalise the principles of UN Global Compact in its stated business objectives & owes the success & progress of its business model to UNGC & Triple Bottom line principles. BC We are extremely sensitive to the fact that we need to operate within the principles of UNGC and Corporate Governance and therefore be accountable, fair, transparent and responsive to the needs of all our stakeholders, specially the primary ones. Pursuant to our policy of inclusion and inclusivity, we have endeavored to make our building accessible and friendly for the physically challenged. With these as our guiding principles and a vision to reshape the commercial buildings in India, we have surged ahead by focusing on people / occupants, on their interaction with the various facilities provided to them, their sense of health and well being while at work. PBC has played a pioneering role in revolutionizing the concept of office space and convention facilities by integrating the facilities with the basic principles of wellness that include providing ergonomic set-ups, personalized workstations with ergonomic chairs and adjustable desks, healthy light and sound levels that promote good health and productivity. PBC especially cares for Safety, Productivity, Wellness and Cognitive Ability of its Occupants. It has been well established that good oxygenated clean air is directly related brains functionality and cognitive skills, resulting in smart business. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page3 Wellness refers to the high dimension focus on the occupants of the building. Up-scaling the health and wellness quotient in a building indicates a “People First” approach. PBC is a Pilot project for WELL building certification by USGBC, perhaps as the first building in India, to do so. Focus is given to four parameters namely Safety, Productivity, Wellness and Cognitive Ability. The building mirrors what Harvard says after their comprehensive research over the years that there is a direct correlation between good indoor air quality and the cognitive ability of an individual. Together we have created a business model that cares for people, environment and stands committed to responsible business. The year 2016 was indeed a pivotal year in terms of moving ahead with the interdependencies between human health, wellbeing and sustainability. On the surface, we know that a changing climate is already making a significant impact on the ability of human beings to enjoy healthy lives, and over the coming months we plan to explore this rich territory in more depth. Let us together work towards the goal of common good of all and contribute positively towards UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) manage business risks, collaborate with like minded companies in creating a more level playing field. I take this opportunity to thank & congratulate all the local & global business leaders to focus on how, through bold innovation, businesses can create solutions to address the challenges of sustainable development, advance responsible business practices and tap into new opportunities found within the SDGs. It sends a clear signal to businesses, investors and markets that the world must move toward SDGs with the aim to mobilize responsible business actions, drive breakthrough innovation and create new market opportunities that advance the Global Goals. We at PBC are passionate about our core, play to our strengths, conduct our selves responsibly, focus on our circle of influence and strive to remain transparent in business. We look forward to your continued support, cooperation and patronage. Your feedback would be more than welcome, as we believe that learning is a lifelong exercise. Best wishes for a successful financial year ahead. Kamal Meattle Chairman Emeritus Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page4 COMPANY PROFILE PBC is a green mSME which has been a pioneer in the Indian real estate and service sector for over two decades now. For many years now, PBC has been walking on the path of sustainability by focusing on two major issues: 1) Ways to reduce energy in the urban maintenance without sacrificing quality (International standards) 2) To provide best air quality, which one would find up in the mountains of Gulmarg, Davos or Switzerland PBC, a 30 year old building built to compulsory Govt. design, is the first retrofit office building in India that is USGBC LEED Platinum EB Certified (under O & M category) in 2010. It is also a BEE 5 star rated building with an annual average hourly energy rating (AAhEPI) of 28 Wh /hr/Sqm. Currently, PBC is operating at 20 Wh /hr/sqm and the internal target is to bring it down to 15 Wh/hr/Sqm. It is also a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP), and the only mSME among the 6 signatories to WEP from India. PBC and its suite of 27 support services are certified to ISO 9001, 14001, 22000; SA 8000; OHSAS 18001 and FSSAI standards. PBC, a safe and healthy heaven, offers 24 x7 Access to “Fresh Air Offices and Conference Facilities”, on plug-n-play basis. However, it’s much more than just a space of world-class amenities. It looks at different aspects that enhance the health and comfort of the building occupants, consequently leading to better business growth. It gives all the businesses, a platform to grow personally and career wise just by working in a healthy indoor environment – a twist in the commercial business centre model. Somebody aptly quoted, “to bring a change in the world, one has to bring a change in oneself”. PBC follows the same. Therefore, its CSR deeds begin with internal stakeholders, then rolls on to external associations. PBC follows the CSR practices as per the Company Act 2013. It has a pro-active CSR/ Sustainability Committee in Place, which decides the activities; their compliance as per the Act and the end results. Every year, PBC publishes its CSR (Sustainability) report as per GRI guidelines. The report includes the salaries of the employees working for the CSR committee and make contributions to the related activities. PBC firmly believes in the convergence of Triple Bottom Line. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page5 Paharpur Business Centre is also a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP). PBC is the only mSME among the 6 signatories to WEP from India. Led by “People First” approach, PBC’s focus has always been on Health and Wellness of the occupants. This has been an intrinsic part of PBC’s business strategy since inception. Its USP, “Indoor Air Quality” (IAQ) is a proof of it. As the ambient air in Delhi is extremely polluted, PBC grows its own fresh air with the help of over 1200 air purifying plants. These plants not only detoxify indoor air but also enriched with oxygen. PBC has a fresh-air treatment plant/ air washer in the Green House at the rooftop which is integrated with our IAQ system. IAQ at PBC conforms to American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) and World Health Organization (WHO) standards. It helps the occupants in the building to have better functioning lungs; a fresher mind; reduced number of sick days and 15-20 per cent higher productivity. IAQ system adds value to the human experience in the building. PBC is a preferred choice for eco-business partnership for companies that undertake sustainable initiatives or planning a foray into the Indian market. Our past and present clientele includes leading multinational & fortune 500 companies from across the Globe Microsoft, Hewlett Packard, Mobil, Motorola, British Telecom, SAP, Singapore, Telecom, Converse Network, GEC Alsthom, Intel, Matsushita Electric, Sun Microsystems, Alta Vista, Hitachi, Daiken, Associated Press, Symantec and more. This reflects the confidence and trust that organizations have reposed in the services and offerings of PBC. PBC aims to be an excellent, world-class business support services company; committed to deliver benchmarked, quality oriented services to address customers' specific needs, whilst caring for the environment & people around us. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page6 MISSION, VISION & POLICY OUR MISSION To become an eminent world-class business support service provider; committed to delivering benchmarked, quality services and address customers’ needs, whilst also caring for their health and environment. We aim at creating an exquisite platform of growth and wellness for all our stakeholders. OUR VISION To stand out as an organization that takes a focused approach on ensuring consistent delivery of quality services, care for environment and people around us. Since, we believe in keeping customers as our first priority, we stay inspired from within to provide end-to-end business solutions to them. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page7 OUR POLICIES CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) a provider of serviced offices along with a suite of 27 support services is committed to perform its business in a responsible manner to produce an overall positive impact on society and environment. In doing so, we shall strive towards: Marketplace Leadership – We aim to run our business in a way that singles us out as a great provider of high quality services and preferred partner of choice to do business with. Our aim is to work with our stakeholders to develop long –term sustainable relationships. Environment – We are an environment driven company and are aware of the scale of impact, our operation has on the environment. As such, we are committed to exploring ways to reduce the impact of what we do. We take a responsible attitude and lead the way in developing initiatives to further improve our environmental footprint. We shall be fully accountable to our clients, employees and the society that we operate in. We will strive to create business opportunities for our stakeholders and follow the core values, norms and ethics that are in-built in the way we conduct our business. Workplace – We are committed to offer a rewarding and challenging workplace to our employees. We aim to become the best employer in fact employer of choice, demonstrated amongst other things, by current and past employees recommending the company as a great place to work. We are channeling our efforts towards making PBC a fun place to work for. We do believe people are core to any business and are one’s most important asset and therefore we focus our energies in taking good care of them as we believe that it makes good business sense to hire and retain great employees. The idea is to synergize our efforts in order to create wealth for all. Inclusivity and Equal opportunities for all is at the core of our human resource policy. We are strictly against discrimination of any kind. We are committed to create awareness of HIV-AIDS at work place and have an adequate policy in place to handle it. Community – We strive to be good corporate citizens, we work to support the sustainability of both global and the local communities in which we operate and actively encourage our employees, customers, suppliers to consider the needs of others and involve themselves in public service through public private partnering. We are sensitive to the requirements of the community around us and our business strategies are closely interlinked with their aspirations. High standards of corporate governance care for environment and health & safety, override everything else that we do. QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY This policy underlines the commitment of the Management and Employees of Paharpur Business Centre (PBC™) towards achieving Quality in Service by Providing Quality Services and Facilities that Consistently Meet and Exceed Customer Expectation. To have a motivated and committed team by sustaining a working environment where each employee is encouraged to excel. The Quality Policy is communicated to all employees for effective implementation and will be reviewed periodically for adequacy & suitability. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page8 PBC™ will ensure compliance to all the regulatory and legal requirements / law of the land and will strive to go beyond the statutory compliance. ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY Paharpur Business Centre is committed to perform its business and related activities in a responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement in Environmental performance. In doing so, we strive towards:  Encourage recycling or reuse of office waste.  Conserving energy and water through better management.  Minimizing use of non-biodegradable in Food and Beverage department.  Providing indoor air quality conforming to specify ASHRAE standards.  Efficient use of resources by addressing the embodied energy criteria  Minimizing air emissions & water discharges In keeping with our commitment to prevent pollution, PBC has recognized the Four ‘R’ Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle. We are committed to comply with applicable environmental legislation, regulations, rules and all the requirements of the ISO 14001: 2004 standard and the norms of USGBC LEED EB (O&M) certification. We will implement the environmental policy by setting and reviewing objectives and targets periodically without sacrificing quality of life. We will strive to create awareness among our customers, employees, sub-contractors and other important stakeholders, for better and improved environmental performance. This policy will be documented and training will be imparted to employees for effective implementation. SOCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY POLICY At Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), we are committed to performing our business and related activities in a socially and environmentally responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement, responsive to the needs of the organization. We believe in the triple bottom line evaluation method in delivering performance • Profit • Care for environment • Social accountability We believe that “it can be good business” to care for one of our stakeholders viz. the society and people around us. It enables us to employ and retain great employees. We recognize that people are the core of the organization and we are committed to pursuing practices that ensure welfare and growth of our people. We shall strive to create safe & fair workplace for all our employees. We shall endeavor to create awareness among our customers, sub-contractors, & other important stakeholders on social issues related to our business area. In doing so, we shall comply with the applicable national legislation and regulations and respect international conventions. We will implement this policy by setting and reviewing the procedures, standing Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page9 instructions and related programs. We shall strive to integrate the relevant principles of UN Global Compact that relate to Human Rights and Labour Standards with PBC‘s worker policies, code of Conduct, procedures and SA Standard requirements, in order to mainstream the principles in our day to day operations. This policy will be effectively documented, implemented, maintained, communicated, and accessible in a comprehensible form to all personnel, including directors, executives, management, supervisor, and staff, whether directly employed by, contracted with, or otherwise representing the Company. The policy will be publicly available in an effective form and manner to interested parties, upon request. Management shall review this policy periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational SA objectives & goals. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY POLICY Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) a service provider of office and conference facilities, along with a suite of 27 support services. It is committed to provide a safe & healthy environment, to prevent injury & ill health to its employees, occupants, visitors, guest, subcontractors & other interested parties. In doing so we will strive towards:  Commitment to compliance with applicable legislation, regulations and other applicable requirements that relate to our Occupational Health & Safety Hazards.  We will implement the health and safety policy by setting and reviewing objectives and targets periodically to control and minimize risks due to OH&S hazards.  We will ensure continual improvement in OH&S management and its performance.  This policy will be documented, maintained, communicated and reviewed periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational OH&S FOOD SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY We at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) are committed to provide fresh, safe & healthy food to our customers. We are the end processor of the food chain and then the food directly consume by the consumer. In doing so we strive towards:  Ensuring compliance to all applicable regulations and legislations.  Ensuring all raw materials is purchased under controlled conditions and from best possible supplier or source.  Meeting the specific needs and exceeding expectations of our customers by followed the application food safety norms and at the same time providing delicious and nutritious food.  Creating awareness among our staff, customers and suppliers about food safety. It will be our constant endeavor to take regular feedback from our clients to ensure improved performance and continual improvement. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page10 ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY Paharpur Business Centre™ is committed to perform its business and related activities in an environmentally responsible manner and to use energy in the most cost effective, efficient & green way. We are committed to conserve PBC™ energy consumption by using innovative methods and by using green and clean technologies available for reduced operation & maintenance cost of the building. It will be our constant endeavor to continually improve the energy performance of PBC™ by reducing our average annual energy intensity against business as usual. To accomplish this we try to:  Improve energy efficiency continuously by implementing effective energy management programs that support all the operations and customer satisfaction while providing a safe and comfortable work environment.  Become one of the most energy-efficient organizations in our industry on a kilowatt-hour per 100 square foot basis.  Measure, Monitor, Manage and control the daily energy consumption by adopting energy conservation initiatives.  Establish an Energy Management Team to identify and drive energy efficiency initiatives and to provide an integrated organization-wide response to energy management.  Set Energy objectives and targets and ensure that the adequate information and resources are available.  Measure our Carbon footprint on a year to year basis.  Comply with applicable legal requirements and the requirements of LEED-EB (O&M) guidelines and the requirements of BEE five star rating systems.  Promote purchase of energy efficient products and services and up gradation of existing systems for energy performance improvement.  Develop communications strategies to raise awareness among staff and all the interested parties.  This policy will be documented, maintained, communicated and reviewed periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational Energy Management objectives & goals.  Training will be imparted to all the persons working under the control of the organization for effective implementation.  We will also endeavor to train our vendors / suppliers / sub-contractors and effectively engage with them by organizing awareness sessions periodically focused on issues relating to energy conservation & and creating awareness on the same. ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO SMOKE POLICY • The indoor air quality at PBC confirms to the ASHRAE standard and Tobacco smoking & use of E-Cigarette inside the building is strictly prohibited. Restricting smoking at the workplace is a part of complete health and safety promotion program in the business centre. • For smokers, PBC has provided a separate identified room at the terrace area, typically dedicated for smoking. The smoking room has a separate ventilation system with an exhaust and air-conditioner ensuring the air quality inside the building is not affected by ETS. • Employees & clients will be informed of this policy through signs posted in buildings. • Any violations of this policy will be handled through standard disciplinary procedures. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page11 SUSTAINABLE PURCHASE POLICY At PBC, we strive hard to ensure that we purchase in an environmentally sensitive manner. Whether it is a simple purchase of paper or pens, computers, laptops, food raw material, carpets to heavy duty engineering equipments, our preference will be to buy “Clean, Green and Energy Efficient” product and services. We are in the process of developing an environmentally preferable purchasing system in order to promote the concept of “Green Buying” and by doing so we will reduce our carbon footprint and promote Green Purchasing Processes. We find & evaluate information about green products & services and include the necessary specs in our product / service / vendor evaluation form and wherever possible, based on availability and financial viability purchase green and environmentally sustainable products and services, without compromising on the quality of life at PBC. We will consider the following environmental attributes at the time of purchasing: • Encourage local suppliers based in within 100 km radius of our location • Durable and not single use or disposable wherever possible and applicable • Made of recycled material • Biodegradable and Safely Disposable • Made from rapidly renewable material • Energy Efficiency • Will prefer procuring from companies and organizations that have responsible & sustainable environmental track record • Reduced packaging – financially viable also • Reduces Green House Gas Emissions • Scalable / Upgradable • Water Efficient Technologies • Use of renewable wherever applicable and possible The above attributes will not be limiting & will be subject to change & review on a regular basis. The Objective Of our Purchase Policy is to reduce the adverse environmental impact Of Our Purchasing Decisions & 80% of our total purchase to be done through locally based suppliers. And it will be our constant endeavour to develop and redesign as per the requirement of the organization. By including environmental considerations in our purchasing procedure, along with concerns about price, quality and availability, we will remain fiscally responsible while attempting to promote practices that improve public health and safety, reduce pollution & carbon emissions and conserve natural resources. GREEN CLEANING POLICY The policy is introduced by PBC to provide a safe, clean, and healthy environment for staff and visitors. It is to maintain a position at the forefront of cleaning maintenance technology by employing safe, effective cleaning methods and equipment. It is strongly committed to “Green Cleaning” through its use of chemicals, equipment and techniques that are environmentally friendly. Our policy encourages all our staff and visitors to participate, support and help sustain this commitment to the environment. Green Cleaning includes a number of elements choosing cleaning products and equipment that Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page12 are not detrimental to the environment and effective in their application as cleaning maintenance. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY POLICY Paharpur Business Centre & all its related properties and holdings support equal employment opportunities for everyone. We are committed to the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) i.e. Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We are also certified for SA 8000 for our social accountability. PBC’s Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) policy states that every person has the same human rights and privileges without regard to his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap, disability, marital status, national origin or economic status. Equal employment opportunity means that every applicant for a job should be considered solely on the basis of his or her qualifications. It also means that every employee should be treated equally with every other similar employee, without discrimination because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap, disability, marital status, national origin or economic status. The Company expects full cooperation of everyone associated with it to make sure these principles are upheld. Furthermore, the Company expects that all matters related to recruiting, advertising, hiring, training, compensation, benefits, promotions, transfers, layoffs, recall from layoffs, educational assistance, and social and recreational programs and all treatment on the job, be free of any discriminatory practices. It is PBC’s constant endeavor to spread the message of Equal Opportunities for all through various interactions and meetings with its supply chain and other stakeholders. ANTI-CORRUPTION & ETHICAL POLICY As employees in PBC, we: • Will ensure to behave in an honest & ethical manner • Will set a good example by being trustworthy • We will make sure that our behavior complies with the policies and rules of the organization / PBC. • We will use the resources of our company in the best interest of the company, and not for personal & gainful reasons. We will not misuse these resources • We will not pay or accept bribes / anything of value / cash/ gift / gratuities, offer of employment etc, for the purpose of influencing placement of contracts, obtaining a business advantage or any other reason • We will make a clear distinction between the interests of our company and our personal interests, and avoid possible conflicts of interest; we do not accept gifts, invitations or other advantages, which could contradict this principle or influence our business decisions that are against the norms of our company • Ensure that we comply with law of the land, including National legislations & statutory compliances. • All commissions and fee contracts shall have prior approval of our CEO • Report incidents, risks and issues which deviates from our policy, to your immediate reporting authority, or HeadHRD or CEO • Complete and Implicit support / protection to the employee / whistleblower who reports unethical behavior • Encourage Employees to be continuously conscious about our ethics and values and ensure each employee maintains their integrity, thereby maintaining the integrity of the organization • All employees must adhere to this policy and any violation to the above may result in termination / legal action, as deemed fit by the management. The CEO must approve any exceptions to this policy. As the owners of PBC, we: • Commit ourselves to this policy and to an ongoing effort to maintain our integrity • Make sure that PBC complies with the applicable National and International norms and commit PBC to an open and transparent Management Approach Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page13 • Expect our stakeholders i.e. partners and other business associates to respect this policy and wherever possible, we will influence and encourage them to also adopt this policy Thereafter the policy mentioned above was shared / circulated to all the team members / employees of PBC, who are required to ensure strict adherence to it and behave in a manner suited/appropriate to the stated policy and rules of the organization at all times. The organization expects them to not only behave in an honest and ethical manner but they are also expected to set a good example by acting in a responsible and transparent manner. POLICY ON AFFIRMATIVE ACTION • PBC affirms the recognition that its competitiveness is interlinked with the well being of all sections of the Indian society. • PBC believes that equal opportunity in employment for all sections of society is a component of its growth and competitiveness. It further believes that inclusive growth is a component of growth and development of the country. • PBC affirms the recognition that diversity to reflect socially disadvantaged sections of the society in the workplace has a positive impact on business. • PBC will neither practice nor support conscious discrimination in any form. • PBC does not bias employment away from applicants belonging to disadvantaged sections of society if such applicants possess competitive skills and job credentials as made public. • PBC's selection of business partners is not based on any considerations other than normal business parameters. In case of equal business offers, PBC will select a business partner belonging to a socially disadvantaged section of society. • PBC will have a written policy statement on Affirmative Action in the workplace. • PBC will have an employment policy that is the public domain. It may place such policies and employment opportunities on its website to encourage applications from socially disadvantaged sections of society. • PBC will make all efforts for up-skilling and continual training of employees from socially disadvantaged sections of society in order to enhance their capabilities, and competitive skills. • PBC will have a partnership programme with educational institutions to support and aid students from socially disadvantaged sections of society. • PBC will have a senior executive accountable to the MD to oversee and promote its Affirmative Action policies and programmes. The senior executive will present a biannual report to the Board of the Company about such policies and programmes. • PBC further has a policy to maintain records on Affirmative Action. • PBC makes available its learning and experiences as a good corporate citizen in Affirmative Action to other companies desiring to incorporate such policies in their own business. POLICY ON HIV / AIDS PBC recognizes that HIV/AIDS is an issue at workplace and would like to address it proactively PBC will provide a safe and healthy environment to the team members by developing nondiscriminatory policy and programmes on HIV/AIDS. PBC will provide regular HIV/AIDS prevention education to all its team members and their families at various levels through formal and informal sessions. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page14 HIV status of the team member will be kept confidential Any Team Member living with HIV/AIDS will be kept in employment as long as they are in position to work. If necessary, employee will be shifted to another appropriate position considering the health status at that point in time. PBC will not discriminate against any Team Member infected by HIV/AIDS with regard to promotion, training and any other privileges, applicable to all employees of the company. At PBC HIV/AIDS test will not be a part of recruitment process or any health check-ups. PBC will educate its Team Members and encourage them to participate in Voluntary Counseling and Testing for seeking advice related to HIV/AIDS. SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY PBC is committed to provide a work environment that is free of discrimination and unlawful harassment. Sexual Harassment is strictly prohibited at PBC. Actions, words, jokes, or comments based on an individual’s sex, race, ethnicity, age, religion, or any other legally protected characteristic will not be tolerated. If an employee believes that he/she has been a victim of harassment or is aware of another employee who has been harassed, he / she should immediately report it to HRD or any member of the Harassment Redressal Committee. Employees can raise concerns and make reports without fear of retaliation. Any Superior who becomes aware of possible harassment should promptly advise Management or HR Representative, who will handle the matter in a timely and confidential manner. All employees are responsible for helping to ensure & assure a workplace free of harassment. The Company forbids retaliation against anyone who has reported harassment or participated in an investigation. All of us must recognize that such behavior not only violates the rules of common courtesy and is a violation of the Company's policy, but is also a Human Rights violation & therefore illegal under law. It is the Company's responsibility to investigate all reports or complaints of harassment thoroughly and promptly. If an investigation confirms that harassment has occurred, the Company will take appropriate corrective action, up to and including termination. POLICY ON DIVERSITY AND INCLUSIVITY At PBC, we believe in having a multi-skilled, motivated & a diverse workforce. A Diverse work culture is encouraged by: Respect – for all our stakeholdersemployees, customers, suppliers, and communities that we operate / live in, who come from different geographical, demographical, cultural and social backgrounds. Inclusivity for all genders –Women Empowerment by encouraging women employees to take on responsible positions at workplace and most importantly have women friendly policies and processes in place that facilitate their growth, development and active participation at the Workplace. Marginalized Sections of Society including Tribals Our aim is to include all in our sustainable business process and growth. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page15 Respect everyone’s view & perspective. Respect, listen to, help and appreciate others. Diverse ideas converging in for the same goal:  We believe that by encouraging diversity at the Workplace we are able to be more competitive, acceptable and appreciated in the markets that we operate.  Each one brings with them a special skill set and together we create a robust, sensitive and profitable organization and create value for our clients, employees and business partners.  Appreciation – of our differences – Promoting a culture of Unity in Diversity, which is embedded in the Indian Ethos. Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles We, at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), are committed to support the cause for advancing equality between women and men. It’s  An important Business case for us – Equality Means Business, it  Brings the broadest pool of talent to our endeavors;  Furthers our company’s competitiveness;  Meet our corporate responsibility and sustainability commitments;  Model behaviour within our companies that reflects the society we would like for our employees, fellow citizens and families;  Encourage economic and social conditions that provide equal opportunities to both women and men, girls and boys;  Foster sustainable development in the countries in which we operate. Therefore, we welcome the provisions of the Women’s Empowerment Principles – Equality Means Business, produced and disseminated by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and the United Nations Global Compact. The Principles present seven steps that business and other sectors can take to advance and empower women. Equal treatment of women and men is not just the right thing to do – it is also good for business. The full participation of women in our enterprises and in the larger community makes sound business sense now and in the future. A broad concept of sustainability and corporate responsibility that embraces women’s empowerment as a key goal will benefit us all. The seven steps of the Women’s Empowerment Principles will help us realize these opportunities. We encourage & urge business leaders to join us and use the Principles as guidance for actions that we can all take at the workplace, marketplace and community to empower women and benefit our companies and societies. We will strive to use sex-disaggregated data in our sustainability reporting to communicate our progress to our stakeholders. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page16 AWARDS & ACCOLADES AWARDS CERTIFICATIONS ACHIEVEMENTS The Centre has the following 1. First retrofit office building in India International accreditations: 1. Listed as one of the Top Ten projects from certified for USGBC LEED Platinum EB • ISO 9001:2008 for Quality all over India for the ACREX Hall of Fame (O&M) in 2010. Management System 2017, by ISHRAE 2. First Building in India to be awarded • ISO 14001:2004 for Environment 2. Featured as a Healthy Building by LEED in a LEED Dynamic Plaque – Real time Management System Motion 2017 building performance monitoring in • ISO 22000:2005 for Food Safety 3. Won the The Emerson Cup Award, under 2015. Management System the category Winning Project in Retrofit 3. First building outside Australia, • ISO 50001:2011 for Energy Project – Metropolitan City’ Category, certified for its excellent Indoor Management Services October 2016. Environment Quality, by NABERS in • OHSAS 18001:2007 for Occupational 4. India’s Green Champions recognition by 2015 Health & Safety IGBC in 2015 for demonstrating the best 4. First building in India awarded the • SA 8000:2008 for Social Accountability health of occupants through IEQ -Indoor CETEC, Australia’s 5 Palm Rating for • FSSAI Approved Environment Quality practice. Healthy & Sustainable operating 5. 15th CII Excellent Energy Efficient Unit building in 2015 Award, in November 2014 2 Selected in 10 top buildings in IndiaACREX 2017 Covered by USGBC-LEED mentioning PBC as an Example Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page17 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Continuing with our commitments – Our Stakeholder Centric Approach: We firmly believe in balancing stakeholder priorities and expectations – this is absolutely essential for responsible business performance – by doing this we effectively manage our business risks. At PBC we meet and have a meaningful dialogue with our primary stakeholders, at least twice a year. For this we use surveys, awareness campaigns, training sessions and face to face interactions, training & awareness campaigns, joint pitching, sponsoring common interest programs etc. During the current year, PBC initiated a broader stakeholder engagement; listening and acting on the inputs received from our stakeholders/interested parties to further improve the business performance & services. Useful & Effective collaboration with our stakeholders to meet the challenges, ever changing business needs and demands, while consistently delivering sustainable value to all our primary stakeholders i.e. Employees, Suppliers, clients, communities in which we operate. Our goal is not only to adhere but exceed conformance to the law & with this intent we have gone all out to include our important stakeholders i.e. customers, subcontractors, employees, etc in our various engagement processes From our consultation with our major and critical stakeholders, the nature of challenge facing the company is clearly understood. Our new cross business CSR approach is based upon a consistent framework, capable of accommodating the wide levels of achievements across our various business verticals and by taking cognizance of different social, environmental and economic priorities. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page18 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Sl. Stakeholder ENGAGEMENT BENEFITS TO No. [by priority] Method Frequency Business Stakeholder 1 Shareholders Management Half yearly / Financial and budgetary approvals for Clients get value for money Meeting / Yearly investments in green and clean services Board Meeting technologies, business strategies get ratified. Valuable inputs to improve performance, positive brand image 2 Employees Staff welfare Monthly Enhance Productivity and Efficiency, Increase motivational levels meetings, increase in business, positive brand and enhance their Departmental image capabilities, clarity on goals Meetings with CEO, and objectives, personal and Interdepartmental professional growth, meeting, monetary emoluments management review meetings, committee meetings, events 3 Customers and celebrations. Letters / Daily / Enhance the business, Building up of Quality services, Increased Presentations / Weekly / Trust and loyalty, positive brand image, service efficiency and Meeting / Customer Monthly / inputs on improving the services and effectiveness Satisfaction Annually business Surveys/ Feedback / Annual Parties / Get 4 Family of together Picnic / Family Day Annually Motivated Team and Happy Sense of Pride, employees / Annual workforce, Loyalty, retaining talent. achievement, oneness, GetSense of belonging (part together of PBC family) Endorsement by family of an employee’s choice of employer 5 Suppliers / Visits and Annual Regularly / Relationship building, Building of trust Strong Business Vendors / Meeting Yearly and faith, transparency, better relationship, trust level Subcontract or negotiations and better value for increase, credit safety, money as credibility is established, learning and awareness branding, learning and awareness process, out of the box process, out of the box innovation / innovation / customization of product and services customization of product and services, increase business and orders 6 Government New Policies / Regularly Get a platform to place their Support from the industry planning for concerns to the government and corporate business / industry, Laws Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page19 7 Community Initiatives on Regularly Credibility/positive brand image, Better engagement process community Goodwill of people, perceived as a for the community, development responsible corporate community gets a and various platform to voice their important days concerns, apprehensions, appreciations and suggestions 8 Investors Meetings, Regularly Access to money, grants / loans. To deal with responsible Presentation Growth and diversification corporate, technology s, Seminars opportunities, new business segments partner, Growth and and and projects diversification conferences opportunities, new business segments and projects, last but not the least attractive returns on their investments and risk hedging 9 Media Electronic and Regularly Positive brand image, Creating It’s a win-win situation Print media awareness about the business entity, media gets story to tell Publication, indirectly it impact the sales and especially when it is Articles, market value innovative and new and interviews create a niche 1 Industry Meetings, Regularly Knowledge sharing, bridge between Credibility Enhances, get 0 associations Presentations, industry and govt. for framing policy more corporate / Seminars, that aid businesses. members / followers trainings, workshop and conferences Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page20 PBC’s COMMITMENT TO UNGC’S TEN PRINCIPLES A. HUMAN RIGHTS I. SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS We believe that business has an important role to play in promoting and respecting the advancement of fundamental human rights, while not supplanting the primary obligations of Government to protect the human rights of all people within their borders and as members of the international community. Supporting human rights is not only the right thing to do, but also makes business sense—companies that violate internationally recognized human rights are not sustainable. Ethical behavior towards our employees and suppliers, including the payment of decent wages and the provision of safe and hygienic working conditions, are the essential building blocks for our current and future business. We recognize the rights of our employees and treat our staff with dignity, respect and fairness within a safe working environment. Health & Safety are the two key factors guiding our business. “We recruit locally, encourage high degrees of local autonomy and share ownership where appropriate”. We pursue with a mission to educate our employees about organizational commitment to human rights through regular trainings & workshops. These trainings help our employees to understand the principles of human rights and how these are to be implemented in their respective business verticals. We also make sure that each Head of the Department clearly understands the risk emerging by not following these. We ensure strict adherence to laws enacted by the Government of India, to protect the interests of the workers. We follow Shops & Established Act. SA 8000:2008 certification cements PBC’s commitment on staff welfare & social accountability. Through this, PBC reinforces its commitment to basic rights, freedom to all, fair wages, equal opportunities without discrimination on any account, inclusivity, training & skill development, health, safety etc. A fair and open channel of communication is maintained for all personnel at the work place. Human Rights are clearly identified as a non-negotiable instrument and are addressed in detail in our Management Standing Instructions (MSI) Our Code of Conduct expresses implicit support to the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page21 II. ENSURE THAT THE ORGANIZATION IS NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES There has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Our organization realizes that the prompt handling of grievances of employees and customers is of paramount importance in upholding of human rights and accordingly, we have framed procedures to address such grievances. We encourage the development and growth of our staff through regular appraisals, personal improvement & development plans.  We do not permit any kind of harassment or abuse of our employees.  We regularly monitor the working practices and the employment policies of our suppliers and promote improvement. Under SA 8000:2008, we have a separate process on Grievance Handling, through which all employees are able to voice their concerns, queries, doubts, clarifications, grievances etc. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective method for handling grievances of personnel deputed at PBC, including workers provided by the sub contractors. The idea is to have a workplace that is sensitive to our most important stakeholders i.e. our workforce & that ensures their well being, while they are with PBC. This is taken very positively as part of our continual improvement programme. Any grievance or suggestion is not taken adversely by the management, wherein our team members get apprehensive about filing any grievance. On the contrary these are considered as opportunities for improvement. No records of an employee’s use of the grievance procedure are kept in their personnel file and during their performance evaluation; this is not taken into accounts. As stated earlier, there has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Apart from this, we encourage employees to express views; raise issues in forums meant for their interaction with management, where they are free to give suggestions and seek clarification for any doubts, in a fair manner. We have a suggestion box for our team members so that they can give their ideas/suggestions without any apprehensions. This can result in overall improvement in our system. We also have a unique communication systeminternal mailing system. All employees have quick and easy access to HR personnel & Senior Managers, in case of any urgency. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page22 B. LABOUR STANDARDS III. UPHOLDING THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PBC realizes the collective strength of its employees and treats them as effective partners towards the goal of achieving continuous sustainable growth and hence no objection is raised on employees to join any trade unions thereby ensuring freedom of association to all its employees. However it is stressed that they do it in a disciplined manner without harming the sanctity of the workplace. This is communicated through various training programmes and implemented through the Social Accountability (SA 8000) processes. Till date, no instances of strikes / lock out etc have ever taken place at PBC. A noteworthy point here is that a large part of our crew members have been with us for more than five years, this shows the trust and faith that they repose in the management of PBC and also proves the management’s commitment to their personal development and welfare. There have been several instances when a lot of our crew members who had left, rejoined us. This once again proves PBC’s commitment to fair business practices. We also have a “Workers Representative” (WR), who engages with our crew-members and understands their queries, requirements, needs, grievances, issues etc. and brings them to the notice of the management, on a monthly basis. These are then discussed with the Management Committee and HR. Actions are then taken to resolve shortcomings if any. The Workers Representative (WR) is part of all Review Meetings, Audits & Internal meetings with the management, so that the workers perspective is thoroughly presented to the management. IV. THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PBC believes in voluntary labour and does not believe in all forms of forced & compulsory labour right from its inception. Regular & Periodic Audits, both external & internal are conducted for compliance with SA 8000:2008 and compliance to UNGC principles. Apart from this there are unannounced / surprise audits conducted by the certification body & Social Accountability International (SAI). Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page23 V. THE ORGANIZATION SUPPORTS EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR We prefer business partners / suppliers who treat their employees the way we do. PBC follows the Delhi Shops and Establishment Act, according to which, the age limit prescribed for child labour is below 15. However, we have gone beyond this and have prescribed the minimum age limit as 18 years for employment at PBC. No person below this age can be employed in PBC, whether directly or indirectly, thereby ensuring that child labour is not practiced. By setting the minimum pay scale as per the government norms we ensure that our employees get decent wages and working conditions encouraging them to send their children to schools rather than to work. All our contractors & vendors are also required to scrupulously follow the laws/ rules and regulations in respect of engagement of Child Labour. This is addressed through our contract agreement, vendor declaration & regular engagement programmes with our Vendors and suppliers. In our SA 8000:2008 systems, we have a separate process defined on Child Labour – Remediation Plan Procedure No. SA2. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective process for detection & prevention of child labour & its remediation, which covers all personnel deputed and also include workers provided by subcontractors. VI. ORGANIZATION PROMOTES ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination at workplace. At the time of recruitment only, qualification of a candidate to deliver effective performance is considered and if all is equal, we give special preference to women, candidates from marginal / economically weaker sections of the society and differentlyabled. There have been “Zero” incidents of discrimination in the reporting period. In the above sense we do practice “positive discrimination” to have a diverse workforce. We have adequate policies in place to firmly deal with these and apart from this; it also is detailed in our MSI and processes under ISO. We ensure 100% compliance to these. Our objective is to go beyond compliance. The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination based on caste, color, gender, religion or region. We strongly believe in inclusivity and vehemently oppose discrimination at workplace. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page24 Sustainable Development GOAL – 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries PBC supports & confirm to UNDP Goal No. 10. We does not believe in any kind of inequality based on caste, color, gender, religion or region and we strongly believe in inclusivity and vehemently oppose discrimination at workplace. It is evident from the chart given below that Schedule caste & tribes constitute almost 10% of our total workforce and we hire people based on competencies and their ability to carry out the defined tasks. Any other factor apart from this is not considered. We practice Affirmative Action, as it promotes a diverse workforce and gives opportunities to all in order to have sustainable livelihoods. We also strive to create awareness about the importance of Affirmative Action to enhance social stability & cohesion and to make it into a practical solution for the corporate sector and businesses. We recognize the need to reorient people’s attitude towards persons with disability & persons from the marginalized sections of our society. Inclusivity Data: No. of Team Category Percentage wise Members General 88 90% OBC 02 2% SC 07 7% ST 01 1% Grand Total 98 100% “Skill Development Initiative: Taking on Fresh Interns & providing them on the job training on various business verticals including Technical & Soft skill development”. Sustainable Development GOAL – 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls PBC welcomes the provisions of the UNDP Goal No. 5 and Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) – Equality Means Business, produced and disseminated by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and United Nations Global Compact. We are one of the seven signatories to UNGC and WEPs and the only mSME to demonstrate commitment to Women Empowerment. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page25 PBC has adopted seven steps in order to empower women employees. We have a policy in place to address this as part of our business strategy. An important business case for us – Equality Means Business. Equal treatment of women and men is not just the right thing to do – it is also good for business. At PBC, we constantly work towards removing barriers that help in changing the mindsets & stereotypes. Model behavior within our organization reflects the society we would like for our employees, their families, fellow citizens and communities where we operate in. We have women friendly policies at work to facilitate them and simultaneously help them balance their work, home, children and family.  Flexible working hours, part-time jobs, work from home option, ‘be consultants’ and ‘come-on-specific days’ etc. are some of the provisions tailor-made for our women employees  Extended Maternity Leaves  A medical insurance policy in place that covers maternity from day one  Providing manned cab facilities to the women employees after 7 pm and until 7 am PBC recognizes that Sexual harassment is an issue at workplace and addresses it proactively, by having regular awareness and interactive sessions with PBC team members. We encourage “Open Door Policy” for our women employees to ensure that their specific grievances are addressed in a timely manner. PBC enjoys the reputation of being a safe and secure place for women employees. As an organization, we strongly feel that synergies between the two genders can truly result in sustainable development of an entity, organization & a nation as a whole. Women at PBC hold the highest management positions. Synopsis of PBC’s Workforce Total No. of Employees at PBC: 98 Gender Ratio in % (F: M): (11:87) Managerial in numbers (Female: Male): (05:16) Non Managerial in numbers (Female: Male): (06:71) No. of Team Percentage Managerial Non Managerial Members wise Position (in Nos.) Position (in Nos Category.) No of Female of PBC 11 11% 05 06 No of Male of PBC 87 89% 16 71 Total Employees 98 100% 21 77 Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page26 INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY CELEBRATION @ PBC WOMEN’S DAY CELEBRATION On the occasion of Women’s Day, we have organized a session for the women employees. As a part of our Health and Wellness initiative, at PBC we have arranged a talk by Moolchand Hospital Nutritionist & Gynecologist on “Stay Fit Stay Healthy” followed by Diet chart, workout tips and Gynecologist related quires that would enable all women employees to come forward and talk about their day to day health issues and how can be they keep themselves fit in their busy schedule. They talked about managing time effectively at home and office, in the plight of reducing the stress that can be caused for not being able to do so. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page27 Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page28 C. ENVIRONMENT VII. THE ORGANIZATION ADOPTS A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES With regard to our environmental initiatives – relating to energy management, water conservation, reduction of our carbon footprint, use of sustainable resources, waste management, local procurement, indoor environment etc, we manage them on a day to day basis, the results are tangible and our system addresses it very substantially. DYNAMIC LEED PLAQUE – A REAL TIME MONITOR The LEED Dynamic Plaque is a remarkable monitoring system that accounts for energy and water consumption, waste generation, and the human experience. LEED Dynamic Plaque is a unique platform that comes with a phenomenal scope of bringing in a revolution in the green buildings and their performance. The plaque has become an integral part of our entire operational and analytical system. It assesses the performance of a building constantly and keeps you motivated to do well. It gives us all a great opportunity to improve our performance on a daily basis. It is a real game changer. PBC has undertaken various projects, implemented strategies and taken several initiatives to make PBC, a highly performing green office building. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page29 ENERGY CONSERVATION MEASURES Energy conservation practices followed at PBC help in reducing our operating costs without impacting the quality of life. Direct energy consumption from primary energy source is from BSES (utility provider) and we don’t have any source for Indirect / Renewable energy002E PBC has experienced a reduction of maximum 30% in the electricity bills due to its energy conservation measures. We are working on these practices to further improve our energy efficiency. PBCOUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY  Installation of VFD on chiller to increase its efficiency2017  Modification of fresh air unit by installing a heat exchanger (cooling coil) linked with cooling tower having 1 degree centigrade reach, to reduce the air temperature, resulting in a continuous 2 degree centigrade drop -2016  Installation of 30 KW PV Panels with automatic washing of panel cleaning system, giving 20% extra power generation 2016  Cold Condensate Water from AHUs fed to Cooling Towers after UV treatment, in insulated pipes 2016  Switch over & Up gradation of Building Management System by Schneider 2016 /2017 ENERGY CONTRIBUTION AT VARIOUS POINTS IN PBC AAhEPI for Jan HVAC and IAQ Lighting Solar Miscellanenous to Dec 2013 • 23 Wh/hr/Sqm AAhEPI for Jan 37% to Dec 2014 • 21 Wh/hr/Sqm 41% AAhEPI for Jan to Dec 2015 • 21 Wh/hr/Sqm 6% 16% AAhEPI for Jan to Dec 2016 • 20 Wh/hr/Sqm AAhEPI for Jan to Mar 2017 • 13 Wh/hr/Sqm Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page30 WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES At PBC, water has always been considered as a precious resource, which is monitored at all inlet and outlet points on daily basis. As water demands and environmental needs grow, recycling & reusing of water plays a major role at PBC, helping us to conserve and manage our vital water resources in a sustainable manner. Source of Water at PBC™: Primary Source is Delhi Jal Board (Utility Provider) and for any additional requirement of Water, water is sourced & bought. Monitoring & Reporting System Daily monitoring and recording of the water consumption at each area of consumption is done in order to control any kind of water wastage. Monthly Water Consumption Data The Bench Mark for water consumption is 45ltrs per person per day as per building by laws. WASTE MANAGEMENT PBC has integrated its waste management system in its daily operations. The mantra is: Reduce, Refuse, Reuse and Recycle. Some of the waste management strategies are:  Waste is segregated at its origin. PBC has placed separate bins for different types of waste like food, plastic, paper etc. Food waste at PBC is converted into organic nature manure through vermi-culture with the help of worms. Further, this manure is used for indoor plants  Effluent from the kitchen is treated through Oil and Grease trap installed in the Kitchen and as per Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) norms, the parameters of the discharge is periodically tested from DPCC approved Lab. Results are within the specified parameters.  PBC also uses discharged water from effluent treatment plant: Discharged treated water from Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) is used in Vermi-compost Pit and for gardening purpose.  PBC recycles paper and plastic waste. Several trees are chopped down in order to produce papers. At PBC, they try to minimize the usage of papers by following various simple practices. Instead of circulating paper notes/chits, we prefer using our emails, setting up reminders in the computers etc  The team is advised to reuse one-sided paper & promote communication through I-mail/ E-mail. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page31 Sustainable Development GOAL – 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Recently, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India in association with Services Export Promotion Council (SEPC) and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has organized the third edition of the Global Exhibition on Services (GES) from 17-20 April 2017 at India Expo Mart, Greater Noida, NCR, India. GES has organized one day National Conference on Partnerships for Sustainable Development Goals. This conference has acted as a platform for great minds in the environment and sustainable development sector. A successful sustainable development agenda requires partnerships between governments, the private sector and civil society. These inclusive partnerships built upon principles and values, a shared vision, and shared goals that place people and the planet at the centre, are needed at the global, regional, national and local level. National Conference on Partnerships for Sustainable Development Goals has an inclusive focus on developing the much-needed partnerships to put India onto the road map for 2030 agenda for sustainable development. Affordable & Clean Energy Our Chairman Emeritus, Mr. Kamal Meattle, says in his article that when he thinks about the year 2030 in terms of “affordable and clean energy”, the first thing that comes to his mind is to focus on the use of renewable sources of energy thereby making our system to rely less on dirty coal based electricity. This is important for Climate Change and Global Warming. We need to keep our increase in temperature Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page32 down to 2 degrees centigrade. This is directly related to the CO2 emissions. The challenge is to have economic growth and also bring electricity to the 300 million people in India who have not experienced electricity and its benefits. India’s total renewable energy as a percentage of total energy produced is 25-27 %, which includes 15-16 % hydro-electricity and 11-12 % solar, wind and biogas. World’s Energy Consumption is expected to grow by 49% by 2035 as stated by United States Energy Information Administration. 40% of World’s Energy is used by Buildings which is stated by The United Nations Environment Program (UNEP). Buildings consume 40% of World’s resources and Waste Production according to The United Nations Environment Program (UNEP). Also, buildings account for 50 % of all the UN Human Settlements Program. By 2030, we should try to get electricity from solar power for every home, which not only will make electricity within reach for every individual but will be available at affordable prices. Thus, if we were able to get even 1 KW from every household, we will produce 250 GW which alone will cover 80 % of the present need. We should use R&D to generate clean energy from ‘Gobar Gas’ as we have over 300 million cows in India or over 30% of its World’s population. We can generate methane and as a by-product and get organic manure, which can be used to grow fruits and vegetables, making India the world’s basket for certified Organic Produce. The methane can be stored in balloons, during the day and used to power fuel cells to power the village lighting system at night, using LED lighting. This initiative will also provide jobs to people in villages in areas of vet services, fodder, PV systems to provide off grid power, telephone towers and communication facility in villages powered by PV during the day and methane at night and hence, lessen the incentive for the village folks to migrate to urban areas. Sustainable Development GOAL – 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages BUILDINGS CONTRIBUTE TO ONE'S WELLNESS, COGNITIVE ABILITY AND HIGHER PRODUCTIVITY & AT THE SAME TIME, REDUCE ENERGY COST A PATH TOWARDS SUSTAINABILITY While the entire world is grappling with the plight of air pollution, PBC invented an effective solution to air pollution – Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) system. Not a mask or AC, IAQ system is a unique bio-technology that is a combination of both mechanical and natural air purification system. It is the brainchild of PBC. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page33 It is due to this IAQ system, PBC has been able to offer mountain fresh ambience to its occupants. Air Quality Indoors, at PBC conforms to ASHRAE & WHO standards:  Temperature Maintained 22±1° C in winters & 25±1° C in summers.  RH 70 % ± 10 %  PM 2.5 < ~15µg /m3 all the time  Sox, BDL and in any case < 80 ug /m3, as per ASHRAE standards  Nox, BDL and in any case < 100 ug /m3, as per ASHRAE standards  Ozone, BDL and in any case < 51 ppb  TVOC’s are under 500 ug /m3  CO2 level is ~ 200 250 ppm over ambient The IAQ team monitors the work and effects of IAQ system, and takes corrective actions for it as and when required. Every day, the team publishes its IAQ readings on its website www.pbcnet.com. INDOOR AIR QUALITY SNAPSHOT Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page34 PBC – An Experience Centre Benefits to Its Occupants • PBC is a Building that enhances occupant Health, Productivity, Wellness and Cognitive Ability while keeping them safe all at an affordable cost. • The results are quantitatively measurable and can be replicated in other buildings. • PBC have experienced that one’s blood oxygen levels go up by 1% with a 42% probability, for over 25 years now, if one is indoors for 8 -10 hours. • CLEAN INDOOR AIR QUALITY = HIGHER COGNITIVE SCORE & PRODUCTIVITY • We believe that Smart Cities should have Smart Buildings with occupants as Smart People, to enable them to achieve their full potential. • Kamal Meattle, Chairman Emeritus, PBC, spoke about, “How to grow fresh air” at TED, Long Beach, USA which has been seen by nearly 3 million people. Please Google his name and view it. Registered as a pilot project for DELOS WELL Building 15 certification with USGBC PBC has been rated as one of the healthiest office buildings in Delhi NCR in a published study by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), MoEF, GOI and Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute, Kolkata  This system has helped us in decreasing the incidences of Eye Irritation by 52%; Respiratory Symptoms by 34%; Headaches by 24%; Lung Impairment & Asthma by 12%  Reduced Rate of absenteeism due to sickness Our research  There is 42% probability of one’s saturated Blood Oxygen Level (BOL) going up by 1% for occupants who spend 8 10 hours, a day indoors, for a few days  Productivity level increases by ~ 20%. Reduced Rate of absenteeism due to sickness  Reduced Blood Pressure of occupants Harvard and University of California, Berkeley Research Is office indoor air quality making you less productive? Harvard Research says – Yes! An October 2015 study by Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health’s Center for Health and the Global Environment, SUNY Upstate Medical University, and Syracuse University) has looked at people’s experiences in “green” vs. “non-green” buildings in a double-blind study. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page35 It has revealed that “Cognitive performance scores for the participants who worked in the green+ environments, were on average, double those of participants who worked in conventional environments; scores for those working in green environments were 61 percent higher.” It explains that when lowered CO2 levels were coupled with lower pollutants in buildings, cognitive scores were 101% higher, than in conventional buildings. Another study, published by Center of the Built Environment, UC Berkeley, in August 2016, has found, that “Elevated indoor CO2 levels are indicative of insufficient ventilation, in occupied spaces and correlate with elevated concentrations of pollutants of indoor origin. Adverse health and well-being outcomes, associated with elevated indoor CO2 levels, are based on CO2 as a proxy; although some emerging evidence suggests CO2 itself, may impact human cognition.” In October 2016 another study conducted by Harvard, was released by UTC, USA. It shows: Cognitive Ability improvements * In Green Buildings, it is 61% Higher In Enhanced Green Buildings (similar to PBC’s IAQ), it is 101% Higher than Conventional Buildings For persons engaged in using information, it is 298% higher in Enhance Green Buildings. Please visit: http://thecogfxstudy.com/ VIII. THE ORGANIZATION INITIATES PROMOTION OF GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PBC believes in environmental awareness among PBC team members & stakeholders. Our values encourage and motivate us to have partnerships with our customers, employees & other important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work for. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder are as follows: EARTH HOUR AT PBC On 28th March 2017, the planet of life – Earth, witnessed the “Earth Hour” phenomenal sweep across the globe. Like every year, PBC participated in this movement by switching off the lights for an hour in the building and also encouraged its team, suppliers and customers to follow the same at their individual homes. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page36 EARTH DAY CELEBRATION The Climate Reality Project India and Paharpur Business Centre in partnership with Earth Day Network celebrated Earth Day 2017 in Delhi – NCR schools, by inviting schools to hold a tree plantation drive in their school campus across Delhi – NCR area. Under this campaign, around 25 schools joined the movement and conducted a tree plantation drive on 21 st April 2017 at sharp 8:00 AM in their school campus and celebrated Earth Day 2017. Dignitaries from 18 embassies and other senior officials joined the various schools and planed tree saplings with children, to celebrate Earth Day 2017 and supported environment and climate literacy, the theme for this Earth Day. Tree saplings were planted together by guests from different embassies and children, school heads and teachers. Children also pledged that they would take care of the saplings for next one year and share the growth of their plants with us. The objective of the campaign is to support environment and climate literacy, by planting tree saplings and building awareness about clean energy. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page37 Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page38 Celebrating Earth Day in schools reminds every student to be an environmental and climate literate citizen, ready to take action and be a voice for conservation and change. Sustainable Development GOAL – 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts PBC has been proactive in the activities of The Climate Reality Project. Our Chairman, Mr. Meattle is the trustee to The Climate Reality Project – India Chapter (TCPI). The Climate Reality Project, founded and chaired by former Vice President and Nobel Laureate Al Gore, is dedicated to unleashing a global cultural movement demanding action on the climate crisis. The Climate Reality Project, Indiaan independent chapter of this international organization was established in March 2008 with the help of Al Gore and Dr. R K Pachauri. Their mission is to catalyze a global solution to the climate crisis by making urgent action a necessity across every level of society. PBC has partnered with TCPI in various awareness campaigns and other initiatives, and has also been rendering continued support to its Teacher’s Training Program to be undertaken in collaboration with Delhi Government. This program aims at taking the climate message to 10,000 teachers from 5,000 Delhi Schools, ultimately reaching out to 1 million children. This will inculcate climate-based solution metrics in the children and further help them in understanding the factors behind climate crisis and how one can act wisely to reduce the adverse effects of climate change. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page39 IX. ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES BELIEVING IN GREATER ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY Environmental awareness amongst PBC team members & stakeholders is always encouraged. This motivates us in establishing partnerships with our important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work. We have initiated several awareness programs for school children, employees, clients, community on climate change. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder are:  Celebrating Earth Day & Environment Day in order to create awareness & scale the critical issues concerning our planet and relating them to the sustainability of our business.  Regular interaction with school children to sensitize them to issues relating to environment i.e. water and energy management, planting trees for a better air quality, etc  In-house employee awareness programs Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page40 TAKING THE “GREEN” MESSAGE TO THE KEEN LEARNERS PBC believes in sharing its knowledge to enhance capabilities to create a better future, and that can happen by inculcating sustainable values in the students (the future of the world) PBC has been proactively spreading awareness on green concepts amongst school and college children. We create awareness on the importance of energy & water conservation, waste management, resource optimization and natural ways to combat air pollution. We demonstrate them our initiatives so as to make them aware of the viable measures. Each individual can contribute in making our World a greener and more sustainable home for all and the coming generations. And, we show them how such things are possible. Students from School of Architecture and Team PBC with Dr. Prem Jain, ChairmanIndian Green Building Council INTERACTIVE SESSION & HEALTH SCANS BY ENVIRONICS Factors like lighting, noise levels, air quality, ventilation, building material and electromagnetic use of equipment, influence the state of health, of people. We are pleased that Environics, (www.evironics.co.in) has recently checked and also corrected radiations from Geopathic Stresses magnetic grid lines and underground water streams, microwave radiations by WiFi routers, servers, lap tops, mobile phones and other negative ground radiation, at our building, at PBC. We were accorded a “Silver Rated Healthy Building Certificate”. Environics has also developed a non invasive Health Check. It has been done after extensive research and interaction with health experts from India and overseas. To create awareness among building occupants, we have conducted an interactive session and health check in collaboration with Environics. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page41 They have done heath check and conducted a session educating occupants about their techniques. It was a non-intrusive diagnostic system used for diagnostics, to indicate health conditions that need to be addressed by the person. This Program was designed to make the occupants of PBC healthier and more productive. The session was aimed toward educating occupants on everyday health matters, and the effect on our health & wellness, such as the effect of earth’s radiations on sleep quality, body aches and ways to protect ourselves from the harmful radiations coming from mobile phones, computers, Mobile towers, Wi-Fi, etc. GREEN DIWALI Delhi is unfit for living between Diwali and Holi because of the elevated levels of air pollution. Therefore, PBC decide to organize campaigns that can raise awareness as to why everyone should say no to fireworks and yes to a green Diwali while promoting Community fireworks as a corrective measure to celebrate this festival. All our employees at PBC actively participated in this campaign to spread the word, “Say No to Fireworks” and we let it free on social media platforms for people to join this revolution. NANHI CHHAAN With the motto of supporting Equal Opportunity for all while standing against the crime, female foeticide, every year PBC organizes a plantation drive in Nehru Place Greens Park. Wherein all the PBC members celebrate the birth of a girl child by making the proud parents plant a sapling in her name. They also take an oath to take care of that plant the way they do for their child. This is a CSR initiative, and is known as, Nanhi Chhaan”. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page42 D. ANTI-CORRUPTION X. BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST ALL FORMS OF CORRUPTION, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY PBC believes in doing business in a sustainable and ethical manner. This is why we practice, promote and safeguard the anti-corruption laws at all levels of business. We are deeply committed to the principles of UN Global Compact. We have partnered in various initiatives of GCNI, quite proactively. One of them is, “Business Case for AntiCorruption in India” which is an anthology of case studies on anti-corruption. GCNI had taken up pressing corruption issues in Indian context, in a phased manner that addresses the sphere of public procurement, supply chain transparency, bribery and fraud, sustainability, ethical governance and more. Various renowned companies participated in this study and PBC was one of them. PBC is the only mSME that is a signatory to UNGC. To assist GCNI in building a bioscope of anti-corruption and ethical practices being carried in different Indian organizations, we conducted internal audits to check the compliance of the procedures and update the same, so as to ensure that correct message is disseminated. By analyzing various internal case studies, we could project how we maintain integrity in business by adhering to anti-corruption and nine other principles. Under the “Zero Tolerance Policy” we have clearly indicated that PBC does not tolerate any unethical conduct or violation of policies. To show our complete support to the GCNI’s initiative we came forward with some instances pertaining to the anticorruption policy. While citing one instance of violation of ethics, conduct and policy, we have shown the way we tackled the situation and resolved it. We have a dedicated Quality Assurance (QA) team that ensures that quality of services and business ethics are adhered to. It works conjointly with Finance, Human Resources and Legal Departments to check meticulously, that the standards, codes, regulatory and statutory requirements are met whilst controlling and monitoring PBC’s daily operations. Regular internal audits are conducted for the same. We propagate the same to all our stakeholders (internal and external) to ascertain that all of us are on the same page. At PBC, we have maintained transparency in the business policies to nullify corruption and encourage ethical work culture. In addition to the internal audits, we also organize Third Party Audits of different management systems. Each department has different set of SOPs and legal requirements which are modified and updated as and when required. Our policy on Gift and Hospitality, mandates that no gifts or monetary favor should be taken by any employee or any member of their immediate family, from the contractors, suppliers, clients/ customers or anyone else having dealings with the company. In the circumstances where it is customary to do so, employees are permitted to accept such gifts of nominal value or favors provided that such gifts or favors are not extended and/or accepted for the purpose or with any personal interest or unethical purposes. Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page43 ROAD AHEAD  Registered as a pilot project for DELOS WELL Building certification with USGBC  Expanding the Solar PV Panels with another installation of ~10KW to 40KW  In accordance to our commitment towards Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) and United Nations Global Compact, we plan to employ larger number of women employees in PBC, in nonwomen oriented verticals & also to introduce senior women employees in the PBC Board.  As part of our commitment to “Affirmative Policy” we will continue to exercise “Positive Discrimination” to enhance the existing percentage SC / ST and OBC employees, as part of our workforce.  Making the building differently abled, friendly  To meet WELL Standard Noise and thermal insulation of the building  Exploring Lights (Red & White LEDs) for Plant Growth  Day lighting through Skylights and LED lights meeting R9> 50 for health benefits  Green Façade of the building to give it a modern look with Energy Reduction Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page44  Paharpur Business Centre  W: www.pbcnet.com USGBC LEED Platinum – EB (Operations & Maintenance) | BEE 5 Star | ISO 9001, 14001, 22000 & 50001; OHSAS 18001; SA 8000, FSSAI, CETEC 5 Palm | NABERS (4 star for Indoor Environment Quality) | Commitment to UN Global Compact and Women's Empowerment Principles I IAQ meeting US ASHRAE standards | Designed & Published by: Quality Assurance Communication on Progress Report Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Copyright © 2017 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page45
