2016 Sustainability Action Report & UNGC Communication of Progress DIRECTOR’S The benefits of sustainability will not be evident unless we are able to put a price on the resources and quantify the long term economic benefits. We are fortunate to work with customers and partners that believe in this long term outlook. MESSAGE Our resource efficiency practice works with businesses to ensure that precious resources like water, fuel and chemicals are used efficiently. In 2016, we worked at nearly 80 locations to create process efficiencies. We also commenced a long-term project supported by the MacArthur Foundation to look at how we can bring about a change in 3 sectors with In 2010, cKinetics was founded on a simple premise: working on large emissionsFoundry, Ceramics and Forging. Resource Sustainability (and ensure resources meet the needs of the future generation) in itself makes economic sense. That flies in the face Another key aspect of resource conservation is substitution of fossil of existing economic systemswhere to generate more wealth one fuels with clean energy resources. In the past year, we worked with needs to use more resources. In our 2016 Sustainability Action Report, organizations such as the ADB, the Global Green Growth Institute, we are pleased to share the impact and real outcomes borne out of our Maksus Group, Shakti Foundation and others to catalyze the off-grid founding premise. decentralized energy space (DRE). Here is cKinetics’ 2016 in numbers: In 2016, we also expanded our footprint into Vietnam and South-East Asia. With this expansion, we are now delivering our offerings in 7 Water Savings 2129 million litres countries. Renewable Energy 7.3 MW in mini-grids and small power As we continue accelerating Sustainability, we are proud to confirm our plants enabled ongoing adherence to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Capital advisory support for investments across our operations. Our adherence to these principles and our of USD 525 million Business Responsibility Report are purely voluntary disclosures which Energy Savings 7.4 GWh electricity saved validate our commitment to be a responsible, transparent and accountable business. GHG Reduction 79,000 tons of CO2 Fuel Savings 36,996 tons We aim to multiply the impact we make in 2017. Chemical Use Avoided 12,336 tons Lives Impacted 27,000 people given access to power Cost of Saving Energy Rs. 3.1/KWh Pawan Mehra Upendra Bhatt What the Future has to say… The conversations around corporate sustainability hover around efficiency, productivity and profit as goals. Often we tend to overlook the fact that efficiency or productivity are not end in themselves but rather they are means to an end. What is this end? It is to ensure a viable future for our children. cKinetics’ division Sustainability Outlook organized the 6th Annual Summit of the Sustainable Business Leadership Forum. We sought to put the idea of the ‘future’ into the heart of the conversation. Hence, the theme of the summit was “Designing Enterprises of the Future”. The summit captured views of the ‘representatives’ of our future who spoke about what sustainability meant to them. The message they conveyed was simple yet powerful and displayed an understanding which betrayed their tender years. Watch the video here IMPACTING CONSERVING ENHANCING LIVES, PRECIOUS ECONOMICS OF ENGAGING RESOURCES SUSTAINABILITY PEOPLE WATER 2129 million litres saved can meet UN-mandated minimum daily water requirement for SAVINGS 42 million people Despite growing scarcity, water continues to remain a highly underpriced resource in emerging markets. In 2016 we released our study that captures the business case for Zero Liquid Discharge. It outlines a market opportunity of USD 4 billion in India alone. During the year, we continued our partnership with the Sweden International Water Institute (SIWI) to implement a multi-region program (covering India, Bangladesh, Ethiopia, China and Turkey). We also partnered with the International Financial Corporation (IFC) to boost water savings in Vietnam’s fast-growing textile sector. The key pillars of our interventions are the tools we created in previous years: Embodied Value of Water and Value Added Water frameworks, that reveal the true cost of water for businesses. 7.3 MW enabled can fulfill daily electricity requirement of 5,800 RENEWABLE people ENERGY Our sustainable energy practice focuses on catalyzing investments in the clean energy space. In 2016, even as we directly helped deploy over 7 MW of decentralized systems, we were ‘partner of choice’ for international financial institutions to help design and enable financing lines aggregating to USD 525 million for the decentralized solar energy space (DRE) in India. In addition, our work expanded to design and deployment of renewable hybrid projects in key island areas of India as also South-East Asia. During the year, jointly with key civil society organizations, 525million USD of investments catalyzed in we explored the policy enhancements needed to enable RE based urban and campus mini-grids including scenarios for replacing diesel backups with solar based backups leading to Decentralized Renewable Energy to facilitate pollution/emission reduction as also contributing to India’s deployment of 890MW power capacity ambitious DRE solar goal of 40 GW by 2022. 7.4 GWh of electricity saved can meet daily electricity requirement of 7.3 million ENERGY people SAVINGS Energy efficiency has a multi-pronged impact on sustainability. It helps to save financial resources in the form of reduction in electricity consumption and consequent decline in fuel consumption and reduction in greenhouse gases (GHG) emission (in case the source of electricity is thermal). In 2016 cKinetics worked with over 70 industrial institutions to achieve energy efficiency improvements. Our interventions are linked to technological and process improvements in the area of waste heat recovery systems, combined heat and power system 79,000ton-equivalent of CO 2 among others. Additionally, in several of our projects reduction in GHG emissions avoided is equivalent to taking off 6.1 million emission has been achieved by substituting diesel and kerosene with cleaner alternatives such as solar and passenger vehicles off the streets for a day biomass. CHEMICAL & FUEL SAVINGS 36,996 12,336 tons of fuel saved tons of chemical use avoided CONSERVING IMPACTING ENHANCING PRECIOUS LIVES, ECONOMICS OF RESOURCES SPREADING SUSTAINABILITY AWARENESS 27,000people given access to power LIVES 7,500enagaged directly through projects IMPACTED People are the centerpiece of sustainability. Clean energy and resource efficiency are not goals but a means to a sustainable future for our current and future generations. At cKinetics, positively impacting people is embedded in our approach to sustainability. Through our sustainable energy practice, we enabled electricity supply for people in unelectrified regions as also facilitated project development and investments in support of shift to cleaner fuel for regions where people are reliant on fossil fuels such as diesel for their power needs. 50,000people engaged indirectly in projects Through our projects, we enabled awareness and training programs in more than 100 locations across 114,5oopeople impacted through projects the globe. This has created an impact on how people used water, fuel and other resourcesat their work places and at home. BUILDING NETWORKS Sustainability Outlook hosted the 6th edition of the Parivartan Awards. The awards bring together leading sustainability innovators and helps to build sustainability networks for transmission and sharing of knowledge. The participants included leading corporates as well as cleantech solution providers working in the area of water, alternate materials, closed loop production systems and resource efficiency. The awards also recognized the individuals driving sustainability at India’s leading corporate firms. These www.ParivartanAwards.in are Chief Sustainability Officers – interdisciplinary leaders shaping long term outlook in India’s largest conglomerates. The awards were held at the 6th annual summit of the 2016 Winners Sustainable Business Leadership Forum which hosted over 400 leading sustainability professionals and industry executives. Parivartan Awards recognized distinguished Chief …the organizations leading sustainability innovations in India Sustainability Officers and… • Tony Henshaw, Aditya Birla Group • Anirban Ghosh, Mahindra Group • Ramdas Kamath, Infosys • Aniruddha Agnihotri, TCS • Swapan Kumar, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories • Kapilavai Narayan Rao, ACC • Aloka Majumdar, HSBC • Namita Vikas, YES Bank THOUGHT LEADERSHIP As the leading market intelligence and insights platform for sustainability, Sustainability Outlook continued to explore new and emerging areas in the sustainability space. In 2016, we undertook a deep-dive of the energy efficiency space in the context of the Perform, Achieve and Trade scheme. We explored the technological, policy and financial challenges of industrial energy efficiency. We also undertook a detailed study to estimate the scope for energy efficiency in India. We pegged the opportunity for energy efficiency (excluding thermal sector) at a massive USD 5 billion by 2020. Also, we undertook a study for the Zero Liquid Discharge in three water-intensive and highly polluting industries, namely, paper and pulp, textiles and distilleries which represent a potential market opportunity of USD 3 billion by 2020. IMPACTING CONSERVING ENHANCING LIVES, PRECIOUS ECONOMICS OF ENGAGING RESOURCES SUSTAINABILITY PEOPLE COST OF 3.1 Rs./KWh is 30% lesser than the average industrial SAVING electricity tariffs in operational geographies ENERGY Average Industrial Tariff (in Rs./KWh) 7.5 Businesses operating in a price-sensitive and 5.7 highly competitive market will not see the 5.3 value of sustainability unless there is a business 4.6 4.7 case for it. It is our aim as an organization to offer solutions which make business sense and 3.1 add to a business’ bottom line. In 2016, for every Rs. 3.1 invested in cKinetics’ projects, we were able to save 1 KWh of energy for our clients. This is significantly below the mean industrial tariffs in various countries that we Bangladesh Vietnam Ethiopia Turkey India operate in. Further, the organizations would continue to reap energy saving benefits for the invested in cKinetics’ projects to foreseeable future. save 1 KWh electricity 2.05 million Rs. per Negawatt is 96% lesser than the cost of setting up a 1MW NEGAWATTS thermal power plant Minimum Cost of Setting up a 1 MW Plant (in million Rupees) It is said that energy efficiency is the best kind of 62 energy source and it also the cheapest since it invested in 55 helps to reduce power consumption which would cKinetics’ 50 have otherwise required creation and maintenance (CAPEX+OPEX) of new energy projects per sources in the form of power plants. Negawatt Negawatts or negative megawatts are a concept used to quantify energy efficiency. A negawatt is a negative megawatt, i.e. a megawatt of power saved by increasing efficiency or reducing consumption. Through our energy efficiency 2.05 operations, not only do we save energy but we help avoid purchase of additional power. Thermal Solar Wind COST OF 14 rupees per kilolitre is 0.1% of the average cost of a 1l bottled WATER water in India SAVINGS Average Cost of Water 15,000 (in Rs./Kilolitre) It is one of the big contradictions of the 21st century world that the issue of growing water scarcity is not being dealt with in an apt manner. Considering, the average cost of a litre 170 of bottled water in India is Rs. 14 and the cost of saving a litre of water is less than 1/1000th of 14 50 the aforementioned figure, it makes sense to 5 invest in water-efficient and wastewater Domestic Industrial Water Tanker Bottled recycling technologies (in addition to Water Water Water behavioural changes to promote water conservation). invested in cKinetics’ projects to save 1 kilolitre of water RETURN ON INVESTMENT 31 to 375 is the return multiple (impact and benefits) to clients by engaging cKinetics (5 year savings/ investment in cKinetics) At cKinetics, two of our operating philosophies are: ABCV – always be creating value; and revenue should be greater than costs – for us as well as for our clients. The concept of impact multiplier (monetary benefit to client/cost of our services) is firmly embedded in all our project designs. The monetary savings to our client are enabled in the form of: (a) energy savings (b) water savings (c) chemical savings (d) fuel savings, (e) avoidance of carbon cess, (e) process efficiency, and (f) replacement of expensive energy with energy from cheaper and cleaner energy sources. ADHERENCE TO PRINCIPLES OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT Principles of the UNGC Actions and Tools for Implementation As a part of its ongoing commitment to mainstreaming sustainability, cKinetics is proud to support the UN Global Code of Conduct Compact Principles. These principles have been a strong The Code of Conduct outlines the expectations and component of the firm’s core growth strategy and expansion aspirations of cKinetics management and staff in key areas of process. Human Rights, Corruption and Work Force Environment, etc. Materiality of UNGC Principles Operating Principles Given its role as a specialized Sustainability Advisory firm, As explained in the initial section of this report (on page 8), cKinetics has limited exposure to Sustainability Risks and ESG the Mission and Vision guide the strategic planning and dayimpact through its own operations. Thus, materiality issues to-day operations of the firm. surrounding the UNGC Principles, their implementation and subsequent outcomes have been evaluated through the following lens: Policies for dealing with incidents of Human Right 1. How, and to what extent, do the principles apply to Violations and Corruption cKinetics in its operations? We are committed to diligently managing our business 2. How, and to what extent, can these principles become operations, both internally as well as in external stakeholders, central to the service offerings of cKinetics and, thus, attain in a manner which reflects our high ethical standards. the desired impact created through its business operations? cKinetics has a zero tolerance policy with respect to incidents of corruption, both in the public and the corporate sphere. Areas Principles Outlook and Undertaking Tools for Implementation Outcomes cKinetics is committed to upholding The Code of Conduct defines our Human Rights, in its capacity as a commitment to human rights; it outlines our Principle 1: Businesses should responsible business, in letter and in stance and strategy for preventing the support and respect the protection spirit, as it is material to the company. abuse of human rights. All employees and of internationally proclaimed There have been no cases of extended stakeholders are expected to human rights; and violation of human rights Human Rights abide by it. Principle 2: make sure that they are Operating in emerging markets pose a within our organization or in not complicit in human rights number of unique human rights our day-to-day operations. abuses. challenges. cKinetics is committed to Any violation can be reported confidentially the reporting of any human rights (through an anonymous email ID) and the violations observed in the course of individual will be protected from conducting its business operations. repercussions. There were no reported violations of labor principles. Each employee met with the manager twice to discuss As a firm with a presence in multiple the performance, concerns Principle 3: Businesses should geographies, cKinetics is in compliance Any violation can be reported confidentially and goals. uphold the freedom of association with all relevant local regulations in its and the individual will be protected from and the effective recognition of the respective operations repercussions right to collective bargaining Employees are allowed 1 Principle 4: the elimination of all day per month to attend forms of forced and compulsory The prevalence of the informal, We conduct weekly, monthly and half yearly conferences, seminars and labor unorganized, sector in India poses a meetings with the team wherein feedback is Labor Principle 5: the effective abolition number of distinct challenges in programs for knowledge actively incorporated into the company’s of child labor advancement. adequately assessing some of our policies and strategies. We continually Principle 6: the elimination of small suppliers’ adherence to provide opportunities, through training and discrimination in respect of All internally reported Principles 4 and 5. However, we make access to industry conferences, for our employment and occupation a concerted effort to maintain workforce to grow intellectually and complaints and concerns constant vigilance when working with professionally. were dealt with on a priority local small businesses. basis . We sponsor employees who wish to take up educational courses relevant to their domain. Areas Principles Outlook and Undertaking Tools for Implementation Outcomes Smart use of resources is an Operating Principle of Our team is currently engaged in actively cKinetics and focus is on As an advisory firm, cKinetics has a monitoring and tracking our electricity reducing consumption. limited socio-ecological footprint. Principle 7: Businesses should However, we are actively engaged in consumption using a suite of metering and support a precautionary approach managing our resource consumption analytics software. Energy measurement to environmental challenges. and maintain constant efforts to system installed to actively Principle 8: Businesses should engage with our employees and the HacK (How to at cKinetics) is an internal track energy consumption. undertake initiatives to promote community in a responsible fashion. document which defines our expectations Environment greater environmental and commitments regarding the team’s Reuse of paper made responsibility Our commitment to sustainability is at alignment with our mission and vision to mandatory and recycling is Principle 9: Businesses should the very core of our business mission, create positive impact. encouraged. encourage the development and vision, and operations. cKinetics has diffusion of environmentally made strong contributions to We also encourage and support our Our visiting cards are printed friendly technologies sustainability in India. We seek to employees to be cognizant towards on recycled paper and the create real impact through our various environmental impact and undertake stationary (folders) business initiatives. resource efficient efforts. distributed at our conventions are made of recycled paper. cKinetics supports all 71 articles of the The Code of Conduct defines our UN Convention against Corruption expectations and commitments regarding (UNCAC). There have been no Principle 10: Businesses should anti-bribery practices both in our own reported incidents of Antiwork against corruption in all its operations and in those of our partners. corruption involving the Corruption forms, including extortion and We take an active, zero-tolerance, organization or one of its bribery stance against bribery and corrupt Any violation can be reported and the employees. business practices through diligent individual will be ensured protection from monitoring and enforcement. reprisal. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT This section presents the disclosure as per Business Responsibility Report (BRR) requirements. The framework presents indicators developed from the 9 core principles of the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Economic & Environmental Responsibilities of Business that were announced by the Indian Ministry of Corporate Affairs in 2011. While cKinetics does not face a mandate in disclosing on the BRR framework, we are eager to engage with, and promote, this initiative both within our own operations and those of our clients. This section has been filled out as per the format of the ABRR (Annual Business Responsibility Report) that has been suggested by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (and adopted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India for the top 100 listed companies). Its public disclosure is part of the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business. 1. Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR  Details of the Director/Director(s) responsible for implementation of the BR policy/policies  Name: Upendra Bhatt  Designation: Managing Director 2. Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies (Reply in Y/N) Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Do you have a policy/policies for.... Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA Has the policy being formulated in consultation with the Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA relevant stakeholders? Does the policy conform to any national/international Y NA NA Y NA Y NA NA NA standards? If yes, specify? (50 words) Has the policy being approved by the Board? Is yes, has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/appropriate Board Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA Director? Does the company have a specified committee of the Board/Director/Official to oversee the implementation of Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA the policy? Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online? NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA internal and external stakeholders? Does the company have in-house structure to implement the Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA policy/policies? Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism related to the policy/policies to address Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/policies? Has the company carried out independent audit/evaluation of N N N N N N N N N the working of this policy by an internal or external agency? 3. Governance related to BR Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What is Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, Committee the hyperlink for viewing this report? How frequently it is published? of the Board or CEO assess the BR performance of the Company:  The company publishes a Sustainability Action Report which is Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than 1 year available on www.cKinetics.com  Annually Section: Principle-wise performance  cKinetics’ practice areas around Decentralized Renewable Energy (DRE) and around Resource Management and Efficiency (RME) are designed to help customers reduce their resource footprint. Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern  Sustainability Outlook is a market intelligence platform incubated themselves with Ethics, Transparency and by cKinetics to advance the mainstream conversation around Accountability resource conservation and risk mitigation issues 1. Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover  The Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) is India’s only the company? Yes/No. Does it extend to the Group/Joint leading market development platform which equips Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs /Others? organizations, managers and industry stakeholders on the ‘how’  cKinetics’ policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption extend of sustainability through a unique programmatic approach to its subsidiary, contractors and all businesses it interacts with. comprising of round the year programs and ‘on-ground industry oriented’ work.  cKinetics is an active supporter of the UN Convention against Corruption; as such, we have adopted a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption. We do not tolerate any of our 2. For each such product, provide the following details in respect of employees engaging in any form of bribery or corruption. resource use (energy, water, raw material etc.) per unit of Employees, or persons acting on behalf of the firm, found to be product(optional): seeking, accepting, or offering a bribe, gift, or other improper  Reduction during sourcing/production/ distribution achieved payment as a reward for improper performance of a relevant since the previous year throughout the value chain? function or activity will be subject to punitive measures (e.g. • Not applicable suspension, termination and legal action).  Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has been  It is our expectation that all business partners and stakeholders achieved since the previous year? we work with adhere to the same standards. • Not applicable. The results of cKinetics’ professional services are summarized in the preceding sections. 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the 3. Does the company have procedures in place for sustainable management? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. sourcing (including transportation)? If yes, what percentage of your  No complaints were received inputs was sourced sustainably? Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.  Whenever possible, the firm sources tools and products which Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and are resource efficient and have the lowest possible services that are safe and contribute to sustainability environmental impact. However, eco-friendly products are just throughout their life cycle becoming available in the Indian marketas such, we attempt to 1. List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has simply reduce consumption and reuse/repurpose existing incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and/or resources wherever possible. opportunities. 4. Has the company taken any steps to procure goods and services from local & small producers, including communities surrounding 5. Do you have an employee association that is recognized by their place of work? management?  Whenever possible, the firm sources services and products from  No local vendors / producers (in Delhi/NCR) a) If yes, what steps have been taken to improve their capacity and 6. What percentage of your permanent employees is members of capability of local and small vendors? this recognized employee association?  As a small volume buyer, we have limited abilities to influence  NA the production and sourcing method of our vendors. 7. Please indicate the number of complaints relating to child labor, 5. Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products and forced labor, involuntary labor, sexual harassment in the last waste? If yes what is the percentage of recycling of products and financial year and pending, as on the end of the financial year. waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide details  0 thereof, in about 50 words or so.  As a professional services firm, our waste streams are nonPrinciple 4: Businesses should respect the interests industrial in nature. At the work-place we have adopted practices on recycling and reuse of paper; e-waste segregation and of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, tracking; printer material recycling; etc. especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised Principle 3: Businesses should promote the well1. Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders? being of all employees Yes/No  Partially 1. Please indicate the Total number of employees.  26 Full time employees 2. Out of the above, has the company identified the disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders? 2. Please indicate the Total number of employees hired on  In select work areas only temporary/contractual/casual basis.  5-10 (on project basis) 3. Are there any special initiatives taken by the company to engage with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders. If 3. Please indicate the Number of permanent women employees. so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.  8 employees  As part of our CSR activities, cKinetics’ team picks up causes to work with that impact the community. In 2016, we partnered 4. Please indicate the Number of permanent employees with with Nai Disha to facilitate clean energy solutions for disabilities communities.  0 Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote words or so. Also, if Yes, whether any environmental compliance report is filed? human rights  NA 1. Does the policy of the company on human rights cover only the company or extend to the Group/Joint 5. Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on – clean Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others? technology, energy efficiency, renewable energy, etc. Y/N. If yes,  It presently covers the company and its subsidiary. please give hyperlink for web page etc.  Yes. The company has installed an Energy Management System in 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past its own facilities that tracks the usage of energy. financial year and what per cent was satisfactorily resolved by the management? 6. Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company within the  No stakeholder complaints permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being reported? Principle 6: Business should respect, protect, and  NA make efforts to restore the environment 1. Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the company or 7. Number of show cause/ legal notices received from CPCB/SPCB extends to the Group/Joint which are pending (i.e. not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others. Financial Year.  Presently the policy covers the company and its subsidiary.  None 2. Does the company have strategies/ initiatives to address global environmental issues such as climate change, global warming, etc.? Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in influencing Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc.  cKinetics’ own operations have a limited impact since it is an public and regulatory policy, should do so in a advisory firm. As Sustainability focused advisory firm, all its responsible manner offerings are geared towards reducing the impact on the 1. Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or environment due to resource consumption. More is available at association? If Yes, Name only those major ones that your business www.cKinetics.com deals with:  UN Global Compact 3. Does the company identify and assess potential environmental  Alliance for an Energy Efficient Economy risks? Y/N  NA  Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) 4. Does the company have any project related to Clean Development Mechanism? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 2. Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations for the initiative is successfully adopted by the community? Please explain advancement or improvement of public good? Yes/No; if yes specify in 50 words, or so. the broad areas ( drop box: Governance and Administration,  NA Economic Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Others)  cKinetics has been engaged in policy research and advocacy in Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and the areas of: Decentralized Renewable Energy; Energy Access; provide value to their customers and consumers in a and Disclosure and reporting of Environmental and Social (E&S) responsible manner metrics through the SBLF.C 1. What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases are pending as on the end of financial year. Principle 8: Businesses should support inclusive  None growth and equitable development 2. Does the company display product information on the product 1. Does the company have specified programs/initiatives/projects in label, over and above what is mandated as per local laws? pursuit of the policy related to Principle 8? If yes details thereof. Yes/No/NA/Remarks(additional information)  Yes. As mentioned in Principle 4, as part of its CSR activities,  NA cKinetics’ team picks up causes to work with that impact the community. 3. Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible advertising and/or 2. Are the programs/projects undertaken through in-house anti-competitive behavior during the last five years and pending as team/own foundation/external NGO/government structures/any on end of financial year. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 other organization? words or so.  Through external NGOs  No 3. Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative? 4. Did your company carry out any consumer survey/ consumer  cKinetics gets reports on the utilization of the CSR funds. satisfaction trends?  No 4. Have you taken steps to ensure that this community development India Office US Office 708 Hemkunt Chambers, 262 Ventura Avenue 89 Nehru Place Palo Alto, New Delhi-110019, INDIA CA 94306, USA Ph: + 91.11.4050.7277, Ph: + +91.11.4105.1195 1.650.331.1931 Email: contact@cKinetics.com To know more about how cKinetics can help your organization improve bottomlines and meet environmental targets , visit www.ckinetics.com or write to us at contact@cKinetics.com
