LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Contents LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility 03 Our Approach 39 Environment 56 Customers & Supply Chain 04 Message 40 Environmental Management 57 Responsible Supply Chain Management Report 2017 07 Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy 42 Greenhouse Gas Reduction 60 Product Safety & Quality 08 CR Management Structure 45 Sustainable Water Use 63 Customer Satisfaction Our Approach 09 Material Issues 48 Sustainable Use Of Resources Three Strategic Pillars 11 Key Performance Indicators 50 Performance 64 Reporting 65 Scope Of Reporting 17 Three Strategic Pillars 51 Society Our People 66 CR Library Environment 18 Global Sanitation & Hygiene 52 Human Rights 67 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 21 Water Conservation & 53 Stakeholder Engagement Society Environmental Sustainability 24 Diversity & Inclusion Customers & Supply Chain Corporate Governance Reporting 26 Our People See the Corporate Governance section on the LIXIL Group Corporation website (http://www.lixil.com/) for information on the Corporate 27 A Fair & Rewarding Workplace Governance Framework, the Group Management Philosophy, Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and Internal Control Systems. 30 Work Safety & Well-being 32 Talent Development 35 Diversity & Equal Opportunity ■ Reporting period ■ Applicable organizations 38 Performance FY2016 (April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017) CR activities of LIXIL Group Corporation, as well as LIXIL Corporation and other consolidated subsidiaries are covered in the report. Prev. Contents Next The scope is provided in footnotes for matters that have narrower coverage. 02 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Our Approach LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility We are committed to enhancing living spaces Report 2017 through responsible engagements and initiatives around the world. Our Approach Message Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy CR Management Structure Material Issues Key Performance Indicators Three Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 03 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Message through our products and services. To mitigate global climate change, the Paris Agreement set a long-term ambition to achieve a balance between anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases in the second half of this century. LIXIL Group In order to contribute to this carbon-neutral future, LIXIL Group created a new Environmental Corporate Vision. By 2030, the positive environmental contribution from our products and services will surpass Responsibility Message from the CEO the environmental footprint from our entire business process, thus achieving a Net Zero environmental footprint. We will achieve this through innovative technologies, such as low-carbon and water-efficient Report 2017 As a global citizen, we are committed to creating a positive technology, and also by reducing environmental impact in every process of the business, including procurement, production, product use and disposal. impact on society through responsible business operations and Furthermore, to foster an organizational culture in which diversity is valued, we announced our sustainable innovation. Our Approach LIXIL Diversity and Inclusion Declaration, a revised version of the LIXIL Diversity Declaration published I have always been motived by the opportunity to make a in 2013, and clarified the importance of open, honest dialogue and entrepreneurial values. To achieve contribution to society, and it was this passion that moved me to Message sustainable growth in a market where customer needs are increasingly diverse, it is vital to encourage become an entrepreneur and corporate leader. Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy a diverse workforce to apply and optimize their individual capabilities. Under our new Declaration, we I believe that a strong commitment to corporate responsibility is CR Management Structure will empower employees to maximize their skills by encouraging mutual respect, and foster a corporate core to LIXIL's long-term success, and that our CR strategy should Material Issues culture that instills a desire to constantly tackle challenges with a true entrepreneurial spirit. align with our business strategy. Key Performance Indicators We remain committed to engaging on global issues by leveraging our global network, expertise The LIXIL Group has been a signatory of the United Nations and experience, and contributing to improving people's comfort and lifestyles. Global Compact (UNGC) initiative since July 2013. In addition to Three Strategic Pillars supporting and implementing the ten principles of the UNGC October 2017 in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and antiOur People Director, Representative Executive Officer, President & Chief Executive Officer (CEO), corruption, we are also taking action towards accomplishing LIXIL Group Corporation the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) established by the UN, with a target date of 2030. These Environment Kinya Seto goals include aims such as to ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages and ensure access to sanitation for all . Society Even today, approximately 2.3 billion people, one third of the global population, live without access to proper sanitation. To help resolve this sanitation and hygiene crisis, we have been developing a range Message from the Corporate Responsibility (CR) Customers & Supply Chain of solutions to improve sanitary conditions. For example in 2013, we developed our first product under the SATO brand, an innovative toilet pan for developing countries, and in 2016, established a dedicated Committee Chairperson Reporting business unit to promote the broader use of SATO products and allow us to respond to local demand. To date, over 6 million people in more than 15 countries are using SATO. We will accelerate these Corporate Responsibility (CR) is core to our business philosophy. Given the environmental and initiatives to meet our target of providing improved access to sanitation and hygiene for 100 million social considerations facing our communities and our planet, we firmly believe that sustainable and Prev. Contents Next people by the year 2020. responsible operating practices not only enhance our competitiveness for the short and long term, but We also consider environmental challenges, such as water conservation and environmental such practices make LIXIL a more trusted contributor to the communities in which we work and live. protection, to be critical to today's business agenda. As a company that provides products, materials FY2016 was a significant year for LIXIL's progress on CR. It was the first year following the launch 04 and solutions for people's everyday living spaces, LIXIL pledges to provide environmental solutions of both our global CR strategy and, by coincidence, the UN's Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 We welcome the collaborative approach outlined in the SDGs between government, business and civil society and our CR Commitment to the UN Global Compact strategy is well-aligned with these goals. The LIXIL Group signed the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in This year, we made steady progress against the three pillars LIXIL Group July 2013 in full support with the principles set out in the framework. outlined in our CR strategy. On improving Global Sanitation Our corporate philosophy is to contribute to improving people's comfort Corporate & Hygiene, we see it as an age-old challenge whose time has and lifestyles. To fulfill that aim through our operational activities, come for some new thinking and new solutions. We launched a we are driving a range of R&D and various initiatives to help resolve Responsibility dedicated business unit within LIXIL to scale up and accelerate global sanitation and hygiene problems as well as other social and Report 2017 new product development for communities without access to environmental issues. safe sanitation, and expanded SATO business operations and the To meet and exceed society's expectations for the LIXIL Group, SATO line of products, a range of simple and innovative toilet we must take active leadership as a comprehensive living and housing Our Approach solutions for rural communities. We are also actively engaged solutions company. We will not only put the UNGC's 10 Principles into in advocacy to enhance awareness globally of the urgency to practice, but also assist the UN efforts towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals by Message improve sanitation for the estimated 2.3 billion people today providing our expertise in areas of sanitation to help create a safe living space for all. Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy who lack a clean and safe toilet for daily living. CR Management Structure On Water Conservation and Environmental Sustainability, we developed a robust global EHS Material Issues management system that keeps us on track toward our goal of being Net Zero by 2030. To increase Key Performance Indicators our environmental contribution through products, we successfully launched a variety of innovative The Ten Principles energy-saving products globally, such as ultra-high-efficiency toilets H2Option and H2Optimum in Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Three Strategic Pillars North America and ERSTER S, the top-level insulation resin window, available in Japan. protection of internationally proclaimed On Diversity and Inclusion, in addition to launching universal design products worldwide, we launched human rights; and Our People our first contract-based facility management business for serviced retirement homes, Premio Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Kawaguchi, reflecting the needs of the rapidly aging Japanese population. human rights abuses. Environment One year after its launch, our CR strategy influences the decisions we make and ensures that sustainable and responsible ways of operating are properly embedded within LIXIL. With a strong Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Society foundation built in FY2016, LIXIL will continue to accelerate our CR initiatives in FY2017. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; October 2017 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Customers & Supply Chain Executive Officer and Senior Managing Director, Public Affairs, Investor Relations, External Affairs, compulsory labour; and Corporate Responsibility, Reporting Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and LIXIL Group Corporation Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect Jin Song Montesano of employment and occupation. Prev. Contents Next 05 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and LIXIL Group Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Corporate environmentally friendly technologies. Responsibility Principle10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Report 2017 United Nations Global Compact > Our Approach Message Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy Sustainable Development Goals CR Management Structure Material Issues The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is a concrete plan of action outlined in the Key Performance Indicators Transforming our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development results-oriented document adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in September 2015, consisting of 17 global goals and Three Strategic Pillars 169 targets related to sustainable development. The LIXIL Group reflects the SDGs approach in its corporate responsibility strategy and uses the goals as a broad guideline when forming management decisions. Our People Environment Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 06 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals > LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy 3.Diversity & Inclusion Embrace the diversity of people in society and within LIXIL. This includes enhancing LIXIL Group quality of life and wellbeing for the elderly and the physically disabled through LIXIL products and services, as well as harnessing the intelligence and perspectives of LIXIL's Corporate diverse workforce, as an engine for growth and innovation. LIXIL is committed to enhancing living spaces through innovative responsible engagements and more > Responsibility initiatives around the world. Report 2017 At LIXIL, we believe that our living spaces the environment where we live, work and play are critical to our daily lives and wellbeing. As a result, we are committed to ensuring that the growth of our businesses contributes to improving the quality of people's lives, by delivering safe and comfortable Our Approach products and services through responsible and sustainable innovations. Leveraging the scale and expertise of our four core technology business units, we are focused on making a positive impact in the Message communities in which we operate and on matters that require urgent action: Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy Process of identifying the Three Strategic Pillars > CR Management Structure Material Issues Key Performance Indicators 1.Global Sanitation & Hygiene Three Strategic Pillars Promote and enable access to safe and hygienic sanitation practices, especially for women and girls, while preventing the harmful transmission of diseases for children. Our People more > Environment Society 2.Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability Customers & Supply Chain Conserve water, energy, and other natural resources utilized in and by LIXIL products and services, including in the supply chain, production, distribution and during end use. Reporting more > Prev. Contents Next 07 View PDF > LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR Management Structure LIXIL Group Corporate LIXIL's Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee was established to align with the technology business Responsibility operating model that was established in June 2015. The CR Committee succeeds the CSR Promotion Report 2017 Committee, which had been in place since 2012, and works to ensure swifter action in response to economic, environmental and social sustainability issues. Management leadership and coordination with the technology businesses is critical to achieve Our Approach prompt and appropriate actions. Accordingly, Executive Officers in charge of the corporate functions, namely HR, Legal, Public Affairs, Finance, Quality, Environment, Technology, and R&D, as well as Message representatives from each of the technology businesses have been appointed as members of the CR Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy Committee. CR Management Structure The outcomes from CR Committee meetings are presented to LIXIL Group's Board of Directors and Material Issues Executive Officers Committee for final approval, and decisions are immediately communicated down Key Performance Indicators from the Executive Officers to the respective functional divisions and swiftly executed. Three Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 08 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Material Issues List of LIXIL Group's Material Issues Material Issues Category Background and Reason LIXIL Group *Highlights issues that require focused priority action Corporate Corporate governance* As a global company, maintaining strong corporate governance practices is of critical importance to LIXIL. It The issues outlined in our corporate responsibility (CR) strategy and framework are based on a rigorous Responsibility materiality selection process, as described below, which ena bles us to identify the issues that matter Compliance* is also an issue that has become of increased interest to our shareholders with the adoption of Japan's Corporate Governance Code in 2015. Report 2017 most to our stakeholders and our Group. We have set medium-term action plans focusing on each of Risk management* While expanding our global reach, our corporate these material issues, and will be disclosing the progress and results of related activities on this website. Governance governance was put to test in 2015, when we discovered Information security accounting irregularities at an overseas subsidiary. Our Approach To prevent recurrence of such incident and solidify Taxation strategy our operating foundation, we must further advance Message Material Issues Selection Process Intellectual property strategy our efforts to strengthen our corporate governance, compliance, and risk management systems. Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy Anti-corruption* Corruption is detrimental to the development of a CR Management Structure Fair Business sustainable society. Global scrutiny towards bribery and Transparent political relations Material Issues Practices fraud is intensifying, and extraterritorial application of Fair business penalties is increasing rapidly. Key Performance Indicators With the UN's adoption of Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights clarifying the responsibility Three Strategic Pillars of companies to uphold human rights, protecting and Human Rights Human rights due diligence* respecting human rights both within the LIXIL Group and Our People across its entire sphere of business influence have become a greater priority. Diversity and equal opportunity* With global expansion, our business and organizational Environment structure have become more complex and diverse. We Occupational health and safety* therefore need to grasp and manage appropriately risks Society Employee hiring and retention related to occupational health and safety across the Group. Labor Practice Labor-management relationship Diversity is vital to innovation. Companies worldwide are Customers & Supply Chain Working environment increasingly focused on attracting and retaining highcaliber employees. We are actively promoting diversity in Talent development line with the LIXIL Diversity Declaration, but we need to Reporting push ahead further in pursuing this cause. Local job creation Product safety is a top priority for the LIXIL Group as Product safety* a manufacturer. Serious product defects can cause Prev. Contents Next Quality and Satisfaction customer anxiety and greatly affect the reliability and Customer satisfaction reputation of our products. 09 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Material Issues Category *Highlights issues that require focused Background and Reason priority action Greenhouse gas reduction* The adoption of the Paris Agreement to combat LIXIL Group climate change by 196 parties has shaped a clear direction towards future decarbonization. Global Water conservation* Corporate Environment water shortage is intensifying and we need to do more to protect water, energy and other natural Sustainable use of raw materials* Responsibility resources throughout the LIXIL Group value chain, from procurement to production, distribution, product Environmental management use and disposal. Report 2017 Stakeholder interest in responsible supplier management has grown in line with the development Our Approach of international standards on sustainable procurement. The LIXIL Group's manufacturing footprint expands Supply Chain Supply chain management* across Japan, China and the Asia-Pacific, as well as, Message Europe, North and South America, and the Middle Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy East, and we need to do more to promote responsible supplier management. CR Management Structure Material Issues Stakeholder engagement and The UN Sustainable Development Goals have Key Performance Indicators collaboration* galvanized companies into helping solve social problems. As a comprehensive living technology Stakeholder R&D for solving social problems* company, we need to cooperate with stakeholders Engagement Three Strategic Pillars and focus more on R&D designed to help solve Contribution to Global Sanitation social issues, such as graying society, hygiene and the & Hygiene* environment. Our People Environment Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 10 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Key Performance Indicators Action plan Strengthen compliance-related education and training 1. Develop training for Group Code of Conduct and ensure each employees' commitment 2. Strengthen training by regions and corporate positions KPI Group-wide: LIXIL Group 1. Basic training and commitment to Group Code of Conduct (%) 2. Implementation of training by regions and corporate positions (%) Corporate Target for FY2016 ・Inspect high-risk regions and implement a compliance system and training plan, based Action plans, KPIs and targets for specific material issues are determined as below. We will report our Responsibility progress and results on each issue on this website. The below provides an overview of the main issues. on the observations ・Develop training programs by regions and corporate positions, and a mechanism to Report 2017 For more details, please see the report pages for each activity. Progress as of 2016 monitor the training record ・Established Group-wide basic training and acknowledgment mechanism under Group Code of Conduct. Achieved 99% acknowledgment rate in Japan and 94% overseas ・Consolidated FY2017 reporting framework for status of training and completion from Our Approach Governance each technology business unit ・Implemented key basic training programs for all new graduate hires, new managers, and directors in Japan Message Enhance group governance to maximize our corporate values. Target for FY2017 ・Build a system for compliance education and training Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy ・Group-wide basic training and commitment to the Group Code of Conduct: 100% CR Management Structure ・Group-wide implementation of training by region and corporate position: 100% Material Issues Corporate governance Key Performance Indicators Risk management Target Establish global-standard governance Three Strategic Pillars Action plan Establish a Group governance system Target Establish and operate a Group-wide enterprise risk management system, and nurture a KPI Coverage of improved governance rules and procedures (%) risk management culture in the organization Our People Action plan Establish a risk management system to contain the occurrence of crisis events and Target for FY2016 ・Implement Corporate Governance Guidelines and commitments minimize damage ・Appoint independent outside directors as chairs of the Nomination, Compensation and Environment KPI Coverage of the risk management system across Group companies (%) Audit Committees Progress as of 2016 ・Established standards within Corporate Governance Guidelines for dealings with related Target for FY2016 ・Clarify risk definitions to ensure common understanding throughout the Group parties. Conducted Board of Directors self-appraisal Society ・Appointed independent outside directors as chairpersons of the Nomination, Progress as of 2016 ・Established an action plan, including risk definitions and risk management system to be Compensation, and Audit Committees developed from FY 2017 Customers & Supply Chain Target for FY2017 ・Set clear rules and procedures for business boards and other committee groups Target for FY2017 ・Establish a set of systems, processes and rules to identify, analyze, evaluate and respond ・Ensure 100% coverage of improved governance rules and procedures to significant risks (Boundary: all Group companies.) Reporting Compliance Intellectual property (IP) strategy Prev. Contents Next Target Develop comprehensive and effective compliance structure across the Group Target Maximize the value of the Group's intellectual property by operating a streamlined global IP governance system Action plan Extend the global reach and functionality of the IP Committee (IPC) 11 KPI Number of meetings of IPC, designed to maximize the value of Group IP LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Target for FY2016 ・Convene IPC meetings to decide how to drive forward the Group-wide IP management Human Rights Progress as of 2016 ・Convened LWT IP Committee at GROHE and ASB Target for FY2017 ・Build a system to monitor IP creation, maintenance and application at individual Advance human rights across the business to operate as a responsible corporate citizen. technology businesses, as well as external IP disputes and IP contractual relationships LIXIL Group ・Convene IPC meeting at least twice a year Corporate Human rights due diligence Detailed action plan, KPI and target for : Responsibility Governance > Target Appropriately manage human rights considerations that fall within the scope of our Report 2017 operational influence across our entire value chain Action plan Create a LIXIL Group Human Rights Principles and promote awareness amongst all LIXIL Group employees Our Approach Fair Business Practices KPI Implementation of Human Rights Principles learning across the Group (%) Target for FY2016 ・Ensure full implementation across the Group Engage all employees and officers in our business operations with a high standard of corporate ethics. Message Progress as of 2016 ・In Japan, LIXIL Corporation fully implemented a human rights policy education Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy program in the form of quarterly interactive departmental meetings CR Management Structure Target for FY2017 ・Implementation of training in main LIXIL Corporation overseas subsidiaries: 100% Anti-corruption Material Issues Key Performance Indicators Detailed activities for : Target Develop an effective anti-corruption mechanism across the Group Human Rights > Action plan ・Establish a Group Compliance Policy and Group Compliance Guideline Three Strategic Pillars KPI Group-wide: ・Compliance-related education and training ratio (%) Our People Target for FY2016 ・Under the Group Code of Conduct, create Group-wide policies and guidelines for antiLabor Practice corruption and transparent political relations Environment Progress as of 2016 ・Developed six global polices (concern-raising, anti-corruption, conflict of interest, fair Build a strong corporation and workplace where all employees can achieve their fullest potential. competition, international trade controls, and anti-discrimination and harassment) and Society email investigation guidelines based on risk assessments attained through inspections of high-risk regions and analysis of internal reporting incidents ・As a subset of the Group Code of Conduct, established Policy on Third Party Working environment Customers & Supply Chain Compliance for Suppliers, Anti-Money Laundering Policy, and Global Gifts and Entertainment Guidelines Target Build a worker-friendly environment for all employees Target for FY2017 ・Group-wide compliance-related education and training ratio: 100% Reporting Action plan Conduct a regular employee awareness survey across the Group KPI Implementation of action plans derived from the global employee awareness survey Detailed activities for : across the Group (%) Prev. Contents Next Compliance > 12 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Target for FY2016 ・Implementation of action plans derived from the 2015 global employee awareness Quality and Satisfaction survey across the Group: 100% Progress as of 2016 ・Implemented actions in each organization based on the results of the Group-wide Strengthen relationships with customers through our products and services. employee survey conducted during FY2015 LIXIL Group ・Set up the LIXIL Engagement Committee and shared best practices Group-wide via the intranet Corporate Target for FY2017 ・Implementation of action plans derived from the 2017 global employee awareness Product safety survey across the Group: 100% Responsibility Report 2017 Diversity and equal opportunity Target Eradicate product accidents Action plan Make continuous improvements to the product quality management system KPI Number of serious product accidents across the Group (#) Target Secure highly competent people by respecting diversity across the Group Our Approach Action plan Promote the active participation of women in the workplace Target for FY2016 ・Zero cases of serious product accidents across the Group KPI Percentage of women among regularly recruited new hires (Japan only) (%) ・Extend product safety strategy by setting specific KPI for each technology business Message Progress as of 2016 ・Four serious product accidents across the Group. Held a product accident conference Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy Target for FY2016 ・Percentage of women among regularly recruited new hires in March 2016: over 30% to share details of the experience and confirm countermeasures CR Management Structure Progress as of 2016 Percentage of women among regularly recruited new hires in April 2017: 30.8% Target for FY2017 ・Number of serious product accidents across the Group: 0 cases Material Issues Target for FY2017 ・Percentage of women among regularly recruited new hires (Japan only): over 30% Key Performance Indicators Detailed activities for : Occupational health and safety Product safety & Quality > Customer satisfaction > Three Strategic Pillars Target Establish an Environment, Occupational Health and Safety (EHS) management system Our People Action plan across the Group Build a common Group EHS management system Environment Environment KPI Group-wide coverage of EHS management system (%) Contribute to a sustainable society through innovative products and services, and improving the Target for FY2016 ・Set up a Group EHS Committee environmental efficiencies over all operational processes. Society ・Formulate Group-wide operational rules (EHS manual, EHS emergency response guidelines, EHS governance inspection guidelines) Customers & Supply Chain Progress as of 2016 ・Scope of EHS performance data capture (employees): 98% ・Developed and implemented Group Occupational Health and Safety Policy, core rules Greenhouse gas reduction such as the EHS manual and EHS internal audit guidelines Reporting Target for FY2017 ・Group-wide operational scope of occupational health and safety covered by the EHS management system: 98% Target Promote reduction in greenhouse gas emissions across the Group Action plan ・Pursue more environment-conscious product design and sales expansion strategies, Prev. Contents Next Detailed activities for : taking into account the entire lifecycle of both products and services ・Improve CO2 emissions/units A Fair & Rewarding Workplace > Work Safety & Well-being > Talent development > Diversity and KPI Group-wide: 1. Benefits from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from the products and services Equal Opportunity > Performance > 2. Levels of CO2 emissions across all operational processes 13 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Progress as of 2016 1.Contributions from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from products and services Target for FY2016 1.Create a guideline for calculating the decrease in CO2 emissions to help achieve our increased by 1.08 times (compared to FY2015). Created Guideline for Calculation of mid-term target for FY2016-20 (1.4 times more efficient than in FY2015), and monitor Environmental Contribution to clarify calculation method for individual products and the FY2015 result services, and calculated results based on FY2015 performance 2.Target -1.6% compared to FY2015, in FY2016 compared to FY2015 to achieve our new 2.CO2 emissions from operational processes increased by 5% (compared to FY2015). Set LIXIL Group mid-term CO2 emissions target for FY2016-20 (-8% v. FY2015) *Above includes water resource conservation data (indirect avoided emissions and actual emissions related to targets and initiatives for each business organization in compliance with med-term Corporate water use) targets Progress as of 2016 1.Contributions from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from products and services ・Created Guideline for Calculation of CO2 Emissions from Value Chain to clarify calculation method for all processes from procurement of raw materials through to Responsibility increased by 1.08 times (compared to FY2015). Created Guideline for Calculation of Environmental Contribution to clarify calculation method for individual products and product disposal services, and calculated results based on FY2015 performance Target for FY2017 1.Group-wide benefits from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from products and Report 2017 2.CO2 emissions from operational processes increased by 5% (compared to FY2015). Set services increased by 1.16 times (compared to FY2015) to achieve our mid-term CO2 targets and initiatives for each business organization in compliance with med-term emissions target for FY2016-20 targets 2.Group-wide levels of CO2 emissions across all operational processes reduced by 3.2% ・Created Guideline for Calculation of CO2 Emissions from Value Chain to clarify (compared to FY2015) to achieve our mid-term CO2 emissions target for FY2016-20 Our Approach calculation method for all processes from procurement of raw materials through to *Above includes water resource conservation data (indirect avoided emissions and actual emissions related to water use) product disposal Message Target for FY2017 1.Group-wide benefits from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from products and Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy services increased by 1.16 times (compared to FY2015) to achieve our mid-term CO2 emissions target for FY2016-20 Sustainable use of raw materials CR Management Structure 2.Group-wide levels of CO2 emissions across all operational processes reduced by 3.2% Material Issues (compared to FY2015) to achieve our mid-term CO2 emissions target for FY2016-20 Target Promote sustainable use of resources across the Group, from procurement through Key Performance Indicators *Above includes water resource conservation data (indirect avoided emissions and actual emissions related to water use) disposal of raw materials Action plan ・Pursue more environment-conscious product design and sales expansion strategies, Three Strategic Pillars taking into account the entire lifecycle of both products and services Water conservation ・Improve waste recycling ratio KPI Group-wide: Our People 1. Benefits from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from the products and services Target Promote efficient use of water resources across the Group 2. Levels of CO2 emissions across all operational processes Action plan ・Pursue more environment-conscious product design and sales expansion strategies, Environment taking into account the entire lifecycle of both products and services Target for FY2016 1. Create a guideline for calculating the decrease in CO2 emissions to help achieve our ・Improve efficient use of water resources mid-term target for FY2016-20 (1.4 times more efficient than in FY2015), and monitor Society KPI Group-wide: the FY2015 result 1. Benefits from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from the products and services 2. Target -1.6% compared to FY2015, in FY2016 compared to FY2015 to achieve our new 2. Levels of CO2 emissions across all operational processes mid-term CO2 emissions target for FY2016-20 (-8% v. FY2015) Customers & Supply Chain *Above includes water resource conservation data (indirect avoided emissions and actual emissions related to water use) Target for FY2016 1. Create a guideline for calculating the decrease in CO2 emissions to help achieve our Progress as of 2016 1.Contributions from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from products and services Reporting mid-term target for FY2016-20 (1.4 times more efficient than in FY2015), and monitor increased by 1.08 times (compared to FY2015). Created Guideline for Calculation of the FY2015 result Environmental Contribution to clarify calculation method for individual products and 2. Target -1.6% compared to FY2015, in FY2016 compared to FY2015 to achieve our new services, and calculated results based on FY2015 performance mid-term CO2 emissions target for FY2016-20 (-8% v. FY2015) 2.CO2 emissions from operational processes increased by 5% (compared to FY2015). Set Prev. Contents Next *Above includes water resource conservation data (indirect avoided emissions and actual emissions related to water use) targets and initiatives for each business organization in compliance with med-term targets ・Created Guideline for Calculation of CO2 Emissions from Value Chain to clarify calculation method for all processes from procurement of raw materials through to 14 product disposal LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Target for FY2017 1.Group-wide benefits from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from products and services increased by 1.16 times (compared to FY2015) to achieve our mid-term CO2 Stakeholder Engagement emissions target for FY2016-20 2.Group-wide levels of CO2 emissions across all operational processes reduced by 3.2% Proactively engage with LIXIL's key stakeholders for better business management. (compared to FY2015) to achieve our mid-term CO2 emissions target for FY2016-20 LIXIL Group *Above includes water resource conservation data (indirect avoided emissions and actual emissions related to water use) Corporate Stakeholder engagement and collaboration Responsibility Detailed activities for : Environmental management > Greenhouse gas reduction > Sustainable Use Of Resources > Report 2017 Performance > Target Proactively engage with LIXIL's key stakeholders for better business management Action plan Hold regular stakeholder engagement meetings, and disclose the content of these meetings KPI Number of stakeholder meetings held across the Group (#). Meeting quality based on Our Approach meeting content Supply Chain Message Target for FY2016 ・Extend the reach of currently implemented mechanisms and encourage more sophisticated and effective engagement initiatives Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy Through responsible management of the overall supply chain, deliver a stable portfolio of products ・Encourage the sharing and adaptation of successful engagement initiatives across the CR Management Structure and fulfill stakeholder accountability. Group Material Issues Progress as of 2016 ・Engaged at least once with each stakeholder Key Performance Indicators ・Collected and shared information on stakeholder engagement across the Group ・Hold at least ore annual dialogue with each group of stakeholders (stakeholders, Supply chain management Target for FY2017 employees, business partners, local residents, end users, suppliers, etc) Three Strategic Pillars Target Identify supplier's CR risk, and establish a mechanism to respond accordingly Our People Action plan Extend our Japanese CR procurement process across the Group Contribution to Global Sanitation & Hygiene KPI Responsible procurement surveys coverage ratio (based on purchased amount) (%), and percentage of suppliers which satisfy CR management standards (%) and improvement Environment Target Help improve global hygiene and sanitation through our business rate (%) Action plan Launch and develop a business Society KPI ・Number of beneficiaries Target for FY2016 ・Promote Group-wide awareness of the LIXIL Group's procurement strategy ・Implement existing CR procurement process across the Group Target for FY2016 ・Form a solid operational platform for legal affairs, intellectual property, etc Progress as of 2016 ・Achieved responsible procurement surveys coverage ratio of 85% in Japan and Customers & Supply Chain Progress as of 2016 ・Generated 6.24 million beneficiaries as of March 31, 2017 80% outside of Japan, Proportion of suppliers that meet CR management standards conformity rate of 94% in Japan and 88% outside of Japan ・Created a support team of HQ specialists to help form solid business platforms in *exclude GROHE Group S.a r.l., American Standard Brands and PERMASTEELISA GROUP individual countries Reporting Target for FY2017 ・Achieve responsible procurement surveys coverage ratio (based on purchased amount) ・Created new SATO brand guidelines of 90% in Japan and 60% outside Japan, 90% conformity rate, and 100% improvement ・Strengthened advocacy activities rate Target for FY2017 ・Generate 10.9 million beneficiaries by March 31, 2018 in order to achieve our 2020 Prev. Contents Next *exclude PERMASTEELISA GROUP target of 100 million beneficiaries Detailed activities for : 15 Responsible Supply Chain Management > LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 R&D for solving social problems Target Create products that contribute to the environment LIXIL Group Action plan Pursue product R&D that is designed to help resolve problems for elderly people and people with disabilities Corporate KPI Development of IoT-driven applications Responsibility Target for FY2016 ・Complete our IoT House Project in July (ready for public viewing) ・Develop two IoT-driven applications Report 2017 Progress as of 2016 ・Built latest IoT experimental housing facility on LIXIL property in July 2016 to demonstrate how IoT could be employed in living environments ・Conducted two surveys for IoT-driven applications Target for FY2017 ・Development of IoT-driven applications: 10 applications Our Approach Message CR Activities (FY2012-2015): Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy Targets and Results > CR Management Structure Material Issues Key Performance Indicators Three Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 16 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Three Strategic Pillars LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility We focus on making a positive impact in the communities Report 2017 in which we operate and on matters that require urgent action, leveraging our expertise. Our Approach Three Strategic Pillars Global Sanitation & Hygiene Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability Diversity & Inclusion Our People Environment Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 17 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Global Sanitation & Hygiene Activities LIXIL has pledged to provide better sanitation to 100 million people by 2020. In addition to LIXIL Group committing our own substantial corporate resources to this goal, we are at the forefront of public-private partnership, teaming with such organizations as UNICEF, the Japan International Corporate Cooperation Agency (JICA) and WaterAid. LIXIL is also a member of the Toilet Board Coalition, LIXIL is committed to promoting and enabling access to safe and hygienic sanitation practices, a wide-ranging global alliance that aims to develop sustainable, scalable measures to tackle the Responsibility especially for women and girls, while preventing the harmful transmission of diseases for sanitation crisis. Report 2017 children. Given the immense size and complexity of the global sanitation issue, LIXIL is developing a number of products to fit different markets, infrastructure and income levels, as well as deal with environmental constraints. Our primary solutions are the SATO product series, already Our Approach commercially available, and the Micro Flush Toilet System, Green Toilet System and Portable Toilet System, all systems are currently under development. Each represents LIXIL's dedication to Three Strategic Pillars improving the quality of people's daily lives. LIXIL has also established the Social Sanitation Initiatives to strengthen the framework behind Global Sanitation & Hygiene our commitment to resolving the global sanitation crisis through revolutionary products and Water Conservation & Environmental Background sustainable businesses. Sustainability Diversity & Inclusion An estimated 2.3 billion people – one out of every three in the world today – live without access to proper Time for Global Action Episode I LIXIL (26 mins) sanitation, of which approximately 900 million still defecate in the open on a daily basis. These are figures Our People with a devastating human cost: 800 children under five years of age are estimated to die every day from diarrheal diseases caused by a lack of clean water and sanitary living conditions. Environment The absence of safe, clean toilets is a particular threat to women. Not only is it embarrassing for women and girls to defecate outside, having to leave home or school to relieve themselves increases the Society risk of assault. As a result, the lack of sanitary toilets is one of the primary reasons young girls drop out of school when they reach puberty. Customers & Supply Chain The impact of the sanitation crisis is felt throughout entire nations and regions, crippling opportunities for growth and development. According to an Oxford Economics report on behalf of LIXIL, global Reporting economic losses from poor sanitation were estimated at US$223 billion in 2015, an increase of more than 20 percent from five years earlier. The True Cost Of Poor Sanitation > Global Sanitation Solution brochure > Prev. Contents Next 18 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 SATO: To deliver sustained improvements to sanitary conditions for as many people as possible, LIXIL is focused on Preventing the transmission of disease and odors, developing SATO operations in a tailored way to meet and reducing open defecation local needs. LIXIL Group Producing SATO toilets locally keeps costs down Having to defecate in the open, into an open pit or Corporate over an inadequate pit latrine, exposes millions of and facilitates broader distribution. Selling SATO toilets through local partners creates employment and more Responsibility people to odors and disease. To combat this problem, concrete and entrenched local operations. By establishing LIXIL has developed the SATO series of products, Report 2017 the first model created with funding from the Bill a local Make, Sell, Use cycle, individual regions can independently and consistently improve their own sanitary conditions. and Melinda Gates Foundation and launched in Bangladesh in 2013. Countries Where SATO is in Use Our Approach Users pour in less than 500 milliliters of water to flush away waste, after which an airtight, Three Strategic Pillars counterweighted trap door quickly seals to block smells and flying insects. SATO products are safe for Global Sanitation & Hygiene children, easy to clean and affordable. Each one is Water Conservation & Environmental designed to suit the needs and preferences of users Sustainability in different regions. Already more than 1.2 million are Diversity & Inclusion in place around the world, improving the lives of 6 million people. (As of March 2017) Our People Environment How SATO Works Micro Flush Toilet System: Society Better management of water resources in urban environments Customers & Supply Chain Using far less water per flush than a regular toilet, and recycling sewage water to assist the flow in outside pipes, the Micro Flush Toilet System significantly reduces the consumption of precious clean Reporting water. It is particularly aimed at mitigating problems related to scarce or unreliable water resources in urban environments where the population is rapidly increasing. Suitable for both stand-alone homes and multi-unit buildings, the system avoids clogging of the sewage system and features a comfortable sitting-type toilet that is easy to clean and maintain. A Prev. Contents Next flapper valve in the toilet bowl is operated with a handle, and the valve and accumulated water prevent odors from entering the room. A steeply angled pipe connected to the toilet and sewage water system assists the overall flow of waste. 19 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 How Micro Flush Toilet System Works Portable Toilet System: Hygienic, efficient collection of human waste LIXIL Group The Portable Toilet System is an in-home sanitation solution designed for urban slums that lack proper sanitation infrastructure. It is being developed and field-tested to offer disadvantaged Corporate households an 'odorless' toilet from which human waste can be collected and treated hygienically and efficiently. Responsibility The system consists of a compact, attractive, stand-alone toilet and a collection station. The Report 2017 toilet, which has a mechanism for minimizing odors, can be easily placed in any household. It is equipped with a removable cartridge, which is transported from individual homes to a designated collection station, where the waste inside the cartridge is deposited and the cartridge cleaned. Our Approach Professional waste treatment companies then collect the accumulated waste from the station and Green Toilet System: transport it to an offsite treatment site. Three Strategic Pillars Safety processing human waste into fertilizer How Portable Toilet System Works The Green Toilet System safely processes human excrement How Green Toilet System Works Global Sanitation & Hygiene into fertilizer and provides that value to farmers through Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability the creation of a viable business model. Solid and liquid Diversity & Inclusion wastes are separated to prevent odors and prepared for their subsequent conversion into fertilizer, with maintenance Our People workers collecting the waste from different tanks behind the toilet and transporting it to a compost facility. Environment The Green Toilet System is aimed at communities with no water and sewage infrastructure, or that are too Society spread out to justify a large sewage system. No water is used to transport the waste, circumventing the need Customers & Supply Chain for a traditional sewage system. Additionally, the proper treatment of human wastes protects groundwater and other resources from contamination. The system also creates employment for collection services and compost facilities, providing a financial Reporting incentive to prevent dumping. Prev. Contents Next 20 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Water Conservation & Environmental we are committed to our Environmental Strategy, which pledges that LIXIL will provide environmental solutions through our products and services. Sustainability Environmental Vision 2030 LIXIL Group Corporate To mitigate global climate change, the Paris Agreement set a long-term ambition to achieve a balance between anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases in the Responsibility second half of this century. In order to contribute to this carbon-neutral future, LIXIL Group created a The LIXIL Group is committed to conserving water, energy, and other natural resources utilized new Environmental Vision. By 2030, the positive environmental contribution from our products Report 2017 in our products and services, across the supply chain from procurement through production, and services will surpass the environmental footprint from our entire business process, thus, distribution, end use and product disposal. achieving a NETZERO Environmental Footprint. We will achieve this through innovative technologies, Our Approach such as low-carbon and water-efficient technology, and also by reducing environmental impact in every process of the business, including procurement, production, product use and disposal. Three Strategic Pillars Global Sanitation & Hygiene Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability Diversity & Inclusion Background Sustainable use of natural resources is ever more critical for our society, and given the nature of LIXIL's Our People business, there are multiple areas where our actions can make a difference. By 2030, approximately 47% of the world's population is expected to be living in areas of high water stress. Additionally, LIXIL's Environment business is strongly linked to buildings, which account for 32% (24% residential and 8% commercial) of total global final energy use, and without action, energy use by buildings is estimated to more Society than double by 2050. With regards to other natural resources, aluminum, one of LIXIL's important raw materials, has been identified as one of the priority materials in the metals category and requires urgent Customers & Supply Chain attention. Core Environmental Strategy Themes Reporting To achieve our Environmental Vision, we are focused on three core areas, based on clearly defined Activities targets and actions plans. Prev. Contents Next LIXIL Group Enviromental Strategy 1. Climate change mitigation and adaptation 2. Conservation of water resources The LIXIL Group considers environmental challenges, such as water conservation and environmental 3. Sustainable use of resources protection, to be one of our most important business initiatives. As a 'Living Technology' company, 21 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environmental Sustainability Principles ・Cooperate with and encourage suppliers to fully embrace Procurement responsible procurement, reduce their environmental footprint The Environmental Sustainability Principles cover five key areas, as outlined below, and guide the actions and disclose information of all LIXIL employees. From procurement to production, product use, and disposal, we are committed LIXIL Group ・Reduce CO2 ・Improve water use to creating a sustainable society throughout every aspect of our business, and taking responsible emissions by 8% efficiency 2. Reduce Manufacturing Corporate actions to respect our environment. environmental (reduce energy use by 5%) ⇒ Assess our water usage, evaluate the LIXIL Group Environmental Sustainability Principle (PDF:50KB) > footprint across ・Achieve Responsibility all operational risk, identify highrisk facilities, and 95% or processes ・Improve consigners' more Report 2017 1. Continually improve environmental management systems and performance Logistics CO2 emissions by build action plans starting with high recycling of Reduce CO2 emissions 5% waste 2. Adhere to rigorous compliance risk facilities by 8% v. FY2015 3. Develop and provide environmentally sound products and services Our Approach ・Reduce electricity charges or overall cost of 4. Reduce environmental impact in every process of the business operation Sales utilities by 5% 5. Proactively communicate with all stakeholders Three Strategic Pillars Product use & *See Product Development in Section 1 above disposal Global Sanitation & Hygiene Water Conservation & Environmental 2020 Mid-term Targets 3. Build an effective environment ・Strengthen governance, including the committee framework, reporting lines, and Group-wide rules and regulations etc. Sustainability management system ・Maintain zero compliance violations (requiring administrative Diversity & Inclusion -Ensure strict compliance guidance or incurring a penalty) Action Plans for Addressing Environmental Issues -Strengthen risk management ・Establish and achieve an environmental risk management plan taking into account locality and economic viability Mitigating and Our People Targets and KPI Sustainable adapting to climate Water conservation use of change (Greenhouse resources gas reduction) Environment ・Engage in R&D and develop products that help resolve R&D environmental issues Society 1. Improve ・Define what constitutes LIXIL Group's global product CO2 Customers & Supply Chain environmental emissions by products and the decrease in CO2 emissions , value of products establish reporting lines, and set KPI and targets (FY2016) and services Product ・Achieve KPI targets within all technology businesses that are Reporting development linked to the targeted 40% decrease in product CO2 emissions Secure a reduction of (FY2017-FY2020) CO2 emissions by 40% ・Pursue Design for Environment, taking into account the entire v. FY2015 product lifecycle ・Focus on sales expansion strategies for eco-friendly products Prev. Contents Next Sales and services 22 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Progress on the LIXIL Environmental Vision 2030 Target (as of FY2016) LIXIL Group Approximately 80% of the environmental impact caused by the LIXIL Group value chain occurs when Corporate our products are used, making product and service initiatives the most important aspect in achieving our Environmental Vision 2030. In FY2016, the entire Group united in an effort to gain a better Responsibility understanding of the environmental impact of our entire value chain and develop global activities to Report 2017 reduce that impact. In FY2016, the Group increased production due to strong global product sales. As a result, product contribution to lower CO2 emissions increased by 1.08 times compared to FY2015, and CO2 emissions from operations increased by 5%. Our Approach Click here for more details: > Three Strategic Pillars Environment Global Sanitation & Hygiene With the desire to help people live in harmony with the Earth, we are committed to continuing our Water Conservation & Environmental efforts to be environmentally sound in every aspect of our businesses activities. Sustainability more > Diversity & Inclusion Our People Environment Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 23 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Diversity & Inclusion LIXIL Group Corporate LIXIL is committed to embracing the diversity of people in society and within our firm. This Responsibility includes enhancing quality of life and wellbeing for the elderly and the physically disabled Report 2017 through LIXIL products and services, as well as harnessing the intelligence and perspectives of Toilets Bathroom Dressing room LIXIL's diverse workforce, as an engine for growth and innovation. Dim light Push-type faucet Wash-stand for wheelchairs Our Approach Three Strategic Pillars Global Sanitation & Hygiene Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability Background Diversity & Inclusion By 2050, more than one in every five people around the world are projected to be over the age of 60, Kitchen Living room Stairs, corridors, entrance halls Our People with many living either alone or with their spouse only. Approximately 15% of the world's population Touch-less faucet No-rail window sash Stairs with slipping prevention mechanism today has some sort of disability, and this rate is increasing every year. In Japan, female participation in Environment the workforce is still low compared to other countries, despite the fact that multiple researches suggest that gender diversity correlates with less volatile and improved financial performance of corporations. Society Customers & Supply Chain Activities Reporting Universal Design by LIXIL LIXIL engages in research and development for products and services factoring in various points of Entrance porch / exterior Public toilets Public spaces view, to help create comfortable and fruitful lives for people of all ages. Linear sliding system Large remote controls Support rail UD Prev. Contents Next 24 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Launched Serviced elderly homes, Premio LIXIL Senior Life Company, which manages elderly homes, launched Premio , LIXIL Group's first contractbased facility management business for serviced homes for the elderly. Premio Kawaguchi , the first LIXIL Group facility in the Premio series, opened in March 2017. By using LIXIL products at elderly homes, LIXIL Corporate can continuously assess how to improve its product development for the elderly. LIXIL also displayed a lineup of products for the elderly at the 43rd International Home Care & Rehabilitation Exhibition, Responsibility the largest international home care and rehabilitation exhibition in Asia, further demonstrating its Report 2017 commitment to inclusive designs. Our Approach LIXIL Diversity & Inclusion Declaration Three Strategic Pillars We leverage our differences to create new energy and engagement generated by open and honest dialogue across our organization. These efforts will enable our employees to build entrepreneurial Global Sanitation & Hygiene mindset that will drive growth and sustainable innovation. Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability Diversity & Inclusion Our People Environment Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 25 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Our People LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility We are committed to respecting the individuality of Report 2017 all employees and offering a rewarding working environment. Our Approach Three Strategic Pillars Our People A Fair & Rewarding Workplace Work Safety & Well-being Talent Development Diversity & Equal Opportunity Performance Environment Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 26 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 A Fair & Rewarding Workplace Our Approach to Personnel Management The LIXIL Group strives to create an environment that encourages employee diversity, inspires pride in LIXIL Group the company, and enables each individual employee to maximize their productivity and their potential. We have focused on improving our work styles to ensure employees' enthusiasm and motivation, Corporate and revising our human resource systems to encourage employees to take paid holidays; this includes The LIXIL Group seeks to create a fair and rewarding workplace, develop a strong and cohesive offering more comprehensive childcare and nursing care support, and promoting personal career Responsibility corporate culture, and foster an open atmosphere between the unions and the company. development. Report 2017 Action plan Conduct a regular employee awareness survey across the Group. Our Approach KPI Implementation of action plans derived from the global employee awareness survey Employee Opinion Surveys across the Group (%) In order for the rapidly evolving LIXIL Group to achieve further integration as One LIXIL, we believe it is Three Strategic Pillars Target / Progress important to understand our current situation and actively incorporate employees' views in improving Target for FY2016 ・Implementation of action plans derived from the 2015 global employee awareness survey across the Group: 100% working environments. Accordingly, from FY2015, we have combined employee opinion surveys that Our People Progress as of 2016 ・Implemented actions in each organization based on the results of the Group-wide were previously conducted separately within each group subsidiary into one global survey. We are now employee survey conducted during FY2015 collecting comprehensive data on the level of employees' understanding of our corporate vision, dayA Fair & Rewarding Workplace ・Set up the LIXIL Engagement Committee and shared best practices Group-wide via the intranet to-day work-related issues, satisfaction, as well as engagement. Over 66,000 employees around the Work Safety & Well-being Target for FY2017 ・Implementation of action plans derived from the 2017 global employee awareness world responded to the first survey conducted in 21 different languages, providing feedback from over Talent Development survey across the Group: 100% 90% of our global workforce. Diversity & Equal Opportunity Survey feedback was offered in three languages (Japanese, English and Chinese) and each business Performance Action plan Hold regular discussions between the union and the company KPI Number of meetings of the Central Labor Relations Committee at LIXIL Corporation (Japan function within the organizations used the results to identify its own issues, design solutions, and only) implement action plans. In addition, we have set up a global cross-functional project to address groupEnvironment wide issues. For example, LWT Asia identified communication issues between managers and team Target / Progress members, and decided to provide training for new managers. In addition, LWT Americas committed Society Target for FY2016 ・Hold 9 meetings of the Central Labor Relations Committee annually (*Also hold regional Labor Relations Committees in order to share details of Central to optimizing and improving the quality of its daily operation. LWT Americas sent staff from the Labor Relations Committee action and debate various issues) manufacturing management division to the branches in Japan and Vietnam. As a result, LWT Americas Customers & Supply Chain Progress as of 2016 ・Held 9 meetings improved the standard of work of these employees through best practice management training over a ・Established smooth labor relations by promoting prompt communication, including period of 5 weeks. meetings and councils, on each of the themes stipulated under the basic laborReporting management agreement Target for FY2017 ・Hold 9 meetings of the Central Labor Relations Committee annually to facilitate regular communication between the union and company Prev. Contents Next 27 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Supporting a Healthy Work-Life Balance Number of Maternity Leave Number of Child-Care Leave Users ★ Users ★ At the LIXIL Group, the executive management team is actively supervising the creation of a rewarding LIXIL Group working environment in which each and every employee can perform to their full potential. Holding active Work-Life Flexibility (WLF) Advisory Discussions between the union and the Corporate company, LIXIL Corporation is committed to enhancing the necessary systems and cultivating the right atmosphere. We currently have support practices in place for female employees looking after young Responsibility children, and are now focusing on supporting our male employees with their childcare commitments, Report 2017 in addition to supporting all employees looking after sick or elderly relatives. We have introduced a variety of new systems, including hourly based paid holidays for all employees, career return systems that allow employees who gave up work due to childbirth, childcare, or nursing care commitments Our Approach to be reemployed; we are subsidizing extended daycare fees, providing subsidies equivalent to social security premiums to employees on temporary nursing care leave, and offering Papa Childcare Leave Three Strategic Pillars to male employees whose partner has just had a baby. LBT (JOSEF GARTNER CURTAIN WALL SHANGHAI) has introduced and sponsored two initiatives Our People for employees that need to juggle work and care for newborns: fathers are able to request 10 days of paternity leave, and mothers can ask for partially reduced working hours during the first year since the A Fair & Rewarding Workplace child was born. LWT Indonesia allows flexible working hours during Ramadan to enable employees to Work Safety & Well-being eat breakfast with their families and attend prayers. Talent Development Diversity & Equal Opportunity *Directly hired employees in Japan only *The FY2015 figures have been revised on January 12, 2017 Performance *Directly hired employees in Japan only Environment Number of Nursing-Care Leave Users ★ Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next *Directly hired employees in Japan only 28 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Preventing Overwork Labor-Management Relationship LIXIL Group top management are proactively seeking to improve productivity by eradicating long The LIXIL Group believes that building mutual trust between the unions and the company based LIXIL Group working hours and ensuring a healthy work-life balance. on an equal relationship helps build a fair and rewarding workplace and leads to improved business To encourage employees to actively reduce overtime, LIXIL Corporation has designated performance. Corporate Wednesdays to be a no-overtime day and has implemented an advance declaration policy for overtime. LIXIL Labor Union, which adopts a union shop system for original permanent employees of LIXIL From FY2015, managers and staff are required to carefully manage their working hours. Employees Corporation, is comprised of 13,869 registered members as of March 31, 2017, a 100% membership Responsibility who consistently work long hours are interviewed by an industrial physician to prevent mental/ rate. Labor-management consultations take place in the form of regular discussions and information Report 2017 physical health issues. We aim to increase paid-leave usage to 50% or more by introducing measures sharing on business status, working conditions, health and safety issues, etc., and the union and the such as offering memorial leave for personal anniversaries and encouraging employees to take five company work together to resolve issues. When there are changes to working conditions and/or other consecutive days of annual leave at a time. In FY2016, paid-leave usage stood at 48.6%. systems being introduced or revised through labor-management consultation, the union and the Our Approach LWT South Africa (Grohe Dawn) prohibits administrative staff from working after 6pm, and urges company cooperate to ensure employee awareness of the changes. This is facilitated through posting them not to work on weekends unless it is an emergency. LHT HK & Macau monitors work progress the information on the corporate intranet, cascading the information down through relevant general Three Strategic Pillars at monthly or weekly meetings and immediately reviews individual workloads if anyone is working affairs departments, and the union distributing its own Union Guide to all union members. excessive hours. Our People FY2016 data indicated with a ★ have received an independent practitioner's assurance. Paid Leave Days Taken per Average Monthly Overtime Scope and details > A Fair & Rewarding Workplace Employee ★ Hours per Employee ★ Work Safety & Well-being Related principles: Talent Development ・LIXIL VALUES > Diversity & Equal Opportunity Performance Environment Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next *Directly hired employees in Japan only *Directly hired employees in Japan only 29 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Work Safety & Well-being environmental areas and became the Group Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee, chaired by the Representative Officer & Executive Vice President, Production Optimization. Subsequently, we implemented a universal internal occupational safety policy and EHS core rules to establish a Groupwide occupational health and safety management system, and broaden its application over time. LIXIL Group Corporate The LIXIL Group has built a Group-wide occupational health and safety management system to protect Responsibility all employees, and is working to expand its scope. Report 2017 Action plan Build a common Group EHS management system Our Approach KPI Group-wide coverage of EHS management system (%) Target / Progress Three Strategic Pillars Target for FY2016 ・Set up a Group EHS Committee. ・Formulate Group-wide operational rules (EHS manual, EHS governance inspection guidelines). Our People Progress as of 2016 ・Scope of EHS performance data capture (employees): 98% ・Developed and implemented Group Occupational Health and Safety Policy, core rules A Fair & Rewarding Workplace such as the EHS manual and EHS internal audit guidelines Work Safety & Well-being Target for FY2017 ・Group-wide operational scope of occupational health and safety covered by the EHS Severity Rate and Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate ★ management system: 98% Talent Development Diversity & Equal Opportunity Performance Environment Our Approach & Structure The LIXIL Group, in our Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, commits to promoting the mental and Society physical well-being of all workers by prioritizing safety in order to realize an ideal accident-free working environment. To this aim, we have introduced an occupational health and safety management system Customers & Supply Chain and implemented a PDCA approach to help prevent accidents at work. We also have a Health and Safety Committee in each business segment, which discusses health and safety issues on a regular basis Reporting to help generate continuous improvements. We have also focused on building and expanding an effective Group-wide management system for occupational health and safety. In July 2015, we appointed health and safety administrators and Prev. Contents Next implementation managers within each of our business units in Japan (each technology business, LIXIL * Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate: Number of lost-day occupational injury cases / Total working hours × 1,000,000 **Severity Rate: Total days lost due to occupational accidents / Total working hours × 1,000 Japan Company and Housing & Services Business) and at headquarters, as well as set up the Japan (Total days lost due to occupational accidents = actual days absent from work) Scope: FY2014 covers directly employed staff at production bases in Japan. Health and Safety Committee. In April 2016, the committee's scope was broadened to incorporate FY2015 covers directly employed staff at production and non-production bases in Japan. 30 FY2016 covers directly and indirectly employed staff at production and non-production bases in Japan and a majority of overseas production bases. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 OIFR ★ with pedestrians walking behind blind corners when the forklift is reversing. LWT Japan improved on this idea by switching the spotlights for strip lights so that pedestrians notice the lights more easily. FY2015 FY2016 LIXIL Group OIFR ＊ 0.00 0.00 Corporate *OIFR: Occupational Illness Frequency Rate Employee Health Management Number of lost-day occupational illness cases / Total working hours × 1,000,000 Responsibility Scope: FY2015 covers directly employed staff at production and non-production bases in Japan. FY2016 covers directly and indirectly employed staff at production and non-production bases in Japan and a majority of overseas production bases. Working with the LIXIL Health Insurance Society, LIXIL Corporation seeks Report 2017 to ensure the wellness of employees by promoting health awareness and Number of work-related fatalities ★ providing opportunities to prevent illnesses and improve fitness. All employees undergo annual medical check-ups, and industrial doctors determine whether individual Our Approach employee require attention at work. In addition, employees with high health risks are encouraged to visit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 a doctor to enable them to continue working in a healthy and safe manner without exacerbating their Three Strategic Pillars Work-related fatalities 0 0 0 symptoms. Extra attention is paid to encouraging priority cases (44 employees in FY2015 and 50 in FY2016) *Scope: FY2014 covers directly employed staff at production bases in Japan. to visit a healthcare facility, and, as a result, we achieved a 100% consultation rate. The LIXIL Health Insurance Our People FY2015 covers directly employed staff at production and non-production bases in Japan. Society covers basic medical examination fees for both employees and their dependents. FY2016 covers directly and indirectly employed staff at production and non-production bases in Japan and a majority of overseas production bases. We are also focused on caring for mental health, which is important in ensuring overall wellness of A Fair & Rewarding Workplace employees. We have specialist industry physicians at our business sites, and offer mental health management Work Safety & Well-being training for managers to help create a working environment conducive to early detection and early Talent Development Working to Eradicate Work-Related Accidents treatment. We also conduct seminars to ensure employees have the correct knowledge to help themselves, Diversity & Equal Opportunity and offer a Workplace Reinstatement Program to help employees who have been on sick leave to facilitate Performance The LIXIL Group seeks to actively prevent work-related their return to the workforce. accidents by ensuring all employees follow established safety In line with new legal requirements on stress tests introduced in December 2015, we started conducting Environment rules and anticipate dangers at work. That means pinpointing stress tests each year between May and June from 2016. In FY2016, 84.5% of employees took the stress test, and eradicating any dangerous elements relating to rising to 93.9% in FY2017. We are using the test to ensure employees understand the importance of self care machinery, facilities, or unsafe action by workers, and sharing Society as a key part of successful mental health care, and to better understand workplace conditions and instigate best-practice examples to avoid work-related accidents. improvements. To prevent reoccurrence, we compare and analyze any Customers & Supply Chain In February 2017, the LIXIL Group was recognized as a certified health and productivity management similarities between accidents that do occur, and instigates organization in the large enterprise White 500 category, a program operated by Japan's Ministry of improvements. LIXIL Corporation also provides practical Reporting Economy, Trade and Industry. training sessions (Anzen Dojo) in which staff from Japan and overseas can experience simulations of past accidents. FY2016 data indicated with a ★ have received an independent practitioner's assurance. LIXIL Water Technology (LWT) shares and develops best Prev. Contents Next Scope and details > practices from each region to help promote further progress. For instance, LWT EMENA and LWT Americas attached Related principles: spotlights to the back of their forklifts to prevent collisions 31 ・LIXIL Group Occupational Health and Safety Principles > LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Talent Development 1.Basic School Improving basic skills at each level and offering learning opportunities to match employees' enthusiasm for learning LIXIL Group 2.Professional College Corporate The LIXIL Group supports a systematic and structured talent development program, and encourages all Responsibility employees to proactively advance their own careers. Improving the overall capability and expertise of business units and functional divisions Report 2017 3.Next-generation Seminars Action plan Continue and optimize regular leadership training programs*, both in Japan and across Providing proactive training for entrepreneurially minded employees the Group Our Approach KPI Number of employees participating in leadership training Next-generation Improve basic skills Improve expertise initiatives Three Strategic Pillars Target / Progress Target for FY2016 ・Number of participants: 200 employees Our People Progress as of 2016 ・237 employees participated in leadership training* ・Expanded development programs to enable all employees to take part Essential skills training Company or department specific education TAP Target for FY2017 ・Next-Generation Human Resource Promotion Program: hold 5 classes for 116 IT New employee Young employee S2 grade employee New manager Career development LJ C LW TJ LHTJ Finance HR ... Sponsoring MBA TAP A Fair & Rewarding Workplace employees at LIXIL Corporation (Japan only) Work Safety & Well-being training training training candidates training training KPI Percentage uptake of initial 3-year basic education (LIXIL Corporation, Japan only) Talent Development Communication Diversity & Equal Opportunity workshops Target / Progress Performance Elective education Target for FY2016 ・— *Newly added in FY 2017 Next-generation Basic School Professional College Seminars Environment Progress as of 2016 ・— *Newly added in FY 2017 Target for FY2017 ・Ensure 100% introduction of 3-yearly communication training Society (LIXIL Corporation, Japan only) Training for young employees (Basic School) Customers & Supply Chain This established training system is designed to ensure young employees in their first through third years Our Approach to Talent Development of employment can acquire the necessary competences to cope with higher expectations and evolving Reporting roles within the company. Our communication skills training for each year group, in particular, focuses LIXIL Corporation's talent development consists of the seamless education and training programs on developing the skills required to foster a flat and open corporate culture. designed to improve employees' basic skills, develop stronger expertise, and nurture nextgeneration Prev. Contents Next managers. We have three types of educational institutions, which are all intrinsically linked. 32 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 TAP program for next-generation leaders of an entrepreneurially Training and education support programs conducted in FY2016 minded company (including overseas businesses) LIXIL Group Our Talent Acceleration Program (TAP) is designed to Number of Item Training summary proactively nurture entrepreneurially minded personnel, participants Corporate including young employees selected by open recruitment or New employee training Basic training for new employees entering the company 165 recommendation, middle managers working predominantly Responsibility in the field, and division or section managers. We operate Training by corporate Training to develop skills and capabilities required at each position 863 Report 2017 different training programs for each of three groups, positions level focusing on fostering management skills and a managerial Leadership training (LT) Training to nurture next-generation management personnel 237 mindset from an early stage. We are also introducing Our Approach an overseas MBA study program to help employees acquire management skills and develop an Management training Training for employees being promoted to management positions 120 international outlook. Training in each division to develop skills and capabilities Three Strategic Pillars Division training respectively required for product development, production, sales, 12,602 and other lines of work Talent Acceleration Program (TAP) Structure Our People * LIXIL Corporation only Leadership training (LT) covers LIXIL Corporation and its subsidiaries A Fair & Rewarding Workplace Work Safety & Well-being Annual training hours and costs per employee (FY2016) ★ Talent Development Diversity & Equal Opportunity Overall training Training hours 15.01 hours Training costs 57,392 Yen Performance *Directly hired employees in Japan only Environment Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 33 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Career Development Performance Evaluation Flow LIXIL Corporation aims to create an environment that enables all employees to contribute LIXIL Group enthusiastically and proactively. That involves supporting career development from a dual perspective; encouraging both strategic career development driven by the company, and self-motivated career Corporate development driven by individual employees. Our career support training conducted in FY2016 concentrated on helping managers help staff build their own ideal careers, and we will implement this Responsibility program more widely going forward. We will also continue our Job Posting system that advertises Report 2017 specific vacancies to ensure higher mobility across business sections, and support individual and corporate growth through optimum job placements that match company needs with employees' career designs. Our Approach In order to discover and nurture proactive, global-minded personnel, we launched the Global Challenge Program in FY2017, which enables employees, selected from internal opportunity system, to Three Strategic Pillars spend 12 to 18 months at one of LIXIL's international businesses. Our People A Fair & Rewarding Workplace Evaluation Framework Work Safety & Well-being LIXIL Corporation evaluates all employees to ensure growth and accomplishments are justly awarded. Talent Development Employees are required to assess their own achievements against objectives set at the beginning of the Diversity & Equal Opportunity year, and managers provide feedback in meetings on the performance evaluation results. We nurture Performance development by reviewing half-yearly performance and communicating future expectations. To secure fair evaluations, we develop managers' personal evaluations skills through the Personnel Evaluation Environment System Manual or new manager training programs. Society FY2016 data indicated with a ★ have received an independent practitioner's assurance. Scope and details > Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 34 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Diversity & Equal Opportunity Our Approach United under the LIXIL Diversity & Inclusion Declaration, the LIXIL Group embraces diversity in gender, LIXIL Group age, race, nationality, values, background, etc., and turns the energy and creativity generated by diversity into a source of strength. We aim to furnish a comfortable and friendly working environment Corporate for all, enabling employees to approach challenges with an entrepreneurial spirit, and be appropriately The LIXIL Group is committed to respecting diversity and recruiting and developing high caliber talent Responsibility across the Group. We believe that harnessing the intelligence and perspectives of our diverse workforce evaluated for their performance. Report 2017 is critical to driving growth and innovation. Action plan KPI Promote the active participation of women in the workplace Percentage of women among regularly recruited new hires (Japan only) (%) Empowering Women in the Workplace Our Approach Target / Progress The LIXIL Group believes the active participation of female employees is vital to promoting diversity. Three Strategic Pillars Target for FY2016 ・Percentage of women among regularly recruited new hires in March 2016: over 30% In March 2012, we had 1 female senior executive (1.0%) in the Group. In March 2017, that number had Progress as of 2016 ・Percentage of women among regularly recruited new hires in April 2017: 30.8% risen to 7 (11.9%), including 2 directors, 2 senior managing executive officers and 3 executive officers. Our People Target for FY2017 ・Percentage of women among regularly recruited new hires (Japan only): over 30% As of March 31, 2017, the number of female managers increased to 687, constituting 12.9% of total KPI Percentage of women participating in leadership training* (LIXIL Corporation, Japan only) management personnel. In July 2017, the LIXIL Group was included in the MSCI Japan Empowering A Fair & Rewarding Workplace (%) Women Index (WIN), which features Japanese companies with high proportions of female managers Work Safety & Well-being and female employees. Talent Development Target / Progress LIXIL Corporation has set up the Diversity Promotion Office to further advance careers for women. Target for FY2016 ・Percentage of women participating in leadership training: over 20% Diversity & Equal Opportunity As a member of Male Leaders General Meeting (to promote the active role of women) , an initiative Progress as of 2016 ・Percentage of women participating in leadership training*: 20.8% Performance backed by the Cabinet Office, we declared a WeDo Action* plan in August 2014, and are facilitating Target for FY2017 ・Percentage of women participating in Next-Generation Human Resource Promotion Program: over 20% more appointment of female directors / officers and managers. As of March 2017, we had 168 female Environment managers (6.8% of all managers), representing growth of approximately 7.6 times in absolute number Action plan Create a staffing plan that encourages employment and development of people in local communities from 22 female managers (0.9%) in March 2012. Society KPI Fulfillment of recruitment plans to increase the number of local factory employees (LIXIL *WeDo: Women Empowerment in a Diversified Organization manufacturing subsidiaries) *(): The ratio of women in all management positions *1 female director and 1 female senior managing executive officer are from countries other than Japan. Customers & Supply Chain *Data excludes Senior Life Company of LIXIL Corporation Target / Progress Target for FY2016 ・Achieve 100% of the recruitment plan (100 newly hired employees) Taking the promotion of active female employees to the next level, we are currently creating an Reporting Progress as of 2016 ・Recruited 100 people (17 graduates from specialist high schools and 83 high-school environment in which female employees can consistently develop their careers even if they take graduates) time off for life events such as childbirth. For example we developed a Mamap career-building tool ・Frequently visited schools in each area, and participated in job fairs for working mothers. Female employees intending to take childcare leave use the provided tool and Target for FY2017 ・Achieve 100% of the recruitment plan Prev. Contents Next interview sheet to help them communicate with their managers to design a career path and support system, and ensure continued active and rewarding work after the maternity leave. 35 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Number and Composition Ratio of Female Managers Fostering a LGBT-friendly company environment The LIXIL Group is working to create a friendly work environment for LGBT and other sexual minority LIXIL Group employees. LIXIL Corporation held study sessions for employees and provided badges to employees who Corporate identified as an LGBT Ally as a way to display their support. The badge logo is a unique LIXIL design. We intend to extend these study sessions to employees across the Group, and will continue to actively Responsibility expand the LGBT Ally network as part of our drive to create a comfortable and friendly corporate Report 2017 environment for all. LBT (PNA Corp.) has launched various actions that reflect social change in the US, including the provision of medical coverage to same-sex married partners. Our Approach To comply with local anti-discrimination laws, LBT (PERMASTEELISA UK) has supported initiatives, such as the installation of unisex toilets, to create a more comfortable working environment for LGBT. Three Strategic Pillars Our People Employing Persons with Disabilities * Directly hired employees only, data collected based on the qualification system used at each operating company, as of March 31 of each fiscal year A Fair & Rewarding Workplace Scope: FY2014 and FY2015 cover LIXIL Corporation in Japan, and FY2016 covers the entire Group Many employees with disabilities work alongside those without disabilities in the LIXIL Group Work Safety & Well-being because the Group has developed inclusive working environments, from R&D to production, sales Talent Development Other external commendations of LIXIL Corporation administration, and planning management, to suit each individual's specific disability. As of March, 2017, Diversity & Equal Opportunity ・Received the highest level of Eruboshi certification in 2017 from the Ministry of Health, Labour and 759 people with disabilities were employed across the LIXIL Group, representing 2.34% of the workforce Performance Welfare, which honors companies that have actively promoted female employment in accordance (427 and 2.26% for LIXIL Corporation). with the Act on Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. In 2014, we launched the WING NIJI employment center for disabled people at LIXIL Corporation's Environment office in Koto ward, Tokyo, to provide support for them in the workplace, in addition to proper *Click here for details (Japanese only) > evaluation of work assignments and job development opportunities. WING NIJI provides work support, Society ・Received the first Catalyst Distinction award from non-profit Catalyst Japan in 2017, which honors job aptitude assessments, and professional skills development services, and has been undertaking many women's advancement, diversity and inclusion initiatives in the workplace. initiatives to create more inclusive work environments. Customers & Supply Chain *Click here for details > In May 2016, LIXIL Corporation received certification from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare as a leading company in the active employment of persons with mental and other disabilities. Reporting Prev. Contents Next 36 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Number and Percentage of Disabled Employees ★ LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Our Approach Three Strategic Pillars Our People A Fair & Rewarding Workplace *Directly hired employees in Japan only, data collected based on the qualification system used at each operating company, as of March 31 of each fiscal year *LIXIL Corporation includes LIXIL Senior Life Company Work Safety & Well-being *Calculated based on the Employment Rate System for Persons with Disabilities by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Talent Development Diversity & Equal Opportunity Performance Creating Local Employment Opportunities Environment LIXIL Corporation supports the growth of employment opportunities in the regions where we operate by employing technical college and high-school graduates as local permanent employees at our plants Society in Japan. Customers & Supply Chain FY2016 data indicated with a ★ have received an independent practitioner's assurance. Scope and details > Reporting Related principles: Prev. Contents Next ・LIXIL Diversity & Inclusion Declaration > 37 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Performance LIXIL Group Corporate In recruiting and hiring employees, the LIXIL Group respects human rights and is committed to Responsibility ensuring a fair selection process, recruiting diverse talent irrespective of social group, and building a Report 2017 platform which allows diverse set of employees to contribute to their full potential. LIXIL Group FY2016 Human Resource Performance data (PDF: 300KB) > Our Approach Includes the following information/data: 1. Number of Employees by Type of Employment Three Strategic Pillars 2. Number of Employees by Country 3. Number of New Hires Our People 4. Number of Retirees and Turnover Rate A Fair & Rewarding Workplace Scope of Data Collection > Work Safety & Well-being Talent Development FY2016 data indicated with a ★ have received an independent practitioner's assurance. Diversity & Equal Opportunity Details > Performance Environment Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 38 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility With the desire to help people live in harmony with the earth, Report 2017 we are committed to continuing our efforts to be environmentally sound in every aspect of our businesses activities. Our Approach Three Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Environmental Management Greenhouse Gas Reduction Sustainable Water Use Sustainable Use Of Resources Performance Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 39 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environmental Management raw materials procurement through product disposal. In 2016, we started operating under our newly established EHS Performance Reporting Guidelines to help strengthen Group-wide target management and monitoring systems. We are looking to actively reduce environmental impact across the Group by extending activities currently implemented in Japan to all global operations. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility In order to achieve our Environmental Vision 2030, the LIXIL Group has committed to reducing the environmental footprint of our business operations through launching a Group-wide Environment, Promoting EHS Report 2017 Occupational Health and Safety (EHS) management system. In April 2016, the LIXIL Group launched the Group EHS Committee, chaired by the Representative Officer and Action plan Build a common Group EHS management system Executive Vice President, Product Optimization and covering Our Approach KPI Group-wide coverage of EHS management system (%) our four technology businesses, LIXIL Japan Company, Housing & Services Business, and headquarters. We developed and Three Strategic Pillars Target / Progress broadened the scope of the Group EHS management system, Target for FY2016 ・Establish a Group EHS Committee by bringing together all of the businesses for an annual Group Group EHS Committee ・Formulate Group-wide operational rules (EHS manual, EHS governance inspection Our People guidelines) EHS Committee meeting. The committee will further drive our ・Start collecting and reporting on Group-wide EHS performance data environmental strategy and build effective management and reporting lines in cooperation with LIXIL Environment Progress as of 2016 ・Scope of environmental performance data captured (offices and companies): 96% Group Executive Officers, the LIXIL Corporation Board of Directors, and the Corporate Responsibility ・Built Group-wide EHS enhancement framework. Convened the first EHS Committee ・Developed and implemented core rules such as the EHS manual and EHS internal audit Committee. Environmental Management guidelines. Trialed EHS internal audit Greenhouse Gas Reduction ・Determined Group Occupational Health and Safety Policy Target for FY2017 ・Group-wide operational scope of occupational health and safety covered by the EHS Sustainable Water Use management system: 98% Sustainable Use Of Resources Performance Society Customers & Supply Chain Our Approach Reporting In 2016, the LIXIL Group announced its Environmental Vision 2030 medium to long-term targets, and established the LIXIL Group Environmental Sustainability Principles to define our environmental philosophy and code of conduct. By 2030, we aim to secure an overall net zero balance between the environmental footprint of our business and the positive environmental contribution we make through Prev. Contents Next technological innovations and the development of low-carbon, water-saving products and services. To achieve our Environmental Vision, it is vital that we operate an effective environment management system, and work to reduce environmental impact across our entire business, from 40 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 External and Internal Audits Preventing Pollution Through Strict Control The LIXIL Group conducts internal audits of its manufacturing factories according to ISO14001 standards of Chemical Substances LIXIL Group and checks the effectiveness and compliance of the environmental management systems. With regard to non-manufacturing divisions and Group operating companies, we perform internal audits based LIXIL Corporation has set rules on substances that are forbidden or require strict control for use in Corporate on the standards set in our own environmental management system and are gradually expanding the products and/or during production processes. We manage and monitor our factories in compliance scope to include Group subsidiaries. We work to ensure the effective operation of our management with the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act and other environmental laws and regulations to Responsibility ensure the soil and waterways around our manufacturing facilities are not affected by our operations. system by following up on all audit points and confirming the implementation of appropriate Report 2017 improvements. Number of Environmental law violations Our Approach Environmental Education Initiatives FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 No. of environmental law violations 0 0 0 0 Three Strategic Pillars LIXIL Corporation strives to inform and educate employees at various levels of the company about Total amount of fines/penalties from the above 0 0 0 0 environmental initiatives. The company conducts environmental training for new recruits, provides Our People Environmental Management System (EMS) training for EMS promotion managers and operators in Environmental liability 0 0 0 0 each office, and distributes monthly reports on environmental trends to top management, including *Scope: Significant violations with fines of US$10,000 or more Environment directors, auditors, and the CEOs of technology businesses. FY2016 data indicated with a ★ have received an independent practitioner's assurance. Environmental Management Scope and details > Greenhouse Gas Reduction Sustainable Water Use Converted Economic Value Sustainable Use Of Resources Related principles: Performance The LIXIL Group has calculated the total economic value of our products in order to understand ・LIXIL Group Environmental Sustainability Principles > the positive and negative impacts they have on the environment. We estimated the overall running Society costs for water, gas, and electricity from the use of our toilets, water faucets, and kitchens to be US$179.2 billion for our end users. On the other hand, the positive value created from the use of our Customers & Supply Chain environmentally designed products, such as insulated windows, doors, curtain walls, as well as watersaving and energy efficient toilets, water facets, and kitchens, would generate savings of approximately Reporting $59.7 billion for end users. These calculations reveal that the running costs for our mainstream products are nearly triple the potential savings that can be made by using our environmentally designed products. As products account for over 70% of the Group's environmental impact within our value chain, in order to achieve our 2030 Environmental vision, LIXIL is committed to producing even more Prev. Contents Next environmentally efficient products. To achieve this, we intend to analyze the environmental impacts of our products more thoroughly to encourage better processes and more effective management. 41 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Greenhouse Gas Reduction Improving Energy Efficiency of Products and Services The LIXIL Group pursues the development of low-carbon and energy-saving products and services LIXIL Group to achieve a net zero balance between our environmental footprint and our positive environmental contribution. In FY2016, we completed the Guidelines for Calculation of Environmental Contribution, Corporate which is our global guideline to measure the positive environmental contribution of our products and The LIXIL Group is focused on developing products and services that can help realize a low-carbon or services. Going forward, we intend to strengthen our focus on product lifecycle and expand our range Responsibility decarbonized society, as well as actively reducing greenhouse gas emissions in its operational processes. of environment-conscious products. Report 2017 Action plan ・Pursue more environment-conscious product design and sales expansion strategies, taking into account the entire lifecycle of both products and services LIXIL Navish hands-free faucets Our Approach ・Improve CO2 emissions/units LIXIL's Navish hands-free faucets use automatic Eco Sensors to Three Strategic Pillars KPI Group-wide: 1. Benefits from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from the products and services detect the presence of hands and other objects, enabling water 2. Levels of CO2 emissions across all operational processes to be dispensed and stopped without touching the faucet. Our People Faucets equipped with the Eco Sensor function also separate Target / Progress hot and cold water, preventing unintended use of hot water and Environment Target for FY2016 1.Create a guideline for calculating the decrease in CO2 emissions to help achieve our energy. Compared to conventional faucets, users can expect to mid-term target for FY2016-20 (1.4 times more efficient than in FY2015), and monitor see energy savings of about 52%, and water savings of about the FY2015 result LIXIL Navish hands-free faucets Environmental Management 2. Target -1.6% in FY2016 compared to FY2015 to achieve our new mid-term CO2 31%. Greenhouse Gas Reduction emissions target for FY2016-20 (-8% v. FY2015) *Above includes water resource conservation data (indirect avoided emissions and actual emissions related to Sustainable Water Use water use) LIXIL SAMOS L and ERSTER S Sustainable Use Of Resources Progress as of 2016 1.Contributions from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from products and services Performance To reduce energy consumption from air conditioning, it is increased by 1.08 times (compared to FY2015). Created Guideline for Calculation of Environmental Contribution to clarify calculation method for individual products and important to improve the thermal insulation of openings in Society services, and calculated results based on FY2015 performance the home. These represent the greatest inflow and outflow of 2. CO2 emissions from operational processes increased by 5% (compared to FY2015). Set heat. Following the introduction of LIXIL's high-performance targets and initiatives for each business organization in compliance with med-term Customers & Supply Chain targets SAMOS X hybrid aluminum and resin windows, in FY2016 LIXIL ・Created Guideline for Calculation of CO2 Emissions from Value Chain to clarify introduced SAMOS L, a strategic product designed to be more calculation method for all processes from procurement of raw materials through to Reporting affordable while maintaining high thermal insulation. In addition, product disposal LIXIL SAMOS L ERSTER X, a resin window aimed at providing the top-class level Target for FY2017 1.Group-wide benefits from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from products and in thermal insulation performance, has been joined by ERSTER S, services increased by 1.16 times (compared to FY2015) to achieve our mid-term CO2 a resin window at a more affordable price point. Prev. Contents Next emissions target for FY2016-20 2. Group-wide levels of CO2 emissions across all operational processes reduced by 3.2% (compared to FY2015) to achieve our mid-term CO2 emissions target for FY2016-20 *Above includes water resource conservation data (indirect avoided emissions and actual emissions related to 42 water use) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Permasteelisa mfree-SCCF CO2 Emissions ★ Introduced by Permasteelisa in 2008, mfree-SCCF (moisture free Sustainable Close Cavity Façade) curtain walls feature LIXIL Group double-skin glass walls with compressed-air internal cavity. Corporate The Permasteelisa Group's proprietary technology offers outstanding performance from the perspectives of ecological Responsibility sensitiveness, comfort, and aesthetic appeal. Many buildings HILTI INNOVATION CENTER, SCHAAN Report 2017 with these curtain wall exteriors have received acclaim and LIECHTENSTEIN certification by green building rating systems such as Leadership ©Bruno Klomfar Fotografie in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) and the Building Our Approach Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM). Scope: FY2014 covers operation in Japan and Asia, while FY2015 and FY2016 cover a majority of the entire Group Three Strategic Pillars Expanding Net Zero Energy Housing *Cargo shipped by LIXIL Corporation is covered In FY2016, LIXIL also worked to promote Net Zero Energy Housing (ZEH).* In October 2016, we Our People renamed the Exterior Business Department the ZEH Solutions Division to further our focus on Establishing a solar power system promoting ZEH in Japan. In April 2017, we also began offering ZEH Design Support Services to assist Environment builders in designing houses that meet ZEH criteria. By providing both building materials with highLIXIL Corporation is promoting the generation and use of performance thermal insulation and design services for builders, LIXIL is helping to promote the growth renewable energy by turning idle land and factory roofs into Environmental Management of ZEH in Japan. mega-solar power plants at five of its sites in Japan. The five Greenhouse Gas Reduction *A house that achieves net zero energy consumption through the use of improved thermal insulation, energy-saving technology, and renewable Sustainable Water Use energy-generating equipment such as solar panels. The definition or criteria of a net zero energy house can vary by country. sites combined generate approximately 28,900MWh each Sustainable Use Of Resources year, equivalent to the annual power consumption of roughly Performance 5,800 households in Japan. At the end of April 2017, we also introduced a similar system at Minakuchi distribution center and Society Promoting Energy Creation and Saving Kumayama factory. LIXIL Chita SOLAR POWER generated approx. 6,700MWh in FY2016 Each business within the LIXIL Group sets targets and implements initiatives in line with our mediumCustomers & Supply Chain term goals, which includes creating and saving energy in operational activities. In FY2016, we Energy savings at manufacturing sites established the Guideline for Calculation of Value Chain CO2 Emissions and are currently implementing Reporting In July 2016, the GROHE Lahr Plant in Germany introduced these guidelines Group-wide. We are implementing a number of initiatives to reduce energy consumption in all of our business a new CHP unit, replacing two inefficient boilers. The new processes, including switching to LED lighting in our offices and installing systems that encourage CHP unit is providing heat for two electroplating lines and Prev. Contents Next environmentally efficient use of commercial vehicles in Japan. can supply up to 30% of the plant's demand for electricity. In addition to better overall energy efficiency, it also enables the plant to reduce CO2 emissions by 2,500 tons per year. 43 At the GROHE Hemer Plant, a CHP unit introduced in 2015 is LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 reducing 15% of the plant's electricity consumption from the use of recovered heat, generating a savings of 2,200 tons of CO2 per year. All GROHE plants and distribution centers around the world were successfully certified according to ISO 50001 Energy Management Systems by the end of 2016. LIXIL Group *A power generation system that uses a heat recovery unit to capture waste heat and turn it into thermal energy Corporate CDP Climate Change Information Request Responsibility Report 2017 LIXIL has been participating in the CDP questionnaire since 2011 and actively disclosing our nonfinancial information to investors. For further details, please refer to the CDP website. > Our Approach FY2016 data indicated with a ★ have received an independent practitioner's assurance. Three Strategic Pillars Scope and details > Our People Environment Environmental Management Greenhouse Gas Reduction Sustainable Water Use Sustainable Use Of Resources Performance Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 44 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Sustainable Water Use Enhancing the Water-Saving Features in Products and Services LIXIL Group The LIXIL Group is focusing on water conservation as a core theme for our 2020 mid-term targets. This Corporate includes enhancing the water-saving features in our products and services. The LIXIL Group promotes the conservation and sustainable use of water across the entire lifecycle of Responsibility our products, from procurement through disposal. Report 2017 GROHE SENSE GUARD, the smart water controller Action plan ・Pursue more environment-conscious product design and sales expansion strategies, According to the 2017 GROHE Water Security Survey, 54% taking into account the entire lifecycle of both products and services Our Approach of European households experienced water damage. To ・Improve efficient use of water resources help households to get control over water in home and Three Strategic Pillars KPI Group-wide: costly repairs, GROHE developed the GROHE Sense & 1. Benefits from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from the products and services GROHE Sense Guard. The GROHE Sense Guard is a smart 2. Levels of CO2 emissions across all operational processes Our People water controller which notifies them the moment it detects Target / Progress anomalies in their home's waterflow. Using the GROHE Environment Target for FY2016 1.Create a guideline for calculating the decrease in CO2 emissions to help achieve our ONDUS smartphone application, users can shut off the GROHE SENSE GUARD mid-term target for FY2016-20 (1.4 times more efficient than in FY2015), and monitor water supply, thus protecting their home and avoiding costly the FY2015 result. 2. Target -1.6% in FY2016 compared to FY2015 to achieve our new mid-term CO2 damage – especially if they are away from home. Environmental Management emissions target for FY2016-20 (-8% v. FY2015). Greenhouse Gas Reduction *Above includes water resource conservation data (indirect avoided emissions and actual emissions related to For further details, please refer to the GROHE SENSE GUARD website > Sustainable Water Use water use). Sustainable Use Of Resources Progress as of 2016 1.Contributions from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from products and services increased by 1.08 times (compared to FY2015). Created Guideline for Calculation of American Standard Water Saving Toilets Performance Environmental Contribution to clarify calculation method for individual products and services, and calculated results based on FY2015 performance American Standard offers a wide range of toilets that save Society 2.CO2 emissions from operational processes increased by 5% (compared to FY2015). Set targets and initiatives for each business organization in compliance with med-term nearly 20% more water than the national code for toilet targets water consumption and meet the strict criteria for water Customers & Supply Chain ・Created Guideline for Calculation of CO2 Emissions from Value Chain to clarify savings established by the U.S. Environmental Protection calculation method for all processes from procurement of raw materials through to product disposal Agency's WaterSense program. We have a variety of Reporting products to match consumers' tastes, including CADET PRO, Target for FY2017 1.Group-wide benefits from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from products and services increased by 1.16 times (compared to FY2015) to achieve our mid-term CO2 a quality toilet at an affordable price, VorMax UHET, an ultraemissions target for FY2016-20 high efficient toilet, and Lyndon, a popular contemporary2.Group-wide levels of CO2 emissions across all operational processes reduced by 3.2% Prev. Contents Next (compared to FY2015) to achieve our mid-term CO2 emissions target for FY2016-20 styled toilets. The bowl height of these toilets also conforms VorMax UHET flushing technology cleans twice as well *Above includes water resource conservation data (indirect avoided emissions and actual emissions related to water use) to the accessibility height as outlined by the Americans with as conventional toilets with less water. Disability Act of 1990. 45 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Conserving Water in Business Activities Water Usages ★ To help preserve water resources, the LIXIL Group is working to further improve the efficient use of LIXIL Group water in our business processes by developing tailored measures for each production base. Corporate Identifying water risk in our production facilities Responsibility As a company that uses water in our production processes, the LIXIL Group identified water supply Report 2017 risks at production sites in order to better understand local conditions and introduce appropriate Scope: FY2014 covers operation in Japan and Asia, while FY2015 and FY2016 cover a majority of the entire Group countermeasures. We used international evaluation tools such as the WWF Water Risk Filter and the *Data excludes the tenants in the building that we cannot assess the water intake data. WRI AQUEDUCT to quantify local characteristics and water usage. Of the 100 manufacturing sites, FY2015 excludes LIXIL Total Service Corporation, JIO Our Approach Corporation factories mainly in Asia were designated top priority water conservation targets. While to date we have promoted improving water quality and efficiency according to individual sites, going forward, we will Three Strategic Pillars also incorporate these evaluation results to promote initiatives at each production facility. Our People Introducing waste water recycling systems Production Sites Categorized by Water Risk Survey Results and Water Risk Level FY2015 Water Usage LIXIL Sanitary Fitting Manufacturing (Suzhou) Corporation Environment is a factory in China affiliated with LIXIL Water Technology that has made a notable reduction in its water use. In 2015, Environmental Management the factory installed a wastewater recycling system with a Greenhouse Gas Reduction RO membrane filtration system, which can filter wastewater Sustainable Water Use generated in production processes such as machining and Sustainable Use Of Resources plating. The treated water is reused in production and Performance to flush toilets. This new system is currently one of the biggest contributors to water saving in the factory. For example, water consumption per unit weight of Society products was reduced by approximately 45% in FY2016 compared to FY2014 (pre-system installation). In FY2016, fresh water usage and cost were reduced by 36,927m3 and US$15,000, respectively. Customers & Supply Chain Due to its success, similar projects are being rolled out in other LIXIL faucets factories in Asia. Along with other water saving projects, we are expecting to see even more benefits from reductions in fresh Reporting Reducing water usage in factories water use and related costs. *A type of filtration membrane that enables water to flow through while blocking impurities such as ions and other molecules. The LIXIL Group uses large amounts of water for aluminum product surface finishing and other processes. In order to conserve water, we study the level of water usage per factory, including water Prev. Contents Next intake, water usage per process, and the installation of water circulation systems. In addition, we promote efficient use of water by building circulation systems and engaging in other conservation measures, as well as conduct strict wastewater management to protect and maintain water quality. 46 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CDP Water Information Request The LIXIL Group has been participating in the CDP questionnaire since 2016 and actively disclosing our non-financial information to investors. LIXIL Group For further details, please refer to the CDP website. > Corporate FY2016 data indicated with a ★ have received an independent practitioner's assurance. Responsibility Scope and details > Report 2017 Our Approach Three Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Environmental Management Greenhouse Gas Reduction Sustainable Water Use Sustainable Use Of Resources Performance Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 47 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Sustainable Use Of Resources Recycling Resources in Operational Activities The LIXIL Group ensures sustainable use of resources through initiatives such as recycling waste LIXIL Group materials produced during its operations. Based on the 3R principles Reduce, Reuse, Recycle LIXIL Corporation is committed to reducing Corporate industrial waste products generated from manufacturing processes, collecting and sorting waste, and The LIXIL Group promotes the sustainable use of raw materials across the entire lifecycle of our recycling. Going forward, we plan to expand our efforts by recycling resources at the raw material Responsibility products, from procurement through disposal. procurement and product disposal stages as well, and to extend the system globally. Report 2017 Waste Materials and Recycling Rates ★ Action plan ・Pursue more environment-conscious product design and sales expansion strategies, taking into account the entire lifecycle of both products and services. Our Approach ・Improve waste recycling ratio Three Strategic Pillars KPI Group-wide: 1. Benefits from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from the products and services 2. Levels of CO2 emissions across all operational processes Our People Target / Progress Target for FY2016 1.Create a guideline for calculating the decrease in CO2 emissions to help achieve our Environment mid-term target for FY2016-20 (1.4 times more efficient than in FY2015), and monitor the FY2015 result. Scope: FY2014 covers operation in Japan and Asia, while FY2015 and FY2016 cover a majority of the Environmental Management 2. Target -1.6% in FY2016 compared to FY2015 to achieve our new mid-term CO2 entire Group emissions target for FY2016-20 (-8% v. FY2015). *FY2015 excludes JIO Corporation. Greenhouse Gas Reduction *Above includes water resource conservation data (indirect avoided emissions and actual emissions related to Sustainable Water Use water use). Sustainable Use Of Resources Progress as of 2016 1.Contributions from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from products and services increased by 1.08 times (compared to FY2015). Created Guideline for Calculation of Reducing Factory Waste Materials Performance Environmental Contribution to clarify calculation method for individual products and services, and calculated results based on FY2015 performance Recycling complex waste plastics Society 2.CO2 emissions from operational processes increased by 5% (compared to FY2015). Set targets and initiatives for each business organization in compliance with med-term targets. LIXIL Corporation's Ueno-midori bathtub-manufacturing factory uses plastic resin for its bathtub press Customers & Supply Chain ・Created Guideline for Calculation of CO2 Emissions from Value Chain to clarify molding, wrapped in a protective polypropylene film to prevent the volatilization of organic solvents. calculation method for all processes from procurement of raw materials through to The resin and protective film were previously disposed of as waste due to the difficulty of recycling product disposa Reporting materials with different material composition. However, working together with a waste management Target for FY2017 1.Group-wide benefits from CO2 emissions reduction achieved from products and services increased by 1.16 times (compared to FY2015) to achieve our mid-term CO2 processing company, we found a successful way of reusing the materials from FY2016. The pulverized emissions target for FY2016-20 resin and film is sorted, cleaned, and pelletized for reuse as resin pallet. The factory has also worked 2.Group-wide levels of CO2 emissions across all operational processes reduced by 3.2% Prev. Contents Next (compared to FY2015) to achieve our mid-term CO2 emissions target for FY2016-20 efficiently to reduce waste by minimizing defective products, as well as distilling and reusing previously *Above includes water resource conservation data (indirect avoided emissions and actual emissions related to used solutions such as paint thinner. As a result, the factory has been able to reduce the total volume of water use). *1 and 2 include water conservation data on indirect CO2 emissions and the decrease in CO2 emissions when using water. waste by approximately 18% from 905.6 tons in FY2015 to 744.0 tons in FY2016. 48 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Recycling of sludge in Thailand TOSTEM THAI Co., Ltd., a LIXIL Corporation subsidiary, has been working to reduce its biggest industrial waste product, LIXIL Group sludge. In Thailand, the most common treatment of industrial Corporate waste is to bury it. However, this method has recently been criticized as hazardous materials have leached into the soil Responsibility and groundwater. Concerned with the current process, we suggested to a local cement manufacturer about turning the Report 2017 sludge into cement material, a common process in Japan. The subsidiary worked with the government of Thailand to Our Approach resolve the challenges of developing a suitable recycling framework. This initiative resulted in a 60% reduction in buried sludge volumes in FY2016 compared to FY2014, and reduced costs. These initiatives, along with other community activities such as tree planting Three Strategic Pillars and garbage collection, helped TOSTEM THAI gain Level 4 in the Thailand Ministry of Industry's GREEN INDUSTRY* commendation system. We are now working to reduce new sludge landfills to zero by Our People FY2018. *The green industry commendation system operated by the Thai Ministry of Industry has five achievement levels, and gives a level-specific Green Industry mark Environment to each company that fulfills the required environmental activities. Environmental Management Using recycled material up to 85% in product manufacture Greenhouse Gas Reduction At GROHE's faucet-producing plants in Germany, Portugal, Sustainable Water Use and Thailand, most material used for the brass alloy in the Sustainable Use Of Resources plants come from collected recycled material. Making use Performance of the plant's in-house alloy smelting blast furnaces, we Society refine the alloys collected internally and externally. Between 70% and 85% of the brass bodies are created from recycled material, and are entirely recyclable. Customers & Supply Chain FY2016 data indicated with a ★ have received an independent practitioner's assurance. Reporting Scope and details > Prev. Contents Next 49 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Performance LIXIL Group Corporate The LIXIL Group is committed to conserving water, energy, and other natural resources utilized in our Responsibility products and services, across the supply chain from procurement through production, distribution, Report 2017 end use and product disposal. To that aim, we work hard to gain a clear understanding of total raw materials and energy inputs as well as CO2, air pollutants and other emissions, and implement measures to reduce them. Our Approach LIXIL Group FY2016 Environmental Performance Data (PDF: 419KB) > Three Strategic Pillars Includes the following information/data: Our People 1. Material Balance (INPUT): Material usage, Energy usage, Water intake 2. Material Balance (OUTPUT): CO2 emissions, Waste products emissions, Water discharge, Air pollutant Environment emissions Scope of Data Collection > Environmental Management Greenhouse Gas Reduction FY2016 data indicated with a ★ have received an independent practitioner's assurance. Sustainable Water Use Details > Sustainable Use Of Resources Performance Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Prev. Contents Next 50 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Our Approach Three Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Society Human Rights Stakeholder Engagement Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Society We engage in continual dialogue with our stakeholders and various activities with the society and local communities. Prev. Contents Next 51 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Human Rights LIXIL's framework for respecting human rights The LIXIL Group strives to uphold stakeholders' human rights in all of its operations, including endLIXIL Group users, business partners or other suppliers, residents living near our factories and facilities, and our employees. In March 2016, we published the LIXIL Group Human Rights Principles, which align with a Corporate number of international guidelines, including the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, We aim to sustainability operate as a responsible corporate citizen that respects human rights. the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and Responsibility the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Furthermore, we will adhere to the higher Report 2017 commitment if there are any discrepancies between the internationally recognized human rights Action plan Create a LIXIL Group Human Rights Principles and promote awareness amongst all LIXIL standards and the laws and regulations of individual countries or regions. Group employees The LIXIL Group has also established an internal concern-raising system for reporting concerns Our Approach relating to the entire Group, including overseas subsidiaries, and accepts information regarding any KPI Implementation of Human Rights Principles learning across the Group (%) LIXIL Group compliance violations from materials suppliers, subcontractors, and other business partners. Three Strategic Pillars Target / Progress Details > Target for FY2016 ・Ensure full implementation across the Group LIXIL Corporation promotes human rights principles among all employees in Japan. In FY2016, we Our People Progress as of 2016 ・In Japan, LIXIL Corporation fully implemented a human rights policy education sought to deepen understanding of human rights issues in business by implementing a human rights program in the form of quarterly interactive departmental meetings principles education program in interactive departmental meetings, and encouraged employees to Target for FY2017 ・Implementation of training in main LIXIL Corporation overseas subsidiaries: 100% Environment discuss issues amongst each other. Going forward, we will promote human right principles more broadly Action plan Create a framework for human rights due diligence across the whole Group. Moreover, as a global company, we will strengthen human rights due diligence Society KPI Status of creating an execution plan for human rights due diligence processes and disclose the results. * Due diligence on human rights: to put in place measures that identify, prevent, reduce, or respond to any negative impact on human rights caused by the Target / Progress activities of a company or its related companies, and to regularly monitor their effectiveness. Human Rights Target for FY2016 ・— (To be determined in FY2017) Stakeholder Engagement Progress as of 2016 ・Determined KPI with Human Resources, Compliance, Auditing, and Purchasing Departments, and started surveying actual conditions Related principles: Customers & Supply Chain Target for FY2017 ・Create an execution plan for human rights due diligence in all Group companies, LIXIL Group Human Rights Principles (PDF:76KB) > suppliers, and other business partners Reporting Prev. Contents Next 52 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Stakeholder Engagement Our Approach Our success depends on the support of a broad range of stakeholders. We are committed to proactively LIXIL Group engaging with our stakeholders (including customers, business partners, community members where our operational facilities are located, shareholders, our employees and their families) to collect opinions Corporate and incorporate their voices in our business operations and social contribution activities. The LIXIL Group proactively engages with stakeholders to help improve the quality of people's daily Responsibility lives and resolve social issues. Stakeholders Type of Engagement Report 2017 Customers We incorporate customer opinions as well as providing timely and appropriate disclosure Action plan Hold regular top-level meetings with external experts and disclose the content of these on our products and services. We offer customer support via telephone, email, and at meetings 128 showrooms globally. More Our Approach KPI Number of top-level meetings held across the Group (#); Meeting quality based on meeting content Suppliers We build and maintain strong relationships with our suppliers by facilitating two-way communication. In response to recent Responsible Procurement Surveys, we share our Three Strategic Pillars Target / Progress procurement policies, recognize current circumstances and follow through on promised Target for FY2016 ・Plan and execute top-level meeting with external experts improvements. We also hold regular meetings with suppliers to share information on Our People ・Establish a system to ensure timely communication of the content of the top-level regulatory trends and new corporate purchasing strategies. More meeting with the Board Progress as of 2016 ・Invited human rights experts for top-level meetings Local communities The LIXIL Group operates 99 factories worldwide. As a responsible corporate citizen, on Environment ・Held workshops on human rights, and discussions at the executive officer level top of respecting local culture and customs and create responsible products and jobs, we also contribute to the development of the surrounding community in which we operate. Target for FY2017 ・Establish a system to facilitate at least one top-level meeting each year We hold community dialogues at factories and sales offices in Japan to encourage ・Communicate the content of the top-level meeting with the Board Society communication with local residents. More ・Disclose the content of the top-level meeting Hold regular stakeholder engagement meetings and disclose the content of these Shareholders and We hold approximately 625 discussions every year with investors around the world to Human Rights Action plan meetings investors help promote sustainable growth and enhance corporate value. We disclose timely Stakeholder Engagement and transparent information in English and Japanese via our Annual Report (Integrated KPI Number of stakeholder meetings held across the Group (#); Meeting quality based on Report from FY2015), our Investor Relations web pages and the Tokyo Stock Exchange meeting content website. More Customers & Supply Chain Target / Progress Employees The LIXIL Group boasts approximately 70,000 employees. We strive to create an inspiring Target for FY2016 ・Extend the reach of currently implemented mechanisms and encourage more working environment that encourages diversity and incorporates employee opinion Reporting sophisticated and effective engagement initiatives expressed via systematic global employee satisfaction surveys or discussions between the ・Encourage the sharing and adaptation of successful engagement initiatives across the union and the company. More Group Progress as of 2016 ・Engaged at least once with each stakeholder NPOs, NGOs, We partner with NPOs/NGOs and universities in the research and development related ・Collected and shared information on stakeholder engagement across the Group government and to global sanitation, and support environmental education for next-generation leaders. Target for FY2017 ・Establish a system for disclosing our engagement activities and resulting outcomes, for universities internal and external audiences Prev. Contents Next ・Hold at least one annual dialogue with each group of stakeholders (shareholders, employees, business partners, local residents, end users, suppliers, etc.) 53 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 India since 2009, and has been expanded to New Government, Engaging in vigorous but transparent dialogue with government authorities is a industrial association necessary process to help shape a sustainable society. We are involved in several Delhi, as well as Manila-Tondo in the Philippines. To industrial associations whose mission includes engaging with government on behalf date, GROHE has helped over 850 young people of their respective industry, such as plumbing, business, metals and electrical, and gain practical and classroom-based education on LIXIL Group manufacturing. (Total political contributions (FY2013-2016): less than JPY 1 million per year. Total industrial association fees*: JPY 11.9 million (FY2013); JPY 26.4 million (FY2014); plumbing, as well as computer and English-language Corporate JPY 29.5 million (FY2015); JPY 55 million (FY2016)) skills. Students are sent on placements with local firms, resulting in a nearly 100% placement rate upon Responsibility * Total fees from FY2014 and FY2016 include ASD Americas Holding Corp.(American Standard) and GROHE Group S.à r.l.(Grohe), respectively. graduation. GROHE benefits from a great pool of Report 2017 these skilled plumbers to install its premium products at the highest professional standard. Spurred on Examples of LIXIL Stakeholder Engagement by its overwhelming success, GROHE is looking to GROHE Dual Tech students at the training facility in Mumbai Our Approach extend the training program to Kenya. LIXIL Group focuses on making a positive social impact in priority areas such as global sanitation and hygiene, water conservation and environmental sustainability, and diversity and inclusion, as well Three Strategic Pillars Natural Disaster Aid and Recovery Support as areas where our expertise can make the biggest difference. The Endowments and Consulting Review Committee , which our CEO serves as a member of, is held on regular basis to screen, assess Disaster recovery Initiatives in Japan Our People and prioritize significant donations and sponsorships to ensure our profits contribute to society appropriately and effectively. LIXIL Corporation has supported various recovery Environment Monetary and other contribution (in JPY) efforts following the March 2011 earthquake and FY2015 FY2016 tsunami in Northeast Japan and the April 2016 Society earthquake in Kumamoto. These activities include Charitable donations 130.6 Million 122.8 Million donations of basic daily necessities such as toilets Human Rights and hand-washing facilities, monetary donations, Community investments 856.8 Million 880.8 Million Stakeholder Engagement sponsoring recovery projects, and employee-driven Commercial initiatives 600.0 Million 600.6 Million charity events. Donated windows and toilets to the Playground-for-All in Minamisoma as part of a recovery support project Customers & Supply Chain Scope: LIXIL Group (non-consolidated) and LIXIL Corporation (non-consolidates), and some of the subsidiaries of LIXIL Corporation (Grohe and American Employees are encouraged to offer their time Standard) * Monetary and other contributions have been collected and categorized in accordance to the London Benchmarking Group Guidance Manual (June 2015). and expertise to help local communities which often proves to be a valuable experience that improves Reporting their engagement level. More (Japanese only) Youth Empowerment Plumbing skills for a more secure future Underprivileged young people in many emerging countries often lack the skills to secure stable Prev. Contents Next employment, while at the same time the local society suffers a chronic shortage of skilled workers. GROHE addresses this issue through GROHE Dual Tech, conducted in conjunction with Don Bosco Mondo e.V., a non-profit organization committed to supporting disadvantaged youth. 54 The German-modelled, dual-track training program, has been underway in Mumbai-Kurla in LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Providing safe sanitation for communities in need have held over 100 community dialogues in total. We cultivate meaningful relations with local residents and authorities by implementing initiatives based on the conversations during community dialogues, SATO products are innovative, life-saving, and and ensure consistent communication and follow up after the initial dialogue. low-cost solutions that provides safe and hygienic For example, our Handa Factory in Aichi Prefecture started to help local day-care centers with LIXIL Group sanitation. In addition to growing the SATO business emergency evacuation procedures after a Principal voiced concern that the predominately female staff Corporate to reach more people in Asia and Africa, LIXIL have might not be physically capable of evacuating all the children safely on their own. The same factory been working with NGOs to support communities is also participating in a range of community-inspired activities, including road accident prevention Responsibility with urgent needs. (More information on SATO initiatives, accepting internships, factory visits, and providing classes on product safety. products) Report 2017 We are committed to helping ensure a safe and Partnerships sanitary environment in disaster relief efforts. Poor Teaching plumbing skills and how to improve hygiene to students in Haiti. Our Approach sanitary conditions on the poverty-stricken Caribbean UNICEF Working together to promote safe sanitary facilities in Africa. island of Haiti were exacerbated by the 2010 earthquake, with open latrines increasing the risk of the spread of disease by airborne insects. American Standard engineers worked with Plumbers without Japan International Promoting field trials of the no-water Green Toilet System and water-saving Micro Three Strategic Pillars Cooperation Agency Flush Toilet System in Kenya. Borders (PWB) to teach students at Haiti Tec plumbing skills and how to improve hygiene. With the help (JICA) of NGOs like PWB and Food for the Poor, American Standard donated 7,900 SATO products to towns Our People Cooperating to improve the lives of people living in areas without hygienic toilets, in and villages in Haiti, as well as other parts of the Caribbean and Central America. SATO products were WaterAid addition to collaborating on a white paper that analyzes the socioeconomic losses also delivered to survivors of the 2015 devastating earthquakes in Nepal with the help of WaterAid. associated with underdeveloped sanitary environments. More(PDF:10.2MB) Environment Through private and public partners, we are also helping rural communities with difficulties Helping develop sustainable, large-scale potential sanitation solutions as a founding accessing adequate sanitation. In FY2016, few thousand SATO products were delivered to Bangladesh Toilet Board Coalition Society member of the multi-industry group. More with the help of BRAC, an international NGO. We will continue to work alongside International NGOs such as WaterAid and Habitat for Humanity, to help ensure a safe and sanitary environment for Conducting awareness surveys with the non-profit organization to identify the issues Human Rights NIJIIRO DIVERSITY LGBT and other sexual minorities encounter when using public toilets, with the aim communities in need. Stakeholder Engagement of providing a comfortable toilet space for all. More (Japanese only) Local Community Engagement Customers & Supply Chain Environmental, Cultural and Social Programs Holding community dialogues in factories, sales and retail bases Reporting Encouraging our employees and their families to participate in voluntary activities to LIXIL Corporation regularly holds community Forest preservation protect forest and mountain environments in cooperation with government, NPOs dialogues with local stakeholders (such as local and forestry cooperatives. More (Japanese only) government officials, business owners, residents etc) Water and environment Offering educational classes at primary schools on the global water and sanitation on how we can contribute back to the community. related education challenge. More (Japanese only) activities These are held at factories, sales and retail bases Prev. Contents Next around Japan. Cultural activities Promoting cultural activities in areas related to our history, such as ceramic and textile museums, gallery management and publishing. More In fiscal 2016, LIXIL Corporation held community Community dialogue with the Kitami Sales Office of Dohoku Sales dialogues at 11 new locations in Japan, attracting Branch, Hokkaido Branch Office 55 over 160 participants. Over the past five years, we Click here to see more detail on other Japan-based activities (Japanese only.) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Customers & Supply Chain LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility We are committed to delivering customer-focused products and services Report 2017 and promoting responsible supply chain management. Our Approach Three Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Society Customers & Supply Chain Responsible Supply Chain Management Product Safety & Quality Customer Satisfaction Reporting Prev. Contents Next 56 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Responsible Supply Chain Management Procurement Policy Fair and Impartial Trade Practices LIXIL Group We will provide suppliers with equal and open opportunities, and solicit suppliers broadly. When Corporate selecting suppliers, we will evaluate them fairly and impartially, paying due consideration to CR aspects The LIXIL Group seeks to ensure stable product supply and fulfill stakeholder accountability by such as environmental management, human rights, and workplace safety, in addition to quality, cost, Responsibility identifying and addressing risks at the procurement stage, and managing our processes across our and delivery. Report 2017 supply chain. Adherence to Social Norms Action plan Extend our Japanese CR procurement process across the Group KPI Responsible procurement surveys coverage ratio (based on purchased amount) (%), and We will observe laws, regulations, and rules related to procurement activities, and act in a way that Our Approach percentage of suppliers which satisfy CR management standards (%) and improvement gains the trust of society. rate (%) Three Strategic Pillars Target / Progress Respect for Human Rights and Consideration for Working Environment Target for FY2016 ・Promote Group-wide awareness of the LIXIL Group's procurement strategy Our People ・Implement existing CR procurement process across the Group We respect internationally declared standards of human rights, and pay due attention on ensuring an Progress as of 2016 ・Achieved responsible procurement surveys coverage ratio of 85% in Japan and 80% appropriate working environment. outside of Japan, CR management standards conformity rate of 94% in Japan and 88% Environment outside of Japan *exclude GROHE Group S.a r.l., American Standard Brands and PERMASTEELISA GROUP Care for the Environment Target for FY2017 ・Achieve responsible procurement surveys coverage ratio of 90% in Japan and 60% Society outside Japan, 90% conformity rate, and 100% improvement rate We will preferentially procure raw materials that have low environmental impact. *exclude PERMASTEELISA GROUP Customers & Supply Chain Promotion of Mutual Prosperity with Our Suppliers Responsible Supply Chain Management We will conduct transactions in a way that promotes mutual growth as partners. Product Safety & Quality Procurement Policy Customer Satisfaction Supplier Code of Conduct(PDF:156KB) > The LIXIL Group has established a Procurement Policy to develop healthy business partnerships with counterparts worldwide. This policy forms the basis of our overall supply chain management. In FY2017, Reporting the Group developed a Procurement Compliance Policy to provide more detailed guidance for the whole Group. We also compiled our Supplier Code of Conduct and are working to ensure business partners fully understand all the items they are required to adhere to. Prev. Contents Next 57 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Promoting Responsible Procurement that Upholds Flowchart for important suppliers the Environment and Labor Safety LIXIL Group The LIXIL Group promotes responsible procurement. The Supplier Assessment Standards used to select Corporate business partners includes: quality, cost, and delivery (QCD) criteria and technological prowess, the ability to deliver stable supply, sustainable use of resources, proper control of chemical substances, Responsibility human rights, and labor safety. The supplier assessment criteria are applied in both the selection of new Report 2017 partners and the regular inspection of existing partners. Having selected a business partner, we also conduct assessments of procured products. We seek to strengthen responsible procurement across our network of international business partners, which has been extended by mergers and acquisitions. Our Approach Three Strategic Pillars Working with our Suppliers Our People Supplier Breakdown Environment In terms of procurement transaction amounts, nearly 90% of LIXIL Corporation suppliers are based in Japan, followed by China, Austria, and Thailand. We determine our important suppliers using the criteria Society in the flowchart below, prioritizing them when we distribute our procurement strategies, conduct surveys, and follow up on improvements. Customers & Supply Chain Responsible Procurement Surveys and Follow-up Procurement transaction amount breakdown by country Responsible Supply Chain Management Action Product Safety & Quality LIXIL Corporation actively shares our Procurement Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct to help steer Customer Satisfaction our expanding and increasingly complex supply chain network following five-company merger in 2011 and subsequent series of international mergers and acquisitions. Reporting We use responsible procurement surveys to gain a strong understanding of business partners' responses on 66 different survey items (46 for Japan, where low-risk items have been removed). We visited over 100 suppliers inside and outside Japan that performed poorly in our survey to set targets for improvement and provide necessary support. We attained our target of 90% conformity on procurement assessment items. The survey results serve as a valuable evaluation tool when appointing Prev. Contents Next business partners. 58 [Scope of application] Suppliers to LIXIL Corporation and its subsidiaries *Excluding GROHE Group S.a r.l., American Standard Brands, PERMASTEELISA GROUP LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Responsible Procurement Survey Survey Results Overseas Japan FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 LIXIL Group Tasks KPI 1. CR Operations 10 questions 6 questions Results Targets Results Targets Results Targets Corporate 2. Fair Business 8 questions 8 questions Coverage Japan 72% 80% 82% 80% 85% 90% Responsibility 3. Human Rights 7 questions 6 questions ratio (based on Report 2017 4. Labor 13 questions 9 questions Distribute Procurement purchased amount) Overseas* 82% 60% 81% 60% 80% 60% Policy; follow up 5. Health & Safety 9 questions 7 questions survey results Total Japan 93% 85% 94% 90% 94% 90% Our Approach and related conformity 6. Environmental Conservation of the Planet 14 questions 8 questions activities rate Overseas* 91% 85% 85% 90% 88% 90% Three Strategic Pillars 7. Regional Contribution 5 questions 2 questions Improvement Japan / 100% 97% 100% 100% 100% rate Total 66 questions 46 questions Our People [Scope of application] Suppliers to LIXIL Corporation and its subsidiaries Environment Survey sheets *FY2014-2016: Excluding GROHE Group S.a r.l., American Standard Brands, PERMASTEELISA GROUP. FY2017: Excluding PERMASTEELISA GROUP*. Japan: Procurement by operating sites in Japan To suppliers overseas (English) (PDF:118KB) > Society Overseas: Procurement by operating sites overseas *FY2014 data have been revised To suppliers in Japan (English) (PDF:100KB) > Customers & Supply Chain Responsible Supply Chain Management Management of Chemical Substances Product Safety & Quality LIXIL Corporation has set rules on chemical substances that are forbidden or require strict control for Customer Satisfaction use in products and/or during production processes. LIXIL's list of controlled substances can be downloaded from the link below: Reporting List of the Environment-Related Substances to be controlled by LIXIL Corporation (English version) (updated on November 17, 2016) (PDF: 51KB) > Prev. Contents Next 59 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Product Safety & Quality We will continue to improve its product quality management system and provide clear guidance on the safe use of products. LIXIL Group Quality Policy LIXIL Group ・LIXIL strives for high quality in all processes, pursuing customer satisfaction and contributing to Corporate The LIXIL Group is committed to maintaining and strengthening our ties with our customers by improving people's comfort and lifestyles. Responsibility ensuring superior quality in manufacturing and services, and consistently improving our product quality ・We generate the world's highest quality, listening to our customers and striving for excellence through KAIZEN activities, specifically going and seeing for ourselves and thoroughly understanding Report 2017 management system to eradicate product-related accidents. the situation. Action plan Make continuous improvements to the product quality management system ・We develop the management system that continuously improves the quality of our employees, KPI Number of serious product accidents across the Group (#) Our Approach products and processes, and aim for business growth. Target / Progress Target for FY2016 ・Zero cases of serious product accidents across the Group LIXIL Product Safety Principles(PDF:40KB) > Three Strategic Pillars ・Extend product safety strategy by setting specific KPI for each technology business Progress as of 2016 ・Four serious product accidents across the Group. Held a product accident conference Our People to share details of the experience and confirm countermeasures Target for FY2017 ・Number of serious product accidents across the Group: 0 cases Management Structure Environment Increase awareness of how to safely use our products Action plan KPI Rate of disclosed instruction manuals for the main products on the website across the Our Quality & Six Sigma Division, which reports directly to the CEO, develops effective group-wide Society Group (%) product quality management systems and resolves quality issues across the Group under the leadership of the Chief Technology Officer (CTO). Product Quality divisions at LIXIL's four technology businesses Target / Progress Customers & Supply Chain and its Japan distribution arm, LIXIL Japan Company, assure the quality of each product and service and Target for FY2016 ・Disclose instruction manuals online for all main products in Japan Progress as of 2016 ・Disclosed instruction manuals online for all main products in Japan resolve issues under the direct guidance of dedicated Chief Quality officers (CQO). LIXIL Corporation Responsible Supply Chain Management ・Plan to disclose instruction manuals for Group company main products in FY2017 also conducts regular management reviews by inviting the CQO and relevant employees to quarterly Product Safety & Quality Target for FY2017 ・Disclose instruction manuals online for all main products across the Group group-wide Quality Management Committee meetings. Customer Satisfaction Reporting Our Approach The LIXIL Group firmly believes that product quality is the key to earning the trust of customers and society and a source of corporate profitability. To ensure that this belief is shared among all employees, Prev. Contents Next we have published the LIXIL Group Quality Policy in 14 languages and are continuously pursuing excellence in product manufacturing and services around the world. As significant product defects lead to customer anxiety and damage corporate reputation, our cross-functional teams work together to 60 resolve any issues in accordance with the LIXIL Product Safety Principles. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Commercialization, production, sales We only commercialize products that have gone through and passed vigorous stress tests and quality checks for durability, weather resistance, etc. Products that require specific safety and quality labelling LIXIL Group are clearly marked in our catalogues and other sales materials as meeting those criteria. Corporate Preparing for product defects & issues Responsibility We have a system to incorporate customer opinions and experiences with regard to product-related Report 2017 accidents and defects, and thoroughly investigate the root cause for future improvements. LIXIL Stage gate system Our Approach LIXIL Corporation introduced the LIXIL stage gate system to evaluate projects at five key points from *Each technology business and LIXIL Japan Company include subsidiaries of LIXIL Corporation. Three Strategic Pillars the product development through to the product assurance stages. Internal gate keepers assess and approve products at each stage gate to ensure commercial business decisions incorporate product Our People quality considerations. Regular reviews of the evaluation criteria for each gate help us develop higher Enhancing Quality Across Entire Product Lifecycle quality product. Environment To ensure customer safety, LIXIL Corporation is focused on enhancing quality across the full lifecycle of a product, from development through design, procurement, manufacture, distribution, and afterSociety sales support. Customers & Supply Chain Design & development Responsible Supply Chain Management We use Fault Tree Analysis (FTA) and Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) in risk assessments during Product Safety & Quality design and development. To help us reflect customer feedback, we are conducting a review of the Customer Satisfaction original Design Review Based on Failure Mode (DRBFM), and working to strengthen implementation frameworks, on-the-ground procedures, and assessor and facilitator skills. Reporting Material & parts procurement We require our suppliers to fulfil a certain set of criteria, and cooperate with them to resolve and improve on any issues. Prev. Contents Next 61 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Responding to Serious Product-related Accidents Nurturing a Culture that Strives for Superior Quality At LIXIL Corporation in Japan, whenever a product-related accident occurs, information is gathered in Product Manufacturing LIXIL Group the Quality & Six Sigma Division within 24 hours from the receipt of notification, and an emergency notice is sent out to relevant departments. The division in charge of customer services coordinates LIXIL Corporation holds LIXIL Quality Month Corporate with other departments to implement on-site response and investigation of the accident. A report is campaigns to enhance awareness of product submitted to the relevant authorities within 10 days as stipulated by the government's reporting and quality, expand quality management systems, and Responsibility encourage improvements. The company holds disclosure procedures on product accidents under the Consumer Product Safety Act. To prevent a Report 2017 reoccurrence, we reflect lessons learned from accidents to design schematics, which are adjusted to Product Quality Forums to share internal quality improve the safety of our products and proactively improve our safety technology. improvement initiatives. In FY2016, selected staff from 161 divisions worldwide came together to Our Approach Procedure for Responding to Accidents as Soon as They Occur compete on best practices for improvements. During each Quality Month campaign, posters were put up in all factories, and staffs were Three Strategic Pillars encouraged to submit proposals for improvements. Our People Environment Information Disclosure and Communication The LIXIL Group publishes product-specific instructions on the website to ensure safe product use, Society along with videos illustrating how to care for and clean products to ensure appropriate use. Customers & Supply Chain Responsible Supply Chain Management External Recognition Product Safety & Quality In 2014, LIXIL Corporation won the Excellence Award in Customer Satisfaction the large manufacturer and importer category for the Best Contributors to Product Safety Awards program run by Reporting Number of serious product-related accidents in FY2016 Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI). METI commended the company for its ground-breaking 4 incident. 10-year guarantee services and its commitment to studying problematic products to improve functionality. Before its amalgamation, INAX Co., Ltd. won the Director-General Prev. Contents Next for Commerce and Distribution Policy Award in 2010 in recognition of its dedicated accident prevention measures during long-term product use. 62 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Customer Satisfaction We hold training workshops for commercial customers on sashes, doors, entrances, kitchens, and bathrooms. Practical construction courses are provided to help boost end consumer satisfaction. Professional User Satisfaction of Products and Support Services LIXIL Group Corporate The LIXIL Group is constantly enhancing its products and services across the Group to ensure continued Responsibility and improved customer satisfaction. Report 2017 Action plan Monitor customer satisfaction levels and reevaluate collected data to help improve satisfaction levels Our Approach KPI Customer satisfaction survey towards all Group products and services (%) Target / Progress Three Strategic Pillars Target for FY2016 ・Establish a mechanism for measuring and disclosing customer satisfaction, and implement it across the Group Our People Progress as of 2016 ・Conducted customer satisfaction surveys on product quality and customer support. Expanded scope of responses from call centers only to: 1) product quality, 2) showrooms, 3) call centers, 4) after maintenance, and 5) sales representatives. Result of Environment customer satisfaction survey: 71.9% End Customers Target for FY2017 ・Continue initiative to improve customer satisfaction across the Group Society LIXIL Corporation's customer service and repair centers receive approximately 270,000 inquiries each month. We are working to improve products and services with a PDCA approach by using our customer Customers & Supply Chain opinion database to analyze and visualize problems from a customer perspective. Our Approach Our customer service center conducts surveys on service quality twice a year. We use the results to Responsible Supply Chain Management improve our communications and ultimately enhance customer satisfaction. To ensure that our customers enjoy all aspects of their living spaces, the LIXIL Group is focused on Product Safety & Quality Customer Satisfaction developing products and services that satisfy both construction-related commercial customers and end Customer Inquiries consumers, while communicating with them effectively. Reporting Business Customers LIXIL Corporation conducts satisfaction surveys of its commercial customers. In FY2016, we achieved an Prev. Contents Next average of 71.9% in terms of the quality of our products and customer support, including showrooms, call centers, after-sales maintenance, and sales representatives. We are committed to continuing these surveys and plan to extend systems for measuring and disclosing customer satisfaction across the 63 Group in order to achieve higher quality products and services. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Reporting LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Details of how we report on our Corporate Responsibility activities and milestones. Our Approach Three Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Society Customers & Supply Chain Reporting Scope Of Reporting CR Library Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Index Prev. Contents Next 64 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Scope Of Reporting Independent Practitioner's Assurance Report LIXIL Group Corporation has received independent practitioner's assurance from Deloitte Tohmatsu LIXIL Group Sustainability Co.,Ltd. regarding a portion of its environmental performance and employee-related information. Corporate The LIXIL Group is committed to providing prompt and transparent disclosure, seeking to build longIndependent Practitioner's Assurance Report (PDF:178KB) > Responsibility term trust of our stakeholders while achieving sustainable growth that complements society. We Report 2017 advance our Corporate Responsibility (CR) activities by establishing lasting relationships with our stakeholders through appropriate disclosure, reporting, and dialogue. Details of our CR activities and related information are disclosed on our website. We also provide an Our Approach update of CR activities in our annual report. Please also see the Corporate Governance section of this website for information on our corporate governance policies. Three Strategic Pillars Our People Reporting Period Environment Updated CR related information for FY2016 (April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017) has been published on October 31, 2017. We plan to update the report for the next fiscal year in September 2018. Society Customers & Supply Chain Coverage Reporting CR activities of LIXIL Group Corporation, as well as LIXIL Corporation and other consolidated subsidiaries are covered in the report. Scope Of Reporting The scope is provided in footnotes for matters that have narrower coverage. CR Library Please click below for further information on the scope of coverage: Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Index Employee-related Information (scope, method and period) (PDF:61KB) > Environmental performance information (scope, method and period) (PDF:61KB) > Prev. Contents Next 65 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR Library LIXIL Group Corporate The Current corporate responsibility activities are reported in the Sustainability section of this website. Responsibility Report 2017 FY 2015 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 (published March 2016) (PDF:9.2MB) > Our Approach Three Strategic Pillars Detailed information (FY2015) Our People Detailed action plan, KPI and target for governance(PDF:78KB) > Environment CR Activities (FY2012-2015) Targets and Results(PDF:288KB)> Employee-related Information (scope, method and period)(PDF:36KB) > Society Environmental performance Information (scope, method and period)(PDF:36KB) > Customers & Supply Chain Independent Practitioner's Assurance Report(PDF:188KB)> Reporting Scope Of Reporting CR Library FY 2014 Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Index CSR Management 2015 English version (published September 2015) (PDF:5.5MB) > FY 2013 CSR Management 2014 English version (published August 2014) (PDF:7.6MB) > Prev. Contents Next 66 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Index G4-11 a. Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ・A Fair & Rewarding Workplace > Labor-Management Relationship ・Responsible Supply Chain G4-12 a. Describe the organization's supply chain. Management > Working with our Suppliers LIXIL Group a. Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization's size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: ・Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, Corporate G4-13 closings, and expansions ・Invester Relations This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. ・Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and Responsibility alteration operations (for private sector organizations) ・Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Report 2017 ・Environmental Management ・Responsible Supply Chain GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-14 a. Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. Management > Management of Chemical Substances ・Sustainable Water Use > Conserving Our Approach Water in Business Activities Item Indicator Related Page ・Message > Commitment to the UN STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Global Compact Three Strategic Pillars a. List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or a. Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such G4-15 ・Messege > Message from the other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-1 as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the ・Message > Message from the CEO Corporate Responsibility (CR) organization and the organization's strategy for addressing sustainability. Committee Chairperson Our People a. List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or ・Annural Report 2017 / Measures against Risks That May Influence international advocacy organizations in which the organization: G4-2 a. Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Management Strategy (P.49-50) ・Holds a position on the governance body Environment ・Annural Report 2017/ Business risks G4-16 ・Participates in projects or committees － (P.67-68) ・Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues ・Views membership as strategic ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE This refers primarily to memberships maintained at the organizational level. Society G4-3 a. Report the name of the organization. ・Corporate Information IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-4 a. Report the primary brands, products, and services. ・About Us > LIXIL at a Glance a. List all entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements or G4-5 a. Report the location of the organization's headquarters. ・Corporate Information ・ 有価証券報告書／事業の内 Customers & Supply Chain equivalent documents. 容 (P.8-14) (Available in Japanese) a. Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of b. Report whether any entity included in the organization's consolidated financial G4-17 (PDF:2.2MB) G4-6 countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically ・Worldwide Presence statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. ・Annural Report 2017 / Principal relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. The organization can report on this Standard Disclosure by referencing the information in Reporting publicly available consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Group companies (P.69-70) G4-7 a. Report the nature of ownership and legal form. ・Corporate Information a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. a. Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types ・Material Issues > Material Issues G4-8 ・About Us > LIXIL at a Glance G4-18 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining of customers and beneficiaries). Selection Process Scope Of Reporting Report Content. a. Report the scale of the organization, including: CR Library ・otal number of employees G4-19 a. List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. ・Material Issues > List of LIXIL Group's Material Issues Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Index ・Total number of operations ・Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector ・Corporate Information a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as G4-9 organizations) ・About Us > LIXIL at a Glance follows: ・Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector ・Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization organizations) ・If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4・Quantity of products or services provided 17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: G4-20 ・Scope Of Reporting > Coverage –The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. material or b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. Contents –The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is Prev. Next c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. material d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. ・Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-10 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization's work is performed by workers ・Performance who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. 67 f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as a. Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: follows: ・Executive or non-executive ・Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization ・Independence ・Water Conservation & Environmental G4-21 ・If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of ・Tenure on the governance body Sustainability entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical ・Number of each individual's other significant positions and commitments, and the nature G4-38 ・Governance Framework location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified of the commitments LIXIL Group ・Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization ・Gender a. Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and ・Membership of under-represented social groups Corporate G4-22 the reasons for such restatements. － ・Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts ・Stakeholder representation a. Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect G4-23 － Responsibility Boundaries. ・Commitment to Corporate a. Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, Governance STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-39 if so, his or her function within the organization's management and the reasons for this ・LIXIL Group Board & Executive arrangement). Report 2017 G4-24 G4-25 a. Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. a. Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. ・Stakeholder Engagement ・Stakeholder Engagement a. Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its Officers committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body a. Report the organization's approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of ・Stakeholder Engagement members, including: G4-26 engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the ・A Fair & Rewarding Workplace > engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Employee Opinion Surveys ・Whether and how diversity is considered Our Approach G4-40 ・Whether and how independence is considered ・Governance Framework a. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, ・Stakeholder Engagement ・Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including G4-27 ・A Fair & Rewarding Workplace > social topics are considered through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics Three Strategic Pillars Employee Opinion Surveys ・Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved and concerns. a. Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are REPORT PROFILE avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, Our People G4-28 a. Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. ・Scope Of Reporting > Reporting including, as a minimum: ・ 有価証券報告書／役員の状 Period G4-41 ・Cross-board membership 況 (P.52-61) (Available in Japanese) ・Scope Of Reporting > Reporting ・Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders (PDF:2.2MB) G4-29 a. Date of most recent previous report (if any). ・Existence of controlling shareholder Period Environment ・Related party disclosures ・Scope Of Reporting > Reporting G4-30 a. Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). a. Report the highest governance body's and senior executives' roles in the development, Period G4-42 approval, and updating of the organization's purpose, value or mission statements, ・Governance Framework Society G4-31 a. Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ・Contact Us strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. a. Report the 'in accordance' option the organization has chosen. a. Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body's b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). G4-43 － ・Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. Customers & Supply Chain G4-32 c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally Index a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body's performance with assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be 'in accordance' with the Guidelines. respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a a. Report the organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Reporting G4-44 self-assessment. － assurance for the report. b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body's b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report ・Scope Of Reporting > Independent performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, G4-33 the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Practitioner's Assurance Report including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. Scope Of Reporting c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in a. Report the highest governance body's role in the identification and management of CR Library economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest seeking assurance for the organization's sustainability report. governance body's role in the implementation of due diligence processes. Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Index GOVERNANCE G4-45 ・Governance Framework b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance a. Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the body's identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, ・Governance Structure G4-34 highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on risks, and opportunities. ・Governance Framework economic, environmental and social impacts. a. Report the highest governance body's role in reviewing the effectiveness of the ・Governance Framework G4-46 a. Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social organization's risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. ・Risk Management G4-35 ・Governance Structure topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. a. Report the frequency of the highest governance body's review of economic, ・Annural Report 2017 / Review of G4-47 ・Governance Structure environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Corporate Governance (P.43) Prev. Contents Next G4-36 a. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post ・Governance Framework a. Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the ・CDP Climate Change Information G4-48 － holders report directly to the highest governance body. organization's sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. Request ・Annural Report 2017 / Risk a. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance G4-49 a. Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. Management (P.48-50) G4-37 body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe － 68 to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. a. Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the G4-50 － highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives CATEGORY: ECONOMIC for the below types of remuneration: ・Fixed pay and variable pay: –Performance-based pay Item Indicator Related Page –Equity-based pay –Bonuses ・Corporate Officer Compensation Aspect: Economic Performance LIXIL Group G4-51 –Deferred or vested shares ・ 有価証券報告書／役員報酬 ・About Us > LIXIL at a Glance ・Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments 等 (P.68-69) (Available in Japanese) G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ・LIXIL グループの概略 (Available in Corporate ・Termination payments ・Clawbacks (PDF:2.2MB) Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities Japanese) ・CDP Climate Change Information ・Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution G4-EC2 Responsibility due to climate change Request rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest ・ 有価証券報告書／確定給付制度 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations (P.121-125) (Available in Japanese) Report 2017 governance body's and senior executives' economic, environmental and social objectives. (PDF:2.2MB) a. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Not applicable G4-52 ・Corporate Officer Compensation of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have Aspect: Market Presence with the organization. Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at Our Approach a. Report how stakeholders' views are sought and taken into account regarding G4-EC5 significant locations of operation － G4-53 remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if － Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations applicable. G4-EC6 － of operation Three Strategic Pillars a. Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization's highestAspect: Indirect Economic Impacts paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total G4-54 － G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported ・Global Sanitation & Hygiene compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same Our People country. G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ・Global Sanitation & Hygiene a. Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the ・About Us > LIXIL at a Glance organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-55 － median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the Environment G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation － highest-paid individual) in the same country. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Society G4-56 a. Describe the organization's values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as ・Our Values ・Compliance CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL codes of conduct and codes of ethics. ・ Code of Conduct (PDF:3MB) a. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful ・Compliance > Internal ConcernCustomers & Supply Chain G4-57 Item Indicator Related Page behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. raising System Aspect: Materials ・Compliance > Concern-raising ・Performance > Material Balance System G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Reporting a. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical (INPUT) ・Compliance > Receiving Compliance G4-58 or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation Information from Business Partners G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials － through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. ・Human Rights > LIXIL's framework Aspect: Energy Scope Of Reporting for respecting human rights DMA ・Environmental Management CR Library ・Performance > Material Balance G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Index (INPUT) ・CDP Climate Change Information G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Request ・CDP Climate Change Information G4-EN5 Energy intensity Request Item Indicator Related Page ・Performance > Material Balance G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption (INPUT) DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Prev. Contents Next a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services － b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. Aspect: Water c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: ・Material Issues Selection Process ・Sustainable Water Use G4-DMA DMA ・The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach ・Key Performance Indicators ・Environmental Management ・The results of the evaluation of the management approach 69 ・Any related adjustments to the management approach LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 ・Sustainable Water Use > Water Aspect: Products and Services Usages G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ・環境配慮設計・エコ商品 (Available ・Performance > Material Balance in Japanese) (INPUT) DMA ・Greenhouse Gas Reduction > G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water － Improving Energy Efficiency of LIXIL Group G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused － Products and Services Aspect: Biodiversity ・Environmental Management > G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services Corporate Converted Economic Value Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of G4-EN11 － G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category － high biodiversity value outside protected areas Responsibility Aspect: Compliance Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in G4-EN12 － protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas ・Environmental Management > Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonG4-EN29 Preventing Pollution Through Strict Report 2017 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored － compliance with environmental laws and regulations Control of Chemical Substances Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats G4-EN14 － Aspect: Transport in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials ・Performance > Material Balance Aspect: Emissions G4-EN30 for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce (OUTPUT) ・Greenhouse Gas Reduction Our Approach DMA Aspect: Overall ・Environmental Management G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type － ・Performance > Material Balance (OUTPUT) Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment Three Strategic Pillars G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) ・CDP Climate Change Information ・Responsible Supply Chain Request DMA Management ・Performance > Material Balance Our People (OUTPUT) ・Responsible Supply Chain G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Management > Responsible ・CDP Climate Change Information G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Procurement Surveys and Follow-up Request Action Environment ・Performance > Material Balance ・Responsible Supply Chain (OUTPUT) Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and Management > Responsible G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) G4-EN33 ・CDP Climate Change Information actions taken Procurement Surveys and Follow-up Society Request Action ・Performance > CO2 Conversion Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Coefficients Used to Convert CO2 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through Customers & Supply Chain G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Emissions G4-EN34 formal grievance mechanisms － ・CDP Climate Change Information Request ・Performance > Material Balance Reporting CATEGORY: SOCIAL (OUTPUT) G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions ・CDP Climate Change Information Request Scope Of Reporting G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) － SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK CR Library ・Performance > Material Balance G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emission Item Indicator Related Page (OUTPUT) Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Index Aspect: Employment Aspect: Effluents and Waste DMA ・A Fair & Rewarding Workplace G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination － Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, Performance & Number of New Hires, ・Performance > Material Balance G4-LA1 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method gender and region Turnover Rate (OUTPUT) Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Not applicable G4-LA2 － employees, by significant locations of operation Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under Prev. Contents Next G4-EN25 the terms of the Basel Convention2 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported Not applicable G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ・A Fair & Rewarding Workplace > Supporting a Healthy Work-Life waste shipped internationally Balance Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats G4-EN26 － significantly affected by the organization's discharges of water and runoff 70 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Aspect: Labor/Management Relations SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are G4-LA4 － Item Indicator Related Page specified in collective agreements Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Aspect: Investment DMA Work Safety & Well-being Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that LIXIL Group Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health G4-HR1 include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening － G4-LA5 and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety ・A Fair & Rewarding Workplace Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning Corporate programs G4-HR2 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained ・Human Rights Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and G4-LA6 ・Work Safety & Well-being Responsibility G4-LA7 total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation ・Work Safety & Well-being Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken － Report 2017 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ・A Fair & Rewarding Workplace > Labor-Management Relationship Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association Aspect: Training and Education G4-HR4 and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to － support these rights DMA ・Talent Development Aspect: Child Labor Our Approach ・Talent Development > Annual G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category training hours and costs per Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, G4-HR5 － employee and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Three Strategic Pillars G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued ・Talent Development > Our Approach Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings to Talent Development Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or ・Stakeholder Engagement > Our Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, ・Talent Development > Evaluation G4-HR6 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or G4-LA11 Approach compulsory labor Our People by gender and by employee category Framework Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Aspect: Security Practices DMA ・Diversity & Equal Opportunity Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's human rights policies or G4-HR7 － Environment ・Diversity & Equal Opportunity procedures that are relevant to operations Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category ・Governance Framework Aspect: Indigenous Rights G4-LA12 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of ・Performance > Number of Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions G4-HR8 － Society diversity Employees by Type of Employment, taken Number of Employees by Country Aspect: Assessment Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights Customers & Supply Chain Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by G4-HR9 reviews or impact assessments － G4-LA13 － significant locations of operation Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices ・Responsible Supply Chain Reporting ・Responsible Supply Chain DMA Management DMA Management ・Responsible Supply Chain ・Responsible Supply Chain Management > Responsible Scope Of Reporting Management > Responsible G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria Procurement Surveys and Follow-up G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria Procurement Surveys and Follow-up CR Library Action Action ・Responsible Supply Chain Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Index ・Responsible Supply Chain Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and Management > Responsible Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain Management > Responsible G4-HR11 G4-LA15 actions taken Procurement Surveys and Follow-up and actions taken Procurement Surveys and Follow-up Action Action Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms DMA ・Human Rights ・Compliance > Concern-raising DMA Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through System G4-HR12 － formal grievance mechanisms Prev. Contents Next G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal － grievance mechanisms 71 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Item Indicator Related Page Item Indicator Related Page Aspect: Local Communities Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety LIXIL Group G4-SO1 assessments, and development programs － G4-PR1 impacts are assessed for improvement － G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities － Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes ・Product Safety & Quality > Corporate G4-PR2 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Responding to Serious Productrelated Accidents Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and Responsibility － G4-SO3 Aspect: Product and Service Labeling the significant risks identified DMA － G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures ・Compliance > Compliance Training Report 2017 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken － G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and ・環境配慮設計・エコ商品＞エコ訴求 マーク (Available in Japanese) Aspect: Public Policy service categories subject to such information requirements ・Stakeholder Engagement > Our Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary Approach G4-PR4 － concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Our Approach Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior ・Customer Satisfaction > Business G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly Customers G4-SO7 Not applicable practices and their outcomes Aspect: Communications Marketing Three Strategic Pillars Aspect: Compliance G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Not applicable Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non・Stakeholder Engagement > Our Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4-SO8 compliance with laws and regulations Approach G4-PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, Not applicable Our People Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society by type of outcomes ・Responsible Supply Chain Aspect: Privacy Customer DMA Management Environment G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and Not applicable ・Responsible Supply Chain losses of customer data Management > Responsible G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society Aspect: Compliance Procurement Surveys and Follow-up Society Action Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations G4-PR9 Not applicable concerning the provision and use of products and services ・Responsible Supply Chain Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and Management > Responsible Customers & Supply Chain G4-SO10 actions taken Procurement Surveys and Follow-up Action Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Reporting Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through G4-SO11 － formal grievance mechanisms Scope Of Reporting CR Library Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Index Prev. Contents Next 72 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 LIXIL Group Corporation 36F, Kasumigaseki Building, 3-2-5, Kasumigaseki, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-6036, Japan www.lixil.com
