PANINI CORNER LIMITED COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) BASIC TEMPLATE Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: Jan 2017 to Jan 2018 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) August 30,2017 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that PANINI CORNER LTD reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, …………………………………. [Mrs. GRACE NK MWANGI] [ CEO/FOUNDER] 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Commitments We are committed to comply with the Universal Declaration of Human rights and International Labour Organization (ILO) and Constitution of Kenya, 2010. We have developed an Employee Code of Conduct and Attendant Regulations Manual – a written policy document on respecting human rights and preventing abuse at our workplace. This policy seeks to protect workers from workplace harassment and related vices. In the coming year, the company will undertake a risk assessment of its operations to determine the most human rights violation prone areas for determination of mitigation. Implementation Human resource policies and procedures that have been established reinforce nonviolation of workers’ rights. The policies have spelt out mechanisms for dealing with any work place grievances and harassment. Worker safety and health is ensured by provision of clean, safe, hygienic working environment and sanitation facilities. Workers are provided with clean drinking water and free lunches. Measures of outcomes Successful implementation of the Human Rights policy will be measured by the number of Cases of Human rights violations reported to senior management for review, corrective actions initiated and closed and records maintained. Labour Rights Commitment to Rights  To adhere to all applicable labour laws of Kenya applicable to our type of business, International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions and other requirements  To identify and eliminate all forms of perceived labour malpractices  To be an equal opportunity employer devoid of any kind of discrimination based on gender, religion HIV status and other likely circumstances  The employ only qualified persons relevant to our work and issue job descriptions to enhance employee performance and satisfaction Activities implemented in the last year Written policies have been developed to spell out employee rights obligations and benefits to support fulfilment and non-violation of labour rights. Workers provided with Personal Protective Equipment appropriate to work they do, and are facilitated for the Mandatory medical examination as required by Public Health Authorities. Staff payments and other compensation are in accordance with minimum wage recommendations laid in applicable National Employment laws. Employees are free to join registered Labour unions that advance their welfare. Matter of staff recruitment and development are well stated in our policy documents. Implementation Grievance resolution mechanisms spelt out in Employment Policy documents. Reported grievances and violations are documented and handed over to management for determination as per stipulated procedures. We comply to applicable regulations governing work place and labour safety as well as public health. Measurement of Outcome Reduced Number of case grievances submitted to review by Senior management and records of solutions determined. Compliance certification by relevant oversight Authorities. ENVIRONMENT We are committed to operate and take initiatives that minimize our environmental footprint. Activities implemented in the last year • We have formulated an environmental policy statement and communicated it to our staff and stakeholders • Initiated e-sourcing for most of our supplies and payments thus cutting on paper use • Purchased colored bins to promote separation of all wastes leaving our premises to facilitate waste recycle Implementation Our day to day management and supervision activities ensure good housekeeping practices are maintained and wastage of materials and electricity are minimized. Planned maintenance of equipment and plumbing system in our facilities assist this. Full employee awareness training sessions on appropriate environmental management is our daily professional duty. In the coming year a baseline environmental audit will be undertaken and findings will be useful to anchor environmental protection Improvements through minimized wastage as well evidenced training for staff Measurements of outcome Periodic review of quantitative waste reduction and financial savings results by senior management. Certification of environmental management Compliance by oversight Authorities. ANTI-CORRUPTION We are Committed to: • Zero tolerance to corruption • To ensure full compliance to existing laws and regulations to eliminate potential platforms for bribery seekers • to apply ethical practices in our business sourcing • To embrace fair competition and negate inappropriate favors of any other kind to our business partners Implementation We shall continually undertake risk assessments of our operations to determine those most prone to corruption and bribery and develop mitigation measures. In the coming year all staff will be sensitized staff on legal compliance requirements relevant to hospitality business that are most likely to attract extortionist schemes. We shall mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in contracts and documents with business partners. Measurements of outcome No of cases of extortion or bribery reported by staff to senior management
