Our strategy Planet People Partners IMPACT About us 0 6 2 CHALHOUB GROUP Sustainability Report 2016 Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 1 Our strategy Planet A sustainable At Chalhoub, we have always believed in long-term thinking, since we started over 60 years ago. People business for now It is critical to our success. When we think of our future, we think of a strong, stable business – one Partners IMPACT and the future that creates great experiences for customers, About us looks after its people, and makes a positive impact on the world around it. How will we achieve that? By being sustainable. Being sustainable means ensuring our people are happy and healthy. It means becoming more efficient and using resources wisely to reduce our effect on our planet. It means working with our partners, suppliers and consumers to achieve positive outcomes through our products. And it means continuing the great work we have done through Chalhoub IMPACT – giving back to society through our partnerships, volunteering and education. Why does all this matter? Because it will make our business stronger, it will position us as a reference point for sustainable business, and it will make us a partner of choice for the world’s greatest luxury brands. And because we have a great opportunity to make a difference, with more than 12,000 dedicated people, over 650 stores and thousands of consumers to engage. And because – as a family business built on Respect, Excellence and Entrepreneurial Spirit – we have a duty to do the right thing. For now and the future. Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 2 Our strategy Planet Contents People Partners IMPACT 5 7– 9 10 –12 About us Strategy Planet People 13– 16 17– 23 24– 26 Partners IMPACT About Reading this report Create your own journey through this report by using the interactive links to navigate to the relevant information quickly and easily. The interactive section menu is constant throughout to help you find the information you are looking for, and there are internal and external links in the text identified by underlining. When you see the icon, hover over it to discover more. About this report We are proud to present our fourth Chalhoub Group What is GRI G4? Sustainability Report. The purpose of this document is to keep our stakeholders up-to-date with our sustainability policies and practices. We did not experience any significant changes during the reporting period with respect to our size, structure, The report covers the period from January to December ownership or supply chain compared to our 2015 2016 – to find out about our activities in previous years, Sustainability Report. you can read our earlier reports here. We would be delighted to hear your feedback – We have prepared the report in accordance with Global please contact us at impact@mailmac.net. Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core option. It covers our UAE operations: Chalhoub Group Retail, Allied Retail, Havas, M.C.T FZE, Real FZE, Real Emirates, as well as regional and local distribution companies. Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 3 Our strategy Planet Sustainability... The Chalhoub Group has been supporting the development of luxury brands in the region for To have a bigger positive impact on the communities where we operate, we want to People Not just a word the past six decades. During this time, we have remained committed to responsible business involve more employees in our Chalhoub IMPACT initiatives. Our objective is to create a strong Partners behaviours, considering the impact of our network of Ambassadors who understand the operations on local communities, the people sustainability challenge and can help embed IMPACT we work with and the surrounding environment. sustainability further into our activities. About us We were pleased to be accepted as a member Sustainability is not just a part of what we do – of the United Nations Global Compact in 2014, it is a way of life and at the heart of how we run and as part of this, have committed to reporting our business. yearly on our achievements, focusing on four main areas: taking care of our PEOPLE, our PARTNERS, the PLANET and IMPACT. Marie-Hélène Straus Chief Officer Consumer & Innovation Strategies What is the UN Global Compact? We want to make sure our PEOPLE are happy, and have continuous access to education, training and coaching. Gulfanisation is high on our agenda – we aim to recruit and build a career path for young nationals in the countries where we operate. Gender equality is also important – in 2016, 51% of our workforce was made up of women, and we aim to have an equal balance of women at all levels of the Company. Diversity drives performance; with over 100 nationalities present in the Group. In 2016, we also started to integrate people with disabilities into our business. When it comes to our PARTNERS and the products we distribute, we want to open a dialogue about sustainability and share best practices on ethical and responsible business. We have launched our Supplier Assessment Programme to raise environmental awareness among our partners and further control our footprint. Our third area of focus is the PLANET. We are committed to efficiently using resources to deliver environmental improvements. The upgrading of our head office in Jebel Ali, Dubai, is a good example of this. We are introducing several energysaving solutions, such as a solar panel system in 2018, which is expected to lower our energy consumption by 35%. In 2017, we will launch our STEP (Store Towards Earth Protection) programme, which will help us measure sustainability in our stores. We will also use our new Chalhoub Sustainability Performance software to monitor sustainability data and set ourselves targets. Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 4 Our strategy Planet Our strategy: Planet Our ambition People A sustainable Improve the efficiency of our operations, including our buildings, Partners IMPACT business for now stores and logistics, and use resources wisely to reduce our About us and the future effect on the planet. Communicating on our sustainability We are supporting strategy in 2016 was an important step in the UN’s Sustainable our ongoing commitment to operating Development Goals responsibly. It is critical that we manage our impact across our entire business, which is why we have focused on four main areas: People, Partners, Planet and People Our ambition Ensure our people are happy IMPACT. Click on our areas of focus to and healthy, and to continue to discover more. be recognised as an employer of choice in the Middle East. Watch our strategy come to life Connecting our strategy to the broader sustainability agenda We are supporting the UN’s Sustainable As a member of the United Nations Development Goals Global Compact (UNGC), we are fully committed to supporting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), launched by the UN in 2015. The 17 Goals Partners Our ambition Achieve a positive impact across aim to end poverty, protect the planet our value chain by working with and ensure prosperity for all by 2030. suppliers and partners to influence sustainable practices. What do the 17 SDGs mean for Chalhoub Group? It is really important that our own sustainability efforts contribute to the global agenda. Explore the strategy diagram to discover We are supporting which of the SDGs we are supporting the UN’s Sustainable through each area of our strategy. Development Goals Chalhoub Our strategy is also aligned to the Dubai Our ambition Plan 21 and the UAE Green Growth Giving back to the community by Strategy, which promote sustainable development in the Middle East. IMPACT empowering youth, taking care of our planet and providing support to those in need. What are the SDGs? What is the Dubai Plan 21? What is the UAE Green Growth Strategy? We are supporting the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 5 Our strategy Planet A viewpoint When my grandparents began the business over 60 years ago, they quickly realised there was a People from the next future for luxury shopping in the Middle East. Today, and over 650 stores later, the Group is generation Partners leading the way, driving sustainable development, and aligning its sustainability approach with its IMPACT core business objectives. About us Prioritising, ‘People’, ‘Partners’ and ‘Planet’, as well as continuing to develop the Group’s philanthropic IMPACT initiatives, reflects my family’s commitment to the long-term continuation of the business and its contribution to wider society. It is my belief that our Planet lies at the heart of everything. The Earth provides us with the resources to achieve great things, and the food and environment to nourish people. Our Planet gives us life, and sustains us. We need and have to respect the environment – and everyone should be doing their part. From everyday habits such as avoiding food waste and minimising our use of plastic, to separating our rubbish and recycling, we can all contribute to protecting our Planet in very simple basic ways. And I know that at Chalhoub, people take seriously the issue to combat climate change, and encouraging others to do the same. Whether you are reading this report because you are a customer, partner or employee, or just simply out of interest, I hope it will inspire you to take action. Aurelia Chalhoub Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 6 Our strategy Planet People Partners IMPACT About us P L AN E T What is our ambition? To improve the efficiency of our operations, including our buildings, stores and logistics, and use energy and water wisely to reduce our How do we make a difference? • Environmental Policy measures • STEP (Stores Towards Earth's Protection) certificate • ‘Chalhoub Sustainability What are our targets? • Continue to reduce our carbon emissions • Lower our electricity use across our stores, offices and environmental footprint. Performance’ software warehouses • Recycling bins and awareness • Continue to reduce our overall What does it mean for Chalhoub campaigns water consumption employees? • Reduce our level of waste Doing my bit to reduce energy, • Continue to improve recycling water and waste in our offices rates across the business and stores. Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 7 Our strategy Planet Managing our Our new Taking steps towards People resources wisely Environmental Policy protecting our planet Partners Doing our bit for the planet requires us to look at In 2016, we developed our new Chalhoub Group In 2016, we developed a new initiative: STEP (Stores IMPACT every part of our business, from the way we design Environmental Policy, which replaces the former Towards Earth’s Protection) certification. This About us and work in our stores and offices, to the efficiency Environmental policy from 2014. programme will help us make our 650+ stores more of our logistics and distribution. sustainable, helping reduce our environmental The new policy, which we began to implement in footprint. It will also help us to increase our By taking small steps towards greater sustainability, January 2017, is more demanding and for the first colleagues’ and customers’ engagement, we are also helping secure the future of our time includes a set of specific, actionable measures promoting a culture of environmental protection. business. Fixing our air conditioning at 24°C for relating to energy, water and waste. For example, example, has the potential to reduce our CO2 to reduce the amount of drinking water we waste We have created a set of criteria based on the U.S. emission by 1,416 tonnes and saves us more than every day in our offices, we now serve glasses on Green Building Council recommendations (LEED $280,000 every year. request adapting to consumption. certification framework) and our new Environmental Policy. In 2017, 132 of our stores will fill in a Small steps for us as a company – and as individuals We are monitoring our progress in achieving these questionnaire, covering energy and water efficiency, – add up to a big difference, helping Dubai achieve measures and will report performance internally materials and resources, waste management and its Green Strategy, and the UAE reach its 2030 on a quarterly basis and externally in our next recycling, sustainable behaviour and training, our Sustainability Goals. sustainability report. brands’ commitment to sustainability, innovation and design process. Stores that achieve at least 12 points out of 20 will become STEP certified, and we will help Why is it important to protect the environment? those that score below adopt corrective actions to improve their sustainability performance. “Whether we are recycling a piece of paper, switching off a light or printing double-sided, every one of us has a part to play in improving the efficiency of our business, and ultimately, protecting our planet.” – Nancy Avila Logistics QHSE Officer 2 016 2 016 DEVELOPED NEW DEVELOPED ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY STEP CERTIFICATION 2 017 2 017 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE WE WILL ROLL THIS OUT ACROSS ALL NEW POLICY GROUP-WIDE AND 132 OF OUR NEW STORES REPORT ON TARGETS Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 8 Our strategy Planet New software to CASE STUDY #01 People monitor performance Making plastic recycling Partners more efficient In 2016, we introduced Chalhoub Sustainability The software also includes what we call a IMPACT Performance – a new software to collect and ‘Sustainability Profit & Loss’, which helps us Our Main Warehouse in Jebel Ali About us monitor sustainability data in a user-friendly, understand how much money we could save from used to collect plastic waste in centralised and consistent manner. some of our environmental aspects. For instance, outdoor containers, which needed in 2016 across our offices and warehouses in the a lot of space and took time With this data, we can create benchmarks, UAE, we spent 3,089,540 USD on electricity, water, and energy for our employees to set targets, and share our performance with gasoline and office paper. We are determined to transport, often in hot and humid employees to help motivate them to be even set targets and take actions that help us reduce our temperatures. more efficient. A total of 54 employees are already consumption of these items and therefore achieve involved in the data collection and analysis, financial savings. The solution? In October 2016, increasing their sense of responsibility we replaced the containers and and ownership. installed a high capacity baler to compress the plastic. The baler took up far less space than the WATER USE ELECTRICITY container, making recycling collection easier and more efficient. CONSUMPTION Throughout 2016, we recycled a 2014 2014 total of 28,110 kg of plastic waste 56,829,864 litres 2015 14,174,422 kWh across our Logistic sites, compared 17,158,034 kWh to 21,892 kg in 2015, and thanks to the new system we expect this figure to increase in 2017. 2015 52,989,111 litres 2016 2016 32,468,135 litres 18,071,974 kWh “During 2016, we earned $47,200 thanks to recycling paper, Discover more about water use Discover more about our electricity consumption cardboard, plastic and wood pallets. And we CO2 EMISSIONS RECYCLING are only recycling 9% of 2014 2014 our total waste… If we all 11,623 tonnes 206,041 kg recycled more – we could 2015 double this figure!” 8,579 tonnes 2015 208,950 kg – Marouane Rihoum Group Logistics Manager 2016 11,766 tonnes 2016 221,816 kg N.B. We are using the GHG Protocol, which calculates 0.597 kg of CO2 per kWh and 2.272 kg of CO2 per litre of gasoline. CO2 emissions from electricity only. In 2016, Discover more about our carbon emissions Discover more about our recycling we included those produced by fuel. Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 9 Our strategy Planet People Partners IMPACT About us PEOPLE What is our ambition? Ensure our people are happy and healthy, and to continue How do we make a difference? • Chalhoub Retail Academy • Chalhoub Excellence Awards What are our targets? • Continue to improve the retention of talented employees to be recognised as an employer • Good to Great Programme • Improve diversity, including of choice in the Middle East. • GCC frontline and graduate better representation of women programmes in senior management positions What does it mean for Chalhoub • Integration of People with • Improve employee satisfaction employees? Disabilities (PwD) year-on-year Living and breathing Chalhoub’s • ‘I LOVE ME’ wellbeing • Recruit and retain more Gulf values through collaboration campaign nationals at all levels and teamwork. • Continue to invest in learning, development and innovation Chalhoub Chaloub Sustainability Group Sustainability Report 2016 Report 2016 10 Our strategy Planet Developing our Innovations in CASE STUDY #02 People people Learning Our first ever Mentoring Partners Programme With over 12,000 team members, ensuring Online communication has become so much IMPACT everyone is progressing, motivated and supported a part of our daily lives that we recognised the We wanted to find a way to About us in their roles is no easy task – but it is crucial to need to adapt our Learning & Development develop and prepare our future retaining our employees, and guaranteeing the programmes to make it easier for our employees leaders for their next role and future success of our business. to learn ‘on the go’. In 2016, we launched our strengthen succession planning new online learning tools and a platform to share within the Group. Learning and Development (L&D) is a top priority best practices through JAM, our internal social for us. We look at it as an ongoing journey, and collaboration platform. The solution? In 2016, we launched personalise learning programme to the needs our first Chalhoub Mentoring of different parts of the Group. Our employees Yet, while online tools help to make learning more Programme for our High Potentials, experience development activities in a variety accessible, sometimes there can be no substitute Key Talents and Senior Leaders. of ways – in the classroom, through workshops, for hands-on learning. We have introduced our This 12-month programme seminars, games, Learning Labs and other forums. first ever Mentoring Programme – take a look at pairs up Mentors and Mentees Our L&D offers all levels of technical, behavioural our case study – and we ran our first experiential based on expertise and career and leadership skills, and since 2013 has been at Teambuilding and Alignment Workshop for our development plans, for monthly the heart of our development plans and team at Tryano. Our Leadership and Behavioural mentoring sessions. During 2016, performance reviews. Skills programmes have also been revamped to 14 mentors and 12 mentees match skillsets to different roles. enrolled in the programme. Experiential Teambuilding: what does it involve? “The monthly meetings have been really insightful and motivating. These sessions are really helping me to realise my achievements and further improve upon them. The experience that is being shared with me encourages me to reach for higher goals and more clearly define where I want to grow in the organisation.” – Lama Haddad Brand Marketing Manager 2 016 2 016 49 COLLEAGUES ENROLLED IN DEVELOPMENT 2,719 EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATED PROGRAMMES IN L&D PROGRAMMES 2 017 2 017 67 TO BE ENROLLED IN DEVELOPMENT 2,880 EMPLOYEES WILL PARTICIPATE PROGRAMMES IN L&D PROGRAMMES Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 11 Our strategy Planet Gulfanisation Putting safety first Employee wellbeing People We are a truly global Group, with our people We won’t compromise on safety; we therefore It is important to us that our employees are coming from over 100 countries around the world. work hard to make sure our people are protected happy and healthy, both for the sake of their Partners We also understand the importance of our national and able to work in a safe environment without own wellbeing and the long-term success of IMPACT workforce. So our dedicated team responsible for endangering themselves. In 2016, we spent a our business. About us championing Gulfanisation has created specific total of 4,200 hours on safety training – an almost programmes to attract, develop and retain the 37% increase compared to the previous year. This To support healthy living, we provide our very best regional young talents. helped us maintain our recordable incident rate employees with medical insurance and discounts of less than one for every 100,000 hours worked. for gym memberships. Every year, our teams WeWhathaveisbeen inspired by the talent that we Gulfanisation? participate in the Dubai Marathon to raise have seen.comprise Foreigners we hired In 2016, 95% of the six UAEpeople fromThis our workforce*. In 2016, we also introduced important measures awareness about the importance of good health. prestigious proportion of Emirati talentedGraduate Programme, workers from and other countries to protect our people and customers in our stores. We provide health checks, such as blood tests and enrolled six new, has significantly motivated boosted the economy in ourto candidates region. These include our new safety standards for ‘Back flu vaccinations. the But Programme. it is important to champion Emirati nationals and of House’ storage areas, and SORT – our new promote greater opportunities to nurture local talent. computer-based safety checklist that must be Sport is also a great way to stay healthy and have WeGulfanisation focused on is about just that. recruiting Our Gulfanisation nationals into frontline completed before stores open each day. fun as a team. Our 19 sports teams compete in efforts roles – open an area up opportunities which we had for Emirati nationals, challenges with corporate competitions all year round, supported insuch theas our Emirati Graduate Programme. past. Only one year on, we surpassed our Despite our excellent safety record, we continue by professional coaches in their weekly training. Emirati Retail Development Programme target of 10 * The UAE State of the Green Economy Report (2014). to be vigilant, and learn from any small incidents recruits, hiring 12 candidates, some of whom have that may occur. already gone on to win service excellence awards. What is Gulfanisation? “Gulfanisation is one of our greatest priorities at Chalhoub Group. We are working hard to provide rewarding and longterm career prospects for Gulf Nationals, to help them excel from graduate programmes into senior management positions.” – Wassim Eid Chief Human Resources Officer 2 016 2 016 2 016 HIRED 62 GCC NATIONALS AND REDUCED RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE 12% OF TOP MANAGEMENT ARE WOMEN, TURNOVER BY 11.6%, GCC NATIONALS <1 PER 10 0,0 0 0 HOURS WORKED 42% OF MIDDLE MANAGEMENT ARE WOMEN MAKE UP 4% OF THE GROUP 2 017 2 017 2 017 CONTINUE HIRING AND INCREASING TALENT WE WILL MAINTAIN RECORDABLE WE WILL INCREASE WOMEN IN SENIOR RETENTION, SO WE REACH 5% GCC INCIDENT RATE BELOW 1 PER MANAGEMENT BY 2% NATIONALS IN THE GROUP 10 0,0 0 0 HOURS Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 12 Our strategy Planet People Partners IMPACT About us PA R T NE RS What is our ambition? How do we make a difference? What are our targets? Achieve a positive impact across • Sustainable Supply Chain policy • Increase number of suppliers our value chain by working • Supplier scorecard and partners signing our with partners and suppliers to • Electronic receipts system Sustainable Supply Chain policy influence sustainable practices. • Increase proportion of suppliers and partners meeting What does it mean for Chalhoub or exceeding minimum employees? requirements in our supplier Putting sustainability at the heart sustainability scorecard of supplier, partner and consumer • Half of all receipts to be conversations, and learning e-receipts about the products we sell. • Increase sales from products with certified sustainability credentials Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 13 Our strategy Planet Engaging with Our new Sustainable CASE STUDY #03 People partners and suppliers Supply Chain Initiative Pioneering electronic receipts Partners in the Middle East If we are to drive sustainability in the Middle In 2016, we took measures to further understand IMPACT East, we need to work together with our and positively influence our partners’ and suppliers’ Every year, we spend $100,000 About us partners and suppliers and engage them sustainability practices, such as our new Sustainable on paper for receipts in the UAE on our sustainability journey. Supply Chain Policy and online Supplier Scorecard. alone. This figure doesn’t even include indirect costs, such as As a member of the United Nations Global Our Sustainable Supply Chain Policy sets out our toner, printers, transport and Compact (UNGC), we expect all our partners expectation that suppliers will: en­ergy. We wanted to reduce and suppliers to maintain effective management costs, lower our environ­mental systems in compliance with the UNGC Principles. • Uphold high ethical business practices, and impact, and be a major driving These include integrating environmental, always act with respect, honesty, integrity force for change in the GCC. occupational health and safety, human rights and fairness. and labour policies, and ethical issues into • Ensure that their operations, services and The solution? We gave customers business and decision-making processes. products comply with all laws and regulations. the choice to receive receipts by • Conduct all their business dealings in a socially email, rather than using paper. As well as understanding our partners’ and and environmentally responsible way. In 2016, we launched electronic suppliers’ (upstream) impact, we want to improve receipts in our Point of Sale practices with our customers (downstream). Our new Supplier Scorecard will help us better system, which is used in most of So in 2016, we also began to communicate understand our suppliers’ commitment to our stores. So far, we estimate with customers about sustainable practices sustainability, and might inform our procurement that customers have requested to encourage behaviour change. decisions as well as highlight areas for improvement. around 40,000 e-receipts (5% of The Scorecard includes questions about UNGC the total). With approximately Learn more about our value chain Principles, including governance and transparency, 1.65 million transactions each year, anti-corruption practices, and community and an estimated 2 million in the engagement. UAE, this project has the potential to have a big impact on both our environmental footprint and business profits. In 2017, we will run an awareness-raising campaign to encourage more people to switch to e-receipts. “We are strongly committed to operating in an ethical and sustainable manner. Not only is it the right thing to do, good business practices also help us strengthen relationships with our employees, partners, suppliers and local communities. In the 2 016 2 016 end, this is what will lead us to LAUNCHED NEW SUPPLY CHAIN POLICY, AND SUPPLIER SCORECARD LAUNCHED ELECTRONIC RECEIPT SYSTEM AND SAVED 40,0 0 0 PAPER RECEIPTS long-term business success.” – Fadi Jabbour 2 017 2 017 AT LEAST 50 PARTNERS OR SUPPLIERS 50% OF ALL OUR RECEIPTS WILL Chief Operating Officer TO FILL THE SUPPLIER SCORECARD BE E-RECEIPTS Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 14 Our strategy “The Chalhoub Group’s authentic Planet commitment to the goals of CASE STUDY #04 People sustainability positively impacts Selling desirable products that Partners the evolving culture of better have a positive impact IMPACT corporate governance in As well as selling great products About us the region as a whole. With that our customers want to buy, we wanted to try to make a positive a corporate culture firmly difference through our sales. rooted in the guiding principles The solution? We sell products embodied by the Pearl Initiative, made responsibly and ethically. the Chalhoub Group are ideal A great example is our 100% organic partners in realising our collective cotton kids’ t-shirt range called ‘The Orenda Tribe’. We sell these vision of a thriving regional in our Level Kids and Tryano stores, economy underpinned by a as well as other shops in Jordan, Dubai, Lebanon and Saudi Arabia. Private Sector that embraces To find the designs for this range, best practice in transparency, we use drawings from children in diversity and anti-corruption places like refugee camps, low “O renda is a mystical socio-economic communities as pillars of sustainable growth and orphanages. A minimum of force present in all and competitiveness.” 10% of the funds from these t-shirts people that empowers goes back into the children’s them to affect the world, communities, to fund art-related – Badr Jafar projects – such as art therapy – or to effect change Founder of the Pearl Initiative and that will help even more children. in their own lives. Like CEO of Crescent Enterprises Orenda, we want to use the strength of our brands and business, to have a positive impact on underprivileged children.” – Miral Youssef General Manager, Level Kids Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 15 Our strategy Planet Joining forces What targets have you set for responsible sourcing? How do you monitor farmer conditions? People with Firmenich to Firmenich is now taking a further step in our responsible sourcing programme with a company The jasmine originated from our partner in India, Jasmin Concrete, the leader there in floral extracts champion responsible Partners commitment to engage in the ‘Deep Roots 2020’ and natural specialties. In 2016, we joined forces programme, to secure a sustainable supply of highwith an international non-profit to conduct primary IMPACT quality natural ingredients, in full transparency. research on jasmine farmers and pickers, to About us sourcing We aim to build 40 responsible sourcing projects, develop insights into the community’s conditions. To really understand how we work with suppliers directly reaching 100,000 farmers and improving We found that, while 82% are small or marginal to drive sustainability and engage them on our the livelihoods of 250,000. We will work with 20 key farmers with plots no bigger than five hectares, journey, meet Dominique Roques, Head of suppliers in Naturals Together, involve 50 suppliers 100% consider jasmine grandiflorum farming Naturals Sourcing at Firmenich. in a continuous improvement programme, and either very or somewhat profitable, have access impact 100 supply chains. to drinking water and can access medical services within seven kilometres. Please tell us a bit about Firmenich… Can you tell us more about the natural raw materials sourced for Chalhoub? What would you say is Firmenich’s key contribution Firmenich is the largest family-owned company in to responsible sourcing? the flavours and fragrance industry. Sustainability is Our perfumers use numerous sustainably-sourced in our DNA – we source and craft the most precious, natural raw materials to create Violet, Vetiver, Our Naturals Together community is based on new innovative and sustainable natural ingredients. Sandalwood, Patchouli oils for Chalhoub. business models, shared innovation and responsible sourcing. By engaging our customers with our For Chalhoub’s oriental fragrance brand Ghawali, For example, the vanilla is sourced from partners in the fields, we are driving changes, our perfumers found inspiration in oriental layering Madagascar – the world’s largest vanilla-producing supporting farming communities and setting the rituals and nature’s abundance to create the many country and one of the poorest. We started path for the future. oils and scents that you can now find, like Jasmine, working with organic vanilla in the late 1990s, Violet, Nectar or Oud to name a few… launched our first Fair Trade vanilla in 2007 and were the first flavour company to source Rainforest How would you sum up your responsible Alliance Certified™ vanilla in 2012. Building on sourcing strategy? our long-term commitment to responsibly source natural raw materials, Firmenich also co-funded Firmenich sources 180 different crops from all a medical dispensary in the Savanille vanilla around the globe, and 90% of our suppliers of farmers’ co-operative. natural raw materials are smallholder farmers. Sustainability, innovation and knowledge-sharing Where does your Oud come from? are key to ensure the permanence of these precious and diverse raw materials. This extraordinary ingredient, one of the earliest fragrances that ever existed, is derived from the Firmenich’s Naturals Together platform, created in tree aquilaria. Firmenich partnered with Jalali, 2014, aims to improve the livelihoods of smallholder in Bangladesh, to source high-quality Oud there. farmers, foster biodiversity, minimise environmental impact, and encourage collaboration between Jalali, a family-owned company, has been farmers, producers, creators and consumers. producing sustainable Oud for three generations. The platform’s work includes responsible sourcing Their plantation includes 500,000–600,000 trees, practices to ensure the long-term availability and they replant 20 trees for each one they use. of raw materials. Part of their revenue is reinvested in Bangladesh, to support local social initiatives, and replant new trees. Our supplier continues growing seedlings that will only be harvested in 10 or 20 years, Dominique Roques effectively preserving the planet’s biodiversity Head of Naturals Sourcing at Firmenich for the generations to come. Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 16 Our strategy Planet People Partners IMPACT About us I M PAC T What is our ambition? Giving back to the community by empowering youth, taking care of our planet and providing support How do we make a difference? • Education • Environment • Humanitarian What are our targets? • Organise 100+ IMPACT activities per year • Involve 3,500+ of our employees to those in need. • Make a positive impact on 2,000+ students What does it mean for Chalhoub • Increase the number of IMPACT employees? Ambassadors by 10% Be part of the IMPACT initiatives: promote and participate in volunteering activities. Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 17 Our strategy Chalhoub IMPACT “I get involved in many IMPACT events Planet every year. Doing little things for others, People Chalhoub IMPACT represents our longstanding commitment to giving back to society. Led by picking up a plastic bottle from the beach Partners or planting a tree gives me real enjoyment our 115 IMPACT Ambassadors, we want to involve IMPACT each and every one of our employees in our and makes me feel great fulfilment.” About us efforts to make a positive difference. We establish partnerships, organise volunteering initiatives and play a significant role in the communities where – Aldrin Lirio we work in three areas: education, environment and humanitarian. Logistics Administrator We are proud that in 2016, 3,305 colleagues – roughly one-quarter of our entire Group – participated in 100 different IMPACT initiatives across the region. Together, we dedicated an incredible 5,160 hours to volunteering. And our initiatives benefited 19,343 people in need in the community. Watch our Chalhoub IMPACT video to see our initiatives in action. Watch our IMPACT video Our proudest achievements STUDENTS WHO RECEIVED TOTAL INITIATIVES YTD TOTAL VOLUNTEERS 2016 TOTAL AMBASSADORS 2016 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT IN 2016 100 +100% 3,305 +16% 115 +92% 2,044 +86% Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 18 Our strategy Planet Meet our IMPACT Ambassadors People Partners LINA MAROUN RAMI RIMAN MEGHNA HARJANI IMPACT Learning Analyst, Dubai Department Supervisor, Dubai Project Coordinator, Dubai About us Why did you decide to become an IMPACT What do you enjoy most about your role as Which specific IMPACT initiatives have you been Ambassador? an IMPACT Ambassador? involved in during 2016? Since my childhood, I have always been active in Sustainability is what the Chalhoub Group is all I took part in the Chalhoub Under Water Clean-up humanitarian projects, so when I joined the Group about in everything we do, starting from our dives, and helped out in the Gift of Giving Retail five years ago, it felt like a natural continuation to Values. I most enjoy convincing other employees campaign. I was also involved in the tree-planting do my part to raise awareness and ‘walk the talk’. to participate in our activities and to become event, IMPACT Ambassador Masdar City Visit and Ambassadors themselves. supported the Hope for Cancer campaign, selling Which specific IMPACT initiatives have you been pins to HR colleagues. involved in during 2016? Which specific IMPACT initiatives have you been involved in during 2016? What’s the most challenging part of being an Being the lead trainer of the orientation IMPACT Ambassador? programme, I have a unique opportunity to I have been an IMPACT Ambassador since 2012. recruit participants from the very beginning of the In 2016, the main initiative I assisted in was Trying to convince other employees to become employees’ journey, and I am increasingly moving collecting money for our Gift of Giving campaign, socially conscious individuals who engage our team away from using paper. and also communicating about the campaign in sustainable living – it is easy to ask them to with colleagues. participate in activities, but it is about convincing What do you hope to achieve as an IMPACT people to adopt a sustainable way of life inside Ambassador over the next five years? What do you hope to achieve as an IMPACT and outside of these activities. Ambassador over the next five years? I hope to incorporate more of the UN Global What do you hope to achieve as an IMPACT Compact (UNGC) Principles into our training Over the next five years, I hope to be able to Ambassador over the next five years? courses (see About this report for more information encourage more people to get involved. on UNGC). I also want to increase training across Right now as Ambassadors, we participate in and the Group, and further digitise our processes to promote all IMPACT activities. I hope that in the eventually go completely paperless. And I would future I will be able to initiate and lead campaigns. like to increase collaboration with institutions such And I hope that I can work with my department to as our education partners, Jusoor and INJAZ. integrate more sustainable practices. Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 19 Our strategy Planet Education Initiatives Supporting leaders of the future People Discover more about our total impact Partners We support leaders of the future by IMPACT sending them to One Young World, a global forum empowering them to About us make lasting connections and develop 100,000 Building schools for underprivileged children solutions to some of the world’s biggest challenges. Students from our partner universities apply and our employees are invited to apply. We then select Our Education Retail campaign supports those with the best applications to the education of underprivileged children. attend. In 2016, six employees and three We sold 6,589 keychains to our customers USD raised to educate students attended the conference throughout our 150 stores in the UAE. In underprivileged children in Ottawa, Canada. partnership with Dubai Cares, we designated the funds to build two schools in Al Tireh and Discover more Deir Abu Mashal, Ramallah, West Bank. 9 Funding education for Syrian refugee children 800 Giving backpacks to children employees and for the new school year students attended Through our annual Gift of Giving campaign, the Group buys thousands of school bags (which are made of recycled plastic bottles). Employees from all our regional offices give out school stationery. The filled bags are then distributed to Syrian refugee children in school underprivileged children ahead of the school year. Since 2014, we have been providing education Discover more 13,910 and essential support to children from Syria by fully funding the Chalhoub – Jusoor Literacy Centre in Bekaa, Lebanon. We do this in partnership with Jusoor, a non-profit, apolitical, secular organisation that offers education to Syrian refugees. In 2016, we also built a playground for the children, and every winter we provide a package of clothes to help keep the kids warm. backpacks distributed to Discover more underprivileged children Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 20 Our strategy Planet Education Initiatives University Guest Lectures People To share knowledge and bridge Partners the gap between academia and 1,067 IMPACT industry, our experts lecture on a range of topics related to luxury About us fashion and the retail industry at five universities across the UAE. Discover more students attended Equipping fashion entrepreneurs Sharing insights at the with the skills to succeed AUS Luxury Symposium We want to support entrepreneurship, strengthen Our conference in collaboration economic growth and help to create more jobs in with our partner, the American 326 the design industry regionally and internationally. University of Sharjah, brings together Through our new partnership with the Dubai Design Chalhoub professionals, academics, Fashion Council (DDFC) we offer our experience economists and students of business, to designers through workshops and presentations design and communications, across a range of topics. to advance knowledge of the luxury sectors in the GCC. In 2016, the theme was understanding Discover more challenges and opportunities for digital in luxury business. people from the fashion industry attended 40 Mentoring students during an Innovation Day students mentored In partnership with non-profit business education organisation INJAZ UAE, we shared our business expertise with students through an Innovation Day. 15 were selected to do job shadowing across the organisation. 630 students attended our AUS Luxury Symposium Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 21 Our strategy Planet Environment Initiatives Planting trees for Earth Hour People In honour of Earth Day, Discover more about our total impact Partners we held our annual Tree IMPACT Planting event. We planted 160 Ghaf Trees, which About us Switching off the lights are local and sustainable for Earth Hour 160 and grow in harsh, desert environments. To celebrate Earth Hour, and raise Discover more awareness of climate change, we switched off the lights for one hour 498 in 160 stores across nine countries (Bahrain, Lebanon, Qatar, Kuwait, KSA, UAE, Egypt, India and Jordan). store employees switched off the lights trees planted Cleaning the Gulf Coast Recycling as a family Protecting marine life by picking up rubbish from the seabed Every year, we run beach clean-up events with employees and their families in UAE, Kuwait and Bahrain, with the goal of raising awareness about According to WWF, some marine environmental protection and conserving fragile species populations have halved in ecosystems for future generations. just four decades. We are committed to protecting the other half, and run Discover more an annual underwater clean-up 50 with Emirates Diving Association. Discover more colleagues participated 85 in our Family Recycling Day 156 As part of our ongoing efforts to promote recycling, we run an annual Family Recycling Day for employees and their families. We ask everyone to collect waste from their home that is used by our partner, Emirates colleagues volunteered pieces of rubbish collected Environmental Group, to run live in the clean-up recycling demonstrations on the day. from the ocean Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 22 Our strategy Planet Humanitarian Initiatives Raising awareness about cancer People 178,000 Discover more about our total impact Partners IMPACT 60 About us Boosting the confidence of female cancer patients USD raised and survivors In partnership with the Friends of Cancer Patients (UAE) and National Home Health Care Foundation (KSA), we run our annual campaign in our stores to raise awareness about cancer. We sell pins to raise funds to support cancer patients. cancer patients and survivors participated Discover more To help boost women’s wellbeing and Sponsoring the confidence, we organise Colour My Beirut Marathon World makeover sessions for female cancer patients and survivors. The Beirut Marathon strives to inspire unity, promote wellness and positively change lifestyles. We support the marathon’s ‘Adopt a Team’ programme, and sponsored one team of 45 underprivileged children from Jusoor to participate. Supporting Breast Cancer Awareness Month 231 45 Our store, office and warehouse colleagues raised employees participate in various awareness of breast cancer activities for Breast Cancer Awareness Month, such as ‘Wear Pink to Work’, our Cancer children sponsored Awareness Quiz, and ‘Walkathon’. to run in the Beirut Marathon Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 23 Our strategy Planet People Partners IMPACT About us ABOUT Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 24 Our strategy Planet About us Our governance United Nations People With an expertise spanning six decades in luxury, the Chalhoub Group is a leading player in the bodies & structures Global Compact Partners world of beauty, fashion and gifts. As a family business, we understand that good We were accepted as a member of UNGC in 2014, IMPACT corporate governance enables us to establish and currently report on Group activities in the UAE About us Our intimate knowledge of luxury and the Middle sustainable business practices and explore growth on the 10 Principles. We contribute to the UNGC East has enabled us to build exquisite brands in opportunities. To help build trust in our Group, Local Network’s steering committee, which helps the region, and a network of over 650 retail stores. we ensure that our strategies are aligned to the us to share and hear best practice. And as coBased in Dubai, we offer a unique experience interests of all our stakeholders. head of the Academic Committee, we have so to our customers and excellence to our partners far successfully encouraged four universities to through our activities in retail, distribution We have four governance bodies: Family Board, sign up to the UNGC and we have developed and communication. Group Board, the Executive Committee, and a Youth Ambassador Programme. Strategy Committee. OUR VISION – To be the leading partner for luxury across the Middle East. Sustainability is managed by a dedicated team within our Consumer & Innovation Strategy division. OUR MISSION – Our passionate teams build brands This team sets the sustainability agenda for the in the Middle East. By blending our Middle East Group, organising community giving initiatives, expertise and intimate knowledge of luxury, we measuring our environmental impact and offer service excellence to all our partners and promoting sustainable business practices. a unique experience to all our customers. In June 2016, we created the Sustainability OUR VALUES – Respect, Excellence and Committee, which meets twice a year and Entrepreneurial Spirit. helps to embed sustainability at all levels of the business. The Committee reviews, drives and monitors implementation of our major sustainability strategies, activities and policies and makes Our concept brands recommendations to the Board. This Committee is led by co-CEO Patrick Chalhoub, demonstrating Our concept brands highlight our innovative spirit the importance of sustainability to our business. and commitment to our customers. We have seven own concept brands, and each one has its own distinct and inspiring character. Tanagra offers refined lifestyle gifts, Wojooh Dubai CSR Label ‘Your Face of Beauty’ presents niche and specialty In 2016 we received, for the fourth consecutive Hear about our contribution from the brands. Level Shoes is known as one of the world’s year, the Dubai CSR Label from the Dubai representative for the MENA region finest shoe metropolis, Level Kids is the first concept Chamber of Commerce. of its kind devoted to children’s luxury, and TRYANO is a specialty store for beauty, bags and The CSR Label brings together international childrenswear. In 2016, we also launched Ghawali, sustainability best practices such as ISO 26000, our oriental fragrance line and stores, which we will ISO 14001, the Global Compact Principles, etc., expand in 2017. and the local context of the UAE. This year we achieved a score of 79%, demonstrating an improvement from last year’s score of 75.9% and reinforcing our positioning as sustainability pioneers considering the average score was 65.7%. Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 25 Our strategy Planet Working together for At Chalhoub Group, we have achieved a lot in 2016. I hope you enjoyed reading this report People a sustainable future which summarises all initiatives taken to embed sustainability further at all levels of our Group. Partners Our goal for 2017 is to strengthen and fine-tune our IMPACT sustainability actions, based on the data captured About us and the strategy we have defined. We will use this data to set medium to long-term targets and allow our efforts to be tangible and measured. We will continue to collaborate with our partners to create meaningful collaborations. We will work with all team members, including our Chalhoub Impact Ambassadors and relays to continue to embed sustainability within our day-to-day activities, through the development of policies and procedures that support everything we do. I would like to thank the Chalhoub family and our co-CEOs Anthony and Patrick Chalhoub for their vision and for giving us the means to walk the talk with passion and determination. I would like to thank our partners who are allowing us to achieve beautiful and impactful goals. I would like to thank all our team members for their involvement, big or small, all support counts. Thank you for your engagement! We are only at the start of our journey, we can help change the world for the better, one person at a time. And as a family business built on Respect, Excellence and Entrepreneurial Spirit, it is our duty to make Chalhoub Group a sustainable business, now and for the future. Florence Bulte Head of Sustainability Engagement Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 26 Our strategy Planet People Partners IMPACT About us CHALHOUB GROUP Sustainability Report 2016 Chalhoub Group Sustainability Report 2016 27
