Otsuka Group CSR Report 2016 Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide Editorial Policy In keeping with its corporate philosophy, “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide,” the Otsuka group endeavors to create new and innovative products in diverse areas related to health, as a global, total healthcare company devoted to advancing health worldwide. The Otsuka Group CSR Report provides an overview of the diverse initiatives that Otsuka engages in, from its relationships with stakeholders in the course of its business to the fulfillment of its corporate commitments. We hope that this report can deepen mutual understanding with our stakeholders. In this report, we focus on the three concepts below in addressing the five areas of CSR at the Otsuka group The five areas of CSR at the —health, environment, quality, culture and employees. Otsuka group Otsuka group corporate philosophy/ Health p 12 1 material aspects (materiality) (For more detail see page 8) Environment p 18 International CSR guidelines 2 ISO 26000 seven core subjects Quality p 28 GRI Environmental Report Guidelines Culture p 34 3 Communication with stakeholders Employees p 40 Scope This report focuses on Otsuka Holdings and Otsuka group companies worldwide, including the following 14 companies in Japan: Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Medical Devices Co., Ltd. J.O. Pharma Co., Ltd. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Okayama Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Electronics Co., Ltd. Otsuka Packaging Industries Co., Ltd. Otsuka Warehouse Co., Ltd. EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. JIMRO Co., Ltd. Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Techno Corporation Period covered The results cover the period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016. Certain activities reported on occurred in 2017. Future publication schedule The next report is scheduled for publication in the summer of 2018. Guidelines referenced This report was compiled with reference to the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4th Edition, ISO 26000, and the Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 Edition issued by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment. 1 Corporate Profile Contents As of December 31, 2016 Company Name: Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. About the Otsuka Group 2 Established: July 8, 2008 Corporate Profile 2 Capital: JPY 81.69 billion Otsuka Group Across the Globe 3 Stakeholder Engagement 4 Head Office: 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi, Business Overview of the Otsuka Group 5 Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0048, Japan Otsuka Group’s CSR Vision 7 Tokyo Headquarters: Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan, Identification of the Otsuka Group’s Materiality 8 Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan Representative: Tatsuo Higuchi, President and CEO Message from the President 9 Employees: 87 (Consolidated: 31,787) Message from the President 9 Scope of consolidation: 147 consolidated subsidiaries and Corporate Philosophy 11 32 equity-method affiliates Business description: Control, management, and other operational aspects of business activities related to holding the shares of companies that operate in the fields of pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals, Health 12 consumer products, and other businesses. Addressing Unmet Needs 13 Raising Awareness of Health 15 Communicating Health Information 17 From fiscal 2016, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are applied. Environment 18 Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated Operating Profit Net sales Operating profit Operating profit/Net sales Environmental Management 19 (%) Climate Change Response 20 (Unit: ¥ billion) (Unit: ¥ billion) 1,452.8 1,445.2 1,427.4 198.7 196.5 1,500 200 20 Eco-Friendly Products 23 1,218.1 1,224.3 169.7 1,195.5 151.8 Waste Reduction 24 148.9 150 15 1,000 Protecting Biodiversity 25 16.1 13.9 13.7 101.1 100 10 10.5 10.4 500 50 8.5 5 Quality 28 0 0 0 2013.3 2014.3 2014.12*1 2015.12 2015.12 2016.12 2013.3 2014.3 2014.12*1 2015.12 2015.12 2016.12 Safety Initiatives 29 J-GAAP *2 IFRS J-GAAP IFRS Corporate Governance 30 Research and Development Expenses Compliance 31 R&D expenses R&D expense/Net sales Risk Management 32 (%) (Unit: ¥ billion) 249.0 250 25 192.4 201.0 202.7 200 20 172.9 168.8 150 17.1 15 15.8 14.1 13.9 14.2 14.1 Culture 34 100 10 50 5 Contributing to Communities 35 Contributions to Communities outside Japan 37 0 0 2013.3 2014.3 2014.12*1 2015.12 2015.12 2016.12 Youth Education 39 J-GAAP IFRS Sales by Geographical Segment (FY2016) Sales by Business Segment (FY2016) Consumer Products: Others: Others: 35.1 106.5 Japan: 8.9% Employees 262.3 40 21.9% 624.0 2.9% Diversity 41 Sales to Sales to Work-Life Balance 42 external customers external customers 1,195.5 1,195.5 Employee Health 44 52.2% 25.2% Development of Human Capital 45 63.0% 25.9% North America: Nutraceuticals: Pharmaceuticals: 309.2 300.9 753.0 (Unit: ¥ billion) (Unit: ¥ billion) Third-Party Opinion 46 *1 Due to a change in the fiscal year-end to December, fiscal 2014 covers the nine-month period from April 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014. *2 J-GAAP (Japanese Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) 2 About the Otsuka Group Otsuka Group Across the Globe The Otsuka group consists of 180 companies in 28 countries and regions worldwide. Approximately 45,000 employees are working every day for the universal betterment of human health. Japan: 49 companies Europe: 35 companies North America: Asia/ Middle East 29 companies and others: 63 companies South America: 2 companies Oceania: 2 companies Number of operations and employees of the Otsuka group Worldwide Japan Outside Japan Number of companies 180 49 131 Number of factories 174 55 119 Number of research institutes 46 24 22 Number of employees Approx. 45,000 Approx. 18,000 Approx. 27,000 Number of countries 28 countries and regions worldwide and regions (As of December 31, 2016) Highlights of Otsuka’s global expansion 1973 1977 1979 1981 2006 2007 2008 2012 2015 US (first North America) Egypt Spain China India Brazil Czech Republic Turkey Australia Thailand (first Africa ) (first Western Europe) (first South America) (first Eastern Europe) (first Asia) 3 Stakeholder Engagement Over the years, the Otsuka group has received the support of many stakeholders, including consumers, patients, investors, local residents, collaborators, and employees. In order to fulfill corporate social responsibilities such as human rights protection and environmental conservation, the group realizes that one effective way to help solve social issues is collaborating with stakeholders worldwide. The Otsuka group aims to maintain and enhance relationships of trust with stakeholders in various ways, and is working to strengthen communication and cooperation with them. Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Forms of Engagement Main Responsibilities and Issues Patients, onsumers and ● Provision of information on pharmaceutical products ● Research and development into products to address healthcare professionals through medical representatives unmet medical needs ● Health-related, awareness-raising activities ● Support for disease prevention, treatment, and health ● Solicitation of customer feedback maintenance/promotion, while helping to extend healthy life expectancy and quality of life ● Organization of seminars for healthcare professionals and events to support patient associations Investors and shareholders ● Formulation and communication of medium-term ● Sustainable growth and improvement of corporate management plans value ● IR activities such as regular company briefings for ● Return on dividends analysts and institutional investors ● Timely and appropriate information disclosure ● Enhancement of information disclosure through ● Measures to attract socially responsible investment materials in English for overseas institutional investors ● Organization of shareholder meetings that are easy to understand for individual shareholders Communities and society ● Implementation and operation of environmental ● Environmental conservation protection procedures at factories ● Contribution to local communities ● Development and deployment of eco-friendly ● Support for raising the next generation of young products people ● Interaction and collaboration with local communities ● Disaster relief activities ● Educational support activities Collaborators ● Holding company briefings and facility tours ● Ensuring quality assurance and stable product supply ● Meeting and exchanging opinions with collaborators ● Enhancement of product information provision ● Working with suppliers to implement CSR ● Protection of human rights, the environment and procurement questionnaires, etc. societal concerns across the supply chain ● Joint research and development for products, ● Fair and equitable transactions technologies and systems, and cooperation through ● Sustainable growth and development with co-promotion and co-marketing collaborators Employees ● Human resource development programs and training ● Human resources development systems ● Respect for diversity ● Self-assessment system ● Work-life balance initiatives ● Conducting personnel interviews/questionnaires, etc. ● Parenting and family home care support ● Provision of whistleblower hotlines for compliance/ ● Ensuring occupational health and safety harassment, etc. 4 About the Otsuka Group Business Overview of the Otsuka Group The group is a global healthcare company dedicated to the maintenance and improvement of people’s health worldwide. It generates positive health outcomes from many angles, while offering original products that create new markets. The group pursues a range of businesses in four main segments. Major products Pharmaceutical Business Antipsychotic drug, Antipsychotic drug, V2 -receptor antagonist Antituberculosis drug, REXULTI ABILIFY MAINTENA (Aquaretic・ADPKD) drug, DELTYBA Samsca/JINARC Pharmaceuticals IV solutions The pharmaceutical business has (clinical nutrition) long been engaged in discovering and developing therapies for diseases of the central nervous system Diagnostics and is also deeply engaged in the area of oncology, another area of Anticancer agent, Anticancer agent, Drug for Pseudobulbar Affect Therapeutic agent for glaucoma TS-1 LONSURF (PBA), and ocular hypertension, Medical devices significant unmet medical need. ImNUEDEXTA Mikeluna combination ophthalmic solution portantly, in order to provide comprehensive healthcare solutions, the group’s healthcare-related activities extend much further—from the diagnosis to the treatment of a number of other medical conditions. These activities encompass the cardiovascular system, gastroenterology, ophthalmology, diagnostics, IV Antiemetic agent, Anticancer agent, High-calorie TPN solution, Enteral formula RACOL-NF solutions and medical devices. Aloxi Abraxane ELNEOPA NF semi-solid for enteral use Major products Nutraceutical Business POCARI SWEAT POCARI SWEAT ORONAMIN C Amino-Value Tiovita Drink OS-1 Functional beverages ION WATER DRINK and foods The nutraceutical business focuses Cosmedics on functional foods and beverages that help maintain and promote day-to-day health. The group leverOTC products, ages the expertise gained in its Quasi-drugs pharmaceutical business to develop original products based on scientific evidence. BODYMAINTÉ Fibe-Mini Calorie Mate SOYJOY EQUELLE SOYJOY Crispy Nutraceuticals = nutrition + pharmaceuticals Cosmedics = cosmetics + medicine Kenjya-no-shokutaku Nature Made UL・OS Oronine H Ointment Double Support 5 Major products Consumer Products Business Bon Curry Gold Bon Curry Neo My Size Beverages Since launching the first-ever comFoods mercially available curry in a pouch, Bon Curry in 1968, Otsuka has Alcoholic beverages continued to be a pioneer in product development. The company delivers foods and beverages to Sinvino Java Tea Straight MATCH MATCH Pink CRYSTAL GEYSER consumers, which taste delicious and also give the consumer peace of mind. Ridge Monte Bello Mannan Hikari Major products Other Businesses Functional chemical Terracess TERPLUS application (friction material for brake pads) Pigment dispersants for color filters products The Otsuka group engages in other diversified businesses such as Fine chemicals chemical materials for the automotive, electrical, electronic, and buildDistribution ing materials sectors. It operates transport and warehousing services that provide eco-friendly logistics. Packaging These are focused on the movement of Otsuka group pharmaceuticals, Electronic equipment foods and beverages. In addition, an electronic equipment business supports cutting-edge advancements in science and technology. POCone, HM (HalfMoon) series of a medical device LED evaluators 6 About the Otsuka Group Otsuka Group’s CSR Vision Otsuka’s approach to social responsibility is driven by its commitment to environment. These initiatives directly and indirectly help Otsuka to imlive up to its corporate philosophy, “Otsuka-people creating new prodprove its manufacturing and services. However, delivering products and ucts for better health worldwide.” Otsuka’s CSR initiatives evolve as services valued by customers does more than help develop the group’s stakeholders become increasingly engaged. This is only natural, since business. With this approach, Otsuka also creates virtuous cycles of Otsuka’s business activities require the understanding, cooperation and trust, loyalty and support through emphasis on areas such as commusupport of many external and internal stakeholders. nity partnerships. By pursuing CSR as an integral part of its business, Otsuka contributes to society in various ways, including initiatives Otsuka can continue as a valued, necessary partner for society. to benefit the local communities where it operates and protect the Health Local Employees communities Culture Environment Quality Employees Natural environment Otsuka Group Philosophy Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide Business collaborators Shareholders Investors Patients Suppliers Consumers The Otsuka group CSR vision draws inspiration from the forward and backward flows of the famous eddies in the Naruto Straits, near the city of Tokushima, Japan where Otsuka was founded. In a way analogous to these two-way currents, the Otsuka group contributes profits back to society in one direction, while in the other direction it pursues commercial activities rooted in its corporate philosophy that reinforce social goodwill. Five Areas of Otsuka Group CSR Health Environment Quality Culture Employees p 12 p 18 p 28 p 34 p 40 As a total healthcare company, the Our lives, communities and business Otsuka’s approach to quality extends Otsuka respects local communities The spirit of Sozosei (creativity) Otsuka group is focused on developactivities are inextricably linked to the beyond safety and security of product and their time-honored cultures. instilled in every employee of the Oting innovative products and seeking environment. Otsuka group embracmanufacturing. Striving to enhance The group contributes to commusuka group stems from their desire ways to maintain and promote better es its responsibility to care for the the quality of its social initiatives, the nity development and in particular to emulate the corporate philosophy. health for all. environment and pursue sustainability group engages on a broad range of to the education of children who The group fosters a culture that at every stage, from the manufacturactivities, from information transparrepresent the future of their comencourages a diverse workforce ing of products through to their use. ency and disclosure to collaboration munities, through community to break out of the conventional, with other businesses, respect for exchanges, partnerships, and supbroaden their perspectives, and local communities, and ensuring port for education. pursue personal development. This compliance with regulations. collective creativity, in turn, enables the group to continue to develop innovative products that enrich society. 7 Identification of the Otsuka Group’s Materiality A vital part of the Otsuka group’s corporate philosophy recognizes the pursue this process, promote CSR as an integral part of our business importance of contributing to the promotion of sustainability in terms of activities, and strive for sustainable development in its business operaboth social and environmental issues. The group actively engages in a tions and society at large. diverse set of initiatives to uphold this responsibility. Using the methodology described below the Otsuka group identified material aspects that it should emphasize. The group continues to Five CSR Areas Material Aspects ● Creation of new drugs and health-related products ● Technical innovation Health ● Global deployment ● Expansion of health information provision Material Aspects Impact on stakeholders ● Development of eco-friendly products ● Proactiveness toward climate change Environment ● Promotion of waste reduction and recycling ● Measures to help protect biodiversity ● Product quality assurance and traceability Quality ● Ensuring compliance ● Supply chain management Culture ● Communication with local communities Impact on the Otsuka group ● Health and safety Employees ● Human resource development ● Promotion of diversity Assessing Impact on Stakeholders Listing Potential and Management Creating Material Aspects Each potential material aspect is ana Materiality Map alyzed in relation to its impact on To identify and list potential materivarious stakeholders and the manIndices used in the assessment al aspects, the group employs an agement of the Otsuka group. were weighted by importance and integrated analysis that incorpoThird-party opinions are also inteused to create a materiality map rates the group's corporate philosgrated into the analysis to implement that reflects the CSR policy of the ophy, CSR vision and policy, cura quantitative assessment. Otsuka group. rent CSR initiatives, international CSR guidelines, and socially responsible investment (SRI). Process to Identify Materiality Materiality Review Identifying Materiality The group regularly evaluates initiaSpecifying Five Areas Aspects determined to have an imtives implemented in the five CSR pact on both Otsuka group manageareas, and reviews materiality and of CSR ment and stakeholders within a cerpolicies as necessary. The Otsuka group organizes CSR tain criteria are defined as material. activities into the five areas of health, environment, quality, culture, and employees, each with its own specific action policies. 8 Message from the President Supporting Sustainability by Addressing Social Issues through Health and Creativity The Global Movement toward Sustainability A current world population at over 7 billion, estimated to rise to nearly 10 billion in 2050, will continue to have significant global impacts, such as the environmental effects of increased carbon dioxide and waste levels, as well as growing wealth inequality. Analogously, addressing environmental, social and economic sustainability issues are critical responsibilities now and in the future for global companies. Otsuka Holdings signed the United Nations Global Compact in 2016. By declaring our support for the Global Compact and commitment to contribute toward achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)*, we underscored the Otsuka group’s commitment to achieve sustainable development in collaboration with all sectors of society. Under the corporate philosophy of “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide,” innovation is at the core of our business. We leverage this know-how through our work on a variety of sustainability issues for the betterment of all in society. Sustainability of Our Business In recent years, amid rising concerns about soaring healthcare costs, interest in disease prevention is growing rapidly. Otsuka foresaw growing social recognition of the importance of disease prevention and established its current business model, which focuses mainly on pharmaceuticals and nutraceuticals in functional foods and beverages. In pharmaceuticals, treatments for disorders of the central nervous system (CNS) are one of our priorities. The underlying causes of many CNS-related disorders have yet to be precisely elucidated, making the research and development of treatments challenging. Our flagship, in-house-originated products include REXULTI, a new At Otsuka Pharmaceutical Tokushima Itano Factory antipsychotic with a unique mechanism of action, and the antipsychotic, ABILIFY, with the world’s first dopamine partial antagonist. In other fields, we have undertaken research and development aimed at creating first-in-class products to treat unmet medical needs. Examples of these products include Samsca, an aquaretic * Sustainable Development Goals: Shared objectives for the international community that include both developed and developing countries, and that address sustainable development in social, economic, and environmental dimensions. 9 with the first-ever mechanism that promotes the excretion of water without electrolyte loss, for treating heart failure and cirrhosis of the liver with edema, and DELTYBA, one of the world’s first new drugs in approximately 50 years for tuberculosis. In nutraceuticals, we leveraged the knowledge gained in our IV solutions business to create the ion supply drink market by introducing POCARI SWEAT, which was conceptualized as a drinkable IV solution. By similarly leveraging our knowledge of liquid food concentrates used in medical settings, we created a new category of nutritionally balanced food products with Calorie Mate. This product has been incorporated into disaster relief supplies. In our focus to strengthen our business foundation, we are strategically concentrating on accelerating the global development of product lines to promote healthy life expectancy. We believe that we can develop further confidence and exceed the expectations of our stakeholders by helping to address social issues through responsible business activities. Our CSR activities are also driven by our sense of fulfillment in recognizing the needs of others and delivering social benefit returns to the communities Becoming an Indispensable Contributor to where we operate. This includes our community support related to People’s Health Worldwide culture and health. Our relationship with stakeholders is a vital force that drives our business development. Going forward, we aim to Stakeholders, including investors, are closely watching corporate promote sustainability in our business, while at the same time idengovernance reforms triggered by a series of scandals at large comtifying the unmet needs of patients and providing them with unique, panies in recent years. Consequently, at Otsuka Holdings, we are innovative products. reinforcing already sound management practices by further strengthening our governing structure, promoting growth from a long-term perspective, and strengthening our international competitiveness. Perpetuating Otsuka “DNA” We recognize that respect for universal social principles such as human rights, freedom, and equality are essential for conducting The Otsuka group has inherited its corporate “DNA” from generbusiness globally. ations of company leaders. It comprises three guiding principles: We strive to cultivate a corporate culture where employees can (1) Ryukan-godo (by sweat we recognize the way), which means express their individuality and values by promoting diversity in nadiscovering the core substance of matters not only through knowltionality, race, age, and gender. edge, but also through hard work and repeated practical applicaFurthermore, productive workdays require that employees be tion; (2) Jissho (actualization), which is defined as self-actualization mentally and physically healthy; therefore we continuously work on through execution, completion and the discovery of truth; and (3) measures to promote employee health. In April 2017, Otsuka HoldSozosei (creativity), which means resisting the urge to copy and ings established the Otsuka Group Health Declaration to further pursuing that which only Otsuka is capable of delivering. These promote health management. As a healthcare company, we widely principles are the driving force behind Otsuka’s growth. They serve advocate health as an important piece of social sustainability inside both as our corporate foundation and as the basis for the fuand outside the company. ture growth of the Otsuka group and its employees. It is this core I and my 45,000 colleagues deeply appreciate your ongoing Otsuka “DNA” that provides resilience in overcoming challenges. support for the Otsuka group as we aim to become an indispensThe foundation of the company’s success relies on the developable contributor to people’s health worldwide. ment of employees cognizant of the company’s heritage. In order to nurture talented people who can succeed on a global level, we have launched a new group-wide human resource development program that will continue over the medium and long term, steadily evolving to include more content. President and CEO Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. 10 Corporate Philosophy of the Otsuka Group These words embody our commitment to: Contributing to Creating innovative Improving human health the lives of products people worldwide In keeping with this corporate philosophy and Otsuka’s guiding principles of Jissho (actualization) and Sozosei (creativity), the Otsuka group strives to utilize its unique assets and skills to develop differentiated scientific solutions which contribute to the lives of people worldwide in the form of innovative and creative products ranging from pharmaceuticals to consumer products. We are striving to cultivate a culture and a dynamic corporate climate reflecting our vision as a healthcare company. As such we are dedicated to achieving global sustainability, relationships with local communities, and protection of the natural environment. Monuments embodying the Otsuka Group Philosophy Giant Tomato Trees / Bent Giant Cedar / Floating Stones “Our mission is the development of creative human resources who can break the mold” The Otsuka group established the “Human Resource Development Institute”, an employee training center in Tokushima City, Japan, in March 1988. The institute’s mission is to foster the development of creative employees who can break the mold of conventional thinking and contribute to Otsuka’s ongoing success as a “big venture” company. The institute features three monuments that symbolize the Otsuka group philosophy, conveying the message that Otsuka will continue to be a richly creative force. Giant Tomato Trees Bent Giant Cedar Floating Stones The giant tomato tree that covers the enHere a giant cedar trunk bends sharply in the In this water garden, which gives a nod to the tire ceiling of the hall can produce more than middle as a second cedar trunk balances on rock gardens of Japan, large stones seem to 10,000 fruit per year, as a result of maximizing top. Although the formation appears unstable defy the laws of nature and float above the surthe fruit-producing potential through hydroat first glance, it is actually perfectly balanced face of a large pool, while others seem to oddly ponics that frees the roots from normal soil. and even withstood powerful tremors during bend. The garden was created to capture peoThe tomato tree is symbolic of employing new the Great Hanshin Earthquake of 1995. It ple’s interest, enrich their hearts and give them ideas to draw out potential. speaks to the importance of not being limited the ability to think about things. It encourages by preconceived ideas. us to change our perceptions, and break free of conventional thinking. 11 Health As a total healthcare enterprise, the Otsuka group of companies creates innovative products and seeks ways to maintain and promote better health for all. 14.1 % Otsuka group R&D expenses as a percentage of net sales 3 years More than 40 years O O H H N O N O F NH NH F O O Number of consecutive years honored Number of years the company has conducted with Hitosuzumi Award R&D on oral anticancer agents 12 Addressing Unmet Needs Health The Otsuka group is passionate about its philosophy to contribute to better health for people worldwide, and it does by striving to create groundbreaking new products of a kind that only Otsuka can conceive. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Taiho Pharmaceutical Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory Addressing Unmet Medical Needs Otsuka group medical-related businesses delaunch of ICLUSIG to treat chronic myeloid leu1984), TS-1 (in 1999), and LONSURF (in 2014). velop revolutionary new medications in fields kemia. Samsca was discovered and developed Additionally, Taiho Pharmaceutical developed and wherever unmet medical needs exist and deliver by Otsuka as the first-ever treatment to slow launched in Japan in 2015, Yondelis, a treatment them worldwide. the progression of autosomal dominant polycysfor soft tissue sarcoma recommended in EuroThe central nervous system diseases and their tic kidney disease (ADPKD), an acute, chronic, pean and North American medical guidelines. treatments are often accompanied by adherand progressive kidney disease (outside Japan, In addition to its extensive involvement in clinence issues: patients may lack an understanding Samsca is marketed to treat ADPKD under the ical nutrition, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory of their condition, dislike the side effects of their brand name JINARC). In 2014, the company manufactures surgical products, such as the new medication and stop taking it, or forget to take it. launched the antituberculosis drug DELTYBA in topical antiseptic solution Olanedine, that treat This often leads to disease relapses. For betEurope and Japan as part of its work in treating and prevent infectious diseases and post-surter patient outcomes and improved adherence, infectious diseases. gery complications. The company has accelerOtsuka Pharmaceutical, in 2013, launched In the area of oncology, Taiho Pharmaceutical ated research and development in the field of ABILIFY MAINTENA, a prolonged-release vercontinues to take on the challenge of developing regenerative disease with bioartificial pancreas sion of ABILIFY. Additionally, in 2015, the comrevolutionary new drugs. In 1974, before use of islets, an area that holds promise as a more efpany first launched the antipsychotic REXULTI in oral formulations became widespread, the comfective method of type 1 diabetes treatment. the US. In the area of oncology, Otsuka’s involvepany introduced the oral anticancer agent FuOtsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory ment in blood cancer treatments has led to the traful, and has since brought to market UFT (in Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Otsu Nutraceuticals Research Institute Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute Addressing Yet-to-be-imagined Consumer Needs In the area of nutraceuticals, Otsuka PharmaIn 1980, the company launched POCARI prone to illness due to rigorous daily training. ceuticals leverages its medical-related expertise SWEAT, a health drink that replenishes water The company added lactic acid bacteria B240, to develop original functional foods, beverand electrolytes. Otsuka Pharmaceutical has a unique Otsuka Pharmaceutical ingredient for ages and other scientifically-based products invested in 30-plus years of research on elecmaintaining physical functioning, to develop the to maintain and promote the health of people trolyte and fluid replacement, and educational special formula. around the world. The company’s perseverance activities since then. Educational events at With regard to women’s health, Otsuka Pharin communicating the value of these functional sports venues have helped ensure that proper maceutical launched EQUELLE in 2014 to help products has created new markets. hydration is an essential component of athletes’ women stay healthy and beautiful during and afToday, Japan and many other developed training regimens. ter the midlife transitional period, when they excountries face a number of issues, including In 2016, the company launched POCARI perience various physical and mental changes. extending healthy life expectancy, aging popSWEAT JELLY, an edible form of hydration, to apOtsuka Pharmaceutical ulations, declining birthrates, and the increaspeal to those who are unable to hydrate despite ing burden of medical expenses, which lead understanding the need to sufficiently hydrate. the company to focus on yet-to-be-imagined In 2017, the company launched BODYMAINTÉ needs in the areas of exercise and nutrition, and JELLY, which is formulated specifically to support women’s health. the physical condition of athletes who may be VOICE It has long been said that it is important to prevent illness. This is called preventive medicine. As part of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory’s contribution to preventive medAdvancing Preventive icine, we created the first new antiseptic in Japan in 50 years, Olanedine, which was Medicine launched in September 2015. Confirmed as extremely effective in sterilizing against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infections, which are resistant to Yasuhide Inoue conventional antiseptics, and against vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE), this Perioperative Medicine Research Office, agent is expected to help prevent new in-hospital infections. Naruto Research Institute Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. 13 FIGHTBACK * Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Medical Foods Research Institute Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: HINE E-GEL, one of the concentrated liquid nutrition series, and ENGELEAD, for people who experience difficulty swallowing Global Initiatives for Public Health Medical Food Research Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB)*1 is from a Global Perspective advocated by the WHO (World Health Organan increasing public health threat. After a long Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, a pharmaceutiization) and is the first special use food for diperiod of research and development, DELYTBA cal company with a strong foundation in clinical etary uses approved in Japan for people with (delamanid), a treatment for adult pulmonary nutrition, leverages this expertise in its mission mild to moderate dehydration. Another prodMDR-TB, was approved initially in the EU, Jato develop original, scientifically-backed food uct approved as a food for special dietary use, pan, and South Korea in 2014. In 2016, Otsuka products. These medical food products find ENGELEAD, was developed specifically for entered into an agreement with the Stop TB applications in healthcare and nursing care sitthose who experience difficulty swallowing. The Partnership’s*2 Global Drug Facility (GDF), enauations. With our social responsibilities as a company has also expanded its HINE series of bling distribution of DELYTBA to over 100 lowpharmaceutical company in a super-aging soconcentrated liquid nutrition, adding products and middle-income countries. In addition to drug ciety in mind, we have accelerated product such as HINE E-GEL, a digestive type with a access, training and technical support is prodevelopment in Japan based on three areas: new consistency. The company is actively workvided to ensure the drug is used correctly and dehydration, malnutrition, and dysphagia (diffiing to expand its line of medical foods and bring effectively incorporated into existing TB treatculty swallowing). these revolutionary products to markets in other ment programs. For example, OS-1, an oral rehydration countries in Asia and elsewhere. Otsuka Pharmaceutical solution, addresses oral rehydration therapy Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory * To raise awareness, Otsuka Pharmaceutical worked with antituberculosis-related organizations in a number of countries to compile books of portraits of people who have lived with tuberculosis. EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical: iEat eating recovery assisting food series Otsuka Foods: “My Size: Iine! Plus” Support Ranging from IV Solutions to Eating Solid Food Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory develops proddifficulty in eating regular food as they age, and kilocalories per serving. In 2016, the company ucts that comprehensively support the nutriare dependent on purees and finely chopped launched its My Size: Iine! Plus series of prodtional management of patients throughout their foods. The company’s iEat series of eating reucts sold exclusively in Japanese pharmacies. convalescence from the acute to the recovery covery assisting food products provide nutriThe series is designed for people concerned phase. These range from the company’s core IV tious foods that retain the look and taste of the not only about calories, but also about intake solution products and enteral nutrition products food patients are used to eating, yet are soft of salt, proteins, and sugars. As opportunities to medical foods to make patients more comenough to be broken down in the mouth with for health management and nutrition guidance fortable. In IV solutions, the company strives to just the tongue. campaigns increase at regular prescription drug develop revolutionary products that meet the In 2010, Otsuka Foods launched its My Size pharmacies in Japan, and the Japanese govneeds of patients and healthcare professionseries of retort food products prepared to be ernment moves to create a system of Health als, such as the first-ever IV solution quad bag, just the right size. Carefully prepared curry inSupport Pharmacies, the My Size: Iine! Plus sewhich provides greater convenience and helps gredients and rice bowl toppings, packaged ries is gaining the attention of consumers lookprevent mistakes in preparation. rice, and portion control are features that ening for products to support a healthy diet. EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical has responded sure these popular products provide delicious Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Foods to the increasing number of elderly who have meals with an easy-to-understand 100 or 150 VOICE An oral cavity or poor nutrition can cause various illnesses and degrading of bodily functions. For *1: When TB bacteria become resistant to at least the example, maintaining good oral hygiene can be effective in preventing aspiration pneumonia. Protwo most commonly used first-line medicines, isomoting greater collaboration between the medical and dental fields is therefore a matter of some niazid and rifampicin, the infection is called multidProviding Information rug-resistant (MDR). and Expanding Product urgency. EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical has developed and launched oral care products. It also manufactures and markets iEat, a series of eating recovery assisting food products. The company also *2: Established in 2001 with the aim of eradicating Lines based on the tuberculosis. The Global Drug Facility was creInterrelationships between manufactures and markets enteral nutrition products. These are prescription drug enteral nutrition ated as a subsidiary organization of the Stop TB formulas that can be administered directly into the stomach or intestine in a relatively short period Medical and Dental Care Partnership to increase access to high-quality and of time, giving patients more time for rehabilitation. The company will continue to add new products affordable TB treatments and diagnostics. Kenichi Ogasawara to this line and raise awareness at academic conferences, provide appropriate information, and Chief of a Product Planning Division, EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. manufacture products that meet healthcare needs. 14 Raising Awareness of Health Health The Otsuka group engages in a variety of activities to raise awareness among stakeholders on the importance of staying healthy. Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Raising awareness of heat disorder prevention Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Committee for Awareness of Hidden Dehydration activities Building Awareness of Prevention of Heat Disorders Ever since the launch of POCARI SWEAT, elderly, and other people at risk of heat disoryear, the company also received in 2016 a Top Otsuka Pharmaceutical has been carrying out ders. Moreover, in 2016, Otsuka PharmaceutiRunner Award (Private Sector), presented to the educational events for all ages, children to sencal and Otsuka Foods support COOL CHOICE, organization that implemented the most effeciors, which advocate the importance of hydraa national movement sponsored by the Japative heat disorder prevention initiatives among tion and electrolytes for various types of daily nese government to encourage wise decisions all award-winning organizations. activity. The company has also engaged in efin light of global warming concerns. The compaOtsuka Pharmaceutical Factory supports and forts to prevent and treat heat disorders for over ny’s employee-led on-site seminars on heat discooperates with the Committee for Awareness 25 years. Company employees visit sites to give orders provide a channel for raising awareness of Hidden Dehydration, which works to raise seminars on the importance of hydration and among a wide range of people. In recognition awareness of ways to prevent and treat dehyelectrolyte replenishment based on scientific reof these diverse activities, Otsuka Pharmaceudration before it becomes critical. Heatstroke search at Otsuka Pharmaceutical research intical was honored with a Heat Illness Prevenoccurs when heat is not released and builds up stitutes and elsewhere. These activities have tion Communication Project Hitosuzumi Award in the body. This phenomenon is closely tied to been expanded to include educating athletes, in 2016* for its outstanding heat disorder prea lack of proper hydration. In the past, dehycoaches, construction workers, factory workvention initiatives. In addition to being named dration was commonly treated by administering ers, staff employed in hot environments, the Best Communicator for the third consecutive liquids, but today it is increasingly common to Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Committee for Awareness of Otsuka Pharmaceutical (H.K.): Running program Hidden Dehydration activities treat mild to moderate dehydration with an oral prevention of heat disorders and works on raisorganization that provides support to those with rehydration solution early on to prevent milder ing awareness and understanding of heat disormental illness. EPISO members include psychicases from becoming serious. Efforts to raise der prevention. atrists from university hospitals, professors at awareness of oral rehydration solutions have inThe EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Hanamaki the University of Hong Kong, social workers, creased recognition and understanding of heat and Kitakami factories in Japan communicate volunteers and others. The organization operdisorders, and the Japanese Association for the dangers of heat disorders to employees, as ates yoga and running programs with the aspiAcute Medicine has included OS-1 as a recomwell as to outside vendors working at the facration to promote better health through exercise. mended oral rehydration solution in their treattories, frequently reminding workers to rehyTo support these activities and ensure that the ment guideline. drate. Between June and September, POCARI EPISO program is beneficial to all, Otsuka PharAt Otsuka Techno, forklift operators work outSWEAT servers are installed at both factories so maceutical (H.K.) educates the doctors and doors moving products, and warehouse manthat employees can hydrate as needed during volunteers on the importance of hydration and agers are in charge of heat disorder prevention the hottest months of the year. ways of hydrating and replenishing electrolytes. efforts. The company distributes Japan IndusOtsuka Pharmaceutical (H.K.) works with trial Safety & Health Association pamphlets on the Early Psychosis Foundation (EPISO), an VOICE In response to a request from a designated Super Nutrition Education School * As part of the Heatstroke Prevention Comunder a project introduced by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Scimunication Project, a public/private initience and Technology, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory held a seminar focused ative under the auspices of the Ministry Cooperation with Super of the Environment, the Hitosuzumi (Cool Nutrition Education School on issues related to nutrition, diet, and health management and the relationship Break) Awards are given to recognize outbetween food and sports. standing initiatives to prevent heatstroke. Tasuku Maeda Registered Dietician Company Cafeteria Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. 15 Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Seminar on women’s health Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute Lactococcus 20-92, equol-producing lactic acid bacteria Raising Awareness of Women’s Health The average lifespan in Japan, which is over 80 rhythm and physical condition as they age. Acto lighten this transformational period that are years old for both men and women is the highcording to a survey, for example, respondents suitable for each individual, so that women can est in the world. By contrast, the average for felt less positive about being promoted. The lead full and active lives. healthy life expectancy, during which the elderly care received during and after the midlife tranIn 2016, the company released the results of are not bedridden or require home nursing care, sitional period, a time of significant physical its joint research on equol with Kindai University is approximately nine years lower for men and and mental changes, has an impact on womResearch Institute of Oriental Medicine and con12 years lower for women than their respective en’s healthy life expectancy. To help women tinues to focus on ways of improving women’s life expectancies*1. Extending healthy life expecstay healthy and beautiful during and after the quality of life. tancy is a matter of great importance in Japan. midlife transitional period, Otsuka PharmaceuIn addition to information on women’s nutriSimilarly, Japan also faces the issue of creating tical developed EQUELLE, a supplement contion available to the general public on its weban environment in which women can be active taining equol made by lactic-aid bacteria from site, Otsuka Pharmaceutical provides support and involved in society while raising children, fermented soybeans. for Otsuka group employees such as seminars caring for aging parents, and maintaining their The company also conducts seminars across on women’s health to help female employees own health. Japan on women’s health that focus on the consider and manage their own health needs. For many women, their professional and perphysical and mental changes that take place at Otsuka Pharmaceutical sonal lives are disrupted along with their bodily each stage of life. The seminars also cover ways Taiho Pharmaceutical: Pink ribbon illumination at Kitajima Plant Taiho Pharmaceutical: Booth at Pink Ribbon Symposium Taiho Pharmaceutical: Raising awareness with Pink Ribbon activities Supporting the Pink Ribbon Campaign Taiho Pharmaceutical supports the Pink Ribbon the audience who expressed even more interest early detection and lead to more people receivcampaign, a worldwide effort to raise awareness in breast cancer than in past years. ing treatment. on, distribute accurate information about, and Visitors to the Taiho Pharmaceutical booth reToday, it is estimated that one in 11 women*2 promote early detection and treatment of breast ceived pink ribbon stickers and a leaflet entitled in Japan will develop breast cancer. Taiho Pharcancer. Taiho Pharmaceutical participated once Don’t Miss these Signs of Cancer! with informaceutical will continue to widely support the again in 2016 in the Pink Ribbon Symposium in mation on detecting breast cancer and variety Pink Ribbon campaign to help ensure that as Tokyo (sponsored by the Japan Cancer Society of other cancerous tumors, as well as a launmany women as possible receive support when and the Asahi Shimbun) with a booth. dry bag designed to raise awareness. The launthey need it. The 2016 theme was “Together we can overdry bag was selected in an employee survey Taiho Pharmaceutical come—The latest breast cancer treatment and as the most appropriate item for raising awaremental health care.” The symposium featured ness since the nearly daily chore of doing launtalks by specialists and actress Kaho Minami for dry would maximize people’s exposure to the people living with breast cancer and their famimessage. The company hopes that the laundry lies. The speakers fielded many questions from bag will motivate more women to think about *1: Source: Reference materials related to Health Japan 21 (the second term) *2: Source: Center for Cancer Control and Information Services 16 Communicating Health Information Health To help people improve their health and quality of life, the Otsuka group provides health information to patients and their families, medical practitioners, and school children. Taiho Pharmaceutical: SURVIVORSHIP.jp website Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Health & Illness site Otsuka Foods: My First Water Project Health Information Online My First Water Project The Otsuka group is involved in awareness-buildThe Health and Illness page of the Otsuka Otsuka Foods has been running the My First ing activities to promote proper understanding of Pharmaceutical website presents information Water Project, which aims to disseminate incancer and other diseases. Taiho Pharmaceution illness and health issues in a manner that is formation about safe and healthy water, since cal shares information on a wide range of diseasy for the layperson to follow. 2012. This program is based on the premise eases and illnesses, including cancer, allergies, Taiho Pharmaceutical and Otsuka Pharmaceutical that parents are responsible for making choices and lifestyle-related diseases. In 2007, Taiho about water until their children are old enough Pharmaceutical launched SURVIVORSHIP.jp, a to make their own decisions. In 2016, the comwebsite based on joint research with the Shipany continued to work with Bean Stalk Snow zuoka Cancer Center. To address the concerns Co., Ltd. to distribute samples of CRYSTAL of cancer survivors and their families, this webGEYSER to 300,000 expectant and nursing site provides cancer patients with inspiration to mothers across Japan. Employees visited trainovercome the challenges of life. The sections of ing sessions on bottle-feeding to show mothers the website that cover anticancer agents, radihow soft water with fewer minerals is suited for ation therapy, and diet proved so popular that infant formula. the company developed a free smartphone app. Otsuka Foods Otsuka Health Comic Library 20 – TWENTY Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Schizophrenia Forum Otsuka Health Comic Library 20 – TWENTY Raising Awareness about Illness The Otsuka group has been publishing the Taiho Pharmaceutical provides support for the Since 2009, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has proOtsuka Health Comic Library since 1989 as part National Cancer Center Hospital’s Orange Clovided support for forums on schizophrenia* held of its efforts to contribute to better children’s ver activities. This project is designed to help each year in two cities in Japan. In 2016, the health. A new volume is issued each year, and patients undergoing medical treatment to live forums were held in Matsuyama and Shizuoka. these comics have been donated to elementary full and active lives. Receiving the supervision of Aiming to convey to the general public the imand special needs schools throughout Japan. the program, Taiho Pharmaceutical distributed portance of acknowledging schizophrenia as They are used in classes and student comits 20—TWENTY booklet in 2016. The bookthe first step to recovery, Otsuka Pharmaceumittee activities as a tool for teaching children let was compiled for cancer patients in the AYA tical joined Silver Ribbon Japan to organize a about health in a fun way. generation (adolescents and young adults), their photo exhibition entitled Facing it Begins the In collaboration with the Japan Society of families, friends, and others close to them. Change on October 10, World Mental Health School Health, Otsuka Holdings has held health The booklet does not just focus exclusively Day. The exhibition has been held twice, weleducation workshops for elementary school on issues of external appearance, but also adcoming a total of 2,000 visitors and bringing nurses and other school officials since 2015 dresses topics related to overcoming obstacles hope that awareness and attitudes toward the to promote health education using the Otsuka in daily life, dealing with negative emotions, and mentally ill can change. These activities have Health Comic Library. developing a positive attitude. The company disbeen recognized by the international advertising tributes these to healthcare professionals in the awards Clio and by Cannes Lions. hope that they will help patients undergoing canAdditionally, US-based Avanir Pharmaceuticals cer treatment and deal with the issues they face. created a documentary film to raise awareness of Taiho Pharmaceutical pseudobulbar affect (PBA) and, in collaboration with the Brain Injury Association of America, has screened the film to healthcare professionals, support groups, and reporters, during the Amer* Sponsored by NHK Enterprises with support from Otsuka ican Psychiatric Association annual meeting. Pharmaceutical 17 Otsuka Pharmaceutical Environment The Otsuka group embraces its responsibility to care for the environment and pursue sustainability at every stage, from the manufacturing of products through to their use. 795 thousand tons-CO2 Total CO2 emissions in FY2016 (Otsuka group) 98.5 % 100 % Waste recycling rate in Japan in FY2016 Environmental e-learning program participation rate (Otsuka group) since FY2014 (Otsuka Pharmaceutical) 18 Environmental Management Environment An information exchange meeting for environmental managers from group production facilities is growing into a global system to promote group-wide environmental activities. Otsuka Group Environmental Policy As a global healthcare company and a responsible corporate citizen, the Otsuka group will always take account of the global environment when it pursues its business activities. The group will work on environmental issues with its trademark qualities of independence, proactiveness, and creativity. Guidelines 1 Provide products and services that are friendly to the environment 2 Contribute to a low-carbon society 3 Contribute to a sound material-cycle society 4 Conserve biodiversity 5 Ensure compliance 6 Actively engage in social initiatives 7 Enhance risk management Otsuka group: Global Environmental Council Otsuka Pharmaceutical: “Otsuka Academy of the Environment” Taiho Pharmaceutical: Environmental education e-learning educational tool Otsuka Group Environmental Environmental Education Promotion Council Otsuka Pharmaceutical has provided an onbegun in 2014, now offers two courses comThe Otsuka Group Global Environmental Council going environmental e-learning program, the prising twenty topics; the two courses are Enhas been established to promote environmental Otsuka Academy of the Environment, for all emvironmental Studies (fundamental knowledge, action based on the Otsuka Group Environmenployees since its launch in 2011. This program such as basics of global warming) and Envital Policy and Guidelines. The council comprises has fostered an awareness and understanding ronmental Law. Taiho Pharmaceutical also progroup-wide coordinators, environmental manof environmental issues for employees engaged vides environmental e-learning to all employees. agers from group companies, and a secretariat. in environmental activities in and out of the comCourse topics are based on the latest issues; The council is actively engaged in enhancing the pany. Comprehension tests have been used to appropriate waste disposal was the topic in group’s green initiatives through discerning enreinforce learning. Since 2014, the program par2016. Environmental education for corporate vironmental issues, setting common goals and ticipation rate has been 100% and the program officers and board members has also been imestablishing subcommittees to exchange inforensures employees knowledgeable of environplemented to enhance environmental managemation on each environmental issue. The counmental considerations. ment capabilities. cil will develop its environmental activities in Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory is developing Japan and outside Japan going forward. an environmental e-learning program to support self-directed learning. The ongoing program, 19 Climate Change Response By recognizing that the earth’s resources are finite, the Otsuka group is working to help realize a carbon-neutral society. This includes initiatives to minimize carbon dioxide emissions through energy conservation and better productivity. Combating Climate Change and Conserving Energy In 2016, the 13 Otsuka group companies in medium-term target to reduce fiscal 2018 CO2 emission reduction efforts. Heat is required for Japan*1 used the energy equivalent of 333 emissions*2 by 10% compared to fiscal 2010. sterilization processes used in producing pharthousand tons of CO2 emissions through their The group is striving to control emissions by maceuticals (IV solutions) and beverages, as business activities. The 34 group companies promoting fuel conversion and higher energy efwell as for the reaction, distillation, and drying outside Japan*1 used the energy equivalent of ficiency, and achieved a 7.3% reduction in fisof chemicals. Therefore, each group company 462 thousand tons of CO2 emissions, resultcal 2016. In addition, by calculating the Scope is working on innovative production processes ing in total emissions of 795 thousand tons of 3 emissions of four group companies,*3 which that will reduce energy consumption for these CO2. The increase in CO2 emissions outside account for about 80% of group emissions in energy-intensive uses. Japan was due to expansion of business acJapan, and by ascertaining emissions for each tivities. The Otsuka group in Japan has set a product category, the group will devise further (thousand tons-CO2) In Japan Outside Japan (thousand kL) In Japan Outside Japan (thousand(thousand tons-CO tons-CO 748 795 2) 800 Total CO2 Emissions2) In Japan In Japan 742 Outside Outside (Energy-related) Japan Japan 715 (thousand Energy (thousand kL) Usage kL) In JapanIn Japan Outside Outside 400 (Crude-oil equivalent) Japan Japan 676 748 748 795 795 342 800 800 742 742 715 715 400 400 322 323 676 676 307 295 342 342 (thousand tons-CO (thousand 2) tons-COIn2)Japan (thousand kL) (thousand Japan 322 In 322 323Japan323 600 In Japan 400 Outside Japan Outside Japan 795 405 462795 307 InkL) 300 307 Japan Outside Japan Outside 295 295 800 600 600 800 370 742 742 748 748 400 300 300 400 194 370 400 400 715 715 447 405 405 462 462 157 170 342 194 342 676 370 676 323 176 323 400 447 447 200 307 322 307 322 182 194 157 157 170 170 295 176 295 176 600 400 400 600 300 200 200 300 400 400 405 462 405 462 182 182 370 370 343 194 194 200 342447 447 333 100 306 343* 343 157 170 157 150 170 152 176 148 176 148 400 200 200 400 306 306 342 342 268 333 333 200 100 100 200 150 152 152 182 113182 148* 148 148 148 0 268* 268* 150 0 113* 113* 2012 2013 343 2014 2015343 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 200 0 0 200 342 342 333 333 100 0 0 100 306 2012 2013 2012 306 2013 2014 268* 2014 2015 268* 2015 2016 2016 (FY) 150 2012 2013 2012 152 2013 2014 150 152 2014 2015 148 2015 2016 148 148 2016 148 (FY) 113* 113* (FY) (FY) (FY) (FY) 0 0 0 0 2012 2012 2013 2014 2013 2014 2015 2016 2015 2016 2012 2013 2012 2014 2013 2015 2014 2016 2015 2016 (FY) (FY) (FY) (FY) Otsuka Group CO2 Emissions by Country in FY2016 CO2 Emissions by Company in FY2016 (in Japan) Other (2 companies) 1.8% Otsuka Packaging Industries 2.4% Europe (8 companies) Otsuka 2.3% PharmaPackaging J.O.Packaging Otsuka Industries 2.4% 2.4% JIMRO 0.3% Industries Other (2Othercompanies) 1.8% 1.8% (2 companies) 1.9% J.O.OtsukaJ.O.Techno Pharma Pharma 2.3% 2.3% Europe (8 companies) Europe (8 companies) JIMRO 0.3% JIMRO 0.3% China (7 1.9% 1.9% companies) Japan (13 companies) 2.9% Otsuka Techno Otsuka Techno 4.6%(2 companies) Other Other (21.8%companies) 1.8% 41.9% EN Otsuka 2.9% Otsuka 2.9% Pharmaceutical Packaging Packaging Industries Otsuka 2.4% Industries Otsuka Pharmaceutical 2.4% China (7Chinacompanies) (7 companies) Japan (13 companies) Japan (13 companies) 25.9% Europe (8 companies)Europe 4.6% (8 companies) 4.6% South Korea J.O. Pharma 2.3% J.O. Pharma 2.3% 4.4% JIMRO Otsuka 0.3%OtsukaJIMROPharmaceutical Pharmaceutical 0.3% 41.9% 41.9% EN Otsuka EN Pharmaceutical Otsuka Pharmaceutical 1.9%(2 companies) 1.9% Total emissions: Otsuka Techno Total emissions: 25.9% 25.9% South Korea South Korea 8.0% 4.4%Otsuka Otsuka 4.4%Techno Electronics China (2 China companies) (7 companies) (2 8.0% (7 companies) companies) 4.6% 8.0% USA Total emissions: 4.6% 795 Total emissions: Japan (13 companies) Japan (13 companies) 41.9% 41.9% Otsuka Electronics Otsuka Electronics 2.9% 2.9%Total emissions: 0.2% Total emissions: 333 Otsuka PharmaceuticalOtsuka Pharmaceutical South Korea (9 companies) USA South Korea USA 9.1% 795 795 thousand tons CO2 EN Otsuka EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical 0.2% 4.4% Pharmaceutical 0.2% Otsuka Foods 4.4% 7.4% 333 333 thousand tons CO2 25.9% 25.9% (2 companies) (9 companies) (2 companies) (9 companies) Total emissions: thousand tons CO thousandTotal 2 tonsemissions: CO 2 Otsuka Foods Otsuka Foods Total emissions: thousand tons CO thousand Total 2 tonsemissions: CO2 Otsuka Electronics Otsuka 7.4% Otsuka7.4%Electronics Chemical 8.0% 9.1% 8.0% 9.1% USA India (2 companies) USA 795 9.2% 795 Otsuka Chemical Otsuka Chemical 0.2% 0.2% 8.1% 333 333 India (2 companies) India (2 companies) thousand tons CO thousand 2 tons CO2 Otsuka Foods8.1% Otsuka Otsuka 8.1% Foods thousand tons COthousand Warehouse 2 tons CO2 (9 companies) (9 companies) Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory 9.2% 9.2% Indonesia (4 companies) 7.4% 7.4% 2.4% 9.1% 9.1% 29.7% 23.4% Otsuka Warehouse Otsuka Warehouse Otsuka Pharmaceutical Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory Factory Indonesia Indonesia (4 companies) (4 companies) Otsuka Chemical Otsuka Chemical Taiho Pharmaceutical India (2 companies) India (2 companies) 2.4% 2.4% 29.7% 29.7% 23.4% 23.4% 8.1% 8.1% 14.1%* 4 9.2% 9.2% Taiho Pharmaceutical Taiho Pharmaceutical Otsuka Warehouse Otsuka Warehouse 14.1%* 4 Otsuka14.1%* 4 Pharmaceutical Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory Factory Indonesia (4 companies) Indonesia (4 companies) 2.4% 2.4% 29.7% 29.7% 23.4% 23.4% Taiho Pharmaceutical Taiho Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Emissions in FY2016 at Which of the four should be specified 14.1%* 4 14.1%* 4 Four Group Companies in Japan*3 S Scope 1 9.0% S S 76.9% 101Scope 1Scope thousand 9.0% 9.0% 1 tons-CO 2 76.9% S 76.9% 866 thousand tons-CO S 2 tons-COtons-CO 101 thousand 101 thousand Scope 1 2 2 Scope Scope2 1 866 thousand 866 thousand tons-CO tons-CO 2 2 Fueland energy-related Scope 9.0% 2Scope 14.1% 2 9.0% 76.9%Purchased 76.9% Purchased goods and services goods goods Purchased Capital goods Fueland activities not included and energy-related Fuelin activitiesactivities energy-related Scope 1 or Scope 2 not included not included 101 thousand tons-CO 159 thousand 159101 159 thousand thousand thousand 14.1% tons-COtons-CO2 2 14.1% tons-CO tons-CO 2 2 2 866 thousand 866 tons-CO thousand tons-CO and services 49.8% 2 and services 2 Capital goods Capital goods 6.0% or Scope in Scopein1Scope 2.6% 1 or2Scope 2 Scope 2 Scope 2 14.1% 14.1% 49.8% 49.8% Purchased goods Purchased goods 6.0%6.0% 2.6%2.6% Fueland energy-related Fueland energy-related activities not included activities not included 159 thousand tons-CO Scope 159 thousand 2 tons-CO2 and services Transportation and services Capital goodsUse Capital goods of sold in Scope 1 or Scope in Scope2 1 End-of-life or Scope 2 treatment Calculating emissions under the and distribution products of sold products Greenhouse Gas Protocol (international 49.8% 49.8% Transportation Transportation 6.0% 6.0% 2.6% Use of sold Use of sold End-of-life 2.6% End-of-life treatment treatment 4.3% and distribution and distribution productsproducts 6.5% of sold products 2.3% of sold products emissions calculation standards). Under the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, 4.3% 4.3% Transportation Transportation 6.5% 6.5%Use of sold 2.3% Use of sold 2.3%End-of-life treatment End-of-life treatment Scope 1 indicates direct emissions from and distributionand distribution products products of sold products of sold products business activities; Scope 2 indicates 4.3% 4.3% 6.5% 6.5% 2.3% 2.3% indirect emissions such as electricity use; and, Scope 3 indicates other indirect emissions such as from supplier and customer activities. (Tons) Final disposal amount Recycling rate (%) (Tons) (Tons)1,500 Final disposal amount amount Recycling Final disposal Recycling rate rate (%) (%) 100 1,500 1,500 * The “In Japan” results 98.5 98.2are for the nine 100 100 1,200 97.5 months 97.6 Apr–Dec, but 98.2 98.2 98.5 98.5 Japan” the “Outside 98 VOICE The department is engaged in an innovative, cooperative (Tons) effort (Tons) the manufacwithFinal Final disposal disposal amount 96.7 amount Recycling results arerate Recycling for the rate Jan–Dec. twelve months (%) (% turing department to convert recovered heat1,200 1,200 97.5 from high-temperature 97.5 wastewater 97.6 97.6 98 98 1,500 1,500 100 1 generated in the manufacturing process into usable energy 900boilers. This96.7 for con96.7 *1: Consolidated 98.5 companies that have 98.5 a pro96 Global Warming 1,000 98.2site. 98.2 Prevention Efforts by version process has reduced CO 2 emissions by 670 900 tons 900 in 2016. 97.5 At the 662 Naruto 97.5 1,000 97.6 duction 96 96 1,200a stable supply1,200 1,000 97.6 546 580 98 9 the Whole Factory Factory, all employees are dedicated to ensuring 662 of 662 600 high-quality 96.7 96.7 *2: Calculated using 2010 coefficient 465 94 products, while working to prevent global warming. 546 *3:546 580 580 600 600 Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharma94 94 Yasuji Sakamoto 900 900 465 465 96 9 Facilities Maintenance and Engineering, 300 1,000 1,000 ceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, 92 662 662 and Otsuka Foods. Naruto Factory 300 300 546 580 546 580 92 92 Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. 600 600 *4: 465 Including Okayama Taiho Pharmaceutical 46594 9 0 20 90 0 0 2012 2013 Co., 2014Ltd. * 2015 201690 (FY) 90 300 300 92 9 and services Capital goods in Scope 1 or Scope 2 49.8% 6.0% 2.6% Environment Transportation Use of sold End-of-life treatment and distribution products of sold products 4.3% 6.5% 2.3% (Tons) Final disposal amount Recycling rate (%) 1,500 100 98.2 98.5 1,200 97.5 97.6 98 96.7 900 96 1,000 662 546 580 600 465 94 Otsuka Chemical: Cogeneration system at the Tokushima Factory Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Boiler room at the300 Toyama Factory Otsuka Sims (Guangdong) Beverage: Gas boiler 92 Initiatives on the Production Floor 0 90 2012 2013 2014* 2015 2016 (FY) The Otsuka group aims to help prevent global Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory has a comoperating units, shortening operating hours, warming by promoting both tangible energymittee operating at each of its production sites and adjusting settings. saving activities, such as equipment updatcomprised of members from all departments In Indonesia, Amerta Indah Otsuka, which ing, and intangible activities, including operaand headed by the plant manager and energy manufactures and sells POCARI SWEAT, ac(Tons) Handling Release in atmosphere and water Transfer (as waste) tional improvements. In Tokushima, where most managers in order to promote energy conserquired ISO 14001 certification and ISO 50001, 4,000 of the group’s production facilities are located, vation activities. Otsuka Techno seeks3,258 to tighten a certification that focuses 3,371 on energy manage3,228 the Tokushima Factory of Otsuka Chemical has control of peak power use 3,000 through the instalment and implements energy-saving activities. installed a gas turbine cogeneration system, lation of demand monitoring systems at the China Otsuka Pharmaceutical 2,420 and Guangdong 2,038 which supplies power and steam to various Naruto and Wajiki Factories. 2,000The Hanamaki Otsuka Pharmaceutical, which manufacture IV group companies in the same district. In addiFactory of EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical aims to solutions, Otsuka Sims (Guangdong) Beverage, tion, the Fukuroi Factory of Otsuka Pharmaceureduce power consumption1,000 through progresa maker of POCARI SWEAT in China, and Egypt 377 410 308 375 427 tical has introduced a system that uses energy sively switching to LED lighting and higher38 efOtsuka 21 Pharmaceutical, 26 42which makes 25 IV solu0 from hot wastewater generated by sterilization ficiency cooling equipment. Otsuka Chemical 2012 is 2013 have 2014 tions, * their reduced environmental 2015 2016 impact (FY) processes during manufacturing to provide air reducing power through smarter use of power by converting fuel sources from coal and heavy conditioning for low-humidity rooms. equipment such as controlling the number of oil to natural gas and diesel. (Thousand m3) In Japan Outside Japan 30,000 23,788 24,913 23,487 7,048 19,940 18,663 20,000 6,693 6,620 6,875 6,441 10,000 17,095 17,865 16,867 13,065* 12,222 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Otsuka Warehouse: Modal shift to ocean transport Reducing CO2 Emissions from Logistics Energy Consumption per Ton-Kilometer by Four Specified Consigners of the Otsuka group*1 The Otsuka group is promoting modal shifting as part of Otsuka’s efforts (Million ton-kilometers) (Thousand kiloliter/million ton-kilometers) to address the environmental impact of its logistics operations. Ship1,000 ping of drinks and other products is being shifted from trucks to ocean Transport volume Energy consumption per ton-kilometer or railway transport, both of which are more environmentally friendly and 800 0.0320 0.0310 0.0313 0.0315 0.0322 better suited for mass transport. When trucks are necessary for medium 600 and long distance transport, Otsuka Warehouse uses shared logistics 400 platforms that enable it to decrease the number of necessary delivery 538 527 vehicles; this innovation has effectively reduced CO2 emissions. 518 492 200 1 387 0 2012 2013 2014* 2015 2016 (FY) * Results are for the nine months Apr–Dec. *1: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, and Otsuka Foods. 21 Climate Change Response Taiho Pharmaceutical: Cool Biz poster Taiho Pharmaceutical: LED lighting at the Discovery and Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Hybrid vehicle Preclinical Research Division (Tsukuba area) Initiatives in the Office The Otsuka group is focused on improving enintroduced. Actions taken to reduce paper use updated lighting, humidification, and air condiergy use efficiency in buildings and fuel efficiency in printers have raised awareness about paper tioning equipment in its rented office space. In in business vehicles. Environmental managers and energy conservation. Transition to hybrid addition to these updates, the branch continfrom across the Otsuka group gather together and fuel-efficient business vehicles is in effect. ues to take comprehensive measures such as to share information on energy-saving activities In fiscal 2016, the green vehicle usage rates implementing plan-do-check-act cycles to find in offices to promote each company’s initiatives. for Otsuka Foods, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, new and improved ways to save energy. The In addition to working to optimize daily enOtsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, and Taiho Kobe Branch received a 2016 Kansai Eco Office ergy use, the Otsuka group strives for effiPharmaceutical were 92%, 87%, 84%, and Award from the Union of Kansai Governments cient lighting and air conditioning use in offices. 69%, respectively. Additionally the group profor their innovations. Based on the cooperaEmployees participate in Warm Biz and Cool motes eco-friendly driving habits with attention tion of seven Kansai prefectures, the Union of Biz campaigns that encourage appropriate seaon safe driving and accident prevention. Kansai Governments promotes disaster prevensonal office attire. The group has supported The Kobe Branch of Otsuka Pharmaceutical tion, tourism, culture, industry, healthcare, and declaring no-overtime days and use of air cirhas cooperated with internal and external parenvironmental conservation. culators. LED lighting is also being progressively ties to reduce its energy consumption; it has Ridge Vineyards: Lytton Springs Otsuka Techno: Naruto Head Office Taiho Pharmaceutical: Green curtain planting at Okayama Plant Clean Energy Use Green Curtains The Otsuka group is actively pursuing clean display serves to raise the environmental awareEvery year offices and factories in the Otsuka energy. It is working to reduce CO2 emisness of employees and communicates energroup grow bitter gourd, morning glory, and sions by installing solar power generation sysgy-saving efforts to visitors at the center. Ridge other vine plants to cover sunny windows in ortems. Otsuka Techno has introduced solar Vineyards—the group's winery in the United der to create green curtains that lower the inpower generation at the Naruto head office, States—has installed 400 rooftop solar panels, door temperatures and save energy. Large Mold Center, and the Wajiki No. 4 Factory. EN which supply 40% of the facility’s electricity. mature leaves help block the strong sunlight in Otsuka Pharmaceutical has installed photovolsummer, and drop room temperatures by three taic solar panels at its Hanamaki Factory, which degrees. Produce harvested from these window partially power the employee cafeteria. Solar plantings is featured on lunch menus in empanels were installed for the IV solutions inforployee cafeterias. This initiative raises conservamation center at the Naruto Factory of Otsuka tion awareness, and encourages employees to Pharmaceutical Factory. The amount of electricgrowing other edible vines such as passion fruit. ity generated and the level of CO2 emissions reduction are displayed on an indoor monitor. This VOICE The Kobe Branch values close communication with the building management company; we continue to propose improvements found in daily environmental activities. Energy-saving Recent improvements and renovation of the building facilities resulted from the enviActivities through ronmental awareness of our entire branch. We will continue to work on energy-saving Local Collaboration activities in cooperation with the local community. Kiyoto Oshima Finance and Accounting Department (Kobe Branch) Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 22 Eco-Friendly Products Environment The Otsuka group strives for environmental conservation through its products. It is working to develop eco-friendly products that reduce the environmental impact throughout the product life cycle, including measures for environmentally friendly disposal. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: OS-1, an oral rehydration solution Otsuka Foods: Short flap box for 500-ml Match bottles Lighter Bottles Lighter and Smaller Packaging The Otsuka group has introduced lighter conrehydration solution plastic bottles; introducing The Otsuka group is taking measures to reduce tainers that conserve resources and reduce thinner microwave pouches (reducing weight by the weight of cardboard and other product CO2 emissions. When they were launched in 7%) for Bon Curry Gold; reducing the weight of packaging materials. Otsuka Foods is reducing 2007, Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s 500 ml plastic glass bottles while still maintaining break resistthe weight of outer cardboard boxes used for bottles of POCARI SWEAT were the lightest in ance for Tiovita Drink; lowering packaging film its carbonated beverage, Match. A shorter box Japan. The weight of the bottles was reduced weight for SOYJOY; and redesigning containers flap design for the 500-ml Berry Match released by introducing a method called “positive presto reduce overall resin usage for jelly-type prodin March 2016 reduced cardboard use by 16%. sure aseptic filling” to the bottling lines, a first for ucts such as Calorie Mate. Otsuka Techno has The new box design is being adopted for other Japan. Now the bottle washing and sterilizing also achieved weight savings through innovative Match products starting March 2017. processes have been eliminated, as the complastic packaging redesign. pany produces preforms in-house from raw PET plastic material. The group has taken a number of actions to reduce the weight of product packaging including: changing the bottle design in 2016 from square to round design for OS-1 oral Otsuka Pharmaceutical: ABILIFY MAINTENA Otsuka Packaging Industries: Packaging that eliminates the need of Nutrition & Santé products cushioning material through the use of film wrap Product Development Targeting Both User Convenience and Waste Reduction Sustainable Product Design Innovative packaging for the antipsychotic with improved material quality and packaging Nutrition & Santé SAS, based in southern France, ABILIFY MAINTENA features improved impact formats. Innovations in packaging containers implements its own eco-design charter to enresistance during distribution, ease of package include food-product biomass trays, which are sure that environmental impact is considered at removal and disposal by medical staff. Otsuka made from plant-derived (sugar cane) polyethylall stages, from product development and ingrereceived an award in the pharmaceutical diviene, tapeless interlocking boxes, and innovative dients procurement, to manufacturing, packagsion from the 2016 Japan Packaging Competicushioned boxes that prevent bottle breakage. ing material design, and product transport. tion for the extensive and creative design of this The results of these initiatives are also being package. Regarding Adacolumn, a blood cell publicized through environmental exhibitions. purification device, a panel used for treatment was eliminated, which reduced packaging size and user medical waste. Additionally, shipping volume and shipping weight were reduced. Otsuka Packaging Industries proposes and manufactures eco-friendly packaging materials 23 49.8% 6.0% 2.6% Fueland energy-related 14.1% 159 thousand tons-CO2 Purchased goods activities not included and services Capital goods in Scope 1 or Scope 2 Waste 49.8% Reduction Transportation and distribution 6.0% Use of sold products 2.6% End-of-life treatment of sold products The 4.3% Otsuka group aims to6.5% 2.3% help create a recycling-oriented society. By curbing waste generation Transportation Use of sold End-of-life treatment and andpromoting distribution recycling, products the group strives to attain of sold final disposal amounts close to zero in its products 4.3% effort to achieve zero emissions. 6.5% 2.3% Reducing Waste Recycling Rate and Final Disposal Amount In 2016, the 13 group companies in Japan discharged 336 thousand (Tons) Final disposal amount Recycling rate (%) tons of waste from business activities. While the amount of waste dis1,500 100 98.2 98.5 charged fluctuates with changes in production output, the group strives (Tons) 97.5 Final disposal amount 97.6 Recycling rate (%) 1,200 98 to recover resources and to reduce its final disposal amount through re1,500 96.7 100 98.2 98.5 use and recycling initiatives. In fiscal 2016, its recycling rate was 98.5% 900 97.5 97.6 96 1,200 1,000 98 662 96.7 and the final disposal amount was 465 tons. Each factory will continue 546 580 600 465 94 900 96 robust 3R (reduce, reuse, and recycle) initiatives with the aim of achiev662 1,000 300 546 580 92 ing zero emissions. 600 465 94 0 90 2014* Amount of other Amount of waste recycled saleable resources 300 2012 2013 2015 2016 (FY) 92 Recycling rate (%) 100 Final disposal Amount of other Amount of 0 90 2014* amount waste recycled saleable resources 2012 2013 2015 2016 (FY) (Tons) Handling Release in atmosphere and water Transfer (as waste) PRTR Substances Handling, Release, and Transfer of PRTR Substances 4,000 Management of PRTR substances*1 at the 13 group companies in Ja3,258 3,371 (Tons) Handling 3,228Release in atmosphere and water Transfer (as waste) pan are shown in the graph at right. 3,000 4,000 3,371 2,420 3,258 3,228 2,038 2,000 3,000 2,420 2,038 1,000 2,000 377 410 308 375 427 38 21 26 42 25 1,000 0 2012377 2013 410 2014* 2015375 2016 427 (FY) 308 38 21 26 42 25 0 2012 2013 2014* 2015 2016 (FY) (Thousand m3) In Japan Outside Japan 30,000 24,913 (Thousand m3) In23,788 Japan Outside Japan 23,487 30,000 19,940 18,663 20,000 6,693 7,048 6,620 23,788 24,913 23,487 6,875 6,441 7,048 19,940 18,663 20,000 6,693 6,620 10,000 17,095 17,865 16,867 6,875 6,441 13,065* 12,222 10,000 17,095 17,865 16,867 0 2012 2013 2014 * 13,065 2015 12,222 2016 EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Canister reuse Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: “Tokushima Prefecture 0 Certified 3R Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Tokushima Wajiki Factory Model Site” certification for the Naruto Factory 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Waste Reduction and 3R Promotion Through 3R (reduce, reuse, and recycle) promoreceived environmental certification, (Million ton-kilometers) including containers; and corrugated cardboardton-kilometers) (Thousand kiloliter/million and pol1,000 tion efforts, the Otsuka group of companies is model site status, from relevant municipalities. yethylene bags to recyclers as valuable waste. Transport volume Energy consumption per ton-kilometer (Million ton-kilometers) (Thousand kiloliter/million ton-kilometers) helping to build a recycling-oriented society and Otsuka Foods also achieved,800and has mainOtsuka Techno also continues to maintain a re1,000 0.0320 0.0310 0.0313 0.0315 0.0322 working to achieve the goal of zero emissions. tained, zero emissions status for all its plants cycling rateEnergy Transport volume of 99% or more, consumption per through ton-kilometerinitiatives 600 Otsuka Pharmaceutical is working on matesince 2010. The Tokushima Factory 800 sorts manto improve the recycling rate based on thor0.0320 0.0310 0.0313 0.0315 0.0322 rial*2 and thermal*3 recycling, wherever possible, ufacturing waste into 39 types 400and processes 600 ough waste sorting as 538it strives to achieve zero 527 for waste emitted from its manufacturing proand recycles it into 13 kinds of200 products. In recemissions 518 at the plant. The Naruto 492 head office, 1 400 387 cesses. All its production plants achieved—and ognition of these efforts, the plant was certified Naruto Factory and538 Wajiki Factory have been 527 0 518 approved as Tokushima 492 continue to maintain—a zero emission status as a Tokushima Prefecture 200 3R Implementa2012 2013 387* 2014 2016 Certified 2015 Prefecture (FY) 3R1 with a recycling rate of 99% or more. In 2009, tion Site. The recycling efforts of the Hanamaki Model Sites. 0 Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory achieved—and Factory of EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical include: 2012 2013 2014* 2015 2016 (FY) continues to maintain—a zero emission status providing empty canisters that previously conat all its production plants. The Naruto, Matsutained raw-material fats and oils to an entershige, Toyama, and Kushiro Factories have also prise for reuse as agricultural product transport * Results are for the nine months Apr–Dec. *1: Pollutant Release and Transfer Registers (PRTRs). There are presently 462 substances designated under Japan’s PRTR system. *2: Reusing waste as raw materials for products *3: Recovering and utilizing the energy generated during the incineration of waste 24 Otsuka Techno ) Japan (13 companies) 2.9% 41.9% EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Otsuka Pharmaceutical Protecting Biodiversity Environment 4.4% 25.9% a ) Total emissions: Total emissions: Otsuka Electronics The795Otsuka group endeavors to maintain and preserve biodiversity. 0.2% Through 333 a growing understanding ) of thetonsimpact thousand CO2 of its business activities on ecosystems, the Foods group strives tothousand Otsuka tons CO2this impact and minimize 7.4% promote a society where humans and the natural environment are mutually beneficial. Otsuka Chemical panies) 8.1% 9.2% Otsuka Warehouse Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory Indonesia (4 companies) 2.4% 29.7% 23.4% Taiho Pharmaceutical 14.1%* 4 Basic Approach The Otsuka group recognizes the invaluable benefits provided by the global environment, and thus deeply values the wonder of life. It understands that nature’s gifts are the key to our future, and is consequently Scope 1 committed to protecting biodiversity 9.0% worldwide. 101 thousand tons-CO2 Scope 2 Guidelines 14.1% Fueland energy-related s activities not included 159 thousand tons-CO2 Capital goods in Scope 1 or Scope 2 6.0% 1 The group 2.6%will deepen its understanding of the relationship between business activities and biodiversity. Use of sold 2 The group willtreatment End-of-life strive to reduce the environmental impact of business activities that impact biodiversity. products of sold products 6.5% 2.3%will strive for sustainable use of resources (including ecosystem services), 3 The group and for fair and equitable distribution of genetic resources in accordance with international arrangements. 4 The group will work on conservation of biodiversity by communicating, cooperating and collaborating with stakeholders worldwide. (Tons) Final disposal amount Recycling rate (%) 5 The group will help foster public awareness 1,500 of biodiversity. 100 98.2 98.5 1,200 97.5 97.6 98 96.7 900 96 1,000 662 546 580 600 465 94 Relationship between Biodiversity 300 Supply Adjustment 92 Cultural and Business Activities 0 Plants Animals Freshwater Air quality 90 Recreation The Otsuka group manufactures and sells a 2012 Fuel 2013 Wood 2014 * 2015Water purification 2016 (FY) Emotional value Medicinal resources Waste disassembly Environmental education Biochemical resources Natural disaster protection wide range of products such as pharmaceuticals, IV solutions, beverages, foods, and chemiEcosystem benefits cals. Biodiversity is integral to all group activity in (Tons) Handling Release in atmosphere and water Transfer (as waste) these business domains; biodiversity supports Corporate activities 4,000 business activities and is, at the same time, im3,371 Land Consumption/ 3,258 R&D 3,228 Procurement Manufacturing Transport Sales pacted by them. Thus an accurate understanduse use 3,000 ing of this interrelationship is necessary as the 2,420 2,038 group seeks to promote initiatives aimed at re2,000 Impact on biodiversity ducing impacts on biodiversity. 1,000 Climate change Changes in 410 Depletion of resources 427 Non-native species 377 308 375 Air pollution 38 habitats21 26 plants, and freshwater) (animals, 42 25Water pollution introduction 0 2012 2013 2014* 2015 2016 (FY) Water Resource Initiatives Water Usage by Group Companies In fiscal 2016, the 13 group companies in Ja(Thousand m3) In Japan Outside Japan pan used 12.222 million m3 of water in business 30,000 activities. Outside Japan, 34 group companies 23,788 24,913 23,487 used 6.441 million m3 of water, resulting in to6,693 7,048 19,940 18,663 20,000 6,620 tal use of 18.663 million m3. Water resources 6,875 6,441 play a major role in the group’s business. Water usage amounts are analyzed and compared 10,000 17,095 17,865 16,867 13,065* 12,222 among group companies as part of Otsuka’s efforts to reduce environmental impact and use 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) limited resources wisely. * The “In Japan” results are for the nine (Million ton-kilometers) (Thousand kiloliter/million ton-kilometers) months Apr–Dec, but the “Outside Japan” 1,000 results are for the twelve months Jan–Dec Transport volume Energy consumption per ton-kilometer 800 0.0320 0.0310 0.0313 0.0315 0.0322 600 25 400 538 527 518 492 Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Biotope at Tokushima Itano Factory Taiho Pharmaceutical: Biotope at Okayama Plant Emerging rhinoceros beetle Creating Biotopes Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Tokushima Itano Facflourish, including dragonfly larva, water scortory has created facilities that are friendly to pions, and pygmy water lilies. A spot near the people and the environment on the basis of biotope pond was created where rhinoceros building harmonious relationships with the natubeetles can thrive. Every year leaves from deral environment. The design of the factory comciduous trees on the plant grounds are used to plex includes incorporating the pre-construction raise several hundred beetles, which are popunatural state. Fish and small animals thrive in the landscape, and reintroducing native plants in an lar with children who come to tour the plant. Lobiotope that features a babbling brook, a deep effort to preserve the original biological habitats. cated in a scenic spot overlooking Kugui Bay in pool, and sandbars. Insects and birds are atA natural forest area was left intact on the facthe city of Bizen, Taiho Pharmaceutical’s Okaytracted to food sources that flourish along the tory grounds. The forest has various species of ama Plant has implemented an eco-friendly water’s edges. The wastewater that is filtered oak that attract a wide range of seasonal wild wastewater treatment system for discharging through this 300-meter long biotope is eventubirds, and provide a relaxing recreational space the cooling and cleaning water generated in the ally released into the sea as organically rich as for employees and visitors. The biotope pond, manufacture of the Tiovita Drink series. The sysnatural stream water. The biotope thus contribfed by cooling water from the plant, provides tem enables the plant to discharge the treated utes to regional biodiversity conservation. an environment for diverse aquatic creatures to water into the sea in a condition closer to its Ridge Vineyards Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Cyprinid fish exchange meeting Initiatives to Protect Water Resources Initiatives for Protecting and Reintroducing Endangered Species Ridge Vineyards uses technology in an innovaOtsuka Pharmaceutical’s Tokushima Itano Facadult fish with those tive way to reduce the quantity of water used to tory is working to protect and breed a small from other breeding irrigate their vines. The technology, which measfreshwater cyprinid fish, designated as an enponds in the region ures how much water is lost by a grapevine and dangered species. The fish are raised in a biotto reduce inbreedwhether it is under water stress, enables the ope pond on the factory grounds before being ing. Once breeding vineyard to gather information on when and reintroduced into their natural environment. The reached the point where it is appropriate to irrigate. Judicious wacyprinid was thought to be extinct in Tokushwhere some fish could be returned to the natter management has helped cut the water used ima Prefecture, but was rediscovered in this reural environment, a trial release of 2,000 fish, to irrigate by 50% without affecting the quality gion in 2004. The factory then decided to get including 140 from the factory pond, was conof the wine. involved in a collaborative project launched ducted in 2015. In 2016, the prefecture, along In Indonesia, Otsuka Indonesia and P.T. by the prefecture involving industry, governwith participating local high schools and comAmerta Indah Otsuka are donating trees and ment, and academia to bring back the endanpanies, conducted individual fish exchanges to planting them around their factories and nearby gered fish. In 2012, the factory began to raise reduce inbreeding, and also held a meeting to mountain slopes to provide forestation for wa1,000 fish provided by the prefecture in its biotshare data on breeding individuals and environtershed protection. ope pond, and is careful to exchange individual ment water quality. 26 Protecting Biodiversity Environment Participants in the fishing tournament Otsuka Pharmaceutical Environmental Club Nutrition & Santé products Otsuka Group Non-Native Otsuka Pharmaceutical Sustainable Ingredients Fishing Tournament Environmental Club As palm oil is used as an ingredient in biscuits Lake Biwa is well known as Japan’s largest lake Many Otsuka group employees living in Tokand other products, Nutrition & Santé SAS particand has been a local source of drinking waushima participate as volunteers in the Otsuka ipates in the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil ter in the region. However, the propagation of Pharmaceutical Environment Club. This club col(RSPO*2). The company seeks to ensure that its non-native fish such as the bluegill has caused laborates with local government and other orfacilities and those of suppliers use RSPO-certified a decline in native and primitive fish species in ganizations by promoting and participating in oil for Nutrition & Santé products. Lake Biwa; this has put the local ecosystem in activities such as collecting shoreline rubbish danger. The Otsuka group has 12 sites in Shiga and gathering data for the International Coastal Prefecture near the lake. As part of a project Cleanup initiative hosted by JEAN. In recognition promoted by the prefecture to eliminate invaof these efforts, the club received a Tokushima sive species, the group has been holding an Environmental Prefectural Assembly*1 Award. annual fishing tournament since 2009 to catch non-native fish. Exciting Summer in Wajiki Taiho Pharmaceutical: Illuminated display at the Kitajima Plant Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Tree workshop Factory Grounds Open to the Community Factories of the Otsuka group carry out regular over Japan. Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Tokushima in spring and an LED illuminated display in wincleanup activities on areas around their grounds Itano Factory holds an event for the local commuter. Furthermore, disaster prevention agreements With a policy of openness toward local community under the theme of health and environmenhave been signed with Kitajima Town, Tokushima nities, some factories open their grounds to the tal protection. The event is called Asan Walking City, and Tokushima Prefecture. In the event of a public for cherry blossom viewing in the spring. Festival in Itano. Elsewhere, in cooperation with large-scale disaster, part of the factory site will be Group sites also collaborate on various commuthe town of Yoshinogari, the Saga Factory proopened as a temporary evacuation site. A sysnity events for regional revitalization. Together vides a tree workshop for children and local tem for disaster preparedness has also been crewith Otsuka Techno, the local government, and residents to better understand the natural enviated with the local community. chamber of commerce, Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s ronment. The grounds of Taiho Pharmaceutical’s Tokushima Wajiki Factory holds a free outdoor Kitajima Plant include walking paths and rows of concert every year, called Exciting Summer in cherry blossom trees. In addition to providing a Wajiki. The concert is staged on a grassy area on peaceful, relaxing space for local residents during the factory grounds during the Awa Odori Festival. plant operating hours, the plant also hosts speIn 2016, the concert drew 5,000 people from all cial events such as illuminated cherry blossoms *1: Established in 2000 under the basic philosophy of the Tokush*2: Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil: An NPO seeking to secure ima Prefecture Environmental Principal Ordinance. The assembly sustainable sources of palm oil while protecting the environment. makes recommendations, conducts research, and raises public It was established in 2004 in response to rising concerns worldawareness through cooperating and collaborating with the citwide, and unites stakeholders such as the WWF, from all seven izens of Tokushima, businesses, and government agencies. In sectors of the palm oil industry. conjunction with their roles, the assembly also engages in proactive and independent activities to reduce environmental impacts. The foremost objective—as outlined by the Tokusima environmental charter—is a prefecture where people and nature flourish harmoniously together. 27 Quality Striving also to enhance the quality of its social initiatives, the group is focused on a broad range of activities, from information transparency and disclosure to working with suppliers and other collaborators, respecting local communities, and ensuring compliance with regulations. 24 hours/day Telephone Service Center availability (Otsuka Pharmaceutical) 46 % 4 Percentage of directors from outside company Number of languages available for group training materials related to Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics 28 Safety Initiatives Q uality As the duty of a company that is committed to the betterment of life, the Otsuka group thinks first of the customers and patients who use its products. The group pursues business activities that place the highest priority on the quality and safety of our products. Quality and Safety Control Quality Control in the Otsuka Group The Otsuka group has established rigorous Compliance with Regulatory, Otsuka Group Policies and Government and Industry Certification quality control systems suited to the characterStandards Schemes istics of each of its businesses, including pharPharmaceutical and Medical Device ISO 9001 Formulation of quality systems maceuticals, medical devices, cosmetics, and Act Standard for establishing and achieving Legislation aimed at securing the continuous improvement of quality control Formulation of codes of conduct foods, in pursuit of product quality and safety. quality, effectiveness, and safety systems for products and services of pharmaceuticals, quasi drugs, The Otsuka group’s quality and safety control cosmetics, and medical devices ISO 13485 Establishment of total quality Standard for quality management systems management systems (TQMS) systems comply with regulatory requirements, GLP in the medical industry for continuous for pharmaceuticals and medical Standards for securing the reliability manufacturing and supply of safe and government and industry standards, includof nonclinical testing for safety effective medical devices devices GMP ing Japan’s Pharmaceuticals, Medical Devices National standards for ISO 22000 Establishment of traceability Standard for food safety management manufacturing control and quality and Other Therapeutic Products Act as well as control of pharmaceuticals and systems (FSMS) to supply food to systems consumers safely quasi drugs Japan’s Food Sanitation Act. The group is also Employee training QMS Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point promoting the acquisition of international certifiNational standards for (HACCP) manufacturing control and International standards formulated by Codex cations such as ISO 9001 for quality, ISO 13485 quality control of medical devices Alimentarius for methods of managing and external-use diagnostic hygiene and sanitation to ensure food safety for medical devices, and ISO 22000 for food pharmaceutical products GQP FSSC 22000 safety. Furthermore, in order to ensure thorNational standards for quality Benchmark certification standard control established by the Global Food Safety ough quality control, it has adopted traceability Initiative (GFSI) scheme, which integrates GVP ISO 22000 (international standard for food systems covering all processes, from raw maNational standards for safety safety management systems, FSMS), and management in the post-marketing ISO/TS22002-1 (and/or ISO/TS22002-4) terial procurement to production, distribution, based on the ISO22000 requirements and sales. Meanwhile, its major operating comFood Sanitation Act ISO17025 Law to ensure safety by establishing General requirements prescribed for principles for standards, labels, and panies conducting global business have estabinspections for food, additives, and other research institutes and research review agencies working to acquire certification as substances lished global quality assurance systems. bodies qualified to carry out specific tests or calibrations Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Quality tests Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: IV Drug Information (DI) Center Taiho Pharmaceutical: Tiovita Drink packaging designed to prevent cuts Global Quality Assurance System Listening to Customers for IV Solutions In order to field and respond to customer inquirprofessionals at the center listen carefully to cusAs a leading manufacturer of IV solutions, Otsuka ies appropriately, the Otsuka group operates detomers and do their best to answer questions Pharmaceutical Factory technically cooperates partments that are organized along product lines. conscientiously, honestly and in a manner that is with and manages the 15 Otsuka companies (in At Otsuka Pharmaceutical, the Drug Information easily understood. 10 countries) involved in the IV solutions busiCenter fields inquiries about pharmaceuticals; Taiho Pharmaceutical has incorporated cusness outside Japan. In this leading role, the the Customer Relation Desk in the Planning and tomer feedback to improve a variety of prodcompany has voluntarily developed and impleReliability Promotion Office fields inquiries about ucts. In 2015, for example, the company mented a strict global quality assurance system. OTC products, quasi drugs, and cosmetics; and introduced new specifications to reduce paper In addition to sharing safety information and enthe Customer Relations Office responds to incuts for the 10-bottle inner cases and 50-botsuring compliance with laws, regulations and inquiries about functional foods and beverages. tle exterior cardboard packaging for its Tiovita dustry standards in each country in which the The company has also established the TeleDrink series. Since conventional packaging with group operates, the company works with other phone Service Center to respond to all inquirsharp edges can leave unexpected paper cuts, group companies to continuously maintain and ies made after office hours and on holidays and the company added tiny waves to the paper to improve product quality and develop a shared weekends, which often involve a level of urgency. reduce the sharpness of the box edges, making philosophy regarding quality assurance. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory has estabthe products more comfortable for consumers. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory lished an IV Drug Information (DI) Center. The VOICE Taiho Pharmaceutical markets the well-known Tiovita Drink series and Solmack series, as well as a large number of over-the-counter drugs. At the Customer Service, Helping People with OTC Medication we receive a diverse range of inquiries and feedback on our products from customers. Every day, we focus on understanding precisely what our customers want to know Hideki Yamamoto and what they are hoping we will do, and then we respond quickly. We share informaDirector, Customer Service, tion among all of the relevant departments in the company and serve as the contact Consumer Healthcare Administration Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. point for helping these departments to incorporate customer feedback into their work. 29 Corporate Governance In order to achieve stable business activities and sustainable growth, the Otsuka group aims to be a company trusted by all of its stakeholders. Toward that end, it has worked to build a sound and highly transparent management structure. Basic Position on Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Structure The corporate governance of the Otsuka group, listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. These At Otsuka Holdings, the Board of Directors, which seeks to promote the increase of its susguidelines were established to indicate the which includes outside directors, supervises the tainable corporate value over the mediumto group’s basic approach to corporate governexecution of management plans to ensure suslong-term by realizing the corporate philosoance in light of the Otsuka Group philosophy tainable growth and raise corporate value over phy, is committed to the basic policy of makand business operations. the mediumto long-term, and fulfills its roles ing transparent, fair and timely decisions and In April of each year following the annual and responsibilities regarding improving profitafulfilling social responsibility by living up to the general shareholders meetings, Otsuka Holdbility and capital efficiency. At Otsuka Holdings, expectations of all stakeholders including cusings reports on the current status of group cora company with an Audit & Supervisory Board, tomers, suppliers and other collaborators, porate governance initiatives in a Corporate the Audit & Supervisory Board members, who employees, local communities as well as shareGovernance Report filed with the Tokyo Stock are independent from the Board of Directors, holders, through dialogue with them. Exchange. The Corporate Governance Code take the lead in monitoring the execution of opOtsuka Holdings has formulated Corpoand Corporate Governance Reports are also erations by the Board of Directors, while coordirate Governance Guidelines based on Japan’s posted on the Otsuka Holdings website. nating with accounting auditors and the Internal Corporate Governance Code for companies Audit Department. This ensures the Company’s health and maintains a solid corporate governance system that can satisfy society’s trust. Standards for the Selection of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Corporate Governance Committee Evaluating Board of Director Effectiveness With respect to outside directors and outside Otsuka Holdings established a Corporate GovJapan’s Corporate Governance Code calls for Audit & Supervisory Board members, the comernance Committee in February 2017. As an ensuring that boards of directors operate effecpany has set standards to appoint talented advisory council to the Board of Directors, the tively, and this is a matter of increasing interest persons who have extensive knowledge and Committee discusses the nomination of directo stakeholders. experience, and are able to exert their abilitors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, To analyze and evaluate the effectiveness ties adequately for oversight to the Directors director remuneration, and other corporate govof its board of directors in fiscal 2016, Otsuka by supervising, monitoring or auditing Direcernance issues, and then reports to the Board Holdings distributed a survey drafted on the tors’ performance of their duties fairly and obof Directors. The Committee consists of the advice of outside expert agencies to all direcjectively from a neutral and objective viewpoint. CEO, the director in charge of administration, tors and Audit & Supervisory Board members The Company realizes that one criterion for enas well as outside directors. The CEO becomes in January and February 2017. Following review suring neutrality and objectivity of outside dithe chair of the Committee. by the corporate lawyers, the matter was disrectors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board cussed by the Board of Directors in March. members is independence from the manageThe survey found that the Otsuka Holdings ment team. Otsuka Holdings has established Board of Directors is functioning in a sufficiently standards of independence for outside direceffective and productive manner with regard to tors in order to ensure their independence in the the current state of operation and its deliberaCorporate Governance Guidelines of the Comtions. Building on these positive findings, the pany. The Company also determines the indegroup is taking steps to further improve the pendency of outside Audit & Supervisory Board quality of the Board of Directors, going forward. members in accordance with the standards. Otsuka Holdings Corporate Governance Structure Shareholders Meetings Elects/Dismisses Elects/Dismisses Elects/Dismisses Inquiries Operational audits Board of Directors Accounting audits Audit & Supervisory Board Corporate Governance (4 auditors including 3 outside Audit & (9 Directors including 3 outside directors) Committee Supervisory Board members) Responses Appoints/Dismisses (Cooperates with) (Cooperates with) President and Representative Director, CEO Instructs Reports Accounting audits Accounting Auditor Internal Audit Department (Cooperates with) Approval of material matters / Meetings of the group’s Audit & Prior consultation / Management guidance Supervisory Board Ex post facto reports Subsidiaries (Shareholders' Meeting, Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board, etc.) 30 Compliance Q uality The Otsuka group has maintained an organization and corporate climate which enable all employees to behave with extremely high ethical standards, including compliance with laws, regulations, and bioethics. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Ethics Forum Promoting Compliance Expanding the Internal The Otsuka group of companies formulates their and healthcare-related organizations is reWhistle-blowing System own individual programs to promote compliquired, it is striving to ensure adherence to Japan’s Corporate Governance Code calls for ance based on the Otsuka Group Global Code standards in order to fulfill its responsibility as a establishing a whistle-blowing system that is inof Business Ethics. The group companies that pharmaceutical company and ensure the pracdependent from management and for managehandle pharmaceuticals follow the Prescription tice of proper medical care based on ethics and ment oversight of the operational status of the Drug Promotion Code, which is a code of bea patient-centered commitment. system. This independence and oversight is exhavior for healthcare professionals, and have tremely important for a whistle-blowing system to formulated their own Code of Practice. The function in the quick detection of illegal and inapOtsuka group works to forge relationships of propriate conduct and/or information disclosure. mutual trust with medical practitioners, as well Accordingly, the Otsuka group has established as with all of its stakeholders, to foster approa whistle-blowing system that is independent priate collaboration on compliance issues. As from management to ensure that whistleblowthe social responsibility to clearly specify the reers can use the system without concerns about lationship between pharmaceutical companies potential repercussions. Major group companies also report regularly to the Otsuka Holdings Board of Directors on the status and condition of their internal whistle-blowing systems. Implementing Otsuka Group-wide Training—Global Code of Business Ethics and a Global Anti-Corruption Policy In order to promote and achieve group-wide from President, Representative Director, and companies. Training materials are provided not compliance under the banner of its corporate CEO Tatsuo Higuchi. only in Japanese but also in English, Chinese, philosophy, the Otsuka group established the The Otsuka group distributes a universal set and Indonesian. Group companies regularly reOtsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethof training materials worldwide to address its port to the Otsuka Holdings Board of Directors ics. The commitment to this Code of Conduct Global Anti-Corruption Policy; this ensures that on the status of training implementation. is publicly posted on its website as a message training is uniform and consistent for all group President's Message Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics United under the banner of our corporate philosophy, “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide,” we are working tirelessly toward a shared vision—improving global health through innovative products and services. As a “big venture company,” we keep moving forward, constantly asking ourselves the following questions: Is our work innovative? Are we meeting the needs of our patients and consumers globally? Do our pharmaceutical products bring something innovative to healthcare? Can our nutraceutical products create new markets? As we strengthen our presence in the international marketplace, we have a heightened duty to continue fulfilling our ethical and legal obligations as a responsible global corporate citizen. To earn and secure the trust and confidence of our stakeholders including patients and consumers, we operate our business ethically, and with integrity. The Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics embodies and reiterates our commitment to integrity, which remains steadfast across the Otsuka group worldwide. I strongly hope that our adherence to the principles set forth in this Code promotes a fair and open workplace inspiring creativity, empowering us to reach our fullest potential, and enabling us to enhance the quality of life worldwide. Tatsuo Higuchi President and Representative Director, CEO Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. VOICE At Otsuka Pharmaceutical, we are reinforcing our efforts to ensure compliance at our approximately 30 subsidiaries in Asian and Arab countries. We have provided many difCompliance Initiatives ferent types of support, including setting rules and implementing group training for all officers in charge of compliance. These subsidiaries differ greatly in terms of their size and Maki Toyooka the products they sell, and the regulations in each of these countries also differ. These Manager, Compliance Department differences can make it difficult to address the issue of compliance. To address this, we Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. are working hard to gain a greater understanding of the business customs and cultures of each country. 31 Risk Management In order to fulfill its social responsibilities as a healthcare company, the Otsuka group works to manage risks under normal conditions and prepares to continue operations safely even at times of disaster or emergency. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Full-circumference seawall Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Emergency LED lights along Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Comprehensive disaster drill installed at Matsushige Factory evacuation routes and at evacuation sites automatically turn on during a power outage. BCP and BCM Establishment The Otsuka group has business continuity plans and beverages in both ordinary and emergency management strategy. The company has en(BCP) in place to ensure that the group continconditions. In 2016, major Otsuka group comacted basic BCM rules and implements a vaues to operate as effectively as possible and is panies conducted joint desktop exercises simriety of measures to preempt risk factors and able to maintain a stable supply of its products, ulating a severe earthquake along the Nankai limit damage should an unavoidable crisis oceven when large-scale earthquakes and disasTrough. Company offices in Tokushima, Tokyo, cur. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory does not ters strike. and Osaka communicated via video conferencfocus exclusively on its own BCM. The measMajor Otsuka group companies such as ing to test the group’s collaborative structure for ures the company implements encompass the Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical ensuring a stable supply of products under simentire group to forge a united front on risk manFactory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, and Otsuka ulated conditions, and results were extremely agement. The company works with companies Warehouse have jointly acquired ISO 22301 close to projected scenarios. in the Otsuka group that distribute and sell its certification (the international standard for busiAs a manufacturer of the IV solutions that products, holding regular BCP meetings to adness continuity management systems). This would be especially required for initial treatment dress risks associated with Otsuka Pharmaceucertification verifies that the Otsuka group prowhen an emergency situation occurs, Otsuka tical Factory business activities. vides a framework capable of ensuring the staPharmaceutical Factory has designated busible supply of pharmaceuticals, food products, ness continuity management (BCM) as a key Otsuka Pharmaceutical: PrivacyMark Information Security Initiatives The Otsuka group has formed the Otsuka related to targeted email attacks, and monitoring Each Otsuka group company focuses on Group Information Security Committee for the the content of social media messages, with outtraining to raise awareness of information secupurpose of sharing the latest information on inside security companies. In addition, the group rity and protection of personal information. formation security and reviewing specific secuconducts regular emergency drills focusing on rity measures. Otsuka focuses on boosting the systems that are vital to database management. level of comprehensive security throughout the The Otsuka group has established a privacy entire group and continuously improving the inprotection management system to protect cusformation security process. tomers’ valuable personal information and has In order to counter the risk of cyber-attack, acquired PrivacyMark certification and Informathe Otsuka group has a number of measures, tion Security Management System (ISMS) cersuch as inspecting security of systems, diagtification in businesses where this certification nosing website vulnerabilities, conducting drills is relevant. 32 Risk Management Q uality CSR Procurement/Green Procurement Recognizing the importance of working with for purchased goods, as well, to ensure that lighter packaging materials; and promotes effisuppliers to implement sustainability initiatives, the goods procured have the most impact on ciency in truck shipment schedules in order to the Otsuka group is committed to socially rereducing the company’s environmental impact conserve energy and reduce CO2 emissions. sponsible business throughout the entire value and to promote green procurement under a Otsuka Electronics, a company that manuchain, including all of the companies it collabocomprehensive framework. factures and markets electronic devices globally, rates with. Broadly, these initiatives encompass EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical complies with strives to maintain product quality and prevent compliance, environmental initiatives, and safety Japan’s Subcontract Act and related laws and defects globally. The company first signs a basic and security initiatives. When initiating business regulations when procuring raw materials. Comtransaction agreement and evaluates the subwith a new company, the group conducts invespany policy is to purposefully purchase from contractor (reviewing capacity and conducting tigations and verifications to ensure the quality multiple sources in order to ensure stable and other surveys), then fully verifies quality via spec of raw materials and stable procurement. In adcontinuous procurement and effective BCP imsheets, approval diagrams and prototypes. The dition, it signs a basic transaction agreement in plementation. With regard to raw materials and company procures and manufactures products advance in an effort to prevent risk. packaging materials for pharmaceuticals, the compliant with EU standards (RoHS and WEEE The company asks suppliers for their undercompany reuses the boxes in which raw matedirectives, etc.) according to the regulations in standing and cooperation on CSR procurement rials are shipped; reduces packaging and uses place in the area to which they are exported. Initiatives with Suppliers The Otsuka group is committed to working and procurement questionnaire to evaluate CSR acIn order to ensure a stable supply of safe, growing with suppliers whose operations are tivities within the supply chain. Working together quality products, each group company works rooted in corporate social responsibility. It fowith suppliers, the Otsuka group is determined with its suppliers to maintain and improve prodcuses on providing solutions for the issues that to build relationships of even greater mutual uct quality, regularly monitoring the companies communities face through its suppliers and trust by upholding its social responsibilities. This that supply raw materials to the Otsuka group. making sure that transactions do not cause soeffort is based on ensuring a clear understandThese companies are careful to maintain good cial issues. ing throughout the supply chain of the current business relations by communicating and sharThe Otsuka group enacted a group-wide prostatus of human rights, labor, environmental ciring information on a daily basis. curement policy in 2016 and distributes a CSR cumstances, and corruption prevention. Procurement Policy 1 Building Relationships of Trust 5 Environmental Measures, Human Rights, and Labor We respect all suppliers equally as valuable collaborators; conduct We actively pursue initiatives that address corporate social responprocurement transactions fairly, justly and transparently; and pursue sibility and environmental issues, aiming to help build a sustainable mutually sustainable development as we build positive relationships society. At the same time, we support internationally recognized of trust. norms within the scope of our impact on respect for basic human rights, the elimination of forced labor, and the prevention of child 2 Stable Supply labor, and we pursue initiatives toward these goals. We ensure the reliable level of quality that our customers expect; provide fair and honest opportunities for bidding by suppliers 6 Protecting Confidentiality around the world that provide safe, quality, environmentally friendly, We do not use confidential information from suppliers obtained in and cost competitive raw materials; and select the bid winners the course of doing business for any purpose other than the original based on rational and fair criteria. purpose for which it was provided. We do not leak confidential information to third parties. 3 Product Development Ideas We actively evaluate proposals for new materials, new technologies, 7 Promoting Compliance and revolutionary ideas that will lead to new products. We conduct our operations in accordance with socially accepted norms, complying with all relevant laws, rules, and regulations and 4 Boosting Competitiveness upholding high ethical standards. We aim for products that are optimal in every respect, not only optimal in certain respects. We evaluate all economically rational ideas 8 Risk Diversification for boosting competitiveness. As a basic rule, we purchase major items from multiple companies to reduce risk and ensure that we deliver a stable supply of products to our customers regardless of weather, natural disasters, or other conditions. 33 Culture Otsuka respects local communities and their traditional cultures. The group contributes to community development and in particular to the education of children, who represent the future of their communities, through community exchanges, partnerships, and support for education. Over 800,000 people Number of patients treated at Otsuka Welfare Clinic since its inception Over 124,000 volumes Over 10,000 people Books contributed through SATU HATI Participants in the class, social contribution activities in Indonesia Life Studies Through Cancer 34 Contributing to Communities Culture As a good corporate citizen, the Otsuka group cares about the natural environment and local communities. It places importance on a community-based culture, and companies across the group are undertaking social contribution activities. Otsuka Welfare Clinic Healthcare Support Activities: Otsuka Welfare Clinic In 2003, the Otsuka group established the Otsuka free medical treatment to refugees and others in The Otsuka group including Otsuka Pakistan Welfare Clinic in Peshawar, Pakistan, to provide need. Otsuka Pharmaceutical and the 23 group will continue to engage in community-based medical treatment to Afghan refugees and othcompanies that operate in Asian and Arab counsupport activities in order to contribute to peoers in need. tries jointly set up the Otsuka Welfare Clinic. To ple’s health. In recent history, millions of Afghan refugees date, more than 800,000 people have benefited have entered Pakistan, where many of them from the care and treatments provided. have been unable to receive adequate medical Following the clinic’s tenth year of operations, care. In the early 2000s Otsuka Pakistan was Otsuka Pharmaceutical was awarded the Japaproviding IV solution products through the Red nese Foreign Minister’s Commendation in 2014. Cross. Driven by a desire to further contribute The honor is given to individuals and groups that to the health of all in the community, Otsuka eshave had great success in promoting friendly retablished a clinic and for 14 years has provided lations between Japan and other countries. Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Sub-rural health center Sub-Rural Health Center in Myanmar In Myanmar, births typically occur at home with in addition to childbirth assistance, basic treatproducts to assist victims of flooding in Camboa midwife in attendance, and provision of health ment and ongoing health education are prodia and of auto rickshaws (tuk-tuks) to transport services for infants and expectant and nursing vided to expectant women and other villagers. expectant women in emergencies. mothers can be a significant challenge. Through The result has led to an increased understandOtsuka Pharmaceutical the non-governmental organization, People's ing about birth and childcare, and more stable Hope Japan (PHJ), Otsuka Pharmaceutical dosupport for maternal and child health. Otsuka nated a sub-rural health center to Allel Kyum, a Pharmaceutical is dedicated to the health and rural village in the northern part of Myanmar's well-being of people the world over and therecapital city, Nay Pyi Taw, in 2016. Allel Kyum fore supports the activities of PHJ to provide edwas chosen as the site for the new center at the ucation on health and medical care, with a focus request of the Myanmar Ministry of Health due on maternal and child healthcare. Throughout to the lack of nearby hospital facilities for childAsia, Otsuka has provided support for various birth. Midwives are stationed at the clinic, and PHJ projects in the past, including donations of VOICE I feel fortunate to be the part of Otsuka Welfare Clinic since its inauguration in June 2003. This clinic was set up in Peshawar by Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. jointly with its 23 affiliates with the aim to contribute to the health of Afghan Refugees and patients from the surrounding areas. My Community-Based responsibilities are: the support of the clinic’s staff, including 3 doctors; procurement of medicine; and, the compilation and forwarding of reports to Medical Support the head office of Otsuka Pakistan and the Pakistani Health Department. It’s a matter of great pride for me to be able to actively contribute to society in such a way. On average, some 162 patients visit our Welfare Clinic each day and receive free medical treatment and medicine. It’s an honor to Syed Sabir Ullah be able to provide healthcare facilities to more than 885,000 patients to-date. Public Relations Officer Otsuka is committed to continuing the provision of healthcare to the patients at Otsuka Welfare Clinic; we are determined to actively contribute to Otsuka Welfare Clinic the ongoing needs of society. We believe that contributing to patient’s needs is the right thing to do, and we are determined to continue this effort. 35 Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Partnership Agreement with Kumamoto Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Emergency drill together with Relief work for the Kumamoto earthquake Prefecture Signing Ceremony the community Health Promotion, Disaster Prevention and Relief Activities The Otsuka group of companies works with building (located near the coast) as a tempowith 19 local governments in Japan to provide communities to engage in health awareness, disrary tsunami evacuation site for local residents. relief supplies in the event of a disaster. aster preparedness, and disaster relief programs. Emergency goods are also stockpiled on-site. The Otsuka group also provides relief supOtsuka Pharmaceutical uses the knowlAdditionally, the factory holds briefing sessions plies such as POCARI SWEAT and Calorie Mate edge gained through product research and on company business continuity plan initiatives, to areas affected by natural disasters. Shortly development and awareness-raising activities facility tours, and joint tsunami evacuation drills. after the Kumamoto earthquake in April 2016, related to health to promote activities for the A disaster relief agreement has been concluded the group provided aid in the form of approxtreatment of heat disorders, prevention of lifewith the local government concerning the assisimately 620,000 meals (food and beverages) style-related diseases, improvement of health tance the company will provide in the event of and approximately 15,000 hygiene products. through sports, nutritional education, women’s a disaster. Such initiatives in collaboration with Group companies outside Japan also provide health and establishment of disaster preparedlocal governments and companies have been relief supplies to areas affected by natural disasness and relief measures. The company is also commended, and have received mention in the ters. At the end of 2016, when heavy rain and working collaboratively with local communities 2016 White Paper on Disaster Management flooding caused damage in southern Thailand, to help address social issues. produced by Cabinet Office of the Government Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical donated 8,000 Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory in Japan has of Japan. IV solution packs and about 34,000 bottles of designated the roof of the head office factory Otsuka Foods has concluded agreements POCARI SWEAT. Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Otsuka ren dance groups EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Volunteers participating in the National Sports Taiho Pharmaceutical: Tokushima Cooperative Forestry Project Festival held in Iwate Participation in Community Events Forest Conservation Activities such as The Otsuka group, with its origins in Tokushima With its head office in Hanamaki City, EN Tree Planting and Thinning Prefecture, is proud to participate in maintaining Otsuka Pharmaceutical has participated in the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory and Taiho exemplary, local cultural activities, such as the spectacular Hanamaki Festival, an event datPharmaceutical have supported the TokushAwa Odori, one of the Japan’s largest dance fesing back four centuries. In 2016, 90 employees ima Cooperative Forestry Project since 2010 tivals, which has a 400-year tradition. Every year, participated in this festival with Mikoshi, portathrough partnership agreements with the employees from the Otsuka group participate ble Shinto shrines. The company actively particTokushima Prefecture. in the festival by organizing four dance groups, ipates in other events in Iwate Prefecture, such As part of the project, a forest conservation called ren, made up of employees from six group as the 2016 Hope Iwate National Sports Festievent was held at a Cooperative Forestry site companies. Otsuka employees help promote val, where employees work as volunteers. in the village of Sanagouchi, Tokushima Prethis traditional festival by participating as both fecture, in November 2016. Approximately 250 dancers and spectators in this exciting dance. employees, family members and others participated in forest thinning and tree planting. As of 2016, the total amount of CO2 absorption resulting from these activities was 397 tons. Otsuka Techno participates in environmental conservation activities and tree planting activities in the nearby Naka River basin and its coastal estuary, which are organized by local councils. 36 Culture Contributions to Communities outside Japan To promote sustainable development overseas, the Otsuka group engages in activities with local communities. Support for Cancer Patients Participation in Charity Events Every year since 2000, Astex employees and their families have taken Taiho Oncology participates in charity events and other fundraising for part in the Light The Night of East Bay event in Walnut Creek in Calipatient support, disease awareness, and research support. The comfornia to raise awareness and much-needed funds to support the Leupany participates in various activities throughout the year, especially kemia and Lymphoma Society (LLS). The LLS is the largest voluntary raising awareness for colorectal cancer. The activities include sponsororganization in the US dedicated to research, finding cures, and enship and participation in a charity organized by a local colorectal cancer suring access to treatment for blood cancer patients. Light The Night patient group, as well as raising donations for colorectal cancer prevendraws nearly one million participants throughout the year in over 160 tion, research and development, and patient support. evening events across the US. To date, Astex and its employees have contributed over $465,000 to the LLS. P Astex: Employees and their families participating in a charity event P Taiho Oncology: Taking part in the Undy Run/Walk campaign held by the Colon Cancer Alliance to raise awareness of colon cancer. Delivering Vitamins to Mothers and Children Since 2006, Pharmavite in the United States has supported the nonprofit Vitamin Angels, which delivers vitamins to children and mothers in developing countries. Thanks to Pharmavite’s product donations, the organization has Improving School Facilities helped tens of millions of children Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical in collaboration with ARS Chemical (Thaiand mothers obtain many of the © Matt Dayka/Vitamin Angels MX16 land) Co., Ltd. and local organizations provided support for the conessential nutrients they need. In struction of facilities at Watthanon Kaphrao primary school in Rayong 2016, Pharmavite organized a project that involved three Pharmavite Province, with 110 participants in 2016. The project involved construcemployees visiting Mexico to directly participate in the activities of Vition and renovation work for the creation of a music room with Thai tratamin Angels. In rural Mexico, there are many impoverished families, ditional musical instruments, a bakery, a play room, and a nurse’s office, and it is estimated that 30% of children are anemic due to a lack of as well as painting the school walls and planting trees. Upon complevitamin A. tion, a donation presentation ceremony was held for school personnel, as well as invited guests that included local educators and administrative officials. P Pharmavite: Vitamin Angel P Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Music room at Watthanon Kaphrao primary school 37 Providing Hope to SATU HATI Programs Cambodian Children in Indonesia At Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical, income generated by its employee In Indonesia, PT Amerta Indah Otsuka (AIO) has held SATU HATI (One cafeteria is donated to projects in developing countries, such as eduHeart) charity events since 2007. These events to date have funded the cational support and drilling water wells. The latest education support construction of 28 libraries and the donation of 124,000 books. project covered everything from choosing a recipient elementary school At the Kejayan Plant production site for POCARI SWEAT in East Java, to its remodeling. The old classrooms of Prum elementary school in the company has sponsored the SATU HATI School, a program at the Cambodia’s Prey Veng Province had wooden posts and old tile roofs. Kejayan Factory to tutor children in science and math. They were completely replaced, and furniture such as chairs and desks AIO is committed to making a positive contribution through their was also replaced. In March 2017, a completion ceremony was held for SATU HATI CSR programs. AIO has taken a leading role in supportthe newly renovated school. ing efforts to collect and reduce trash in the local community surrounding the factory in the Sukabumi Area, West Java. This project is called SATU HATI Sehatkan Bangsa, which translates as ‘One Heart to a P Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Prum elementary school completion ceremony Healthier Nation.’ In the AIO-supported effort, the refuse previously left on the streets is collected in specially provided bins; this effort educates residents on the importance to the environment of waste separation and recycling. In Indonesia, the impact on the environment from littering has become an increasingly critical issue. In 2016, in recognition of this issue, AIO started this project. Roughly 300 families in the community around the Sukabumi factory attended environmental awareness lectures that year. Monthly Volunteer Activities on “ION Day” VOICE Since July 2009, Dong-A Otsuka in South Korea has marked the 25th Supporting the People of Indonesia in Education, of every month as ION Day. The approximately 100 employees who Environment and Health Pratiwi Juniarsih work at the company headquarters take turns performing volunteer acCorporate Affairs Director P.T. Amerta Indah Otsuka tivities and distributing products. Employees visit local educational institutions and provide teacher assistance in after-school learning and AIO through its three pillars of CSR—SATU HATI Cerdaskan Bangsa (One Heart to Educlub activities, such as sports or cooking classes. By establishing ION cate the Nation), SATU HATI Peduli Lingkungan (One Heart Cares for the Environment), and SATU HATI Sehatkan Bangsa (One Heart to a Healthier Nation)—is committed to Day as part of its company culture, the company continues to promote making a positive contribution to Indonesia. SATU HATI Cerdaskan Bangsa has already built 28 libraries, donated more than individual volunteer activities in communities. 124,000 books, and operates a learning center in Kejayan Factory. SATU HATI Peduli Lingkungan adopted trees (25,000 trees in the Sukabumi Factory; and 12,500 trees in the Kejayan Factory), cleans beaches, and works to revitalize urban forests. SATU HATI Sehatkan Bangsa supports to maintain and develop the Mom & Child Clinic to improve people’s health in the community. P Dong-A Otsuka: ION Day activity 38 Youth Education Culture The Otsuka group engages in educational and awareness-building initiatives to ensure children understand the importance of conserving nature, and protecting and enhancing communities for future generations. Eco-School Adoption Program Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Life Studies Through Cancer Support Through Education Since 2007, in Japan, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, school emissions. The event provided an oplife. By 2016, more than 10,000 students and Otsuka Chemical, and Taiho Pharmaceutical portunity for students to learn about garbage their parents from 29 different schools took part have participated in Eco-School Adoption Proand related issues. The Eco-School Adoption in the class. gram activities through agreements with local Program is expected to become a catalyst for schools. As indicated by the program name, the students to examine environmental problems three group companies support environmenclose to home. tal learning activities in their “adopted” school. Since 2011, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has sponUnder a three-year plan for 2016 to 2018, the sored a class for junior high school students, companies are supporting the activities of OuLife Studies Through Cancer, organized by LOjin Junior High School in Tokushima City. In fisHAS Medical Japan. A doctor and a cancer pacal 2016, an Environmental Study Meeting was tient teach classes of students and their parheld as part of year-one efforts to achieve zero ents, and reflect on the meaning and ways of Taiho Pharmaceutical: Factory tour of the Okayama Plant Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Takasaki Factory Plant Tours Otsuka group companies proactively welcome Since its completion in 2013, Taiho Pharmafrom Iwate Prefecture as well as to students visitors to tour their plants. Otsuka Pharmaceuceutical’s Kitajima Plant has actively worked throughout Japan. An increasing number of tical plants have prepared informative displays with elementary and junior high schools to prothese visitors subsequently express an interest in and exhibits for visitors to learn not only about vide factory tours that help students to learn the company and a desire to one day work at manufacturing processes for Otsuka products, outside school walls. the company. but also about health and the environment. Otsuka Foods’ Shiga Factory hosts work Otsuka Sims (Guangdong) Beverage proOtsuka Pharmaceutical's Takasaki Factory— experience opportunities for local junior high vides factory tours to so-called left-behind chilmanufacturer of POCARI SWEAT, Amino-Value school students every year. The students get to dren* in collaboration with the Mental Hygiene and other products in plastic bottles—has experience the joys and difficulties of working, Association of the Third People's Hospital of Jiworked to make its factory open and friendly to which is a useful part of their education. angmen, which provides educational support to visitors, for example, by creating an accessible EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical's Hanamaki Facthe children. The company also provides factory visitor route by installing an elevator. In 2016, tory provides many factory tours to local high tours and conducts health education for the the total number of visitors exceeded 100,000. school, technical college and university students prevention of heat disorders. * Children whose parents have left to work in urban areas and are being raised by grandparents or other relatives in their hometown. Some left-behind children do not receive adequate education, which has become a social issue. 39 Employees The spirit of Sozosei (creativity) in all employees in the Otsuka group of companies stems from their desire to fulfill the corporate philosophy. The group fosters a corporate culture that encourages a diverse workforce to break out of the conventional, broaden their perspectives, and pursue their personal development. This collective creativity, in turn, enables the group companies to continue developing innovative products that enrich society. 60.1 % Employees outside Japan 2.84 points 162 people Increase in the percentage of female managers Number of children enrolled in Otsuka group of 2012: 4.81% 2016: 7.65% companies’ workplace day care centers (Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Foods) 40 Diversity Employees The Otsuka group maintains workplaces where human rights are highly respected. At the same time, the group understands the importance of promoting and capitalizing on employee diversity to build a strong and flexible organization. Otsuka Pharmaceutical: WING, a voluntary leadership study group Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Diversity Management Selection 100 Supporting Women in the Workplace The Otsuka group believes that a diverse pool of Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in their Percentage of female managers workers is indispensable for corporate growth, Diversity Management Selection 100 in 2014. 2015* 2016* maximum creativity, and the ability to rapidly reOtsuka Foods holds information exchange Otsuka Pharmaceutical 8.56% 9.04% spond to societal needs. Thus, the group commeetings on women’s work life, and also endeavOtsuka Pharmaceutical 4.10% 4.64% panies actively promote the advancement of ors to strengthen support networks for female Factory female employees. employees who are expectant or already raising Taiho Pharmaceutical 5.23% 6.15% Otsuka Chemical 8.15% 8.63% Otsuka Pharmaceutical initiated Women's children. Other group companies also focus on Otsuka Warehouse 9.38% 10.39% Forums (now known as the Diversity Forum) in helping female employees balance their careers Otsuka Foods 5.14% 6.95% 1990 when the concept of diversity was still unwith their other commitments. * As of December 31 familiar in Japan. The company has since been recognized for its advancement efforts, in particular by actively appointing female leaders. Otsuka Pharmaceutical was recognized for its achievements in promoting diversity by the Heartful Kawauchi: Excellent Company Employing People with Mental Disabilities, etc. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Life Planning Seminar Heartful Kawauchi: Tokushima “Challenged” Award ceremony Support for Employment of Seniors Integration of Employees with Disabilities The Otsuka group has initiated a program Under the principle of integrating people with Percentage of employees with disabilities aimed at giving employees aged 60 and older special needs into the workforce, Otsuka group 2015* 2016* who have reached mandatory retirement age companies work diligently to create a work enOtsuka Pharmaceutical 2.48% 2.45% the opportunity to continue working and pass vironment that provides an active role for peoOtsuka Pharmaceutical 1.86% 1.98% on their experiences, knowledge and skills to ple with disabilities. Heartful Kawauchi Co., Ltd., Factory Taiho Pharmaceutical 1.89% 2.11% younger employees. All employees of the reqa special subsidiary of Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical 2.43% 2.50% uisite age become eligible for this program. Adhires persons with mental disabilities and strives Otsuka Warehouse 1.57% 1.16% ditionally, senior talent outside the company is to create a supportive working environment. EfOtsuka Foods 2.16% 2.39% also hired to provide new perspectives, and to forts such as appointment of counselors and * As of December 31 revitalize the organization by helping to develop application of flexible employment rules have younger employees. been well received. In recognition of these efThe group additionally supports employees forts, the company was certified as an Excelapproaching retirement by offering life planning lent Company Employing People with Mental seminars focused on transitioning into a healthy Disabilities etc, in April 2015. One employee reand fulfilling retirement. ceived the Tokushima Prefecture “Challenged” Award in 2016. VOICE My job involves interacting with employees in other departments and affiliates outside Japan, which affords me many opportunities to interact with Participating in WING many different types of people. This is why I decided to participate in a volstudy groups untary cross-organizational study group called WING. Here we learn about work-life balance, and how to communicate based on an understanding Yuna Sugimoto of the different nuances between male and female ways of thinking. We Section Chief, Medical Safety Office, also share our childcare and nursing care experiences and explore ways to Pharmacovigilance Department Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. share this learning companywide. Appreciating these new ways of thinking is helping me improve both my work and life on the whole. 41 Work-Life Balance The Otsuka group respects the diverse values and lifestyles of its employees. It endeavors to create workplace environments that allow all employees to realize their full potential while maintaining a healthy work-life balance. Taiho Pharmaceutical: seminar to help employees balance work and home care responsibilities Caregiver Support Otsuka group companies promote various inicaregiver leave. The company encourages the that would otherwise expire unused. This leave tiatives enabling employees to remain at work use of these programs and publicizes program can be used if an employee gets sick, and also if while still fulfilling home care responsibilities. information on the company intranet. This inthe employee needs time off to care for a family The group programs include caregiver leave, cludes programs available to employees with member. Together with legally mandated nursshorter working hours for caregiving (for up to home care responsibilities and the respective ing care leave, this system provides additional one year) and caregiver flextime (for up to one program contact information. The company support for employees to balance their work year). Employees who need to support or proalso holds regular seminars to raise employee and family responsibilities. vide home care to a relative are encouraged to awareness and understanding related to baluse these programs. ancing work and home care responsibilities, Otsuka Pharmaceutical offers caregiver leave and to provide employees with valuable inforperiods that exceed statutory requirements, mation on caregiving. while Taiho Pharmaceutical is also working to EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical has set up a sysenhance its programs, such as paying the sotem that allows employees to save up to 100 cial insurance premiums for employees on annual paid leave days as accumulated leave Taiho Pharmaceutical: Acquires Platinum Kurumin certification Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Member of “Ikuboss*” *Ikuboss means “childcare (ikuji) boss” Parenting Support Otsuka group companies in Japan have been employees with flexible work hours, and raise Employees taking parenting leave accredited with the Kurumin mark,*1 which recawareness of childcare issues in male employees FY2015 FY2016 ognizes enterprises that support raising the through participation in the Ikuboss Project*2. Male Female Male Female next generation of children by creating workAt Taiho Pharmaceutical, systems have been Otsuka 0 116 5 130 place environments that support employees established that exceed the legal requirements Pharmaceutical with childcare responsibilities. The group offers for shortened working hours and child sick care Otsuka 0 25 0 34 Pharmaceutical a parenting leave system, shorter work hours leave. Furthermore, the company promotes inFactory Taiho 39 30 57 28 for childcare reasons, and a parenting flextime itiatives such as allowing sales employees to Pharmaceutical* work program. In addition to maternity leave as drive their preschool children to and from dayOtsuka Chemical 0 1 0 1 prescribed by law, a consultation service has care in their sales vehicles. The company obOtsuka Warehouse 0 5 1 2 been set up to help female employees return to tained Platinum Kurumin certification*1 from the Otsuka Foods 0 5 0 7 work after parenting leave. Otsuka also has dayJapanese Minister of Health, Labour and WelTotal 39 182 63 202 care centers inside some workplaces. fare in January 2017. * At Taiho Pharmaceutical, male employees are encouraged to use the program, even for short periods. Otsuka Pharmaceutical has established support systems which provide expectant female *1: Under the Kurumin program, the Japanese Minister of Health, *2: A corporate network consisting of the NPO, Fathering Japan, Labour and Welfare certifies companies that meet certain criteand member companies. Its aim is to foster awareness in corria, such as creation of an action plan and achievement of goals porate managers to consider the importance of work-life balance based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raisfor themselves as well as their subordinates, and raise awareness ing Next-Generation Children. Companies that have already among other managers (Ikuboss = “childcare (ikuji) boss”). received Kurumin certification are eligible for Platinum Kurumin certification once they have achieved an even higher level of child-rearing support initiatives. 42 Work-Life Balance Employees Otsuka Pharmaceutical: BeanStalk Kids Center TOKUSHIMA Taiho Pharmaceutical: Sukusuku Nursery in Ibaraki Prefecture Workplace Childcare In the Otsuka group companies, Otsuka Pharemphasizes the nurturing of creativity, and has Percentage of employees taking paid leave maceutical operates the BeanStalk Kids Centers no manufactured playground equipment. Ini(including full-time plus contract employees / Tokushima and Osaka, while Taiho Pharmaceutially, the enrollment was set at 100 children, carryover days) tical operates the Sukusuku Nursery in Ibaraki. which expanded to 150 in 2014, and is inFY2015 FY2016 By establishing daycares with flexible services— creasing to 210 children in 2017. The aim is to Otsuka 63.8% 66.6 % such as accepting new children each month, continue supporting the varied lifestyles of emPharmaceutical Otsuka 52.9% 53.8% and offering temporary and extended-hour childployees while also energizing the organization Pharmaceutical Factory care—the Otsuka group helps female employby attracting a diversity of employees. Taiho 69.5% 71.0% ees advance their careers, and encourages male Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical Pharmaceutical employees to more actively participate childOtsuka Chemical 56.6% 67.1% Otsuka Warehouse 57.1% 61.4 % care. In particular, the BeanStalk Kids Center Otsuka Foods 53.5% 56.2% Tokushima has been well received by parents and children. It is managed by Otsuka Pharmaceutical and offers a remarkable program that Otsuka Warehouse: delivery reservation system using smartphones Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: plant tour for employee family members Initiatives to Prevent Long Work Hours Workplace Tours As part of efforts to reduce overtime hours, shortened excessive driving hours. Drivers now The Otsuka group conducts workplace tours for Otsuka Warehouse uses its intranet to post book their delivery times in advance, can unemployee family members that promote family the name and clock-out time of the last team load upon arrival, and thus have reduced driver understanding of employee work lives. A variety to leave each night for each floor of the office wait times by 65%. From warehouse receiving of tour programs are provided to create a membuilding. The result of this effort has raised emto shipment, logistics is a relay operation involvorable learning experience, especially for chilployee awareness of their time-use productivity, ing external companies. Otsuka Warehouse will dren. In addition to learning out about Otsuka's reduced overtime hours in fiscal 2016 by 18% continue to implement various initiatives aimed products, corporate philosophy and history, visfrom the previous year, and has increased the at improving the way employees function within itors can tour a beverage or pharmaceutical use of paid time off each year. the supply chain. plant, eat in the employee cafeteria, and experiThe problem of long working hours has Otsuka Warehouse ence the video conferencing system. worsened among drivers in the logistics secOtsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Otsuka Warehouse tor. In 2015, Otsuka Warehouse developed and introduced a smartphone app as part of a delivery time reservation system, which has VOICE In October 2015, I noticed a line of trucks waiting to unload at the logistics center, and knew it was an opportunity for system development. The cause of the problem was the Development of a Delivery conventional operating method. Other businesses, such as hairdressers, have improved Time Reservation System efficiency thanks to the proliferation of smartphones. The reservation system we introduced is based on the same model. By providing visible unloading and schedule times, we creToshihiro Murata ated a highly efficient process for truck drivers and our warehouse. Logistics is similar to Section Chief, Logistics Department passing the baton in a relay race. Otsuka Warehouse acts as the intermediary between Otsuka Warehouse Co., Ltd. producers and our customers, and we will continue to promote activities that improve this dynamic relationship. 43 Employee Health As a global healthcare company, the Otsuka group believes that it is important for employees to be involved in their own health, and the group strives to maintain and enhance employees’ wellbeing. The group facilitates these goals through physical activity and health education programs. Otsuka Pharmaceutical: 2017 certified Health and Productivity Taiho Pharmaceutical: TOKYO WORK CIRCLE PROJECT*2 Management Organization (large enterprise category: White 500) Certification as a Health and Productivity Management Organization Employment Support for Cancer Patients Otsuka Pharmaceutical believes that each and 2017, top management issued an Otsuka PharAs a company committed to developing treatevery Otsuka employee should be able to work maceutical Health Declaration to further proments for cancer, Taiho Pharmaceutical aims to enthusiastically and be in the best of health. mote employee health improvement activities. create a workplace where employees can conThe company encourages employees to take In recognition of its diverse efforts to suptinue working even during treatment for cancer charge of their own health. port employee health, Otsuka Pharmaceutical and other diseases. The company provides emTo promote the maintenance and improvement was recognized in February 2017 as a Certified ployees with the necessary assistance through of health of everyone, and to organize their workHealth and Productivity Management Organizathe Cancer Patient Employment Support Team places, transforming them into worker-friendly tion (large enterprise category: White 500)*1. formed by the Human Resources Department environments Specifically, employees 30 and Otsuka Pharmaceutical and industrial nursing staff. Additional measolder receive free medical checkups, and emures include extended leave periods for employployees and their families have access to health ees with cancer, and a reemployment (return to seminars and programs augmented by the work) system. company’s healthcare knowledge. In January Taiho Pharmaceutical Taiho Pharmaceutical: Lunchtime seminar on cancer screening Otsuka Techno: Automated External Defibrillator course Otsuka Pharmaceutical : POCARI/fresh Employee Health and Safety POCARI/fresh Each company in the Otsuka group implements The aim of these efforts is to create more supOtsuka Pharmaceutical carries out various safety measures, consultation services, and diportive work environments that encourage health education and physical fitness programs verse health programs to ensure that all emworking women to understand and monitor aimed at raising employee health awareness, ployees are able to work in a safe environment their health, especially to be mindful of changes and maintaining and promoting health. The and live a healthy lifestyle. The group offers in hormonal balance. POCARI/fresh exercise program was begun in health consultation by telephone, and distribTaiho Pharmaceutical conducts educational 2007. An instructor visits each office once a utes health newsletters. It also provides mental activities for employees such as organizing week and leads the employees in an invigorhealth counseling, stress management training, lunchtime seminars on cancer screening, and ating eight-minute workout they perform near and training for managers on recognizing and distributing related booklets to all employees. their desks. managing mental health issues in employees. Each group company also provides trainThe theme of the workout changes each Mental and physical health management is acing related to traffic safety and preparation for time, and can include things such as shoulder tively promoted for employees and their families. emergencies and natural disasters. This helps stretches and brain-stimulation exercises. Otsuka Holdings holds health seminars for to create environments where employees can Otsuka Pharmaceutical employees and their families, which draw on work with peace of mind. knowledge gained from its business activities. *1: Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition *2: An award program of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government that Program organized by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Indusrecognizes companies with outstanding initiatives to help employtry in Japan and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi (Japan Health Counees with cancer to keep a good balance between treatment and cil ) that identifies large corporations and small to medium enterwork. Taiho Pharmaceutical received an excellence award in Febprises that are practicing a high level of health and productivity ruary 2016. management. Five hundred companies expect to be certified by 2020. 44 Development of Human Capital Employees In conducting its business worldwide, the Otsuka group is committed to developing creative human resources that can break out of the mold and lead our corporate activities for continued growth and innovation. Otsuka Holdings: Otsuka Global Academy Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Training based on job rank Human Resources Development Program: Otsuka Global Academy Personal Development A key component of enhancing corporate value program in 2016 called the Otsuka Global The Otsuka group offers a wide variety of perfor the Otsuka group is nurturing the next generAcademy. Its aim is to readily identify and culsonal development opportunities aimed at enation of executives. Creative growth depends on tivate human resources that will support vital ergizing the organization through employee executive managers and overall organizational next-generation development. The academy growth. Personal development opportunities business management that can respond to launched a Senior Leadership Program and a include: new employee on-the-job training; evolving needs. Executive management must be Middle Leadership Program the first year, and training based on job rank and job content; voladept at responding to the ever-increasing comexpects that the contents of these two prountary study groups to cultivate problem solvplexities of business operations as the group exgrams will progressively expand going forward. ing skills; and language training. Notably, there pands into new fields. These complexities arise These two programs will also work in conjuncis a focus on personal development in the area due to accelerating global expansion, and from tion with other individual human resource develof the environment to develop employees who increased social concerns and responsibilities opment programs that comprise each Otsuka can effectively contribute to environmental and induced by stakeholders. group company. social activities. Otsuka Holdings launched a midto longterm executive human resource development Otsuka Chemical: Hands-on training for rotary valve accident prevention Taiho Pharmaceutical: Personal Career Counseling Office Safety Training Center Career Planning Otsuka Chemical has established the Anzen Otsuka group companies provide support for In cooperation with an outside employee asDojo (Safety Training Center) to improve the individual career planning, so that all employees sistance program provider, EN Otsuka Pharmasafety awareness of employees, including those can enjoy active and rewarding careers. ceutical has created a system where counselors at affiliates outside Japan and their suppliers. Taiho Pharmaceutical has set up a Personal with specialized training provide career planThrough classroom instruction and simulations Career Counseling Office that provides conning assistance. The company is supporting of past accidents, the Anzen Dojo heightens sultation on a wide range of topics from caand encouraging its employees to take on new awareness of safety hazards and sensitivity to reer planning, transfers, and promotions, to job challenges and plan their careers from a longdanger, boosts safety knowledge, and cultidescriptions, workplace stress, and personal term perspective. vates the ability to anticipate one step ahead. development. Consultations are provided by acOtsuka Electronics has introduced an onIn recognition of its activities for improvement credited industrial counselors and career conline self-assessment system where employees of safety and health education and creation of sultants. The activities of the Personal Career can provide information concerning their career a culture of safety, Otsuka Chemical received Counseling Office were covered in the journal plans and desired work locations. The company the Responsible Care Excellence Award from of the Japan Industrial Counselors Association uses this online assessment to try and underthe Japan Chemical Industry Association in in 2016, which was widely read and received by stand the goals and health conditions of indi2014, and the Tokushima Labor Bureau Directhe larger business community. vidual employees to better provide support for tor Encouragement Award for Safety Assurance career planning and the futures of employees. Measures in 2015. Otsuka Chemical 45 Third-Party Opinion Comments on the Otsuka Group CSR Report 2016 Value Provided to Society by the Otsuka Group In my view, the three monuments representing Sozosei Eriko Nashioka (Creativity) shown on page 11 (Corporate Philosophy) are Certified Public Accountant and Certified emblematic of the Otsuka group philosophy. By linking Tax Accountant / President, Institute for Environmental Management Accounting efforts to maintain and promote people’s health with its main business activities, the group is uniquely making a Profile significant contribution to society. These efforts include Completed a master’s degree in environmental management at the Graduate School of Policy and Management of Doshisha University, and taught at the activities such as pioneering drug discovery and awareFaculty of Commerce of Doshisha University. Joined Showa Ota & Co. (now ness raising activities to prevent heat disorders. It is clear Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC) and engaged in consulting on environmental accounting and reporting. Served as a lead researcher for a project on to me that these activities embody the group’s philosophy corporations and the environment by the Kansai Research Center of the and have been well evaluated. Institute for Global Environmental Strategies (IGES), and was a member of the Committee of Environmental Accounting of the Japanese Institute of Certified Going forward, by further clarifying the significance of Public Accountants (JICPA), as well as serving on committees for Japan’s each and every business activity in terms of systematic Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Joined the management team of the Institute for Environmental Management CSR management, the group can further enhance its statAccounting in April 2004, and has authored books on environmental ure in society and generate even greater social goodwill. accounting and environmental reports. I look forward to seeing an increased social contribution from the Otsuka group through creative and unconventional thinking. Relation between Otsuka Group Materiality and Performance in the Five CSR Areas the Five CSR Areas Concerning the five CSR areas, the Otsuka group should The 2016 report essentially follows the same format as provide various types of information, which include how the 2015 edition, but with greater detail in the information activities are related to management strategy, explanaprovided. Last year, the materiality selection process was tions of value provided by the Otsuka group, as well as disclosed for the first time; this year, further explanation of numerical data and indicators for understanding year-tothe five CSR areas is given. The report begins with a Conyear changes. Since the numerical information in the retents page that provides data related to Otsuka’s mateport increased significantly compared to last year, it would riality for each of the five CSR areas. Moreover, I strongly be good to provide more of the above-listed information. believe the addition of the stakeholder engagement secAs a global enterprise, the Otsuka group is strongly tion is a good idea; it specifies the engagement details, as committed to CSR activities, as shown by its signing of well as the responsibilities and issues concerning the five the United Nations Global Compact. stakeholder groups. The Otsuka group has established target issues and Concerning target issues, the selection process and activity directions that conform to international guidelines evaluation indicators illustrated by the “Process to Idenand standards, such as Sustainable Development Goals, tify Materiality” diagram on page 8 need to be clearly indiISO 26000, and GRI guidelines. Therefore, the group cated. The stakeholder engagement items, as well as the needs to widely disseminate information on how its activicontent on the introductory pages for each area, including ties are specifically responding to these target issues, and content details, should also be presented systematically. the value the group contributes to society. These modifications would make it easier to understand the significance of each issue, what changed from the previous year, the status of activities, and the extent of progress made. 46 Otsuka Group Consolidated CSR Site This report is also available online. http://otsuka.csrportal.jp/en We welcome your feedback by email. Please do not hesitate to provide us with your feedback or impressions of this report, including requests about the initiatives of the Otsuka group. Email: hd-pr@otsuka.jp Head Office: 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0048, Japan Tokyo Headquarters: Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan Publication date of this report: July 2017 Contact information PR Department, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Tel : +81 (0)3-6717-1410 (switchboard) Fax : +81 (0)3-6717-1409
