SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Vision To be a leading oil refiner and oil products marketing enterprise in Greece and the wider region. Corporate Mission To conduct our business operations To meet our customers’ needs responsibly To function reliably, swiftly and flexibly so as to increase the company’s corporate and effectively, while expanding our in our relationship with employees, value for the benefit of all stakeholders share in the domestic market. customers, suppliers, and the general -shareholders, personnel, customers, public, by making use of practices that suppliers, associates and partners, as well as demonstrate responsibility and integrity, the local and greater communityapplying as well as respect for people technological and commercial innovations. and the environment. Strategic Goals Maximising the profitability of all the Maximisation and optimisation of sales, Striving for the highest standards of Health companies of the Group and overall financial by effectively marketing our products and and Safety, Environmental protection and performance. exploiting opportunities in our three markets Quality, through the application of technical, (domestic, aviation-marine bunkering, and operational and organisational innovations export), for achieving the best possible and improvements. profitability. Our values 1 Integrity 2 Efficiency 3 Social responsibility • Respect for laws and regulations. • Achieving set targets. • Respect for all stakeholders. • Applying business ethics and • Creating value for shareholders • Respect for the environment and the principles of corporate governance. and society. commitment for sustainable growth. • Honest and open communication. • Servicing customers’ needs. • Priority for Health and Safety. • Credibility and respectability in • Providing a safe, stimulating • Ensuring that the companies of the all kinds of business relations. and reciprocal workplace. Group are active and responsible • Continuous improvement corporate citizens, respecting the local and promotion of learning and innovation. community and society as a whole. Our Principles Respect for our people Respect for the environment Transparency We recognise the value of our people We recognise the value of our natural We operate professionally and responsibly, and we promote their personal environment and the necessity for sustainable strictly implementing the principles of business development, while offering competitive development and commit ourselves to the ethics and corporate governance. terms of employment, within a working implementation of effective operational environment of respect and mutual trust. procedures and technology for its protection. We respect human and labour rights and give first priority to workplace Health and Safety assurance. Sustainability Report 2016 2 The growth of MOTOR OIL: Important milestones 45 YEARS Motor Oil 1996 2001 1972 Purchase of 50% of Increase of the company’s the company’s shares equity capital through 1978 1984 by Saudi Arabian Oil public offer of shares Commissioning Company (Saudi Aramco). and listing on the Athens of the refinery. It comprises Stock Exchange. a Crude Oil Distillation Commissioning of the Construction Relocation of the Head Unit, a base oils production Catalytic Reformer Unit for of a Power Plant, Office to a modern Offices Upgrading of the Lubes unit and port facilities. gasoline production. burning fuel gas. Complex in Maroussi. Vacuum Distillation Unit. 1975 1980 1993 2000 2002 Construction completion Commissioning of the ISO 9002 Construction of new units Acquisition of 100% of the 100,000 barrels/day Catalytic Cracking Unit quality certification and upgrading of the Naphtha of the retail oil marketing Crude DistillationComplex. (for converting fuel oil for the entire range of the Reformer into a continuous company AVIN OIL. to higher added value company’s commercial and 103-octane number catalyst Construction completion products). manufacturing activities. regeneration unit for the of the 1.5 million cubic production of fuels conforming metres tank farm. to EU specifications. New Central Control Room and installation of a Distributed Control System. Certification of the Environmental Management System, according to ISO 14001:1996. 3 Sustainability Report 2016 2010 Commissioning of the new 60,000 barrels/day Crude 2014 Distillation Unit, and of two Acquisition of 100% additional Sulphur Recovery ofthe retail oil marketing Units, of a combined company Cyclon A.B.E.E. 170 ΜΤ/day sulphur production capacity. Recertification of the Quality Management Completion of the System according to acquisition of the shares the ISO 9001:2008, of the companies the Environmental SHELL HELLAS S.A. Management System 2004 2006 2008 (renamed to Coral S.A.), according to and SHELL GAS A.E.B.E.Y. ISO 14001:2004 and (renamed to Coral GAS the Health and Safety Commissioning Certification of the Certification of Health A.E.B.E.Y.), as well as of 49% Management System, of the new Truck Loading refinery’s Chemical and Safety Management of the aviation fuels trading according to Terminal at the refinery. Laboratory, according System, according to company. OHSAS 18001:2007. to ISO 17025:2005 OHSAS 18001:2007. 2005 2007 2009 2011 2016 The Hydrocracker Registration of the Increase of the Completion of the MOTOR OIL achieves Complex is commissioned, company in the Hellenic participation in the share construction of 5th gas record sales for facilitating the production Register of EMAS capital of OFC AVIATION turbine in refinery’s power the ninth year in a row of “clean fuels” conforming (Eco-Management and FUEL SERVICES S.A. cogeneration plant, which now (13 million MT). to European Union Audit Scheme). Issue from 28.0% to 92.06%. has a total capacity of 85MW. specifications. of the first voluntary Environmental Statement, Entry into natural gas Construction completion of Repurchase of conforming with trading in collaboration KORINTHOS POWER S.A Saudi Aramco’s stake EU Regulation with MYTILINEOS S.A. power plant, located in in the company. EMAS ER 761/2001. the MOTOR OIL refinery premises. Management Message For the Motor Oil Group, 2016 was a very good year in terms of financial results.The refining market conditions were such that created the base for high refinery margins, which in combination with a steadily strong US dollar, allowed for a -record breakinghigh profitability. In 2016 we achieved, for the ninth year in a row, record sales, 77.9% of which headed for exports. On a Group consolidated level, our operating profitability reached 604 million euros and our net Group profits reached 298 million euros. The total evaluation of our social product reached 662.4 million euros. Despite the challenges of the economic environment in our country, sustainable development and value creation continued to form our fundamental course of action. For us, it is a basic priority to be able to support our customers, our employees but also the greater society. With more than 1.900 employees in our Group, we constantly strive to offer a fair and safe working environment that supports personal and professional growth and development. In this context we managed to run training programs that amounted to 21,000 man-hours. We continued to place utmost importance in the implementation of an integrated management system for Health, Safety, Quality and the Environment. In this context we spent 32.9 million euros for Safety and 24 million euros for the Environment in investments, improvements and operating expenses. Regarding the society, we remained focused in our efforts to help support and facilitate the negative consequences of the economic crisis in Greece. We continued our initiatives regarding the planning and roll out of targeted solutions, especially for sensitive groups that are affected particularly harshly by the crisis and also the local communities residing near our installations. All the above were achieved due to the valuable contribution of our Groups’ employees. Every day they reconfirm their dedication to our goals and to our vision for a balanced and long-term growth. This current version of the “Sustainability Report 2016” is the fifteenth such report, which describes in detail our Group’s activities.The structure of the Report is based on the materiality analysis of all the topics raised by our stakeholders, following the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative under the G4 scheme. In this context, this Report serves as our “Communication on Progress” on the basis of our commitment to disclose information according to the principles of the UN Global Compact, which we endorse and support. As a leading company in the Greek energy sector, we remain ready to respond to the ever-increasing needs of our challenging economy. At the same time, we continue to gaze into the future with optimism and we create constant and long-term value for all the stakeholders groups involved. Motor Oil Group Management 6 Contents i Vision, Mission, Strategic Targets, Values and Principles ii Key Group data for 2016 2 The growth of MOTOR OIL: Important milestones 5 Management Message 6 Contents 9 On the Sustainability Report 2016 10 Identity and Corporate Responsibility 12 Profile of the Motor Oil Group 13 The Refinery 14 Results 2016 15 Corporate Governance 17 Participation in International National Agencies and Networks 17 Awards & Recognition 18 Managing Corporate Responsibility 19 Responsible Growth and Investments 21 Responsibility for the Environment, Health and Safety 21 Responsible Quality Management 22 Communication with Stakeholders 48 Responsibility for the Environment 50 Environmental Management 52 Environmental Impact Management 53 Environmental Investments and Expenses 54 Best Available Techniques 56 Energy Efficiency 58 Air Quality Management 62 Liquid Waste Management 63 Solid Waste Management Recycling 64 Water Management 65 Noise Management 65 Protection of the Marine Environment 7 Sustainability Report 2016 24 Responsibility towards our Employees 34 Health and Safety 26 Human Resources Management System 36 Health and Safety Management Framework 26 Equal Opportunities and Human Rights 38 Safety Indices 27 Labour Relations Relations with Trade Unions 39 Health and Safety Investments 27 Basic Employment Data 40 Inspections 30 Remuneration System and Additional Benefits 41 Procedures 31 Education and Training 42 Planned Shutdowns New Projects 43 REACH and CLP Regulations 43 Emergency Response Plans 44 Safety of Port Installations 45 Safeguarding Workforce Health 45 Training on Safety Issues 66 Social Responsibility 76 Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2016 77 GRI 68 Economic Benefits to Society Social Product 69 Customer Service Respect for the Customer Compliance 70 Social Solidarity and Sponsorships Level On the Sustainability Report 2016 This Sustainability Report of 2016 is the fifteenth such record of the annual activities of the MOTOR OIL Group (1 January 2016 31 December 2016). The primary concern of the Report is to provide comprehensive information for all stakeholders in the Group: workforce, customers, suppliers, shareholders, investors, creditors and local communities. The Report underlines the Group’s sincere commitment to a responsible and sustainable growth. As an active member of the community, MOTOR OIL Group strives to achieve sustainable development by responding to the environmental challenges deriving from its operations, while at the same time tries to meet the needs of the local and wider society. The structure of the Sustainability Report 2016 complies with the totality of aspects of corporate responsibility. It focuses, therefore, on actions that demonstrate respect for human values and the environment, the implementation of an effective health and safety policy and support for efforts to achieve sustainable social development.The various sections of the Report describe in detail the Group’s activities, with presentations of the latest quantitative figures and data. The terms ‘Group’ and ‘MOTOR OIL Group’ refer to the MOTOR OIL Group and its constituent subsidiary Groups and companies, AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and OFC. The term ‘company’ refers to the parent company ‘MOTOR OIL’; the terms ‘other companies’ and ‘remaining companies’ refer to the aforesaid set of companies, while the term ‘commercial companies’ refers, once again, to the aforesaid set of companies, not however including OFC. Global Reporting Initiative UN Global Compact The selection of topics for the Sustainability Report 2016 was based on the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), on the oil & gas sector supplement and on the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. At the end of the Report there is a summary table matching the contents of the current Report to the GRI indicators and Global Compact principles. In this sense the Sustainability Report 2016 also serves as a “Communication on Progress” for the Global Compact, setting out the way in which its ten principles have been implemented. Supplementary data for the Group’s activities can be found in the Annual Financial Report 2016 and the Environmental Statement 2016, as well as at the company website, www.moh.gr Communication The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report 2016 has been edited and compiled by the Group’s Communications, Corporate Affairs and Corporate Social Responsibility Department. We wish to extend our heartfelt thanks to all other Divisions and Departments whose contributions of data have allowed us to produce a comprehensive Report. We welcome all views and observations on the structure and content of the report your input will help us to keep improving its quality. Please contact us on +30 210 8094004, or send your comments to csr@moh.gr. 1. Identity and Corporate Responsibility We are an energy group that creates value with consistency and responsibility. In all the years during which the MOTOR OIL Group has on attaining a high degree of refinery employment, on been operating as an oil refiner and oil products marketing optimal distribution of products, on the 3 main markets company, it has always functioned with a strong sense of in which it does business (domestic market, exports and corporate responsibility, aiming at sustainable profitability shipping/aviation), and on creating positive cash flows. As and development in a socially responsible manner. It a result of all the above, MOTOR OIL managed to achieve implements investment programs aiming at the continuous record sales (13 million MT) for the ninth year running, development and optimisation of its productive activity, significantly exceeding the refinery’s annual production always bearing in mind the Vision and the corporate values capacity. Achieving significantly high financial results is of that form the framework of its operation and business considerable importance, as in 2016, a periodic maintenance activity. took place at the refinery, which lasted almost one month. This periodic maintenance resulted in a small fall of the 2016 was a very positive year for MOTOR OIL with production figures, from 11.8MT in 2015 to 11.5 MT in 2016. exceptional financial results. Conditions in the sector and international prices of crude oil and petroleum products At the same time, overseas sales in 2016 (including shipping internationally led to an increased demand for petroleum and aviation) accounted for 77.8% of the company’s total products, leading to high refinery margins. Consolidated volume of sales, compared with 76.1% in 2015, owing to financial results were even higher than the corresponding the fact that the company exploited to the full its export ones of the parent company, and the Group was reinforced capacity. by the positive results of its commercial companies, which attained a good performance in the domestic market in the Finally, regarding our financial overview, the creation of liquid fuel retail trade sector. positive cash flows allowed on one hand an uninterrupted funding of our turnover and operating activities, while on For 2016 as well, company strategy has focused primarily the other hand achieving the lowest net debt in its history. 13 million tons Motor Oil sales hit historic new record 77.8% of sales are exports. Further reinforcement of export orientation Full advantage of favourable international circumstances Record low net bank debt Improved results from the operation of the commercial companies 12 1. Identity and Corporate Responsibility 1. Motor Oil Group Profile The MOTOR OIL Group has an average number of staff of 1,925, a consolidated turnover in 2016 corresponding to nearly 3.6% of the Greek GDP, and total assets on a consolidated basis of 2.86 billion euros. It plays a leading role in the sectors of crude oil refining and marketing of petroleum products in Greece, as well as the greater eastern Mediterranean region, supplying its customers with a wide range of high quality products. The MOTOR OIL parent company was founded in 1970 and the (the other 65% stake is held by MYTILINAIOS S.A. Group refinery commenced operations in 1972. The company has been of Businesses). The company has a combinedcycle, natural quoted on the Athens Stock Exchange since 2001. It is listed on gas fuelled, power station, with a capacity of 436.6 MW, the index of 25 companies with the highest capitalization (FTSE/ located next to the MOTOR OIL facilities at Ag. Theodoroi, ATHEX Large Cap), the General Index (ATHEX COMPOSITE Corinth. INDEX) and on individual sector indices. • The Group has already established a presence in the natural gas market through M & M NATURAL GAS S.A., in which • The refining of crude oil and marketing of oil products MOTOR OIL holds an equal stake with MYTILINAIOS S.A. are the main activities of the MOTOR OIL Group, whose Group of Businesses. In 2011, M & M received a license to refinery is one of the most technologically sophisticated, supply natural gas from the Ministry of the Environment, complex and flexible (in terms of production processes) Energy and Climate Change, under which it has the right to refineries to be found anywhere in Europe or elsewhere. sell natural gas for the next twenty years. • In the area of trade, the Group has achieved significant • The Group is active in the aviation fuel services sector development of its activities and an expansion of its domestic through OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES S.A. in which market share. The basis for this development are the liquid MOTOR OIL and subsidiary AVIN OIL hold an equal stake fuel retail networks of its subsidiaries AVIN OIL and Coral of 46.03% each. OFC is the company which constructed (formerly SHELL HELLAS S.A.). Moreover, since 2015, the and operates the existing, automated system for supplying liquid fuel trade activities of CYCLON were transferred to aviation fuel to the Eleftherios Venizelos Airport, Athens, as AVIN OIL, continuing under the same trade mark. Together, well as the fuel storage facilities at the same airport. the 3 networks consist of a total of approximately 1,410 • MOTOR OIL acquired a presence in the sector of service stations selling liquid fuels, accounting for about 35% prospection, exploration and exploitation of oil (upstream) of the domestic market. acquiring a 65% stake in the newly established MOTOR OIL • LPC S.A. operates in the lubricants sector (after the split VEGAS UPSTREAM Ltd. of the operations of CYCLON HELLAS S.A.). The entire • Finally, the Group has a stake in companies providing lubricants part of AVIN OIL was transferred to this company, support for its operations, such as MOTOR OIL Finance plc, with LPC now producing and marketing a range of lubricants, supplying financial services, MOTOR OIL Cyprus Limited, a and constituting the core of this activity in the Group. holding company, and the company Building Facility Services, • The Group enjoys a presence in the liquefied gas sector which supplies facility management and operation services. through Coral Gas SA. The company stores, packages and markets bottled and bulk liquefied gas and liquefied gas for The table below sets out major subsidiary and affiliated vehicles, and has a market share of around 30%. companies comprising the MOTOR OIL Group, as well as • The Group has laid the foundations for its presence in the the stakes held in them (directly or indirectly) by the parent electricity generation sector, through a 35% stake acquired company. More detailed information on the companies can be by the MOTOR OIL S.A. in KORINTHOS POWER S.A. found in the Annual Financial Report 2016. Percentage Share Name activity Direct inDirect Avin Oil S.Α. Marketing of petroleum products 100% CORAL S.A. Marketing of petroleum products 100% CORAL GAS S.A. Marketing of liquefied petroleum gas 100% LPC S.A. LUBRICANTS & Processing and marketing of lubricants and petroleum products 100% PETROLEUM PRODUCTS OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES S.Α. Aviation Fuel Supply Systems 46.03% 46.03% Μ AND Μ NATURAL GAS S.A. Marketing of natural gas 50% 13 Percentage Share Name activity Direct inDirect SHELL & MOH S.A. AVIATION FUELS Marketing of aviation fuels 49% KORINTHOS POWER S.A. Production and marketing of electrical energy 35% ATHENS AIRPORT FUEL PIPELINE Supply of aviation fuel via pipeline to E.Venizelos Airport 16% COMPANY S.A. MOTOR OIL VEGAS UPSTREAM LIMITED Prospection, exploration and exploitation of oil 65% MOTOR OIL (CYPRUS) LIMITED Holding Company 100% MOTOR OIL FINANCE plc Financial services 100% MOTOR OIL MIDDLE EAST DMCC Marketing of crude oil and oil products 100% BUILDING FACILITY SERVICES Provision of facility management and operation services 100% This Report includes results only for parent company MOTOR OIL and for subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and OFC. 2. The Refinery The Refinery is located in Agioi Theodoroi, Corinth, about 70 km from the center of Athens. The Refinery with its ancillary plants and fuel distribution facilities forms the largest privately owned industrial complex in Greece, and is considered one of the most modern refineries in Europe. The complexity of Motor Oil’s refinery stands at 11.54 according to Nelson’s Complexity Index. It has the capacity to process various types of crude oil international standards. The technical sophistication of the and manufactures a wide range of oil products. It supplies refinery allows MOTOR OIL to manufacture products with commercial oil companies in Greece, but the bulk of its high added value, adjusting the final product mix to market production is sold abroad. Moreover, it is the only refinery needs, ensuring better distribution prices and achieving that produces base oils in Greece. Refinery products meet the better refining margins than other composite refineries in the European Union specifications, as well as the most stringent Mediterranean. Characteristics of the Refinery • Processing capacity: 185,000 barrels of crude oil per stream day (BSD). • The refinery produces all types of fuel and is one of the most advanced and complex in Europe, with Hydrocracker and Catalytic Cracking units and an 11.54 rating on the Nelson Complexity Index. • It produces refined fuels (gasoline and automotive diesel) in accordance with the EU specifications. • It has ISO 9001:2008 certification for Quality, ISO 14001:2004 and ΕΜΑS III ER 1221/2009 certification for the Environment, OHSAS 18001:2007 certification for Health and Safety, ISO 17025:2005 certification for its Chemical Labs and CE Marking certification for its asphalt products, in accordance with EU Regulation 305/2011 and the requirements of European standard ΕΝ 12591:2009. This is a combination of standards found in very few European refineries. Since 2016, MOTOR OIL has been applying the EI/JIG1530 standard in the management and transportation of Jet Fuel. In the context of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the sustainability criteria laid down by the EU, our company applies a control system for biofuels and the blending of fossil fuels with biofuels, having been certified with the 2BSvs Certificate since October 2016. This certification meets the requirements of the biofuel mass balance and expires in 2021. • It is the only refinery in Greece with a unit producing base oils and finished lubricants, approved by such international agencies as the American Petroleum Institute (API), the European Automobile Manufacturers Association (ACEA) and the United States Army and Navy. • It possesses a power and steam cogeneration unit, which now has a capacity of 85MW following the recent addition of a fifth gas turbine. • It uses natural gas as a fuel and as a raw material for the production of hydrogen. • It has a storage capacity of 2,500,000 m3 (Crude Oil: 1,000,000 m3, Intermediate & Finished Products: 1,500,000 m3). • It has modern port facilities for tanker docking, suitable for tankers of up to 450,000 tons DWT, which can serve more than 3,000 vessels annually. • It has a modern truck loading terminal, which can serve 220 road tankers per day. 14 1. Identity and Corporate Responsibility The refinery’s requirements in terms of electricity are met by the of hydrogen and as a fuel for its thermal and energy needs. five gas turbines of the Power Cogeneration Plant, which make This grants it valuable flexibility in selecting the optimal mix of it energy self-sufficient. Steam is provided by the four steamraw materials and fuels, while further improving the refinery’s producing boilers, as well as the steam generated by certain units environmental performance. within the refinery. The sea water desalination units provide sufficient water of suitable quality to feed the boilers and fully Liquid waste is collected and treated in the Industrial Waste meet the needs of the refinery. Water Treatment Plant and the Urban Liquid Waste Treatment Plant. The refinery has a modern Truck Loading Terminal, which The refinery is connected to the national natural gas network, significantly strengthens the competitive position of MOTOR OIL allowing it to use natural gas as a raw material for the production in the southern Greek market. 3. Results 2016 2016 was another great year for the refinery sector worldwide, and especially for the Mediterranean region. The great sophistication of our refinery did, however, allow the Group to make continual adjustments to the crude supply mix in order to take advantage as effectively as possible of the circumstances. During 2016, enabling conditions were created for the refining sector in the Mediterranean basin as well as in the broader MOTOR OIL Sales per Market (thous. MT) area, while at the same time, our refinery managed to procure 14,000 12,672 12,852 13,042 crude oil at competitive prices with especially favorable 11,984 financial terms. This resulted in achieving high refinery 12,000 11,654 margins throughout the year, which reached the upper end 10,000 of the sector and were significantly higher than the sectoral benchmark margins. The financial results were also positively 8,000 influenced by the measurement of inventories. In this context, MOTOR OIL managed to set a new sales record, to further 6,000 increase exports and cut its net bank debt to the lowest levels 4,000 in its history. 2,000 • It is highly important that MOTOR OIL product sales have 0 been rising steadily in recent years, reaching 13.18 million 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 tons* in 2016 – a new historic record, despite the periodic Domestic Market PPC External Market Shipping Aviation maintenance of refinery units that lasted nearly a month. Its products are delivered to the three markets in which it operates (domestic market, exports and the shipping/ aviation sector) through a powerful sales network and with MOTOR OIL Sales per Product (thous. MT) the help of long-standing relationships with customers. The quantities supplied to each of these markets are determined 14,000 12,672 12,852 13,042 by the relevant demand, but also by the company’s aim of 11,654 11,984 12,000 supplying its products to the markets that offer the highest 10,000 margins. The sales figures show the company’s steady export orientation, based on which foreign sales, including 8,000 shipping/aviation sales, to more than 45 countries (the main destinations being Egypt, Saudi Arabia, USA, Lebanon, Italy 6,000 and Turkey) accounted for 77.8% of all sales, compared to 4,000 76.1% in 2015. Exports are beneficial to the company also on an operational level, allowing it to finance the purchase of 2,000 crude oil at the current price levels, ensuring a continuous 0 supply of raw material to the refinery. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 *13,042 thousand ΜΤ sales and 138 thousand ΜΤ from the sale Asphalt Fuel Oil Automotive Diesel Heating Oil Aviation Fuel Gasoline Liquefied Petroleum Gas Lubricants Other of crude oil to a third party. 15 • The Group's turnover dropped by 10% in 2016 compared to 2015 and stood at 6.35 billion euros. The fall in the average Consolidated Financial Results (million euros) prices for petroleum products by 18% contributed to this 9,682 604 decrease; to some extent this was countered by a 3.86% 9,282 9,050 increase in the volume of sales and the marginal appreciation 492 of the US dollar against the euro by 0.23%. • The Group's EBITDA was also substantial, amounting to 6,357 603.5 million euro in 2016 compared to 492 million euro in 7,060 2015, recording an increase of 22.7%. Similarly, the Group's 272 298 net results after tax for 2016 reached 298 million euro 185 compared to 205 million in 2015, recording a 45.4% increase. 205 These results were the product of high refining margins 52 during the course of the year, in combination with the 79 appreciation in the value of the US dollar against the Euro. These good results were further reinforced by the positive -83 -5 contribution of the retail subsidiaries which benefited from 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 a strong tourism period. Turnover EBITDA Net profit after tax • MOTOR OIL had significantly increased its domestic market share, thanks to the performance of the retail trade networks of AVIN OIL and Coral, whereas in the past 2 the decrease of 2016 is due to the absence of any sales of years it dropped, reaching 31.4% in 2016. This drop is due to aviation fuels, which the company makes from time to time the decreased sales of fuel oil to PPC, whereas specifically in the domestic market. MOTOR OIL’s DOMESTIC MARKET SHARE 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fuels 35.0% 37.5% 38.0% 35.2% 33.5% Shipping/Aviation 25.2% 26.7% 28.7% 26.2% 25.8% Lubricants 46.9% 36.8% 40.4% 40.4% 52.0% TOTAL DOMESTIC MARKET 32.1% 33.9% 35.3% 32.7% 31.4% 4. Corporate Governance The management and control of MOTOR OIL are based on contemporary principles of good corporate governance, as prescribed by legislation and the relevant regulations, and by other international codes of best practice and auditing standards. The concept of corporate governance runs through its strategy, and as a practice it sets the tone for its daily operation, on subjects such as: • the appropriate structure of its Board of Directors, (CCG), prepared and approved by the Board of Directors I t sets • respect for, equal treatment and protection of the interests and out the framework for the basic operating areas of the company, the rights of all shareholders, as well as the best practices in corporate governance which it • compliance with legal and regulatory provisions, has adopted. The Code is revised as appropriate (amendment • transparency in decision-making procedures, of articles of association, change in organizational chart, etc.) and • the reliability and adequacy of all disseminated information, is always available in its current form on the company website. regarding the Group’s strategy and financial results, or its The company’s most senior decision-taking body is the Board financial transactions, of Directors, which is elected by the Annual General Meeting of • the management of personnel and remuneration matters, and Shareholders and which represents a broad range of knowledge, • the identification, assessment and control of all inherent risks. experience and qualifications, tailored to match the objectives of the company while ensuring, as far as possible, a numerical The company has its own Code of Corporate Governance balance between executive and non-executive directors. 16 1. Identity and Corporate Responsibility Composition of Board of Directors name Board Position Member Identity* Vardis J.Vardinoyannis Chairman and Managing Director Executive Ioannis V.Vardinoyannis Vice Chairman Executive Ioannis Kosmadakis Deputy Managing Director Executive Petros Tzannetakis Deputy Managing Director Executive Nikos Th.Vardinoyannis Member Non-executive George Alexandridis Member Non-executive Theofanis Voutsaras Member Executive Michael Steiakakis Member Executive Niki Stoufi Member Non-executive Anastasios Triantafyllidis Member Non-executive/ Independent Antonios Theoharis Member Non-executive/ Independent *In accordance with Law 3016/2002 Two committees, established in 1996 and each made up of efficient management of business risks are given proper attention. three members, operate within the framework of the Board Lastly, the company’s financial statements are also audited by of Directors: the Compensation Committee and the Audit independent chartered auditors, in compliance with its statutory Committee. Both are chaired by the non-executive director Mr. obligations. G. Alexandridis, and on each committee the other two members are the non-executive and independent directors of Mr. A. Control and Risk Management Systems Triantafyllidis and Mr. A. Theoharis. In respect of the operation of the company’s Internal Control and Risk Management ICRM Systems, in relation to the The Compensation Committee advises the Board of Directors procedure for compiling financial statements, we should state that within the competences assigned to it by the latter. It deals with the MOTOR OIL financial reports system uses a sophisticated staffing issues and recommends policies on salaries, benefits software package to produce reports to the administration and and incentives for management and staff, also overseeing to external users. implementation of the said policies. Financial statements and other analyses are submitted to the The members of the Audit Committee are recommended by the administration on a monthly basis, and compiled in simple and BoD and elected by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, consolidated form, in accordance with the International Financial in accordance with the provisions of Law 3693/2008, and all Reporting Standards, for submission to the administration and for have substantial knowledge and experience in matters relating general publication, on a quarterly basis. Both reports submitted to finance, accounting and auditing. to the administration and financial information released to the public, contain all the necessary information expected from an The Audit Committee is of considerable assistance to the Board updated internal audit system, featuring analyses of sales, costs of Directors in performing its duties, acting as recipient of all and spending, operating profits and other details. reports on audits carried out by the company’s Internal Audit Department. The legal auditor or auditor’s office reports to the All reports to the administration contain details for the current Committee on all matters relating to the progress and results period, for purposes of comparison with the corresponding of the regular mandatory audit, submitting a special report on figures in the budget, as approved by the Board of Directors, any weaknesses in the internal audit system, particularly any and with the figures for the same period in the previous year. All shortcomings found in procedures relating to the provision of published interim and annual financial statements are compiled in financial information and the compilation of financial statements. accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, contain all necessary information and opinions on the financial Since 1990 the company has had its own Internal Audit statements, are reviewed by the Audit Committee and approved Department, which reports directly to the Board of Directors in their entirety by the Board of Directors. and is overseen by the Audit Committee. The company’s independent internal audit system aims at ensuring compliance with the company’s procedures for managing financial and operational matters, as well as ensuring that issues related to the 17 5. Participation in International National Agencies and Networks MOTOR OIL and the Group’s other companies support and maintain lasting relationships with international and national bodies, and are members of: • The Global Compact Network Hellas. Moreover, we support the academic community in research • Τhe Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility. exploring refining industry issues relating to health, safety and • The Hellenic Federation of Enterprises. environmental protection. • The Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Hellenic-American and Arab-Hellenic Chambers, as well as In this context, MOTOR OIL: other regional Chambers. • Continues to cooperate with the Applied Geochemistry • The Hellenic Association of Independent Power Producers. Laboratory of the Geology Department, Patras University, • The Union of Listed Companies, etc. for the determination of chemical conditions prevailing in the refinery’s coastal zone. MOTOR OIL also participates in the following organisations: • Cooperates with the Universities of Nottingham and • CONCAWE (CONservation of Clean Air and Water in Ulster, the Research Institutes of CERTH in Thessaloniki, Europe), which provides technical support to European UniCRE in the Czech Republic, CIEMAT in Spain, LNEG in refineries on Health, Safety and Environmental Protection Portugal, companies IBERCAT in Spain, VUHU in the Czech issues. Republic and ESTRA in the UK for the realisation of the • Oil Companies International Marine Forum (OCIMF), which DIRPIMCOAL project. The DIRPIMCOAL research project is an association of petroleum companies with an interest aims at the environmental optimisation of the liquefaction in promoting the safe and environmentally friendly marine of coal from industrial and urban waste for the production transportation of crude oil and petroleum products. of biofuels. • Mediterranean Oil Industry Group (MOIG), which is an oil industry forum on issues relating to prevention and timely response to marine pollution, intended to coordinate the industry in the event of major oil spill incidents in the Mediterranean Sea. 6. Awards and Recognition The Group’s companies have received significant recognition for their work and activities from the international and national business communities. The distinctions underline the superb quality of their products and services, and highlight the importance attached by the Group to effective meeting of social needs. Business CHRIMA Awards 1st prize in the High Investments category for MOTOR OIL. ICAP True Leaders MOTOR OIL ranked 3rd in the ICAP list with the most profitable and robust businesses. Joint Inspection Group OFC was awarded for the ninth consecutive year with the JIG “Certificate of Excellence”. This is a global first, which none of the 180 companies inspected by JIG has achieved ever before. Safety Awards Coral won the WINNER award in the Petroleum product category for the evaluation method of the Sustainable Development model it implements. AVIN received Silver award for the Safety at the Workplace Campaigns category, for the Safety Day program it implements each year. Coral Gas was awarded for reaching 1,500,000 hours with no accident throughout the entire chain of its operations. Coral Gas won the Gold award in the Identification & Solutions of Work Risks category, for its new ARIADNE tool, that records and monitors all safety incidents and near-misses, in an easy and effective manner. 18 1. Identity and Corporate Responsibility 7. Managing Corporate Responsibility The MOTOR OIL Group is engaged in the energy sector, mainly in the oil sector, which is an area requiring special respect for and compliance with the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainable growth. This is because crude oil, from extraction and transportation to refining and use of refined products, has environmental effects that must be effectively managed, utilising available technology. In implementing the principles of corporate responsibility, we We fully acknowledge the importance of these issues and seek: demonstrate our corporate responsibility by our commitment to • to achieve a balanced approach to the economic, social and pursuing our business activities with due respect for people, the environmental impact of the Group’s operations, environment and society. MOTOR OIL has adopted a Corporate • to create value for our shareholders, while also serving the Responsibility Management Model that incorporates the four interests of other stakeholders, sectors of action inspired by the UN Global Compact and the • to show concern for our employees and for society at large. internationally accepted Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Corporate Responsibility Management Model Employees Environment • Health and Safety • Best Available Techniques • Equal Opportunities • Energy Savings • Competitive Remuneration System Improvement Improvement • Reduction of Emissions • Training and Development of Conditions of Performance Market Promotion Improvement Society • Corporate Governance of Responsible of Quality • Contribution to Culture, Sports • Quality and Reliability and Ethical of Life and the Environment • Service Practices • Support of socially vulnerable groups • Monitoring and Evaluation • Responsible Growth • Risk Management • Responsible Employment MOTOR OIL: With Responsibility towards Society, With Responsibility towards its Employees, pursues constructive social dialogue with the local communities adopts the four principles: attract, identify, develop, retain, in which it operates, in a climate of trust and respect. It supports in order to develop its human resources, by investing in these communities by participating in programmes that enhance their training, and providing a workplace environment that their economic, social and cultural life, and becomes involved in is characterized by good team-work, mutual respect and is similar activities that benefit society as a whole. conducive to individual initiative. In such a workplace, Health and Safety constitute a major priority which is assured through With Responsibility towards the Market, state ofthe-art infrastructure and contemporary management respects market rules and produces top quality products; it practices. focuses on relations of trust with its customers, suppliers and partners, and strives to ensure the best possible return for its With Responsibility towards the Environment, shareholders without compromising its principles of corporate strives to ensure that its activities have the minimum possible responsibility and sustainable development. impact on the environment, by having in place an effective Environmental Management System and implementing Best Available Techniques, as well as the most advanced systems for environmental protection, energy management and energy saving. 19 Responsible Management of the Supply Chain A key element in our corporate responsibility is the proper management of our supply chain, aware as we are that a sustainable supply chain not only reduces social and environmental risks but can also enhance values and success on the business and social levels. We thus carry out detailed evaluation of our potential suppliers, on the basis not only of their economic viability but also of qualitative and environmental criteria. Would-be suppliers are asked to complete questionnaires detailing their ability to safeguard the quality of the products and services they aim to provide, as well the environmental impact of their activities and the health and safety systems they employ. In respect of the contractors we employ at the refinery and our other installations, we follow a comprehensive programme of safety training, the objective always being to achieve GOAL ZERO, i.e. zero accidents. As an example, in 2016 we carried out a comprehensive programme, for all refinery contractors (2,872 people), who attended a training programme with a total duration of 22,976 hours, sat for examinations and were awarded a certificate. Detailed evaluation and training programs are also implemented in the tanker companies which meet our land transport needs. We are aware that every day dozens of tankers are travelling the roads on our behalf, and are committed to minimizing the risks inherent in road transport. For this reason, we have developed very detailed programmes in which transportation companies are assessed and given rigorous improvement targets; if they fail to meet them, their contracts are not renewed. As a result of this ground-breaking programme, by the end of 2016 the road tankers we use had travelled a total of 20,000,000 km without a single accident. 8. Responsible Growth and Investments Responsible growth and creation of value for the benefit of all stakeholders, is at the core of MOTOR OIL Group’s business model. We therefore adopt an investment program allowing the attainment of a good operating performance in all sectors, with substantial financial results as the final outcome. Responsible Growth of Group Value Objective value creation Maximising Maximising / Optimising Safety Strategy Financial Optimising and Environmental Performance Sales Protection Targeted Effective Effective Dedicated Transparency / Methods Investments Cost Marketing Staff Corporate Management Governance Base CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 20 1. Identity and Corporate Responsibility Our vision is the consolidation of MOTOR OIL’s position as organic growth and acquisitions. The company has now a leading refining and oil products marketing company in the entered a period of maturing investments and optimization broader region in which we operate. In order to succeed in of their exploitation. At the same time, 6 years after the this objective, we focus on the following three key targets: purchase of Shell operations in Greece, a significant increase • Maximization of financial returns and profit margins of in its domestic market share is clear to see, demonstrating the refinery. increased efficiency of the Coral and AVIN OIL networks, as • Maximisation and optimisation of sales, by effectively well as that of Cyclon which was fully bought out by MOTOR marketing the refinery products and exploiting opportunities OIL in late 2014. in our three available markets (domestic, aviation/shipping, and exports), for achieving the best possible profitability. The most recent major investment, the construction of the • Striving for the highest standards of Health and Safety, new Crude Distillation Unit completed in 2010 which cost, Environmental Protection and Quality, through the together with the peripheral units, a total of 200 million euros application of technical and operational adaptations. has strengthened its competitive position and improved its profitability, having now been on-line for more than six full 1,563 years. Moreover, a large investment in the last decade has million euros been the installation of the hydrocracker complex, which Total made possible the generation of clean fuels to meet European investments Union specifications. during The rest of our investment programme has been designed 2000-2016 to upgrade the technological capacity and efficiency of the refinery, and to introduce vertical integration, automation, energy autonomy and environmental protection. The result Total investment expenditures by the Group in the period has been that the refinery is now regarded as one of the most 2000-2016 have amounted to 1,563 million euros, not including efficient and sophisticated installations of its kind anywhere capital used for acquisitions. in the world. Total investment expenditures for 2016 amounted to 86.4 million euros, and regarding the refinery, it included periodic maintenance of the refinery units, during which numerous and substantial operational upgrades were carried out. A project was also realised with the purpose of upgrading the kerosene production procedure and new tanks were constructed, in the area created after the underground placement of the PPC electricity cables, aiming at increasing the refinery's storage capacity. Over the last fifteen years we have completed a series of substantial investments for MOTOR OIL concerning both 9. Responsibility for the Environment, Health and Safety Ensuring health and safety and environmental protection constitutes a fundamental strategic aim. Thus, we strive to conduct our operations without compromising the health and safety of our employees and associates, while maintaining the highest standards of environmental protection and respecting the quality of life of those living in the vicinity of our industrial facilities. The importance we attach to the management of health, certification dating back to 2000, and EMAS ΙΙΙ ER 1221/2009 safety and environmental protection, and our commitment compliant, first certified in 2007) and the Health and Safety to continuous improvement in these areas, is set out in the Management System (OHSAS 18001:2007 compliant, first certified relevant policy that governs the operation of the Environmental in 2008), which interpret this Policy into detailed programmes Management System (ISO 14001:2004 compliant, the first such and measurable targets. 21 Health, Safety and Environmental Protection Policy MOTOR OIL operates with due respect for Health, Safety and the Environment. To achieve this, the company is committed to: • Setting aims compatible with the continuous improvement of its Health, Safety and Environmental management systems. • Complying with, or exceeding, the requirements of relevant legislation or other obligations. • Producing guaranteed quality products in accordance with, or exceeding, Health and Environmental Protection specifications applicable to each, efficiently making use of raw materials, energy and technology. • Reporting its performance, good or bad, as a responsible corporate citizen. • Maintaining emergency action plans and systems which are regularly rehearsed with the appropriate drills. • Applying a coherent Integrated Management System that takes Health, Safety and Environmental Protection factors into consideration when business decisions and plan are being prepared, and in the operation of its facilities. • Offering information and training to its own employees and to subcontractors and others working on its behalf, so as to ensure their commitment to and raised awareness of safe working practices. • Actively and uncompromisingly complying with environmental operating standards that set limits on waste and polluting emissions. • Cooperating with all stakeholders in developing and applying balanced Health, Safety and Environmental Protection programmes that take into account the needs of all parties involved. 10. Responsible Quality Management Our commitment to quality is a fundamental element of our strategy. MOTOR OIL's quality policy is summed up in two key principles, to which both management and employees are fully committed: • MOTOR OIL will produce and sell products that satisfy its ISO 17025:2005 standard, and the Hellenic Accreditation customers, always taking into consideration all stakeholders’ System (HAC) has certified the refinery’s Chemical Laboratory interests. as capable of conducting tests in accordance with requirements • MOTOR OIL focuses on its customers, examines and of the standard, and issuing Quality Certificates endorsed by evaluates their requirements and applies all necessary HAC for virtually all the company’s products. This certification technologies and actions, aiming at avoiding compromises offers us an additional competitive advantage, ensuring that in quality matters and constantly improving the effectiveness of our products is guaranteed. The refinery has also been of its Quality Management System. awarded CE Marking in accordance with standard ΕΝ 12591 for asphalt products, the certification remaining valid until 2017. The Integrated Management System, used to implement our All Management Systems are subject to bi-annual or annual quality policy, is oriented to the customer and his needs, audits, by the certification bodies, in order to confirm their covering systematically all operational and organizational consistent implementation, in line with the requirements of processes relating to quality. The System was re-certified each one, and they are re-certified every three, four or five in 2014 by Bureau Veritas, in accordance with standard ISO years, depending on the System. 9001:2008, valid until 2017, while the first relevant certification dates back to 1993. The appropriate development of these management systems is realised by achieving certification for their updated versions. The consolidation of the ISO 14001:2004 Environmental In addition, customers and insurance organisations carry out Management System and the OHSAS 18001:2007 Health and audits. Safety Management System into the Integrated Management System confers the necessary internal coherence and links these management systems with other related processes which affect them, thus maximising their effectiveness. Since October of 2016, our company has also been certified with the 2BSvs Certificate, related to the control of the biofuels and the blending of fossil fuels with biofuels. The Quality Control process meets the requirements of the 22 1. Identity and Corporate Responsibility Integrated Management System QUALITY MANAGEMENT Human ISO 9001:2008 Procurement Resources Management Management qUALITY CONTROL ISO 17025:2005 MARKETING PRODUCTION Marketing Stock Operating System Sales Management Environmental Management ISO 14001:2004 EMAS III ER 1221:2009 Delivery Health and Safety of Products Management Customer OHSAS 18001:2007 Service Maintenance Certified Management Systems of the Group's ISO 9001:2008, an Environmental Management System Subsidiary Companies certified under ISO 14001:2004 and a Health and Safety • AVIN OIL operates a Quality Management System certified Management System certified under OHSAS 18001:2007/ according to ISO 9001:2008 covering fuels and lubricants ELOT 1801:2008. These certifications relate to the main storage, marketing and distribution, and retail network activity of the company which is the delivery, storage and management. distribution of aviation fuel, as well as the provision of • Coral has been certified across all its activities since 2012. technical consultancy services and training in aspects of the Specifically, ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS refuelling of aircraft. In 2013, a Fire Safety recertification was 18001:2007 certifications were secured for Coral’s procedures granted for the next five years. for taking delivery, storage, mixing, loading, transportation, • LPC has a Quality Management System in place, certified service station management and delivery to customers of to standard ISO 9001:2008 for the design, production, various fuels products, lubricants and chemicals. sale and distribution of base lubricants, antifreeze, greases • Coral Gas operates an Environmental Management System, and chemical products and to EMAS (EL 00051) and with ISO 14001:2004 certification, and a Health and Safety ISO 14001:2004 for the waste lubricant oil regeneration Management System with OHSAS 18001:2007 certification, procedure. for all its facilities and ISO 9001:2008 certification for its Quality Management System. • OFC has a Quality Management System, certified to standard 11. Communication with Stakeholders We recognize that our business operations and decisions affect and are affected by – various groups of stakeholders. The longstanding communication and cooperation we have developed with stakeholders indicates the importance we attach to this issue, and our desire to openly discuss that any arising issues can be handled in mutually acceptable ways. Direct stakeholders and, in summary, their interaction with the Group companies, as well as the communication approach applied to each of them, are shown in the following table: 23 Stakeholders Identity KEY ISSUES of Interaction Communication approach Employees 1,925 direct employees, with Employees offer their labour, Ongoing, two-way communication between about 52% of them working in knowledge and experience in return employees and management through the refinery (see Chapter 2). for a safe working environment, corporate announcements, briefings, intranet, competitive and fair salaries and working groups and various events. The additional benefits as well as refinery employees are represented by their opportunities for professional Trade Union and the Health and Safety advancement and personal Committee. Official dialogue is regularly development. conducted; employees are also encouraged to submit their individual proposals for improvements in working conditions. Customers The refinery, due to the nature The refinery is in continuous Long-standing and close relationships with of its activity, has relatively few communication with its customers our customers, based on the quality of customers. The Group’s in order to satisfy their requirements our products, the service we offer, our commercial companies have and provide high quality products, experience, and our reliability. We maintain an extensive network of and is duly rewarded with the inongoing communication with refinery customers, from industrial come it receives. The Group’s comcustomers, and once a year conduct a satisfacilities and commercial mercial companies place customer faction survey. In the commercial companies, companies to final consumers. service at the very heart of their the customer service departments and staff strategy, offering them products and of our service stations are the public face of services of the highest quality. the company. We organize mystery shopping programmes for all our service stations and market surveys. Local communities Our industrial activities impact We closely collaborate with the local Continuous communication and interaclocal communities in the vicinity and regional communities, whose tion with local communities through local of the refinery (Ag. Theodoroi, key concern is the creation of jobs councils and other agencies such as private Corinth) and the facilities of the and the return of the so-called social associations and organizations (see Chapter commercial companies (Perama, product through the company’s 5). Our sustained commitment and ongoing Kalohori Thessaloniki, Kavala, social contribution. communication allow us to listen to the local Hania). community’s needs and respond promptly and meaningfully. Partners and suppliers Suppliers of products and We are closely collaborating with We have long-standing and close relationproviders of contract services at our partners and suppliers for the ships with our partners and suppliers. There the refinery, at the other facilities provision of products and services is a structured communication and training and at our service stations. based on rigid quality and safety programme at the refinery, as well as all of criteria. Consequently, they are fairly our facilities, offering them appropriate inforrewarded, without problems, for the mation on health, safety and environmental provision of products and services, protection issues, for which compliance ultimately resulting in contribution to requirements are exceptionally strict and economic development. closely monitored (see Chapters 1 and 3). Shareholders, InvesThe company’s equity is held by Shareholders invest capital in MOThe company operates a Shareholder Sertors and Analysts private and institutional investors, TOR OIL, as in any other company, vices Department. Regular communication both Greek and foreign. At the in the expectation that there will be with shareholders is conducted in various end of 2016 the main shareholder long-term financial returns, including ways: roadshows 7-8 times a year; an Annual was Petroventure Holdings Ltd, dividends and an increase in value of Analysts’ Briefing once a year; 4 quarterly with a stake of 40%. The free their shares. teleconferences with financial analysts; on float percentage was the company website; press releases and approximately 53%. The business announcements; the Annual Financial Report activities of MOTOR OIL are and Sustainability Report, and regular attenmonitored by both Greek and dance at investment conferences. foreign financial analysts. State Public authorities on a local and We are in close interaction with the We always operate within the confines of the national level. State and create revenues through law. There is an open and honest, two-way the payment of taxes and duties. communication and cooperation with Public authorities protect the public competent Public Authorities, ensuring the interest with laws and regulations, supply of information required by each body, ensuring their enforcement, issuing as well as documented discussion on any operating licences and providing issues arising. support in emergency situations. 2. Responsibility towards our Employees At the MOTOR OIL Group we believe that our value is generated by our employees. We recognise that they are our most valuable resource, We are committed to providing the best possible essential to the achievement of our strategic goals, to working conditions, securing respect for human rights the successful implementation of our growth business and for the freedom of association, upholding nonplans and in ensuring our long-term competitiveness. discrimination and providing equal opportunities for learning and personal development. That is why we have established an organised and modern During 2016, the MOTOR OIL Group had an average Human Resources Division for the entire MOTOR OIL workforce of 1,925 employees. Group aimed at identifying, attracting, developing and retaining qualified employees and executives who can In the midst of the profound economic and social be utilised by all the companies. crisis afflicting our country, we continued to renew our workforce through 300 recruitments over the last We aim to provide a safe and fair workplace, which five years, offering an extended training programme promotes trust, team spirit and respect for people, along and continuing the provision to our employees of a with effectiveness. structured discretionary benefits package. 13 1,925 Employees at Group level 300 Recruitments during the years 2012-2016 Training hours in 2016 21,000 26 2. Responsibility towards our Employees 1. Human Resources Management System The MOTOR OIL Group has grown significantly over the last few years and has adopted a contemporary, fully integrated Human Resources Management System. The System is designed to allow proper management of the Group’s human resources, with ongoing development and advancement of individual employees. This system is founded on the principles and values of the Group and defined by its vision and strategic objectives. The purpose of the Human Resources Management System is to identify and attract the most talented executives on the market, develop them and retain them within the Group. All of the above are implemented by the Group's HR Division Vision within the following framework: • Compliance with applicable legislation, and universally established principles of human and labour rights. Principles Strategic • Fairness and meritocracy in employee relations. and Objectives • Attracting competent young people having a professional Values approach to work, who share our values: reliability, dedication, integrity and personal responsibility. HUMAN • Providing equal opportunities and possibilities for the RESOURCES professional and personal development of employees. MANAGEMENT • A competitive and fair remuneration system linked to SYSTEM employee performance and consistent with prevailing market conditions. • Offering pay and benefits exceeding those provided for by Identification law and by collective labour agreements. • A programme of targeted education and training, covering Retention Attraction subjects relevant to the Group’s strategic development goals, and aiming at the effective and safe discharge of duties. Development • Fostering corporate culture and corporate values. 2. Equal opportunities and human rights All aspects of human resources management are pursued with transparency and are based on meritocracy. We offer a workplace of no exclusions, in which all are treated fairly and are offered equality of opportunity, and where diversity is valued. Recruitment, transfers, promotions, benefits, education and training, etc., are governed by the principles of our equal opportunities policy, the avoidance of any form of discrimination, and respect for employees’ dignity. In applying the equal opportunities policy, we have ensured: Declaration of Human Rights, and in the UN Global Compact’s • That the composition of management reflects the composition ten principles, to which we are signatories. The Group is opposed of the workforce. to any practice which might encourage the imposition of any form • That education and training programmes are available to all of forced or child labour. It complies fully with national legislation personnel, in accordance with business needs. on child labour; there are no instances of forced or child labour • Equal pay for men and women. anywhere in the Group’s activities, nor would they be acceptable. It should be noted that all MOTOR OIL’s activities take place We support attempts to build a society free of exclusion, in which exclusively on Greek territory, where the legislative framework persons with disabilities can be productively integrated into the is consistent with the requirements of the 1998 Declaration of community. We ourselves employ 18 people with disabilities, who the International Labour Organisation (ILO) on Fundamental enjoy equal opportunities in employment and education. Principles and Rights at Work, to which reference is made in the Constitution and in labour law. The Greek legal provisions include MOTOR OIL fully respects international principles of human conventions concerning the protection of freedom of association rights, in particular those set out in the United Nations and the right to collective bargaining. 27 3. Labour Relations Relations with Trade Unions At MOTOR OIL, the terms and conditions of employment are regulated by a Collective Labour Agreement, which was drawn up in September 1974, and is approved by the Ministry of Labour. As is made clear by the recent materiality analysis described at the between the company and the union, which is renewed every year end of the Report, it is extremely important to our Group – and and is then submitted to the Corinth Labor Inspection. particularly to the refinery due to the complex nature of the work it entails – that employees can join unions and professional associations We believe that smooth cooperation between the Company freely and without restraint. Refinery employees are represented and the employees’ union is extremely important particularly through their trade union and the Health and Safety Committee. so in difficult times like the present, when we are experiencing The union has had a Collective Labour Agreement with the Hellenic the effects of the severe economic crisis. We, therefore, hold Federation of Enterprises since 1986. This agreement lays down the regular meetings with union representatives, the common aim terms of employment and pay levels at the refinery. being to ensure harmonious bilateral relations, avoid disputes and preserve labour peace, while continuing to achieve improvements Since 2006, there has been a Company Collective Labour Agreement in working conditions. 4. Basic employment data of group In 2016, the size of the combined human resources of the Group (MOTOR OIL, AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, OFC and LPC) averaged over the year was 1,925 employees. 96.6% employees at the end of 2016 were In addition to personnel directly employed by the companies on open-ended of the Group, a significant number are indirectly employed contracts through sub-contractors. Workforce (yearly average) 1,983 1,928 1,924 1,925 1,834 1,800 1,797 1,470 1,485 1,507 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 WORKFORCE 2016 (PER COMPANY) MOTOR OIL 1,193 AVIN 178 CORAL 288 CORAL GAS 104 LPC 139 OFC 23 28 2. Responsibility towards our Employees MOTOR OIL’s main area of activity is the refinery at Agioi Theodoroi, Approximately 55% of the refinery personnel live in the greater Corinth, where in 2016 an average of 991 persons were employed. region of Corinth, where MOTOR OIL is the biggest employer. Gender Profile 16% We support equal treatment for men and women, with equal opportunities for all, without discrimination. However, owing 84% to the nature of the work and the skills required at our refinery, the percentage of women employees is relatively Distribution low. Thus, in 2016, on average, 16% of all employees were by gender female, while at the Group Head Offices, the number of 2016 women rises to 37.5%. Among management, women made up 14% of the total, a satisfactory reflection of the overall participation of women in the total workforce, while in other office and technical jobs the percentage was 16%. Men Women Workforce Breakdown and Professional Advancement In 2016, management comprised 11% of the total personnel 11% of the Group, while technicians-operators and administrative personnel accounted for 89% of the total number of 31% employees. 58% Each employee has the opportunity for promotion within Workforce the management hierarchy, according to his qualifications, Breakdown performance and skills, as the main objective is to fill vacant 2016 managerial positions from within the Group wherever and whenever possible. In fact, each vacancy is first advertised internally; the position is opened to external applicants only if no suitable internal candidate can be found. Level of Education Τechnical staff Management Administrative We attach great importance to the educational level of our personnel, and our aim is to attract, develop and retain suitable and competent employees. All of the employees hired for executive positions in 2016 were university 12% graduates. In order to further develop the skills of our personnel and 59% to maintain a high-output culture in the workplace, various Level further education and vocational training programmes are 28% of Education organised in new technologies and systems, while employees 2016 are encouraged to participate in long-term external courses leading to recognized degrees. 1% University Education College Education Τechnical Education Secondary Education 29 Average Age Age Range 44% The average age of the Group workforce is around 43.4. It should be noted that in 2016 56% of the workforce were under 45. Length of Employment and Turnover of Employees 55% Age Range Length of employment with the Group was, on average, 16 2016 years. 67.1% of employees have been with the Group over 1% ten years, while only 11.4% have less than five years of service. In 2016 staff mobility was 3.9% and is a reflection of the reciprocal confidence, loyalty and satisfaction of our employees. 25-45 years old >45 years old <25 years old Long-term employment at MOTOR OIL is rewarded by additional salary increments. In addition at the refinery, at Length of Service 2016 Coral and at Coral Gas commemorative gifts of value are made to employees completing periods of long service; these 26.4% gifts vary from company to company and are commensurate with the years of service. 23.2% 21.5% In 2016, the permanent staff increased by 73 new employees while 75 persons left for various reasons. We ascribe great importance to attracting and hiring new management executives. In the last years, we have embarked 9.9% upon new collaborations with top universities around the 8.7% 7.6% world through which we seek to attract new candidates. These candidates are assessed through a thorough and detailed process that includes behaviour and skills measuring tools, 2.7% in-depth interviews and a final selection panel. >1 year 1-5 years 5-10 years 10-15 years 15-20 years 20-25 years >25 years staff mobility 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 RECRUITMENTS 70 53 26 76 73 STAFF DEPARTURES (CLASSIFIED BY REASON) Retirement 75 28 29 20 20 Resignation 17 11 15 9 20 Various 15 11 12 17 35 TOTAL 107 50 56 46 75 STAFF MOBILITY* 5.8% 2.8% 3.1% 2.4% 3.9% DEPARTURES *STAFF MOBILITY = x100 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 30 2. Responsibility towards our Employees 5. Remuneration system and additional benefits One of the Group’s main objectives is to offer its employees competitive remuneration, both to reward their contribution and to maintain a high level of employee satisfaction. The system we implement in order to set, manage and review to the Group’s performance. salary levels is in line with current company and sector-specific agreements, and is consistent and transparent. Additional discretionary benefits The Group introduced many years ago a wide range of 124.8 million euros total workforce supplementary, discretionary allowances and insurance benefits for employees and their family members. These discretionary employee allowances cover five main areas: remuneration • Personal development and welfare. expenditure • Covering medical treatment cost in case of health issues. in 2016 • Family assistance. • Provision of various other facilities. • Strengthening corporate culture, and cultivating cooperation and team spirit. Negotiations covering collective agreements on salary 7.6 adjustments are in line with sector practices that are applied at national level. Moreover, the structure of the remuneration in 2016, the million euros system ensures equal pay for men and women doing the Group’s budget same work, and rules out any other form of discrimination. for discretionary The factors determining wage/salary levels are mainly the benefits to employee’s grade and performance, the responsibilities and employees and accountabilities of the position held, the educational level and the seniority/ length of service. their families Such employee benefits are: insurance policies providing both 24.3 pension and medical treatment coverage for employees, schemes helping employees with the costs of their children’s education, Christmas parties for employees’ children, long-service awards, 71.8 Breakdown support for employees participating in sporting activities, etc. of workforce Voluntary blood donation remuneration Blood donations by employees of MOTOR OIL have become a expenditure 2016 28.7 tradition, now with a 30-year history. The programmes are run (million euros) in association with the Corinth General Hospital (for employees at the refinery) and the Metaxa Specialist Cancer Hospital (for employees at the MOTOR OIL head offices). Overall, the resulting blood reserves are used to cover the needs of the blood donors themselves, their families or close relatives, and other Gross pay not including additional remuneration Employer’s contributions Additional remuneration people, in the event of an emergency. We managed to collect 123 blood units in 2016 and the total amount donated through the years exceeds 3,600 units. The Group’s total expenditure on wages/salaries in 2016 amounted to 124.8 million euros. This includes pay for regular and overtime work, mandatory employer contributions to social security funds and other additional allowances over and above those laid down in either labour legislation or collective agreements. These additional, non-statutory allowances are discretionary payments to employees intended to reward productivity and acknowledge the contribution of individuals 31 Sports Activities for Staff To promote and improve team spirit and employee involvement, we encourage their participation in various sporting activities. Athens Classic Marathon For the second consecutive year, MOTOR OIL supported employees from the entire Group taking part in the biggest sports event in Greece the 34rd Athens Classic Marathon, which took place on November 13th. To help the entrants better prepare, training sessions were held a few months before at OAKA Olympic Stadium, at Andreas Sygros Park and the municipal track of Corinth with the help of an experienced trainer. On the day of the race, 68 people took part in the 5km, 70 people in the 10km, and 12 people ran the 42km Classic Marathon, all finishing in the packed Panathenaic Stadium. It is noteworthy that MOTOR OIL secured 100 of the 150 entries through the Desmos non-profit organisation, thus supporting its worthwhile work. Football and basketball teams In 2016, the MOTOR OIL employees’ football team performed exceptionally well, winning 3rd place in the 24-team Amateur Athens Corporate Games League. The team has won a total of 18 titles, including 9 doubles, and has also performed very impressively in foreign fixtures. Meanwhile, the basketball team competed in a corporate league that featured 50 company teams and took 25th place in the event. 6. Education and Training Investment in ongoing training for our employees is a strategic choice and a key element in the process of aligning our workforce’s skills with the full range of objectives and ambitions of the Group. Therefore, given the critical importance of the issue, the MOTOR on the technical side, and the propagation of a safety culture in OIL Group designs and implements each year, a comprehensive all levels of the workforce. programme of education and in-house training for employees. • Training needs in the areas of quality and environmental The basic objective served by our programme, is to continually protection. enrich the vocational knowledge of our employees, expanding • More general needs to improve workforce skills. their range of skills, while also upgrading their level of technical training, allowing them to carry out their everyday and more The education and training programmes cover the long-term tasks. following areas: • Training in business and administrative skills, computer skills, as well as personal development issues. 5.9 million euros for education • Introductory training for new operators and maintenance technicians, and for new engineers. • Skills training for technical staff in their particular areas of and training employment, as well as in use of personal safety equipment programmes and working machinery/equipment. over the period • Training regarding Health, Safety, Environmental Protection 2012-2016 and Quality, with an emphasis on the special features of each workplace. • Training of non-technical staff in basic Health and Safety Education and Training Programmes regulations, use of fire-fighting equipment and first aid provision. The parameters determining the planning and implementation of • Instruction in safe driving techniques and in the procedures for the education and training programmes are the educational needs the safe loading, unloading and transport of fuels. of the workforce as identified in the working environment each • Emergency preparedness exercises, including scheduled or year. The planning of such programmes is based on: unscheduled drills. • The Group business objectives. • The training programmes organized in previous years. The education and training programmes are implemented either • The training required in areas of technical specialization. through in-house seminars or by attending international seminars • Training needs in the areas of health and safety, with emphasis run by internationally recognized educational centres. Also, 32 2. Responsibility towards our Employees Group managers attend conferences both in Greece and abroad, Occupational health and safety, environmental protection and quality participate in undergraduate and postgraduate courses and are were the principal subjects covered by training activities in 2016. In kept up to date through the purchase of books and subscriptions these areas training was provided to cover the relevant management to specialist technical journals and professional associations. systems, the REACH Regulation, preventing sea and air pollution and avoidance of related incidents, process safety, occupational Training in 2016 health, fire safety, the use of Personal Protective Equipment, rescue In 2016, a total 21,000 man-hours were devoted to education methods in cooperation with the Disaster Response Team (EMAK), and vocational training -at an overall cost of 1.1 million eurossafe driving and fuel transport, the provision of first aid and other involving the participation of 1,376 employees (74.1% of the more specialized topics. total workforce), of which 118 were managers and 1,258 other personnel. The figure of training man-hours includes training The other education programmes were designed to provide the related to fire safety, use of Personal Protective Equipment and existing technical staff with further training, in order to develop and other related subjects throughout the refinery and the other further improve their skills in various specialized technical areas, and Group facilities. However, it does not include training hours to instruct staff of the commercial companies in issues of insurance associated with emergency preparedness exercises. law, taxation, etc. Training was also organized in management and leadership, Percentage of trainees over the total workforce internal audit, workforce management and assessment, negotiating techniques, presentation skills, IT, creating a safety culture, accounting, procurements, finance, customs policy, customer service, 72.3% 72.4% 74.1% communication and law. 67.8% 61.4% The contribution and significant involvement of Group executives in the in-house training and education programme was also very important. In 2016 this involvement accounted for about 2,000 hours. Moreover, during 2016, in line with the policy on reimbursement of tuition fees, 6 employees were assisted in their efforts to specialise in particular subjects, or achieve first degree or postgraduate qualifications in areas relevant to the Group’s current operations. Management and employee training in 2016 We strive to continually develop our management staff by offering innovative skills development programmes in cooperation with top 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 educational institutions and bodies. In this context, the main training areas were as follows: The following programmes were held, with certification by Harvard University, to teach leadership skills: Average number of training hours per trainee Leadership Academy Step 1: The objective of this training was to 20.0 develop the skills necessary for all new managers to enable them 17.7 to lead their teams and cultivate relationships with their colleagues 16.2 and supervisors. 15.2 15.2 Leadership Academy Step 2: The purpose was to further develop the skills required of every manager in order to handle a variety of business challenges that have a direct impact on the success of their work. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 33 The following were also held to teach additional skills: • Participation of refinery engineers in international Presentation Skills: This sessions aims at an understanding of key conferences and seminars and other refineries. presentation tools so that participants can present with brevity, clarity, coherence and vision while maintaining the interest of the Training tools at the Refinery audience. The training simulators are extremely valuable training tools, and are used to train operators of all grades, helping them Negotiation Skills: The goal here was to understand the key structural develop their skills, expand their knowledge and improve elements of negotiation and to upgrade the negotiating performance performance through constant repetition. There are simulators of participants. in the Catalytic Cracking Unit, the Hydrogen Cracking Unit and the new Atmospheric Distillation Unit. Customer Service: The purpose of the training was to give trainees a new philosophy of service that will lead to satisfied customers, An important tool is also the Digital Educational Material File, increase sales and improve quality. on the company intranet, continuously posting and updating material like e-books, conference presentations, training Conflict Management: The seminar was designed to offer the videos and so on. The File is freely available to all, so that both skills, techniques and practical exercises necessary that will enable management and workforce can stay abreast and study various employees to effectively handle any conflict that arises and reach the areas of interest. desired outcome. Technical Training Manuals prepared entirely by our own 9.3% refinery engineers are also available, and are written to reflect the current structure of the refinery and meet its current production needs. The manuals fully cover the training Man-hours 19.0% needs of the refinery workforce, and can also be used in other 67.3% devoted to each activities where information on the structure and operation of the refinery is required. educational training area 2016 1.6% Total hours = 21,000 2.8% Health, Safety & Environment Τechnical matters Management IT Finance Training subjects at the Refinery in 2016 Internal training at the refinery is provided by instructors who may be refinery managers or highly specialized external instructors from Greece or abroad. The main training areas were as follows: • Training of shift workers in the use of fire-fighting equipment and personal protection equipment, with weekly drills. • Training of rescue teams by the Elefsina Disaster Response Team in the rescue of persons at risk in inaccessible parts of the refinery, at a great height from the ground. • Training of staff of Equipment Inspection Service for certification and re-certification. • Extensive training of the safety staff in first aid with relevant certification-, in rescue methods in cooperation with the Disaster Response Team (EMAK) and in safe and fast driving techniques for cars, motorcycles, ambulances and fire engines. 3. Health and Safety The ongoing improvement of our health and safety performance will always be one of our main priorities. The nature of the Group’s business operations that the proper precautions are taken before tasks are refining, storage, transportation and marketing of carried out. fuels combined with our corporate principles and • Introducing an annual safety day across the whole values, make occupational Health and Safety a matter Group, with presentations of relevant material to the of exceptional importance, and a priority to which our entire workforce. commitment is absolute and permanent. In order to ensure a safe working environment, and achieve ongoing Throughout 2016, the actions and implementation of improvement in workplace health and safety conditions, systems aiming at reducing risk and eliminating the we implement a rigorously structured Management consequences of any undesirable incidents continued, System, fully aligned with European Union Directives with the ultimate goal of constantly improving our and other, additional measures. performance in Health and Safety. In pursuit of our established objective of Zero Accidents, The effort to upgrade the safety culture and raise the we reinforce and safeguard our management system awareness on safety-related issues is also ongoing. with: Lessons learnt from international incidents in the • Ongoing training and presentations on safety issues, refinery sector were presented, focusing in particular involving the entire workforce. on the training of personnel and external associates/ • Regular maintenance of equipment to ensure it contractors, who were all trained and certified. functions properly and safely. • Investment in new technology equipment and control Moreover, a range of investments were made on projects measures. that reduce the possibility of an accident and upgrade • Risk assessment of critical tasks, in order to ensure the fire safety equipment. The Group's injuries frequency index 1.2 32.9million euros Spent on Safety (investments and operating expenses) 36 3. Health and Safety 1. Health and Safety Management Framework Health and Safety at work and the prevention of occupational hazard is a moral obligation and a business necessity, which goes beyond the narrow limits of a simple legal obligation. Our primary concern is to take measures, and implement projects and programmes, to ensure we attain our permanent objectives for workplace health and safety, which can be formulated as follows: • To reduce the risk of major technological accidents to the • Active involvement of all employees in finding acceptable lowest possible level. and effective solutions for protection and safety, as well as in • To eliminate occupational accidents “Goal Zero”. establishing regulations, identifying hazards and assessing risk. • Constant monitoring and upgrading of the quality of equipment • Frank and open communication between workers and so as to ensure that conditions conducive to safe work management in health and safety matters. operations are continuously improved. • Effective protection of people (our personnel, contractors’ At the refinery, delivering on this commitment relies on personnel, our neighbours, associates and site visitors), as well the effective operation of the integrated Health and Safety as the environment and our own installations, from the hazards Management System, which is certified compliant -since 2008that may arise from the company’s activities. with the internationally recognised Health and Safety standard • Ongoing training of personnel and briefing on health and safety OHSAS 18001:2007. issues in order to prevent accidents and occupational health problems. The same certification has been secured by OFC (in 2006), Coral • Full compliance with regulatory requirements. and Coral Gas (in 2013). Health and Safety Management System (HSMS) OHSAS 18001:2007 Management Commitment Health Safety and Environmental Policy Equipment HSMS Ongoing Procedures Planning Integrity Improvement Control and Personnel corrective Implementation Participation actions and operation Component Parts of the Health and Safety Management System Policy • Description of MOTOR OIL’s commitment to Health and Safety and arrangements for implementing the policy. Planning • Strict compliance with relevant legislation, international standards and codes of practice and established operational rules. • Specification of annual goals, programmes and investment projects for equipment upgrades, to ensure optimum performance with respect to both productivity and safety. • Designation of responsibilities and accountabilities. • Systematic identification and recognition of occupational hazards and assessment of risk across all activities at the refinery and other facilities. 37 Implementation • Visible and systematic management by competent executives at all management levels. • Provision of appropriate and full training to all employees. • Understanding and analysis of operational risks in course of work and appropriate precautions, by all employees and at all levels of management. • Strict application and documentation of procedures for operational safety and efficiency. • Ensuring that all operations are carried out in full compliance with safety rules and regulations. • Systematic reporting of incidents. • Excellent cooperation and communication with public authorities and other stakeholders, including providing them with all relevant information. • Systematic measurement of results and target setting, using established industry indicators, so as to ensure constant improvement in performance and identification of malfunctions and vulnerabilities. • Carrying out of exercises for the updating of the company’s Emergency Response Plan. Compliance • Ongoing inspections of machinery and other equipment to ensure its proper function. monitoring • Regular auditing of safety procedures. and corrective • Systematic investigation and analysis of all incidents. actions • Measurement, assessment and communication of results. • Rewarding of positive results. Ongoing • Ongoing review of management system. improvement • Recommendations for improvement and revision of current arrangements. • Commitment to implementation of recommendations. • Ongoing personnel training. The operation of the Health and Safety Management System • Frequent awareness actions on safety issues and meetings with is assigned to the refinery’s Health, Safety and Environment the participation of all members (section heads, engineers, Section. Moreover, the health and safety organisation includes supervisors, foremen) aiming at the prevention of accidents in-house safety engineers, occupational physicians and nursing and managing risk at work. staff both at the refinery and at MOTOR OIL’s head office • Implementation of “Lessons learnt from accidents” training at a level that goes beyond the requirements of the relevant program including presentations of large accidents in facilities, Greek legislation. with analysis and exchange of opinions of the participants. • Enhancement of electronic library with incidents/accidents There are also two statutory committees: related to operations of the refinery or other facilities. • The Safety and Environment Committee, made up of the • Organisation of Safety Day campaign. refinery section heads and representing the entire workforce. • Posting of safety signs throughout the refinery premises. • The five-member Employee Health and Safety Committee, • Briefing of competent personnel regarding the new Corporate whose elected members are appointed every two years by Contingency Plan. the refinery employees. • Training and presentations to personnel with regard to risks of works close to areas with inert atmosphere, risks from The above Committees are intended to oversee control of health hydrogen sulphide, as well as training of new operators. and safety conditions, making recommendations for changes and • Assignment of the training and certification work for the improvements as necessary. entire contractor's personnel employed in the refinery, to a company recognised in the industry with regard to training and Similar arrangements operate in the other companies of the certification issues. Group, taking appropriate account of the particular conditions of each workplace. 2. Strengthening and improvement of the safety system • Adoption of inspections with prioritisation of risks and goal for During 2016, our efforts to achieve our Health and Safety goals reducing possibility of failure, determination of frequency of were focused on the following: equipment inspections and intensification of specific inspections, as well as the recording and inspection of equipment due to 1. Improvement of safety culture and increasing the awareness corrosion under insulation (CUI), the recording and inspection of the personnel of dead legs and the risk analysis for change of operating • Cooperation with an internationally recognised foreign firm, parameters. with proven experience in the industry, with the goal of • Installation of a Plant Information System, that ensures the studying and adopting international practices. central management and monitoring of information and data • Safety inspections, observations of unsafe behaviours, interviews, related to the refinery equipment, improving management of investigations of main and secondary causes of an accident, risk change. evaluation in each task, monitoring of safety indices, etc. • Strengthening safety measures in the storing and handling of 38 3. Health and Safety chemicals, on the basis of the evaluation of risks posed by the refinery roads. their particular properties, and in general the labelling of all • Update of the refinery's safety study in line with the Seveso III containers in compliance with the CLP regulation. Directive. • Strengthening of hydrogen sulphide detection systems with • Participation in Concawe in safety issues, in order to optimize installation of fixed laser-technology detection systems in highresponse to safety issues through collaboration with risk critical areas of the refinery. representatives of European refineries. • Mapping of the points where vehicle traffic must be restricted, • Continuation of revision of Safety Data Sheets in implementation and placement of special traffic cones for improving safety on of the CLP regulation. 2. Safety Indices The extent, to which the Health and Safety Management System operates successfully, is reflected in trends in the most important safety indices, i.e. the number, frequency and severity of lost-time injuries. Lost Time Injuries (LTI) for Motor Oil Group1 16.9 11 9 9 8 8 7 6 5 5 3 2000-2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Five (5) lost time injuries were recorded at the facilities of the MOTOR OIL Group in 2016. Three of them occurred in the MOTOR OIL refinery and 2 in LPC. There was no accident in the other companies of the Group. There were no serious safety incidents during the course of our activities. Lost Time Injuries Frequency Index (LTIF) for Motor Oil Group1 7.4 Frequency Index = Number of injuries per million working hours 2.8 2.7 2.3 2.2 2.0 2.1 1.8 1.3 1.2 0.9 2000-2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 39 The Lost Time Injuries Frequency Index recorded a particularly low value of 1.2 in 2016. Correspondingly at MOTOR OIL, LTIF was 1.1., which historically is the lowest value for the company, only achieved one other year within the past 25 years. Lost Time Injuries Severity Index (LTIS) for Motor Oil Group1 Severity Index = 1.3 Number of working hours lost per thousand working hours 1.0 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.1 2000-2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The Lost Time Injuries Severity Index recorded a value of 0.6 across and establish the most appropriate corrective measures, which the whole Group in 2016, with a value of 0.7 for MOTOR OIL. were then communicated to the personnel through training sessions and briefings. Recommendations for equipment These values, in combination with the constantly increasing improvements, arising from investigation of LTIs, were refinery production and the higher volumes handled by our implemented immediately. commercial companies, continue the steady downward trend of the last twenty years, demonstrating the ongoing These statistics relate to accidents involving the company’s own effort to reach our Zero Accident target. In this context, employees and do not include Lost-time accidents involving the Group's management is offering its steady support to subcontractors’ employees, the level of which remains very programmes aimed at training and informing the workforce low. Accidents involving subcontractors’ employees numbered and strengthening technical and organizational measures, 4 in 2012, 5 in 2013, 2 in 2014, 3 in 2015 and 1 in 2016. remaining committed to our ‘Zero accidents’ objective. Finally, we should note that, as in previous years, no case of The LTIs have been analyzed in depth to identify their causes occupational illness was recorded. 1. Note: Includes the companies MOTOR OIL, Avin Oil (since 2006), Coral and Coral Gas (since 2010), OFC (since 2012) and LPC (since 2015). 3. Health and Safety Investments Improvements in working conditions and in the safety of the work environment are achieved by making the necessary investments in equipment, through the upgrading of procedures, and by means of Health and Safety inspections. The refinery’s design, construction and operation is in and to procure safety equipment amounted to 27.4 million accordance with Greek and international regulations and euros, while the cost of operating expenditure of all kinds in standards. Nevertheless, a comprehensive investment this area was 5.5 million euros. programme in the proper maintenance of electrical, mechanical and electronic equipment and in technical upgrading and The greatest emphasis was laid on projects to reduce the renewal of that equipment is continually implemented, taking risk of accidents and to improve working conditions, as well account of developing technology, so as to maintain the as projects aimed at upgrading fire safety measures at our highest possible standards of safety and accident prevention. facilities. More specifically, periodic maintenance was carried out at the refinery units in 2016, which included various works, In 2016, the total cost of the investment programme of all such as replacement of the catalyst in the Hydrocracker unit, Group companies on projects to improve health and safety and maintenance of the new crude oil unit after 6 years of 40 3. Health and Safety continuous operation. Furthermore, the sprinkler system of the alkylation unit was upgraded, and the safety valves in the Investments and Operating Expenses for production units and in segments of the network towards the Health and Safety (million euros) flares were replaced. The installation of the Advanced Process 32.9 Control system in all production processes continued, which ensures a more effective and safer operation. The upgrade of the personal protection gear also continued, the filter fire extinguishing system was installed, new fire 19.3 19.0 extinguishing equipment was purchased, and the safety gear 15.7 for tanks was upgraded. 10.9 Additionally, all our commercial companies proceeded to investments for improvements of the safety systems in service stations and their facilities. These included maintenance and upgrade of critical equipment and tankers, installation of camera devices in services stations, maintenance of fire 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 extinguishing means, etc. 4. Inspections It is our standing practice to carry out regular health and safety inspections, which involve scrutiny of production and distribution equipment, working areas and fire safety systems. The inspections allow us to identify hazards and recognize risk. At the refinery, planned Health and Safety inspections are Recommendations for improvements in working conditions carried out by both internal inspection teams and external and safety also arise following meetings of the Safety and safety auditors, including specialist Greek and foreign Environment Committee and the Employee Health and Safety consultants. Committee. The findings of the above-mentioned horizontal inspection procedures, and recommendations arising from Hot-works and work in confined spaces are subject to a meetings of the two committees, after evaluation, lead to strict programme of intensive auditing and inspection. The appropriate technical or organizational measures being taken. Health, Safety and Environment Section carries out on average 6 inspections a day, with the total number of inspections At the same time, vertical inspections are conducted on approaching 1,600 in 2016, not including checks carried out a quarterly basis by the section head, the engineers and during maintenance periods. supervisors of the various sections. Projects under construction are subject to daily inspections, It is self-evident that technical inspections and monitoring while planned horizontal inspections carried out by teams of equipment carried out by the Technical Department will of different composition and mandate, comprising refinery lead to findings and the taking of measures which reduce executives and other competent personnel are performed hazard and risk and contribute to the improvement of according to an annual schedule, as follows: occupational health and safety conditions. The programming • Safety and Environment Inspections: carried out by a fourand management of these results of inspections are based on member team headed by a Head of Section and comprising the use of computer systems like the PCMS (Plant Condition engineers and supervisors. There are 24 of these teams, each Management Software), designed to generate optimal safety undertaking every year to inspect six of the 24 sections into results and saving of resources. which the facilities have been sub-divided for the purposes of more effective and comprehensive control. Finally, the company takes special care to ensure the • Executive Safety and Environment Inspections: carried out operational readiness of the equipment of the fire safety by teams headed by the refinery Deputy General Manager system. The routine and periodically scheduled checking of and including departmental managers and the Head of the this equipment is carried out according to a very carefully Health, Safety and Environment Section. planned annual programme under the supervision of the Fire Safety Service. 41 5. Procedures Technical integrity of equipment, compliance with international standards/regulations and safe working conditions are amongst the primary factors ensuring safety in the workplace. Even more important is how individuals behave (the “human factor”). Refinery employees are able to perform their work safely not only as a result of the strict work procedures they are required to follow and of having been provided with appropriate skills and competencies, but also because they have been trained in safety awareness. Complying with Legislation context of the requirements of OHSAS certification, the whole The company is fully aware of, and strictly complies with, all monitoring process of our procedures has become more relevant Greek and European Health and Safety legislation, systematic. Within each refinery section, risks identified are while it also applies any relevant international standards, classified into three categories according to the hazard level: codes of practice and other operational norms, where these low, medium or high. For each category of risk we prepare a are judged likely to help achieve even higher standards of timetable for taking action to eliminate or reduce the risk, and protection than would be achieved by legal compliance alone. appoint a manager to be responsible for the necessary action. An independent third party certifies full and comprehensive We provide appropriate and adequate training to all our implementation of legislation in our internal procedures and workers covering: information and instruction relevant to the operations. hazards arising from their work, measures for the elimination of hazards or control of risk, correct use of personal protective We have also developed an intranet database containing equipment, safe working practices, appropriate emergency all health and safety provisions of Greek law relevant to response procedures and first aid provision. the refinery’s operations. It is constantly updated and made available to all employees on the company intranet. We ensure that all operations are carried out in full compliance This database is exceptionally important, not only for with safety rules and regulations by taking all necessary the legality of our operations, but also for the wealth of precautionary measures and by establishing and adhering information it contains on a wide range of issues, including to specific procedures. Of particular importance during hazard identification and control, the drafting of emergency maintenance and repair work is the procedure for issuing of preparedness plans, maximum acceptable levels of exposure Work Permits, within a stringent statutory framework of rules to hazardous substances, the use of chemical substances and and procedures. For this reason, the issuing of these Permits is the relevant precautions, etc. the subject of continuous training activity, covering both those who issue them and those who receive them, both company Besides data on legislation, the database contains other employees and any sub-contractor personnel who may be significant resources relating to refinery safety, including: all involved in work activities on the refinery site. training material; the complete internal safety regulations for the refinery; hazard and risk assessment reports covering all In respect of the need to assess and minimize operational individual workplaces; specifications for all safety equipment risks, the HAZOP Hazard and Operability Study is used (e.g. personal protective equipment -PPEand fire-fighting to analyze risk and operability in all new units or whenever equipment), and material safety data sheets (MSDS), accidents/ changes are made to an existing unit, and a five-year revision event/near-misses investigations, etc. programme is implemented. A HAZOP study was conducted in 2016 at the naphtha hydrodesulphurization unit. Hazard identification, risk assessment and control We are continuously engaged in establishing best practices for Likewise, the studies required by the regulations on fire identification of health and safety hazards in all areas and in safety are conducted; other safety studies are prepared and implementing procedures for immediate response. Across the communicated for approval and registration as appropriate whole range of refinery activities, studies have been conducted with the competent authorities. to assess risk for each work station and task; the necessary measures have been taken to eliminate or minimize all risks Special focus is placed on the analysis of near misses, which are identified. classified depending on the severity of the consequences and the probability of their occurrence (RISK= PROBABILITY x Whenever changes are made to workplaces or to working SEVERITY). Near misses are discussed with the entire workforce practices, these risk assessments are reviewed so as to ensure in order to cultivate a culture of safety and to generate proposals they are always relevant and up to date. Moreover, in the for improvement through the exchange of information. 42 3. Health and Safety In respect of health and safety equipment (personal protective • Supply of full-face mask with incorporated intracom system equipment, fire-fighting equipment, etc.) we implement for use in the alkylation unit. rigorous specifications based on recognized European • Mandatory use of personal hydrogen sulphide equipment by standards in order to optimize workforce health and safety all workers and contractors in the field. precautions. A particular effort has been made to standardise • Order for clothing appropriate for protection against specifications for personal protective equipment at all exposure to thermal radiation (Nomex) for all workers and companies and facilities within the Group. contractors. • Mandatory use of filter escape devices for workers and In addition, safety equipment specifications are monitored contractors. continuously so that they can be updated in line with the new • Supply of safety barriers for protection from fall in small technological developments. openings such as wells, or for excavations and unsafe points with a large area. Their installation is selected points is still In this context, the following took place in 2016: in process. Indicative Activities in 2016 in the area of procedures • We continued implementation of the programme to monitor and assess contractors in respect of their compliance with health and safety rules when working in the refinery facilities. • We reviewed procedures in the Health and Safety Management System. • A procedure was issued for the performance of radiographic examinations. • A procedure was issued for addressing an incident of total loss of electricity. • We continued to update the Safety Data Sheets for refinery products, adding new information, as part of our implementation of the provisions of the European REACH and CLP Regulations. • Participation continued in international organizations dedicated to exploring and achieving continual improvement in rules and practices. Reports, Measurements, Indicators identification system of incoming employees and vehicles with We regularly report, record, investigate and analyze incidents (fires, the issue of RFID cards during entry, security cameras in the accidents, near-misses) using internationally recognized indices in perimeters of the refinery and the port, a motion detection order to take the appropriate corrective and preventive measures, system at the enclosure and an automatic monitoring and while enhancing our experience by monitoring investigations of notification system (video analytics) in case of breach of the serious accidents at comparable facilities abroad and incorporating refinery's perimeter. their findings in our own practice. We systematically record all elements in our health and safety performance, for monitoring Those of our personnel responsible for this protection are purposes, and at the same time we use internationally recognized suitably trained, both in security and safety matters, so as to be indices suitably targeted to provide a basis for checking ongoing able to effectively and swiftly fulfil their responsibilities, being improvement and identifying any shortcomings or irregularities. fully aware of the duties assigned to them, while at the same time fully respecting individual freedoms and fundamental Protection (Security) human rights. In this context security guards are certified by the We take all necessary preventive measures to protect our National Organisation for the Certification of Qualifications and installations against possible malicious or not security threats. Vocational Guidance (EOPPEP) in the specialisation Private The security system is fully automated and includes an automatic Security Personnel . 6. Planned shutdowns New projects Every year, planned shutdowns of refinery units take place, which are necessary to allow for periodic maintenance to be carried out and thus ensure their reliable operation, both in respect of efficiency and in respect of safe operation, while construction work on new projects is constantly being carried out. To avoid accidents during planned and unplanned shutdowns, a methodical approach is required, with continuous monitoring while work is being carried out. 43 Such extended shutdowns of refinery units require vigilance members and contractors to ensure smooth cooperation and and special precautionary safety measures, because of the avoidance of unsafe actions. greatly increased risk of accidents, which include: provision of information to all personnel involved in order to ensure The following were held: they are aware of the necessary safety measures and to • Meetings of the refinery General Manager with engineers, increase their safety awareness; daily co-operation with section heads and operating personnel, aiming at vigilance project managers to identify unsafe conditions and for the in respect of safety issues before the shutdown. concomitant implementation of corrective measures; and daily • Safety meetings with the purpose of informing the entire site safety inspections. workforce on safety issues. • Meetings with the contractors of all companies participating The Health, Safety and Environment Section plays an active in the works, aiming to achieve strict compliance with the part in the shutdowns of units for maintenance work, procedures and resolve any safety issues before the start depending on the type of work being done, carrying out of the works. continual monitoring and evaluation of the work in accordance • Daily meetings during the project with the Contractors' with safety rules and good industrial practice. safety engineers, for reporting any comments and corrective actions. Safety Engineers and Engineers of the Production In 2016, planned and unplanned maintenance works took place and Maintenance sections took part in the meeting from in various units of the refinery that lasted in total 18 days. the refinery's side. Before the start of the maintenance works the schedule was • Daily checks during the works by Managers, Safety Engineers examined in detail, in order to identify any critical works and and the contractors' Safety Engineers. potential risks and take measures. Awareness raising actions • Stocktaking of actions after end of works and organisation of and briefings were also organized, with the participation of all day event to analyse issues and extract conclusions. 7. REACH and CLP Regulations The REACH Regulation (Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals is intended to rationalize European legislation on human health safety and environmental protection from the potential effects of various chemical substances. The legal framework introduced by the Regulation directly affects producers, importers and final users of chemical substances and preparations in the European Union. The objective is to prohibit the import into, or the production The CLP (Classification, Labelling and Packaging) Regulation of within, the EU of any substance at any quantity above one ton the European Union came into effect in 2009, ensuring that risks a year, unless the substance has been entered on the European associated with chemical products are clearly communicated Register of Chemical Products. to employees and consumers through proper classification and labelling of chemical products. The risks which may be posed to After successful completion of the first phase of substance human health and the environment are labelled using a standard registration in 2010, MOTOR OIL, through its participation in system of declarations and pictograms on packaging and on safety various recognized organizations and consortia (CONCAWE, data sheets, so that workers and consumers are aware of the FERC, MERC), remains ready to respond to any requirements possible consequences of handling these products. MOTOR OIL that may arise, is monitoring developments and preparing for the has completed the above process of labelling its products on all second phase of substance registration (2018). safety data sheets. 8. Emergency response plans Our emergency response arrangements are based on the Emergency Response Plan, which is regularly reviewed and updated to take account of expansions and other changes to the refinery’s configuration, changing legal requirements, and changes to “best practices” resulting from technical developments or experience gained by others in dealing with major or nonmajor accidents. We have also prepared and submitted studies to the competent authorities, in line with the requirements of the SEVESO III EU Directive, which describe significant potential accident scenarios and related prevention and response measures. 44 3. Health and Safety The Emergency Response Plan describes, with particular Safety drills and major exercises contribute greatly to reference to a major accident situation, the public health the training and preparedness of employees, and to the protection measures -including warnings for neighbouring evaluation and modification of the plan itself. They also help communities, and related advicethat would be put into effect us to evaluate, upgrade and add to the fire safety equipment, in the event that the Major Technological Accidents Response because the exercises prompt suggestions for new means Plans were activated; these plans are drafted by the competent of improving fire safety, the progress of which is monitored authorities and determine how the state might intervene in by the management on a monthly basis. emergency situations. • The fixed and portable equipment for leak detection and fire-fighting, which are upgraded according to a regular The purpose of the Emergency Response Plan is to offer annual investment plan. The design and installation of the involved personnel an overall emergency response plan, autonomous, permanent fire-extinguishing systems at key which may arise from the operation of the Refinery. The plan points around the refinery offer the ability to respond to provides the necessary guidelines for taking and executing the incidents immediately and ensure the greatest possible correct decisions and actions, providing information for: protection for personnel and operating equipment. In 2016, • the operational organisation for addressing the event / a new autonomous and permanent fire-extinguishing system emergency. was installed at a critical point of the Lubricant production • the Action Plans. section, in order to improve the refinery's fire protection • the communication with the company's staff and the Public system. The breathing apparatus of the fire safety crew was Authorities and/or other competent services that must be also upgraded in 2016, equipping them with new technology notified in each case. air bottles, that are 30% lighter and with double capacity, • the communication actions with the other stakeholders. ensuring comfort during execution of the works and longer autonomy. Features of the plan include: • The availability on the refinery site of six fire engines and one • The Mutual Aid Agreement whereby all Greek refineries 12,000-litre bulk foam tender, that are available on 24-hour co-operate in the event of an emergency, which dates from standby, and are operated by trained firefighter crews. 1988. The effectiveness of this collaboration plan is ensured • The existence of alternative locations for the Incident through joint exercises involving MOTOR OIL, the local Control Room at four different strategic points on the fire brigade and the other refineries. As was the case in the refinery site, and the availability of a state-of-the-art previous years, within 2016, MOTOR OIL participated in a emergency telephone system that provides for refinery staff fire safety exercise in the refineries of ELPE Aspropyrgos in to be contacted at times of emergency outside of normal the context of this program. Additionally, MOTOR OIL is working hours. in constant communication with the Corinth Fire Brigade • The introduction of satellite phones at the refinery itself regarding training matters on how to address an incident and in the administration offices. These phones make inside the refinery's facilities. communication possible and allow coordination between • Development of the Corporate Contingency Plan for administration and refinery even in extreme circumstances, reciprocal assistance between companies in the Group in the such as a natural disaster, when ordinary landlines and event of an emergency. This has also been integrated into mobiles may be rendered useless. the Emergency Response Plan of each individual company. • The completion, within 2016, of the installation of a digital In this context, MOTOR OIL participated in fire safety drills radiocommunication system (TETRA), in replacement of an at the facilities of OFC. existing analogue system, aiming to improve communication. • Drills carried out every week and major industrial accident It is accompanied by integrated GPS, Man Down and Panic response drills carried out regularly during the year, during Button for protection of the personnel. which the Major Incident Response Procedure is activated. 9. Safety of port installations Safety measures at port facilities are of great importance, because they ensure the smooth flow of the works in the refinery, as well as the protection of the marine environment from any pollution. It should be noted that, in 2004, MOTOR OIL became International Ship and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code, which the first Greek company to be certified by the Ministry of is applied according to the requirements of chapter XI-2 of the Mercantile Marine and the Aegean for compliance with the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS). 45 The accreditation is reviewed each year, in accordance with the on the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS existing legislative provisions. Code). In all areas of the port facilities security checks are carried out on The Code requires that drills be held at least every sixteen crews and supplies, as well as checks on access. In 2016, 8,762 months, using security scenarios that are often combined with people and 1,707 vehicles entered the port facilities, after passing sea pollution and/or fire scenarios, with the cooperation and security checks. The security checks are conducted with the participation of the local Port Authorities. permission of the Port Authorities, pursuant to the terms laid down in the approved Port Facility Security Plan, which is based 1,682 ships berthed at the quays of our port facilities in 2016. 10. Safeguarding workforce health The health of our workers is a key area of care and concern. Therefore, the personnel at the refinery and the facilities undergo regular check-ups, while all Group employees are covered by group hospital care programs. The refinery provides full coverage to personnel and • The quality of drinking water is tested through regular infrastructures for the provision of medical services and first analysis by independent laboratories. aid, which includes: • The restaurant staff undergo regular medical checks in • Central Medical Centre staffed by 2 physicians and nursing accordance with the requirements of the law. staff, provided with the necessary hospital equipment and 3 • Measurements are taken to establish levels of concentration defibrillators to deal with emergencies. of chemicals in the workplace, in line with the requirements • Pharmacy. of the relevant legislation. In 2009, the company conducted • Fully equipped first-aid station at the Alkylation Unit, with a special study that demonstrated that the concentrations nurse on 24-hour call. of all chemical substances were below the limit values for • Three fully equipped first aid stations (at the Central Control exposure. A new study was conducted in 2013 confirming Station, the Chemical Laboratory and the Hydrocracker once again that the levels of chemical substances were way unit). below the limit values. • ECG device, allowing dispatch of data to a specialist cardiology centre for immediate diagnosis and provision of At the head offices there is a fully equipped clinic, staffed by a instructions. general practitioner and a cardiologist, capable of responding • Three fully-equipped ambulances. to serious incidents, managing chronic conditions, offering advice and information on health issues, organizing seminars, In addition: blood donation and preventive check-ups, and supporting the • Rescue crews (Safety personnel) are also trained in rescue clinics of the other companies in the Group. practices and in first aid provision. • Employees are supplied with the necessary personal Finally, company doctors and arrangements for general medical protective equipment, which is always kept up to date, in procedures and screening examinations are also in place for line with technological advances and changes in European the benefit of all subsidiary companies of the Group (AVIN specifications. OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, OFC and LPC). 11. Training on safety issues The continuous training of our employees, their briefing and the creation of a high level of safety awareness, together with the technical and organisational measures, form the essential pillars for accident prevention and the maintenance of a safe work environment. Our commitment is to train the workforce on safety issues regarding the entire spectrum of their work, in order to increase productivity and reduce risks and the frequency of accidents. We also see that our contractors’ employees are kept aware of safety instructions in the form of a special leaflet, while a special health and safety issues, with the emphasis on general principles briefing film is screened for them on entry to the refinery facilities. of accident prevention and the company’s procedures ensuring safe execution of the work they undertake. Visitors are given The general content of health and safety training includes the 46 3. Health and Safety following subjects: • Material Safety Data Sheets. • Fire safety use of fire extinguishing means. • Emergency response procedures and participation in relevant drills. • Work Permits. • First-aid. • Work in confined spaces. • Presentations analyses of Major Technological Accidents. • Identification of occupational hazards and risk evaluation. • Safe road transport of fuels (for the Group’s commercial • Personal Protective Equipment. companies). Figures for health and safety training in 2016 MOTOR OIL Other companies in Group1 Total Workforce 1,190 732 Workers undergoing training 810 445 Man-hours of training 11,132 2,967 Contractors undergoing training 2,872 768 Man-hours of training 22,976 4,761 1. AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, OFC and LPC. Safety Day 2016 We achieve the Zero Goal because we care In recent years, the Safety Day has been organised on an annual basis in the Group. In 2016, the Safety Day took place on the 13th of April with the subject We achieve the Zero Goal because we care . The Safety Day is organised simultaneously throughout the Group, in all the companies, the refinery, offices, facilities and service stations, and the workers and associate contractors dedicate more than an hour from their work to participate in scheduled meetings. In 2016 there were more than 160 meetings throughout the Group with the participation of more than 2,000 workers and associates. Videos and slides are presented during the meetings on the subjects of Safety for People, Safety of Procedures and Road Safety. A discussion follows about how each individual, taking steps to protect the people around him or her, can contribute towards the Zero Goal, for Zero Accidents and Zero Lost Time. As a result, the participants show great interest and make personal safety-based commitments. These days have the broad support and the participation of the Group's leadership, and they play an important role in forming a uniform culture regarding the importance of Safety. Workforce training experienced trainers from EMAK. Moreover, the structured In order to raise safety awareness among personnel, safety efforts to educate the technical staff of our facilities were messages and posters, the results of accident and near-miss continued through films and presentations/discussions on investigations, etc., are displayed on 13 Health and Safety notice incidents, analyzing causes, effects and the corrective measures boards, reserved for this purpose, and located throughout the taken. refinery site. Briefing for Contractors' employees In 2016 the refinery personnel was trained on the risks of In 2016, in the context of upgrading the training of the radiographic works and the new procedure, on the risks from contractors' workers employed in the refinery, it was decided chemical substances and the necessary Personal Protection to provide training to the entire workforce of the contractors Gear, on protection methods from fall and on rescue in the (2,872 persons) on security issues by an independent field. specialised agency. The training offered was detailed and covered key safety issues, and subjects based on optimum Fire safety drills also continued to take place, as in every year, international practices by trainers with long experience in the and were carried out by the immediate intervention teams refinery sector. At the end of the training the participants sat made up of refinery training staff. The rescue teams were for examinations, and only those who successfully completed jointly trained 2 times at the First Search and Rescue Team the course could now receive an entrance card for working (EMAK) facilities in techniques for rescue from a height in an at the refinery. industrial environment and 2 drills of injured person rescue were carried out at the refinery with the participation of 47 Training in Fire Safety In order to improve the readiness of refinery personnel to respond to emergency situations, as well as to rehearse the procedures of the Emergency Response Plan and check the operability of equipment, regular emergency preparedness exercises are carried out. In 2016 the programme in question involved 11 training sessions on the drill field and 41 drills, 19 of which were based on Major Accident scenarios. The pre-scheduled drills took place in various areas of the refinery and the fire crew training field, involving rehearsal of fire crews in the theoretical and practical aspects of their duties, and their familiarisation with fire-fighting equipment and related Personal Protective Equipment. Theoretical drills were also organized in the section control rooms (for all shifts) in the presence of the personnel of each area and the fire safety crews. The refinery engineers also participated in the fire safety drills to receive further training in the handling of scenarios of this kind. In addition, in 2016: • All shift-workers passed the annual training in the use of Respiratory Protective Equipment. • Training of the rescue team continued. • Training sessions were held to maintain training levels for fire engine drivers and reserve drivers, familiarizing them with access to various areas and the equipment in new units. • There were training sessions for new crew leaders, as well as all the new drivers, to familiarize them with the fire engines and their movement around the refinery. Road safety tests and certification from external accreditation agencies Road safety is a priority for the Group’s commercial companies, under the standards ISO 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 which every day transport more than 7,500,000 litres of liquid (Environmental Protection) and OHSAS 18001 (Health and Safety fuel and 450 metric tons of gas across Greece and the Balkans. Management). On an annual basis, they travel more than 24 million kilometres delivering fuel in Greece and abroad without accident or injury to The road tankers undergo a thorough annual safety check in drivers or others, demonstrating in practice our commitment and accordance with the «Regulations on Safety of Loading of Tankers dedication to road safety, and our contribution to the common with Liquid Fuels at Petroleum Facilities». This check extends good. In 2016, more than 330 drivers of private and public use to the full compliance with the terms included in the European tank trucks received training in their special skill areas. Agreement concerning the Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR). Fuels fall under a category of hazardous materials and their safe transport requires precautionary measures to be taken at three To comply with the ADR agreement, in 2016 all Group levels, i.e.: companies prepared the transportation security plan, describing • The maintenance of a high technical standard of transport the procedures followed in case of any threat to the transport equipment. i.e. road tankers. equipment or the hazardous cargo (terrorist attack, theft, etc.). • The promulgation of strict safety procedures and the constant monitoring of their implementation. There is also an ongoing training programme focusing on • Ongoing training of our own tanker drivers and drivers of the defensive and safe driving, loading/unloading procedures and fuel transport companies working with us. handling, anti-skid and anti-roll over manoeuvres, fuel chemistry, handling of customer complaints, vehicle safety equipment, fume The Group’s commercial companies, carrying out their activities recovery, security, etc. with a keen sense of responsibility, are continually engaged in striving to meet the above requirements, in the context of the In recent years the programme has also incorporated a detailed rules laid down by the state, the Greek and global petroleum analysis of the routes taken by our tanker drivers, so that the industry, and their own company policies and procedures. To safest route is always taken for each journey. GPS tracking devices succeed in this objective they operate integrated systems for have also been fitted to road tankers to allow closer monitoring recording and monitoring of road tankers carrying fuel on their of driver behaviour (speed, route taken, stops etc.). behalf (company-owned or belonging to partner companies), as well as training programmes for drivers, while also undergoing 4. Responsibility for the Environment We use best available techniques and state-of-the-art anti-pollution technology Protection of the environment and energy-saving are among our primary concerns. Respect and care for the environment is a common part of general equipment maintenance, we completed denominator in all activities of the MOTOR OIL projects to reduce energy consumption and emissions. Group. We operate competitively but, at the same time, as a responsible corporate organisation we Our commitment to continuing to decrease our espouse the principles of sustainable development; environmental footprint, as can be seen in the that is, development which is based on environmental diagrams of the related indicators, remains steady and protection, mutual respect and responsibility towards unchallenged. Though 2016 was not a typical year due future generations. to the regular maintenance of the refinery, there was a drop in the specific value of energy consumption while For these reasons, we continue with investments the corresponding indicators for CO2 emissions, sulphur aimed at the steady improvement of our environmental dioxide and water consumption were the same as in 2015. performance. In 2016, we spent 24 million euros in our investment programme, featuring both large and smaller Finally, as part of ongoing improvement and review of the scale projects, making a direct or indirect contribution environmental management system, as certified under to environmental protection. the ISO 14001 standard, in 2016, three communication procedures and five operational processes were Also in 2016, we made further investments to upgrade reviewed, and the annual Environmental Statement 2016 and replace furnaces with the goal of further enhancing was issued in accordance with Regulation EMAS III ER our energy savings. We expanded our application of 1221/2009. the Advanced Process Control (APC) system to the vacuum distillation units, while APC was also applied to The indicators and texts contained in this chapter pertain the alkylation unit with the aim of ensuring consistent only to the MOTOR OIL refinery, except subchapters 3 product quality, efficiency and safety. In addition, as and 8, which include all of the Group's companies. 24 million euros in investments and operating expenses for the environment 50 4. Responsibility for the Environment 1. Environmental Management Our facilities operate in full compliance with the terms and conditions of our environmental licensing and with the requirements of Greek and European legislation. The implementation of projects and actions is based on the best available techniques and methods with the aim of constantly optimising the energy efficiency and environmental performance of our facilities. Selection of the most efficient means and measures to reduce Protection Policy, which is enhanced by the application of environmental impact covers the entire spectrum of our an effective environmental management system that has activities; from the selection of technologies when building been certified as compliant with the ISO 14001 standard. The new processing units, to the practices applied during the systematic monitoring and measurement of environmental refinery’s daily operation, and from the use of advanced indicators, the application of standard methods of measurement control systems in our facilities to the training provided to and analysis of controlled parameters, and ongoing monitoring employees working in them. and recording of operational parameters in combination with monthly reviews of environmental performance, all help to Environmental Management System identify activities that require intervention and improvement. The focal commitment of the company to the minimisation Thus, the principle of prevention is successfully implemented of the environmental impact resulting from its operation is and resources are allocated so as to achieve the maximum expressed through our Health, Safety and Environmental possible environmental benefit. Environmental Management System Health, Safety and Environmental Policy Planning • Environmental aspects Continuous • Legal and other Improvement requirements • Purposes and goals • Environmental program ISO 14001:2004 EMAS III ER 1221/2008 Implementation and operation • Structure and responsibilities Management • Education – awareness raising Review • Communication • Improvement Proposals • Documentation • Implementation • Document inspection commitment Control • Operational control • Monitoring and • Emergency response measuring • Non-compliance • Corrective and preventive action • Records • Inspections Environmental Objectives legislative requirements. The Environmental Management System is an effective • Operating the refinery facilities in accordance with approved management tool for implementing the various environmental environmental conditions. protection policy objectives, which are: • Distributing products that comply with the European quality • Complying fully with all Greek and EU environmental protection and environmental protection norms, by taking steps to 51 upgrade production facilities accordingly. OIL issued its BV certified Environmental Statement 2015, its tenth • Planning and implementing projects with minimised such annual report. environmental impacts. • Implementing Best Available Techniques. It should be noted that, in the oil refining sector, the triple • Monitoring and continually minimising the emissions of combination of certified compliance with ISO 14001:2004 and greenhouse gases, as well as those of other gas pollutants, EMAS, in respect of environmental performance, and ISO and reducing solid and liquid waste as far as technically and 9001:2008 in respect of quality management, is particularly economically feasible. significant and provides advantages at many levels. Such a multiple • Monitoring and, as far as possible, minimising, the consumption certification is unusual among European refineries with such high of energy. complexity as MOTOR OIL’s. • Pre-empting risks of environmental pollution, reducing the probability of environmental accidents, and preparing, The refinery facilities, which include the principal and auxiliary implementing and testing the appropriate emergency units, operate under the terms and conditions described in intervention procedures. detail in the Decision Approving Environmental Conditions • Training of, and awareness-raising among, all our personnel for the refinery's operation. This decision is governed by the and contractors’ employees who work on our premises, on regulations contained in Directive 2010/75/EU on Integrated the implementation of our environmental protection policy. Pollution Prevention and Control and mandates the application • Evaluating our environmental performance and continuously of Best Available Techniques to achieve significant reduction in improving our Environmental Management System. pollutant emissions in air, water and land. The refinery facilities • Developing communication and dialogue with all stakeholders, fall under Directive 2003/87/EU, which establishes a greenhouse especially with local communities in areas around the company’s gas emission allowance trading scheme within the European facilities. Community in order to promote the efficient and cost-effective reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The company’s Environmental Management System was first ISOcertified in 2000, according to ISO 14001:1996. This was followed In 2016, as part of efforts to secure the ongoing evolution and by re-certifications and in 2008, certification was expanded to improvement of the Environmental Management System, three include the production, trade and delivery of fuels, biofuels, communication procedures and five operating processes were basic lubricants, paraffins, asphalt, sulphur and special petroleum reviewed. products. The Environmental Management System is part of the Integrated Management System, which is ISO 9001:2008 Compliance with Environmental Legislation certified for quality. Therefore, the various internal operations A key element of MOTOR OIL's environmental policy, which is and procedures of the Environmental Management System are applied to all company activities, is to comply with environmental themselves subject to the strict documentation imposed by the legislation. standard. Our commitment to rigorous adherence to Greek and European Our commitment to publish our environmental performance legislation is reflected in our environmental performance figures and the impact of the operations at our facilities, as indicators, which are reported to the competent authorities and explicitly set out in our Policy on the Environment, led to the stakeholders. voluntary adoption and implementation of the Community Eco-Management and Audit Scheme ΕΜAS ΙΙΙ, provided for by Prior-period reports are submitted to competent authorities European Regulation 1221:2009. annually, outlining: • Emissions and plan for monitoring carbon dioxide emissions. The environmental management system ensures the • Quantities and type of produced solid waste and its implementation of suitable procedures to identify and management. evaluate material environmental impacts of our activities, and • Quantity and quality of liquid waste. forms the basis for drawing up strategies and implementing • Results of monitoring and recording environmental quality. technically feasible and financially viable programs to protect • Emissions from main combustion plants. the environment. Additionally, within the framework of EMAS, • Annual final report for the European Pollutant Release and the company is committed to publishing, on an annual basis, Transfer Register (EPRTR), in implementation of Regulation information about its environmental performance in the form of 166/2006/ΕC. an Environmental Statement, as required by its membership to • Quantities of waste produced on ships and offloaded at the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme System, an arrangement MOTOR OIL's port facilities. that has to be endorsed annually by decision of the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change. In 2016, MOTOR 52 4. Responsibility for the Environment Also submitted are: and responding to any complaints they may have. Recording, • The annual Environmental Statement in accordance with investigation and evaluation of complaints from local people are the requirements of EMAS ER 1221/2009. The company is all covered by a specific procedure to ensure the appropriate registered with the European Eco-Management and Audit immediate or long-term corrective action is taken, in line with Scheme (EMAS), and in the corresponding Hellenic Register, the causes of the nuisance. under number EL 000067. The fact that in recent years the number of complaints from Refinery Communication with Local Stakeholders the local community has been kept at low levels demonstrates MOTOR OIL uses various means of keeping Local Authorities the efficacy of the aforesaid measures. Specifically for 2016, and other stakeholders informed of its activities, either by we received 21 complaints by neighbours, with five of them involving its own staff in conferences and meetings, or keeping concerning nuisance from emissions, ten from noise and six from local organisations informed about its investment plans and its odours. The increased number of complaints over 2015, mainly programmes relating to environmental protection. with regard to noise, arose from a period when operations at the refinery were suspended for maintenance and upgrading of the Besides briefing Local Authorities, the company also maintains equipment during June-July 2016. open communication lines with refinery neighbours, listening 2. Environmental Impact Management MOTOR OIL, in striving to continuously improve its environmental performance, over and above consistent legal compliance, implements a programme of measures for the prevention and management of the environmental impacts that are unavoidably associated with its operations. An important tool in this endeavour is the measurement, regular evaluation of results, and the systematic assessment Environmental Impact Evaluation Criteria of the environmental impacts at all stages of the production YES process. This assessment is based on a set of criteria -including Existence of Legislative legislative requirements and stakeholder views, which lead to the Requirement classification of impacts according to their significance and their YES Existence of Objective/Goal characterisation as significant or non-significant. This classification NON-SIGNIFICANT IMPACT procedure is also carried out whenever there are any changes YES Existence of Objection SIGNIFICANT IMPACT to the refinery’s configuration, re-evaluating the classification and YES characterisation of the impacts. Existence of 3 Complaints/Year YES This procedure for classifying the environmental impacts VALID Stakeholders' views associated with the refinery’s operation, and their significance YES classification, has led to the following impacts being classified as Indirect significant, therefore constituting the challenges we are called NO upon to manage: Involving non-normal conditions NO • Gas emissions from fixed combustion sources and from the • Accident refinery’s production processes. • Emergecy • Energy and water consumption. high LOW Severity of Impact • Hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste. • Liquid industrial effluents and urban liquid waste. high LOW Frequency of Occurrence • Noise. The above environmental impacts are recorded on a regular basis, and suitable environmental indices are used for their monitoring, When new projects are being planned, alternative designs are on the basis of which the appropriate actions are planned and evaluated, taking into account their respective environmental implemented so as to ensure that proper measures are taken, and impacts, with the aim of minimising these impacts as far as that there is effective management and continuous improvement practicable, incorporating Best Available Techniques and choosing of the company’s environmental performance. the most environmentally friendly solution. 53 3. Environmental Investments and Expenses The company’s investment policy is oriented towards producing products that comply with European quality specifications, using technologies that minimise environmental impacts, and towards capital investments aiming at improving and enhancing the refinery’s environmental performance. Between 2000 and 2016, the Group realised an investment 2000 to 2016 investment related to the environment amounted programme totalling 1,563 million euros (as shown in the to 791.5 million euros, i.e. 50% of total investment. In 2016, relevant table), the major part of which related to the total investments amounted to 86.4 million euros, of which construction of the new Crude Distillation Unit, as well as 24 million euros concerned projects, whose main purpose was the Hydrocracker Complex, which produces clean fuels. From the improvement and protection of the environment. ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS AND OPERATING EXPENSES 2000-2016 (million euros) 2000Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 total 2009 Total level of investments 1,043.1 123.2 71.3 67.6 68.7 60.7 42.4 86.4 1,563.4 Investments relating to environment 591.1 33.0 36.1 16.4 18.7 11.0 8.4 18.9 733.6 Environmental operating expenses 26.7 4.6 4.0 3.3 4.0 4.5 5.7 5.1 57.9 Total environmental investments 617.8 37.6 40.1 19.7 22.7 15.5 14.1 24.0 791.5 and operating expenses In 2016, the application of the Advanced Process Control of the old furnaces has a direct impact on reduction (APC) system was expanded to cover the vacuum distillation of atmospheric emissions (because of the improved units, while the application of APC to the alkylation unit is combustion process and reduction in use of fuel). The currently under way, with the aim of ensuring optimal control burners in the new furnace are low NΟx burners, which and ongoing automated regulation of their operation. There helps reduce the quantity of NΟx emitted in the furnace are multiple benefits from the operation of the new system, fumes. in terms of both process and environmental safety, due to the significant savings of energy and the consequent reduction of the carbon footprint in the production process. Finally, the design phase is still in progress for the upgrade of 791.5 million euros in environmental investments the vacuum distillation units by replacing the 3 old furnaces with 2 new, technologically advanced and more efficient ones, and operating which will have a shared system that heats the combustion expenses from air, thus increasing the thermal performance. Regarding the 2000 to 2016 above project, it is important to note that it is a modernisation project, with significant environmental benefits, including: Within the Group there is no production of renewable sources • Optimisation of Energy Efficiency of energy, and thus there was no investment in this area. The thermal efficiency of the new furnace is as high as 91%, making an important contribution to optimizing energy efficiency. • Energy-Saving The new furnaces incorporate forced draft technology, and use less energy than the older furnaces. • Reduction in Point Emissions of Pollutants The enhanced energy efficiency achieved by replacement 54 4. Responsibility for the Environment 4. Best Available Techniques Best Available Techniques (BAT) are techniques that can prevent (primary prevention measures that are intrinsic to the production process itself), or control (secondary measures or “end-of-pipe” techniques) in the most efficient manner the pollution caused by an industrial activity, while being economically feasible and technically practicable. Best Available Techniques per sector are described in the corresponding Reference Documents (BREFs). The revised conclusions of the BREFs for refineries were issued in October 2014. The new Directive 2010/75 (on industrial emissions) aims at In order to minimise environmental impacts, MOTOR OIL the integrated prevention and control of pollution that can be incorporates the aforesaid BATs either into the original plans for caused by industrial activities, and the assurance of a high level of a unit, or in cases of modernisation, expansion or modification protection of the environment and links the legislated limit values of existing units and processes. At the same time, the company of industrial emissions with the levels that are ensured with the incorporates automations and control systems into the operation use of the Best Available Techniques. The integrated approach of the refinery, that contribute to efficient management of raw is based on the overall environmental performance of a facility materials and energy, while ensuring high levels of reliability and and covers emissions into the atmosphere, water and subsoil safety in the units. Finally, Best Available Techniques that reinforce contamination, generation of solid wastes, use of raw materials pollution prevention have been adopted, and are applied in and energy, noise, accident prevention and the rehabilitation of the refinery’s daily operations. Some typical examples of BAT worksites. applications in the refinery are shown in the following table. Α. Energy System Furnaces, Boilers, Gas Turbines 1. Use of efficient energy generation techniques, e.g. generating energy by gas turbines, combined-cycle facilities, efficient operation of boilers and furnaces 2. Increasing the energy efficiency of the refinery by: • Upgrading of furnaces and boilers. • Use of optimal combustion programmes. • Balancing generation and consumption of energy using automated control systems. • Optimal use of steam in the stripping process and use of steam traps. • Promotion of energy integration in production processes, through analysis of optimal energy use. • Promotion of heat and energy recovery at the refinery. • Use of heat recovery boilers to reduce use of fuel in generation of steam. 3. Use of refinery clean gas fuel, and, if a supplementary supply of energy is required it can be achieved through the use of liquid fuel in combination with techniques to control pollution, or use of gas fuels (natural gas, LPG), for example: • Optimisation of the use of refinery gas fuel, or natural gas (with low sulphur content). • Balancing and control of the system for generation of refinery gas fuel. • Increasing use of gas fuels with higher ratio of hydrogen to carbon. • Use of good combustion techniques. • Reduction in fuel consumption through the introduction of forced-draft furnaces (increased energy efficiency). 4. Control of ΝOx emissions • Introduction of Low-ΝOx burners. • Use of high thermal efficiency techniques, with optimal control systems. 5. Control of particle emissions • Use of steam injection techniques. 55 • Use of a catalyst which will resist wear caused by friction in the catalytic pyrolysis unit. • Use of fuels with low sulphur content. 6. Limiting emissions through continuous monitoring of the sulphur content in fuel Β. Management and Automated Control Systems • The company has installed a distributed control system DCS to oversee its production process. The DCS system makes a significant contribution to reducing the environmental impact of the production process, through automation of the process and optimised monitoring of operating parameters. • Application of Management Systems for quality, the environment, health and safety (ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS18001). • Use of Advanced Process Control systems to minimise operation fluctuations and decrease energy requirements. C. Anti-Pollution Tehnology Units • Units to treat gases with amine in order to remove hydrogen sulphide. • Sulphur recovery units, with an efficiency level of ≥99.9%. • Sour water stripping units with an efficiency level of ≥99.9% in respect of hydrogen sulphide. • Organic treatment unit for liquid industrial waste. • Activated sludge sewage treatment unit. • Contaminated soil bioremediation unit. • Sludge de-oiling/de-watering units, in which the volume of sludge is significantly reduced. • Electrostatic filter at the Fluid Catalytic Cracking unit. • Vapour recovery system at the Truck Loading Terminal. • Availability of emergency systems for maintenance work and response to system disruption (load-shedding systems, emergency amine systems, multiple wash down systems). D. Ancillary Facilities • Desalination of water using reverse osmosis technology, using less sea water and feeding the units with recycling of cooling water. • Power and steam cogeneration plant. • Recycling of cooling water. • Partial use of cooling tower with desalinated water aiming at decreasing the use of sea water. Ε. Prevention and Monitoring Measures • Limiting fugitive emissions from various sources (oil separators, unit equipment, tanks, piping, etc.) by placing second-tier seals on floating-roof tanks, using special valves (low-leaking) and double-seal pumps, implementation of international construction and piping codes, and so on. • Implementation of leak detection and repair programme (LDAR) to detect and respond to fugitive emissions and volatile organic compounds from all kinds of equipment. • Automated tank cleaning method. • Heat exchanger maintenance and cleaning programme. • Equipment inspection programme. • Atmospheric emission monitoring programme, through use of automated, highly accurate analysing devices, as well as model laboratory methods. • Liquid waste monitoring programme, using model laboratory methods. • Use of techniques to reduce production of wastes at source. • Reduction in volume of solid wastes and recovery or regeneration of catalysts. • Solid waste management using specialist companies. • Recycling of solid waste where possible. 56 4. Responsibility for the Environment 5. Energy Efficiency Rational use of energy – as well as other scarce resources, like water – is for us an important parameter in our exercise of responsible business activities and our commitment to the principles of sustainable growth. Thus: that contribute to the reduction of emissions. • Measuring and improving, on a continuous basis, our • Cooperating with the competent state authorities and other performance with respect to the use of energy and the stakeholders in planning and implementing technologically reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. feasible and financially viable environmental protection policies. • Investing in the application of economically feasible technologies • Reporting our actions and results to all stakeholders. 5.1. Energy Efficiency Impovement The process of refining crude oil into final products is highly energy-consuming. Requirements for energy (i.e. electric power, fuel oil, fuel gas and natural gas) are such that its rational use is of paramount importance, both for the environment and for the company’s economic results. The refinery’s “energy footprint”, therefore, is an important consideration that leads us actively to seek to identify areas where there is potential for enhancing energy efficiency, and to implement appropriate projects through the use of Best Available Techniques or equivalent technologies. The refinery has designed and is gradually implementing an investment programme aimed at improving energy efficiency, Energy Consumption primarily in the older units which were less energy-efficient 30,825 due to their design. Thus, in 2012, one additional power-steam 27,848 26,912 27,139 28,774 27,298 cogenerator was installed to minimise boiler use; in 2014, the thermal pyrolysis furnace was replaced; and in 2016, the air preheating furnace of the Crude Distillation Unit was replaced, while additional heat recovery exchangers were installed in the 2.79 Thermal Pyrolysis Unit. Also in 2016, the project to upgrade the furnaces at the Lubricant Vacuum Distillation Unit began 2.50 2.49 and is expected to demonstrate initial positive results in 2017, 2.46 while the upgrade of the furnace in the Lubricant Extraction 2.37 2.26 Unit has also been planned; the application of the Advanced Process Control system has been extended to the Lubricant Vacuum Distillation units and is under way in the Alkylation Unit. In the past, APC systems had been installed in almost all 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 production units, and this year marks the ninth since natural Energy Consumption (TJ) Specific Energy Consumption gas was introduced. (TJ/thousand MT of raw materials) As part of optimising operations, in 2016 an extensive Energy consumption and overall performance of the facilities maintenance programme was undertaken whereby almost all are systematically monitored, while the energy management combustion facilities were repaired and generators maintained, system is expected to receive ISO-50001 certification in 2017. while catalysts in the Hydrocracker, Diesel Desulphurisation It is noted that energy consumption for 2016 in absolute and Hydrogen Production units were replaced. The catalyst in numbers showed a drop; however, this is not representative the Claus flue gas processing unit in particular was upgraded, since the extensive maintenance programme at the refinery achieving a reduction in energy consumption. In addition, a meant energy-consuming units were out of operation. number of projects to restore and optimise the steam and Moreover, per-unit energy consumption showed a slight condensate network have been implemented and have already decrease and amounted to 2.26 TJ, which was 10% less than shown positive results in heat and water recovery. 2015. Our long-standing commitment to continue to reduce energy consumption is depicted in the diagram below showing the decrease in specific energy consumption over time. 57 Use of Natural Gas Upgrading of Preheatig Furnaces and Boilers Introducing the use of natural gas to the refinery in 2008 was The upgrading of the furnaces is intended to ensure more effective use an important step towards reducing its energy footprint, while of the heat from the exhaust fumes, thereby reducing consumption also improving financial and environmental results, given that of fuel, CO2 emissions and emissions of other atmospheric pollutants. the use of natural gas usually reduces CO 2 emissions and A rolling programme is under way to upgrade the refinery furnaces, is for the most part the economically most efficient way of introducing forced draft technology – which increases the efficiency generating electricity and producing hydrogen. Natural gas of a furnace by more than 6% – and replacing the existing boilers is used: with new, more energy-efficient boilers emitting fewer NOx. For • As an alternative raw material for the hydrogen production example, upgrading of the crude oil preheating furnace (the refinery’s unit (instead of naphtha or LPG), which allows the quantities largest) at the Crude Distillation Unit in 2007 resulted in an increase of carbon dioxide emitted to be reduced by approximately in thermal efficiency from 80% to 87%. In 2014, with the completion 8% and 19%, respectively. of upgrading of the Visbreaker unit, a new improved-efficiency pre• As an alternative fuel for the Power Cogeneration Plant gas heating furnace was installed, allowing a saving of up to 30% in fuel turbines, instead of either fuel gas or propane, achieving a use compared with previous years. Moreover, the project to replace reduction of carbon dioxide emissions by as much as 16%. the furnaces of the vacuum distillation unit got under way in 2016, • As an alternative or supplementary fuel for the refinery’s with initial results of the anticipated decrease in fuel consumption pre-heat furnaces and steam boilers, thus both increasing expected soon. energy efficiency and significantly reducing emissions of air pollutants. Recovery of Gases and Condensates The recovery of condensates, which are then used in the steam Power and Steam Cogeneration Plant boilers to produce steam, was maintained at high levels. Using The Cogeneration Plant now includes five gas turbines, with a the energy content of the condensates means reducing the gas total active power of 85MW, and three boilers recovering heat and liquid fuel required to generate steam in the steam boilers. from the exhaust fumes generated. These boilers generate about Continuous care is also taken to maximise recovery of gases, so 140 tons of high and low pressure steam per hour, making the that they can be used as fuel and their combustion in the flare is refinery self-sufficient in electricity – as it eliminates the need minimised. to draw power from the Public Power Corporation grid – and meeting most of its need for steam. Desalination Desalination of seawater using reverse osmosis technology The operation of the Plant also contributes to the reduction of is the most energy-efficient method. Extensive use is made of greenhouse gas emissions at a national level by drastically reducing this technique, with four units in operation. The potential for electricity consumption from the national grid, the production of increasing production with a new unit or making improvements which would require a different fuel mix. Moreover, heat recovery to existing ones is also being explored as a means of completely and steam generation at the refinery reduce the use of boilers. doing away with the use of thermal units to produce water. The resulting benefit for the environment in terms of lower CO2 emissions due to own generation of electricity is indicated in the following table: In addition, the Power Management System (Best Available Technique), which was upgraded in 2011, protects the refinery from partial or complete shutdown owing to a failure of the internal or external power network, significantly increasing the level of safety and reliability, thereby improving environmental efficiency. Avoiding CO2 emissions (tons) by cogeneration of electricity and steam 2013 336,000 2014 332,000 2015 310,000 2016 328,000 58 4. Responsibility for the Environment Monitoring and daily Practice With the same aim, the refinery’s preventive maintenance The energy performance of production units is constantly programme provides for: monitored, so as to correct any malfunctions that come to light. • The systematic re-tubing, repair and cleaning of heat exchangers The Advanced Process Control system, through continuous and air coolers in order to maximise heat recovery and reduce monitoring, achieves the optimisation of energy use in the units consumption. where it has been installed. The APC system is fully operational • Replacing, through annual programmes, of pipeline and for the crude distillation units, the vacuum distillation units, the equipment insulation, thus minimizing losses to the hydrocracker and hydrogen production units and the diesel environment. hydrodesulphurisation units, making a significant contribution • The maintenance and/or replacement of rotating equipment, to optimizing operations and providing direct control of their whose energy performance has fallen below specified levels, as most important operational parameters. Automated sulphur and a result of length of use. distillation analysers have also been installed and are used by • Repairing and/or replacing of the refractory material, burners the APC to accurately adjust the processes and minimise energy and tubes of pre-heat furnaces. consumption. 5.2. CO2 Emissions 2016 was the fourth year of implementation of the new system for monitoring emissions of greenhouse gases for the period 20132020. Apart from the need to reduce CO2 emissions, this phase of application will also be subject to rigorous specifications relating to accuracy of measurements and assessment of their relative uncertainty. In order to comply with these requirements, MOTOR OIL: • Uses the appropriate methodology to monitor CO2 emissions CO2 Emissions 2,216 2,164 from its facilities, the methodology resting on methods of 2,111 calculation based on flow analysis measurements and analyses 1,945 1,965 1,968 of fuel quality. In 2016, the emissions monitoring plan was revised as part of ongoing improvements in monitoring and calculating CO2 emissions. • Calculates at the refinery chemistry laboratory – certified to ΕΝ 17025:2005 standards – the quantity of carbon contained in the refinery gas fuel using the gas chromatography method. 0.195 • Submits to the competent ministry annual reports on CO2 emissions, which are verified as to their reliability and validity 0.183 0.178 0.178 0.179 by a certified external agency. 0.174 Total CO2 emissions for 2016 were 2,164 thousand tons. Also in 2016, a drop in total emissions was noted, due to suspended 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 operation of units undergoing maintenance, while the specific Annual Emissions (thousand ΜΤ) Specific Annual Emissions (ΜΤ CO2 per ΜΤ of raw material) amount was at about the same levels at previous years. 6. Air Quality Management It is a fundamental duty of our company to assure air quality at and around our refinery. The achievement of ongoing improvement in this area is not just a response to legal requirements; it is also due to our commitment to the principles of Corporate Responsibility, according to which we regard air quality as a material issue. 59 • Furnaces CO2, NOX, SO2 Suspended particles. Gaseous • Boilers – Burners emissions from point sources of combustion. • Gas Wash down Unit SO2, H2S • Sulphur Recovery Units (Catalytic conversion Hydrogen sulphide emissions are minimal, of hydrogen sulphide into sulphur, followed due to their full conversion into solid sulphur. by combustion of residual gases) • Fuel storage VOCS emissions • API oil separators Emissions of volatile organic compounds • Loadingunloading of feedstock and originate from the fuel storage tanks, products from operation of the API oil separators, and • Distribution network leakages from leakages which may occur during intra refinery fuels movement. Emissions Monitoring flow measurement. At the Catalytic Cracking Unit there is To protect and improve air quality, air pollutant emissions are continuous monitoring of the flow, humidity, pressure and monitored using a wide range of techniques; state ofthetemperature of the flue gases, the concentration of oxygen art measurement equipment is employed. The measurement and carbon monoxide, of sulphur dioxide, of nitrogen oxides programme, including continuous as well as intermittent and of suspended particles. readings, covers both point and diffused emission sources. In 2016, the installation of online analysers of emissions In the peripheral zone of the refinery, air quality is monitored (nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and suspended particles) and at four stations: operating parameters (flow, humidity, pressure, temperature, • Three fixed monitoring stations are capable of continuously oxygen) at two power plants was completed. measuring the concentration of hydrogen sulphide (H2S) and sulphur dioxide (SO2). It should be noted that all analysers are connected to the • A mobile station equipped with automated state-of therefinery’s Distributed Control System (DCS), a configuration art measuring and recording devices, which can perform that allows for the complete control of the combustion taking a wide range of measurements, including meteorological place in the furnaces. parameters (wind speed and direction, air temperature and relative humidity), and the concentrations of nitrogen oxides Emissions from the refinery’s other stacks are monitored every (ΝΟ, ΝO 2 and NOx), sulphur dioxide (SO2 ), hydrogen three months by a suitably accredited external organisation. sulphide (H 2S), carbon monoxide (CO), methane, total hydrocarbons, hydrocarbons excluding methane (CH 4, An automated performance control system operates at the NMHC, THC), benzene, and particulate matter PM10. Sulphur Recovery units, which continuously monitors and records H2S concentrations at the entry points, and H 2S and Within the refinery, flue gases from the stacks of the SO 2 concentrations at the exit points of these units. Also, main combustion plants (point emissions) of the Fuels, the H 2 S/SO 2 ratio is continuously measured, recorded Hydrocracking and Lubricants complexes are continuously and adjusted, so as to ensure maximisation of recovery monitored by online analysers, which are certified to performance (which is in the order of >99.5% in the case the EN14181 standard. The parameters monitored are of the new, SCOT-type units). The smooth operation of concentrations of oxygen, temperature, flow and pressure of the afterburners (incinerators) associated with these units is flue gases. As in the case of the main refinery stacks, the main achieved through continuous monitoring of SO2 and Ο 2 at pipelines channelling gases to the flares of the Combustion, the exit points, and of the temperature at the radiant section Lubricants and Hydrocracking units are subject to continuous of the furnaces. Operation of both the Sulphur Recovery 60 4. Responsibility for the Environment units, and the afterburners, is automatically controlled via the • Installation of burners with low NOx emissions, both in refinery’s Distributed Control System (DCS). the design of new furnaces and in the upgrading of old ones, in order to reduce their emissions. In this context, the Clean fuel new furnace of the thermal pyrolysis unit has incorporated Integrated Sulphur Management System burners with low NOx emissions. Refineries face the following challenge: the amount of • Furnace cleaning while in operation, aiming at increasing heat sulphur in the available crude oil types is increasing over induction, saving fuel and decreasing flue gas temperature. time, while the specifications for allowable sulphur content • Installation of closed circuits in the gas processes, relieving in the fuels produced have reached extremely low levels (e.g. pressure of gases by safety valves to the flares, placing of for petrol and automotive diesel, the 2009 specification for second-tier seals on floating-roof tanks, placing of floating sulphur content is a maximum of 10 ppm or the equivalent of tops on the oil separators and installation of a steam 0.001%). Moreover, the maximum acceptable level of sulphur recovery system at the Tanker Loading Terminal, as well emissions is also low, since the content of sulphur dioxide in as measures to reduce emissions of hydrocarbon gases, in the atmosphere around a refinery, on an hourly basis, should tandem with the implementation of the system of bottomnot exceed 350 μg/m³. In this context, the removal of sulphur loading tankers. coming into the refinery with crude oil at a concentration • Installation of steam recovery units for loading of petrol at which in 2016 ranged between 0.5% and 4.0% is a significant all Avin Oil and Coral facilities, as provided for in legislation, challenge. and at all service stations for use in unloading of petrol from tankers to tanks (in accordance with the provisions of MOTOR OIL, as a responsible corporate citizen with respect Directive 94/63 [Stage I]). for the environment, has in place a particularly effective system • Bottom-loading of road tankers. which incorporates Best Available Techniques, in order to achieve the best results, both in terms of maximising the degree of sulphur removal and minimising the amount of energy consumed. In this way, and through the Hydrocracker Complex, MOTOR OIL produces and markets petrol and diesel with a sulphur content below 10 ppm. This results in reduced sulphur emissions from the refinery, while the overall rate of hydrogen sulphide conversion into elemental sulphur in the new SCOTtype Sulphur Recovery units is in the order of 99.95%. Elemental sulphur is initially produced in liquid form, which by cooling and appropriate processing, is converted to a solid granular form, stored in silos for sale as a raw material for the production of sulphuric acid and fertilisers. The whole process is carried out in a completely closed circuit, thus avoiding the dispersing of sulphur particles in the air, and minimising entirely any environmental impacts. Controlling emissions Apart from the measures to control concentrations of airborne pollutants, a range of measures has been taken within the refinery to limit atmospheric pollution, such as: • Installation of an electrostatic filter on the outlet of the Catalytic Pyrolysis unit, intended to reduce emissions of suspended particles from the catalyst. This reduces total emissions of suspended particles to levels far below the permitted limits. • Desulphurisation of gases used as fuel in the refinery before they enter the gas fuel system, reducing emissions of sulphur dioxide. 61 Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) A modern refinery comprises many different types of installed equipment, through which large quantities of raw materials circulate, as well as intermediates and final products. In such a system, it is to be expected that there will be particular points with a higher risk of hydrocarbons being accidentally released into the atmosphere. In order to limit fugitive emissions from the equipment, a programme has been implemented featuring regular controls at selected points (better known as LDAR – Leak Detection and Repair) in order to identify and repair possible leaks. Fugitive emissions may arise from leaks in valves, pumps, flanges and other related equipment installed on pipelines, pressure vessels, reactors or storage tanks. In 2016, 6,171 points were inspected as part of the LDAR programme at the MOTOR OIL refinery, covering all production units, the Truck Loading Terminals, port facilities, storage tanks and oil separators. The various points were checked by refinery staff at least once a year, using portable equipment to measure volatile carbon concentration. In the event that concentrations are found to exceed 5,000 ppm, a repair request for the equipment checked is issued. In 2016, 15,634 checks were carried out, identifying 6 points requiring attention. In numbers As far as air quality during 2016 is concerned, the processing of The diagram below shows total annual emissions of sulphur the recordings at the four air quality monitoring stations, in the dioxide, as well as emissions per ton of raw material. In 2016, context of the emissions monitoring programme, has shown, as there was a decrease in the total emissions and the emitted SO2 in previous years, that air quality in the vicinity of the refinery value per ton of raw material compared to 2015. remains highly satisfactory. Detailed figures for the last five years show that there has been no exceeding of the hourly limit values The reduction in total emissions is due to the refinery's and daily levels permitted by legislation, and the recorded values maintenance schedule which kept some units out of operation are much lower than the limit values allowed. for about a month. The specific SO2 amount was also down due to favourable economic factors that prevailed in the oil refining The following diagrams show the average annual values of the last sector in 2016 which allowed for the use of environmentally seven years for SO2, NO2 and suspended PM10 particles. We note friendly fuels instead of other traditional ones (fuel oil). In general, that in 2016 the average daily concentration of suspended PM10 however, our commitment to achieving ever lower levels of particles exceeded the legal limits for 2 days (28 February and 1 emissions remained constant. March) due to the meteorological conditions prevailing in the area (transfer of dust from Africa). These excesses, as set out by the environmental terms, were declared to the competent authorities. Sulphur Dioxide Emissions 3.4 3.5 3.3 3.2 Average Annual Concentration of SO2 3.0 2.8 140 Daily limit value 120 100 0.31 80 0.28 0.28 0.28 μg/m3 0.27 0.27 60 40 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20 Annual Emissions (thousand MT) Specific Annual Emissions (kg SO2 per ΜΤ of raw material) 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 62 4. Responsibility for the Environment Average Annual Concentration of NO2 Average Annual Concentration of Suspended Particles PM10 250 70 Hourly limit value 60 200 Daily limit value 50 150 40 μg/m3 μg/m3 30 100 20 50 10 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Further related information on control of emissions during 2016 can be found in the Environmental Statement 2016, which presents diagrams relating to all air pollutants. 7. Liquid Waste Management Liquid waste produced by the refinery’s various processes fall into two categories: industrial waste and urban waste. The management and processing of liquid waste is a material The effectiveness of operation of the Industrial Waste Water issue for the company, which incorporates Best Available Treatment Plant is evidenced by the fact that concentrations Techniques, while due to their different pollutant load, the of various pollutant substances at the plant outlet are clearly industrial and urban waste streams undergo different types of below relevant limit values. In the case of some substances processing prior to their final disposal. Industrial liquid waste (including benzene, toluene, ethyl benzene, xylene and a is pre-processed and then taken to the Liquid Industrial Waste number of heavy metals), their concentrations are very much Treatment Plant, while urban waste is removed to the Urban below corresponding limit values, approaching the limits of Waste Treatment Plant. detection in some cases. Supply and concentrations of pollutant parameters at outlet of Liquid Industrial Waste Treatment Plant (average annual values) Average value limit Parameter 2013 2014 2015 2016 value Supply (m3/day) 9,485 9,817 10,070 9,592 pH 7.4 7.5 7.6 7.1 6-9 Temperature (οC) 25.4 25.4 27.5 30.2 35 Oil (mg/l) 2.2 2.5 2.1 1.6 10 BOD5 (mg/l) 24.5 24.5 23.8 24.6 40 COD (mg/l) 104.9 106.0 105.3 106.0 150 NH3 (mg/l) 13.4 13.5 13.4 13.5 15 Phenols (mg/l) 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.5 Sulphurs (mg/l) 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 2 Suspended solids (mg/l) 16.7 17.7 19.0 19.6 40 63 •Monitoring and control of subsoil and aquifer quality, based and hydrocarbons, the results of which were found to meet on hydro-geological studies submitted to the Ministry of the legislative requirements. Environment, Energy and Climate Change, takes place at 10 • Sampling and measurements continued in 2016, to monitor boreholes. According to the approved environmental terms, conditions in the seawater of the coastal area near the refinery. during 2016, two sets of samples were taken at these boreholes The study was conducted by the Geochemistry section of the – one every six monthsin order to determine the value of a Faculty of Geology and Geoenvironment at the University of number of parameters, such as concentrations of heavy metals Athens. 8. Solid Waste Management Recycling Management of the solid waste generated by refinery operations is a material issue for the company. Waste management is based on an integrated process covering all stages in the life cycle of the waste and includes the following methods: processing within the refinery and re-use; recycling outside the refinery; recovery outside the refinery; final disposal outside the refinery. The main aims of the solid waste management programme are: • Reduction of quantities produced, at source, already begun to implement a biopiling method to process • Separation into hazardous and non-hazardous waste at contaminated soils with the installation of a bioremediation source, facility. The Ministry of the Environment and Energy issued • Maximum exploitation prior to final disposal, through a permit for the unit in 2014 and it commenced operation in recycling or re-use or recovery of useful components or 2015. regeneration, and finally, • Safe transportation and final disposal without putting at risk The company, as a solid waste producer, submits an annual human health or the environment. Only licensed companies report to the competent departments of the Ministry of the specializing in the handling of solid waste are used for carrying Environment and Energy which records all types of solid waste out disposal of such waste. Spent catalysts, which, depending arising from its operations and how solid waste is handled, on the particular case may be classified as hazardous solid while identifying the legally-approved recipients. waste, are disposed of in a number of ways (either exported, or regenerated for re-use by specialised firms abroad, or As far as used lubricants and their packaging is concerned, used in cement manufacture). Empty hazardous substance contracts are in place with a firm specialised in used mineral containers are also disposed of by licensed companies. oil recycling and with a firm specialised in handling packaging materials. These two contracts provide for recycling of As part of its integrated solid waste management and in used lubricants and their packaging, thus contributing to accordance with the national hazardous waste management the protection of the environment and the rational use of plan focusing on applying environmental, innovative raw materials. We also collaborate with accredited firms for and economically viable technologies, MOTOR OIL has recycling other categories of solid waste. Recycling solid waste disposal (Mt/year) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Batteries 5.2 4.5 11.1 1.04 5.32 Tyres 7.1 4.0 2.9 0.7 5.0 Lubricants 1 2.2 192.1 27.5 1.4 82.8 Wooden packaging 39.5 88.7 98.4 115.7 130.1 Paper and Paper packaging2, 3 38.3 156.6 171.8 203.0 167.2 Plastic and plastic packaging 44.1 228.2 233.4 214.8 215.7 Metal (scrap) 1,000 1,431 1,597 2,198 2,205 Electrical/electronic equipment 1.2 0.9 5.7 1.9 1.2 Contaminated soil 0 0 0 403.4 567 Contaminated packaging 27.1 20.6 13.8 8.7 16.8 64 4. Responsibility for the Environment Recycling solid waste disposal (Mt/year) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Asbestos-containing materials 13.3 0 0 12.7 17.8 Printer cartridge packaging (units) 2,183 369 825 712 494 Spent catalysts for recycling 44.3 1.133 2,818 2,747 2,129 1. These quantities refer to the refinery alone, since corresponding reliable figures for the AVIN OIL and CORAL retail networks are not available. 2. Recycled and non-chemically bleached paper is being used by all the companies of the Group. 3. Money raised from paper and toner cartridge recycling at the Group Head Office is donated to the “ELPIDA” Foundation. Reprocessing of Raw Materials The various stages of refining create by-products with Recovery of raw materials (Mt) specifications that deviate significantly from the desirable ones, in which case it is necessary to reprocess. The effort made is 2013 87,300 towards the direction of utilising them, as much as possible in 2014 64,700 later stages of refining, in order to minimise the consumption 2015 88,200 of energy and the capacity that is committed for reprocessing. 2016 109,300 The goal is to restrict the overall reprocessing to the crude oil units. The quantities that were reprocessed are presented next: 9. Water Management MOTOR OIL views water resource management as a material issue and has consistently implemented measures to reduce and rationally manage water consumption at its refinery. The water used in the various parts of the refinery originates 100% from sea water processed at desalination units. The desalination Annual Water Consumption is effected using both Multi-Stage Flashing and Reverse Osmosis techniques, the latter being the preferred method from an 0.317 environmental and economic perspective. The refinery’s 0.321 desalination system has 3 MSF units and 4 RO units. This system 0.303 0.304 allows full coverage of the refinery’s water needs, eliminating the 0.289 need to purchase additional fresh water on the open market. 0.285 3,166 3,451 3,355 3,462 3,576 3,658 The steady increase of production at the refinery in recent 3,166 3,455 3,355 3,462 3,576 3,658 years has resulted in a subsequent increase in total water use. Conversely, a downward trend has emerged in the quantity of water consumed per ton of raw materials, which at the end of 0 4 0 0 0 0 2016 amounted to 0.303 m3/ton raw material. This was slightly 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 increased due to the periodic maintenance of units requiring Incoming Water (thousand Μ ) 3 Desalination (thousand Μ3) water but without contributing to production. Total Consumption (thousand Μ3) Specific Water Consumption (Μ3/ΜΤ of raw material) The effort to reduce the quantity of water used per ton of raw material is part of our primary goals and a number of actions and investments have been made in this regard with projects of the acid water flows generated in different phases of the to improve energy efficiency at the refinery (reduced steam production process. About 35% of this water flow is recycled to consumption, operational improvements, etc.). feed the crude oil desalinators, while the rest is channelled to the Industrial Waste Water Treatment Plant, allowing a proportional Re-use and Recycling of Water reduction in consumption of fresh water and in the volume of One of the important processes at the refinery is the processing wastes needing treatment. 65 10. Noise Management MOTOR OIL makes every effort possible to reduce environmental noise levels at the boundaries of the installation, carrying out measurements at regular intervals at set points around the facility and taking a number of measures. Results of measurements for 2016 are set out in the table limits laid down in the environmental operating conditions of below and show that noise levels are lower than the legal the refinery. AVERAGE AVERAGE AVERAGE LEGAL LIMITS MEASUREMENT FOR MEASUREMENT FOR MEASUREMENT FOR (DBA) JANUARY 2016 JULY 2016 OCTOBER 2016 (DBA) (DBA) (DBA) Perimeter of refinery facility 54.5 54.0 55.2 65.0 Southern refinery perimeter 52.7 52.4 52.3 55.0 Particular care is also taken with the new projects being carried placing of sound curtains and the procurement of equipment out at the refinery. In the design of each new project (e.g. with low noise emissions, in order to add as little as possible construction of new tanks, regular unit maintenance) special to the overall noise pollution caused by the refinery. measures are taken, such as the installation of silencers, the 11. Protection of the Marine Environment Due to its location, the operation of MOTOR OIL’s refinery is completely linked with the marine environment. Owing to the extensive impacts of a potential pollution incident, both for the marine ecosystem and the economic and social life of adjacent areas, as well as the tremendous expense that rehabilitation would involve, extensive prior planning and preparation for prevention of, and successfully responding to, such incidents is imperative. It should be noted that no parts of the refinery abut on natural • Is a member of international and regional organisations, habitats or protected areas which might be affected by its whose aim is the prevention and timely response to oil operations. spill incidents (see Participations Collaborations section in chapter 1). In order to comply with these requirements, MOTOR OIL: • Implements all necessary active and passive protection measures to minimise the risk of oil spills during the operation of its refinery. In 2016 not a single leak was reported. • Implements all necessary measures and provides all equipment for the safe sail in and sail out of tankers at its port facilities, as well as for the safe loading/unloading thereof. • Keeps on hand all necessary equipment for response to a small or medium-scale local contamination incident (Τier1/2). It also keeps on hand a stock of oil slick dispersant, which can be used only with the consent of the Port Authorities. • Checks the readiness for implementation of the existing anticontamination plans and maintains a high degree of readiness among staff to use the equipment involved, with an annual programme of drills. It should be noted that the scenario in the above drills involves more general refinery safety issues as well as security issues for the port and vessels. 5. Social Responsibility We stand side by side with the community, offering consistent and long-lasting support. Our standing objective is to follow a course of constant communities, designed to help improve quality of life, growth and creation of value for all stakeholders, protect the environment and foster a healthy social and effectively playing our social role, and increasing our cultural life in local communities and across the country as contribution to society. a whole. In this context, in 2016 we spent 3.7 million euros in projects of social solidarity and various sponsorships. Our sense of responsibility to society is expressed, first and foremost, through our contribution to the general It is one of the Group’s strategic objectives to bring recovery and consolidation of our nation’s economy. It is prosperity to the communities around or in the general of vital importance to us that our activities should benefit area of its refinery and the facilities of its commercial the society in general, by way of direct and indirect job companies through job creation, support for the local creation, fostering local entrepreneurial activity and market, and general social care. purchasing goods and services from the domestic and local suppliers. Finally, according to the supplementary indices of the Oil & Gas Sector, our Group does not operate in areas Moreover, we wish to see all our business activities where there are native populations, or where such interact positively and productively with the social populations might be affected by our activities, nor were environment in which we operate. It is for these reasons there any significant disputes, involuntary movements that the Motor Oil Group implements a program of of personnel or other impacts on local communities or donations and sponsorships, addressed directly to local native populations in 2016. 662.4 million euros for the social product 37million euros in social solidarity projects and sponsorship in the past 10 years 3.7million euros for 2016 68 5. Social Responsibility 1. Economic Benefits to Society Social Product The overall scale of the Group’s operations, combined with its consistent focus on steady growth, result in a very significant contribution to the country’s economic development. This contribution, based on our successful business activities, is made through the generation of value, the creation of jobs and our contribution to the broader social progress. Our operations in the critical energy sector reduce our country’s 18.9% dependence on foreign sources of petroleum products. Moreover, our interaction with stakeholders creates primary 20.0% 11.7% value for their benefit and secondary value too, in that it contributes to the value they in turn generate for the economy and for society as a whole. Allocation of Social 11.8% In 2016, the Group’s total revenues from economic activities amounted to 6,294.5 million euros. Out of these, 4,932.4 million Product 2016 0.6% euros were used to purchase crude oil, other raw materials and Total: 662.4 finished products. This represents 78.4% of revenues, a justifiable million euros amount given the nature of Group activities. 28.2% 8.8% 662.4 million euros Staff: gross remuneration, other fees, insurance contributions (own and Social employer’s) Public sector Shareholders Banks Product Sponsorships/Donations Assurance costs (Health & Safety, Environment, Maintenance, Premiums) Other purchases in 2016 securing operations, including expenditure for Health, Safety and The Social Product is that part of our income allocated to the Environment, insurance of facilities, repairs and preventive selected stakeholders, i.e. the workforce, the state, shareholders, maintenance. banks, suppliers (not including suppliers of crude oil, other raw materials and finished products), as well as society at large Based on the above, the Social Product returned to stakeholders (donations and sponsorships). It also encompasses the cost of in 2016 amounts to 662.4 million euros. social product 2016 (million euroS) TOTAL INCOME REVENUES FROM CUSTOMERS Net Debt TO BE DISTRIBUTED AND OTHER SOURCES Change 6,294.5 6,467.7 (173.2) STAKEHOLDERS STAFF SOCIETY PUBLIC SHAREHOLDERS OTHER bANKS ASSURANCE 5,407.9 Gross remuneration, other fees, insurance Donations Sponsorships SECTOR Dividends PURCHASES Interest Health & Safety, Environment, Taxes and 77.7 186.9 78.2 SUPPLIERS RAW contributions (own 3.7 Duties Maintenance, MATERIALS and employer’s) 125.1 Premiums 4,745.5 132.7 58.1 balance INVESTMENTS FOR DEVELOPMENT, cash HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT 886.7 86.4 800.3 69 Support of local entrepreneurship We have a policy of preferring local businesses when it comes As the largest enterprise and employer in the Prefecture of to supplying the refinery with services, consumables, food, etc. Corinth, MOTOR OIL makes a direct or indirect financial even when there are financially more advantageous offers from contribution to a large number of businesses and families outside the area. In 2016 we spent 16.5 million euros, thereby in the region (approximately 600 refinery employees live in providing further support to the economy of Corinth and the neighbouring municipalities). Moreover, the company supports surrounding region. We further paid roughly 1.1 million euros in local initiatives to encourage entrepreneurship. municipal and property taxes. 2. Customer Service and Respect All the MOTOR OIL Group companies operate having customer service as a top priority. The Group’s long experience in combination with a high level of expertise, and its rigorous insistence on high quality, guarantee comprehensive, integrated service and ongoing development of relations of trust with customers and associates. The Refinery Coral, Avin Oil and Cyclon service stations continued using their MOTOR OIL conducts quantitative and qualitative customer state-of-the-art vans, which travelled around Greece carrying satisfaction surveys covering the full spectrum of its clientèle. This out thorough quantity and quality controls. These are usually aims at establishing an objective view of their level of satisfaction, unannounced and cover all the companies’ retail stations. In 2016, by obtaining feedback about their perception of the quality of 2,300 visits were made to the Group’s retail stations all across services rendered, and their overall impression of its corporate Greece. image. Moreover, the groundbreaking technology of the molecular The basic objectives of these surveys are: marker in all differentiated Shell fuels, and the special Smart Ring • Assessing customer satisfaction. for deliveries of heating oil to homes and diesel to vessels, mean • Evaluating the importance of the entire range of MOTOR OIL’s that customers can feel absolute confidence in Shell fuels, in terms individual services. of quantity and quality. • Determining aspects of current products, services and provisions that require improvement. At the same time, a number of market researches are carried • Determining the criteria applied by those selecting MOTOR OIL out, collecting and evaluating data on levels of service, fuel quality, as a supplier, and assessing their impression of MOTOR OIL’s customer selection criteria, etc. image as a supplier. Our service stations are also subject to inspection by Survey data are evaluated, with a view to building on the unannounced visitors in the Mystery Motorist programme. The company’s strengths and to detecting in particular the company’s scheme allows evaluation of the level of service and customer weaknesses and taking appropriate corrective action, thereby satisfaction using a questionnaire covering such areas as efficiency, demonstrating the customer-focused nature of the company’s service, cleanliness and speed of transactions. In 2016, some 2,500 strategy. Over time this process has led to a reduction in the secret visits were carried out at Shell service stations and 600 number of complaints about the refinery; in 2016, there were visits at Avin service stations. The results of these are presented just 4 complaints, 2 of which on quality issues and the other 2 to the Retail Sales Departments of the company, which in turn on delayed delivery. All complaints were successfully resolved. discuss them with the retail station managers and take corrective measures where necessary. Our Commercial Companies The Group’s commercial companies have integrated systems for Shell retail station customers can now express their opinion serving the thousands of customers who place their trust in them through Voice of Customer, an innovative online consumer survey every day. application, through PC and mobile phone, where customers can give their opinions after a visit to a retail station. This platform More specifically, they have full quality and quantity control generates more than 10,000 filled-in questionnaires each month, systems for their fuels, carried out at all stages of transportation giving us the opportunity to quickly analyse the results and resolve from the refinery or the depot to the retail stations. With the any problems our customers may encounter. support of our specialised chemical laboratories, as well as the special Quality Control Mobile Units (vans) which carry out Finally, the Egnomi tool was launched in 2015, which is used to unannounced checks at our retail stations, we take active steps easily and quickly collect consumer opinions on-site at Shell gas to ensure the quality and quantity of our products. In 2016, the stations, based on questions appearing on device screens. The 70 5. Social Responsibility replies are collected immediately, providing the company with a significantly raising the level of safety and protecting the consumer daily barometer of customer satisfaction and experience at the by applying the latest solutions for all domestic and professional Shell stations. The Egnomi application provides more than 45,000 liquefied gas applications. answers every month. Finally, in 2016, significant steps were taken to improve service Coral Gas aspires to be the leading company in Greece and is of our final consumers and corporate customers. Avin installed continuing efforts to offer innovative products to its customers. a new state-of-the-art call center, and established procedures to It has introduced significant innovations, and it now distributes further automation and quick response to customer requests. all its packaged products to the market with special safety valves At the same time the new Coral NET, Avin Portal and Cyclon (the traditional liquefied gas bottles with FLV, GoGas with triple Portal online platforms were launched, aiming at faster and better security and the new container with an ILL Flow Limiter Valve) service for corporate customers. 3. Social Solidarity and Sponsorships Through our social responsibility projects we seek to demonstrate a steady, consistent support for the community, providing support for values which will improve the life of the community in education, health care, culture, sports and entrepreneurship. In 2016, as in previous years, our company’s social action focused • Social solidarity on the financing and promotion of social solidarity programs • Culture across the country, though our primary focus was placed on • Youth education, sports organizations and agencies based mainly in municipalities in 16.4% the vicinity of our facilities. Our main objective was to relieve poverty among the most vulnerable social groups, and to help them meet their basic needs. To this end, we have promoted 53.7% actions designed to bring relief to our fellow citizens, while also Allocation 25.3% supporting cultural agencies, educational institutions, organizations engaged in charitable and humanitarian work, as well as local of Social government agencies. Responsibility Funds 2016 The actions we have supported were chosen by the relevant executives of the company at the local and central levels, in accordance with the procedures set out in the relevant policy 4.6% and in implementation of our strategy for social responsibility, which is structured along the following key axes: Social Solidarity Culture Youth (education, sports) Heating Oil 3.1 Social Solidarity Our company’s objective is to promote and support actions designed to relieve the needs of less advantaged social groups. To this end, the company offers help to agencies that have demonstrated significant work in this area over a number of years. As we have been doing through the years, in 2016, with the financial response to this need, our company has undertaken to support crisis continuing to affect our country, we provided support for the most vulnerable social groups, both by supplying the neediest many community actions, provided food for the indigent through with staple goods, and by specific grants of money. municipal and church organizations, supported the work of charitable organizations and foundations, supported actions for health and Actions have focused mainly on the Prefecture of Corinth, the final supplied large quantities of heating oil to the municipalities bordering recipients including the Municipality of Loutraki-Agioi Theodoroi, on our refinery facilities and other selected areas across the country. the Municipality of Corinth and bordering communities, members of poor families, associations, and societies providing support Fighting Poverty services, and so on. The economic crisis affecting Greece over the last few years has had as a direct result a dramatic increase in cases of poverty. In 71 The Food Bank The Motor Oil group has supported the Food bank operating in the Municipalities of Loutraki and Corinth and in the Municipal Ward of Agioi Theodoroi, playing an active part in meeting the basic needs of families in financial difficulty. Among other things, our company has provided foodstuffs, helping to ensure the continued operation of an institution responding to the difficult social and economic challenges of the present day. The donation by the Motor Oil group has helped the more general endeavor, through which more than 1.700 families in financial difficulty have found relief. Additionally, in an effort to help families facing financial difficulties foundations which offer high-quality services to assist them in in Corinth and the surrounding region during Christmas and their rehabilitation and reintegration into the community. Easter holidays, MOTOR OIL distributed 1,240 food stamps to Specifically: help them meet nutritional needs and put food on the holiday • We have supported the activities of the Marianna V. table. During the holiday period also financially supported, Vardinoyannis Foundation. Set up by its President, UNESCO again through donations in the region of Peloponnesus, the Goodwill Ambassador Mrs Marianna V. Vardinoyannis, the municipality of Corinth, the municipality of Loutraki, the Agia Foundation seeks to promote issues related to protection of Olympia foundation, the Kivotos tou Paidiou children’s charity, children’s rights while improving living conditions for children churches, etc. The company has also supplied foodstuffs to in all areas. the food and clothing bank set up in 2013 by the Metropolitan • We supported through a sponsorship the model camp for Church of Corinth, which supports 140 families in great need, and children with cancer organised by Elpida Youth, the youth has also helped the Special Vocational Education and Training committee of Association of Friends of Children with Cancer Workshop of Corinth to provide meals to its students. It also ELPIDA. provided food to the Efthymio Center, thus helping provide meals • We have supported the humanitarian agency Lifeline Hellas, to the children studying there. Finally, it provided assistance to the helping with the organization of an event, the revenues of Women's Association of Agioi Theodoroi, which prepares and which will be used to offer medical equipment to the Neonatal distributes snacks to 70 children of financial vulnerable families Intensive Care Unit of the Elena Venizelou Hospital. studying at the 1st Primary School of Agioi Theodoroi. • We have provided financial support to associations and agencies involved in community work, such as the Women’s Association Donation of Heating Oil and Lubricants of Agioi Theodoroi, the Evaggelismos tis Theotokou Church of During the winter of 2016, the company made available around Agioi Theodoroi, the association of kidney patients of Corinth 213,000 litres of free heating oil, worth 173,000 euros. I Elpida etc. • In the area of health care, we assisted the General Hospital This social programme is intended to help with the cost of heating of Argolis and the work of its Orthopaedic clinic, as well as orphanages, nurseries, municipal childcare centres, secondary the Haemodialysis Unit of the General Hospital of Corinth schools, elderly people’s homes, churches and church foundations with the donation of technical equipment and supplies. located in areas bordering on the refinery, as well as other recipients We also supported the Agioi Theodoroi regional section in other parts of the country. Among the recipients were the of the Greek Red Cross, as well as the Hellenic Institute Hospital of Corinth, the Foundation for the Protection of Minors of Cardiology, offering financial support for the conduct of To Hamogelo tou Paidiou , the Corinth prisons, all the schools of free check-ups. the Municipalities of Corinth, Loutraki and the municipal communities of Agioi Theodoroi, Isthmia, Saronic, Solygeia, and more than 20 schools of the Municipality of Perama, churches, etc. We have also supplied lubricant oils to government services in the Municipality of Corinth and the surrounding region. The main recipients were the Corinth Police Department, the Loutraki Police Department, the Kiato Highway Police, the Attiki Odos Highway Police, the Corinth Port Authority, etc. Supporting Charitable Organizations and Institutions Our objective is to make a contribution to improving living conditions for people with problems, helping organizations and 72 5. Social Responsibility Support for the Elderly For more than ten years, Motor Oil has been continually engaged in a very important social initiative in collaboration with the elderly Day Care Centres of the Municipalities of Corinth and Agioi Theodoroi. The initiative involves the provision to elderly people of a full lunch and milk and yoghurt for supper – supplied every day, 365 days a year. The food is prepared at the refinery canteen, and is the same meal that is enjoyed by the refinery workforce. In 2016 the refinery canteen provided meals for 107 elderly people at the Corinth and Agioi Theodoroi elderly people’s Day Care Centres. Support for Local Authorities and Other Agencies Finally, it supported with a sponsorship the International The Group has traditionally supported the local communities criminal law and modern reality conference organised by the it operates in. To this end, we do our best to provide effective European and International Criminal Law Institute. assistance, meeting the needs of local authorities and actively helping them in their work. The Environment We support activities and programmes, which make an active As an indication, in 2016 the Motor Oil Group donated 6 contribution to improving infrastructures and raising public new vehicles to the Coast Guard, thereby assisting them in awareness of environmental protection and sustainable meeting their operational needs. We also supported through development issues. sponsorships the Fire Brigade (1 st Unit for Disaster Situations EMAK), the Corinth Port Authority, the Corinth Mechanical MOTOR OIL provides support to many environmental Corps School, for the purchase of new technical equipment. associations and organizations, such as MEDASSET (Mediterranean Association to Save the Sea Turtles), It also provided financial assistance to the Municipality of etc., making an active contribution to policies promoting Ermionis for the repair of a playground and the creation of environmental protection. higher quality and safer play area for the region's children. MOTOR OIL has also provided consistent support over the In addition to other things, in 2016 our company provided years to the Agioi Theodoroi Forest Protection Society, which financial assistance to various agencies, including the Federation plays an important role in forest protection and firefighting of Local Improvement Societies of Agioi Theodoroi, the Local within and beyond the Municipality of Agioi Theodoroi. Improvement Societies Glykia Zoi, Ano Glykia Zoi, Klara Elias of Sousaki, Corinth, the Alkyon Local Improvement Society, In 2016 we also supported the Association of Friends of Diving the Protoporos Society, etc. of the Corinth Prefecture for the purchase of a boat that is necessary for the association's main work, which is the cleaning The financial aid we provided consisted in donations for of the area's seabed. functional needs, indoor and outdoor spatial reconfiguration projects, building maintenance, road completion and In respect of water supplies, the company this year met the clearing, road surfacing, lighting, water supplies and rainwater water needs of about 190 homes near the refinery. The water, drainage pipes, cement laying, covering fixed expenditure, produced at the refinery by reverse osmosis, is used to water advertisements, safety and creation of children’s recreation gardens and for cleaning purposes. The supply of water to grounds, and so on. these houses, not provided by the Agioi Theodoroi water system, relies on the network of pipes laid and maintained by Our company was a sponsor in the annual Iraqi-European MOTOR OIL. In 2016, 84,000 cubic metres of water, worth business forum and the 5th Arab-Hellenic Business Conference more than 75,000 euros, were supplied free of charge. organised by the Arab-Hellenic Chamber of Commerce and Development. 3.2. Culture We believe in the role of the arts, culture and history as main components of a healthy social development. We strive to offer support to activities which highlight and promote our cultural and historical heritage. 73 The company in particular: Municipality of Loutraki Perahora, which organised the • Supported the Patriarchate of Jerusalem in the restoration Loutraki Festival 2016, with the participation of many young of the underground Byzantine church (crypt) of the Holy musicians. Monastery of the Forerunner, a project which is under the • Was a sponsor of the 14th Theatre Festival Corinth 2016 supervision and protection of UNESCO. organised by Corinthian Theatre Vassilis Rotas . • Provided assistance to the Hellenic Institute of Marine • Provided assistance to the Public Library of Rethymno for Archaeology in the excavation of a shipwreck of the the purchase of new furniture. Mycenaean era (1,200 BC) which was discovered on the •Also supported via donations the cultural work of Modi islet of the Argosaronic Gulf. The results of the organisations such as the Loutraki Cultural Association, excavation which have been announced at scientific the Isthmia Cultural Association, the Agios Pavlos Cultural conferences in Greece and abroad were very well received Association of Kechries, the Association of Corinthian since they offer a lot of new information on transit trade Writers, etc. across the Aegean during a very important period of Greek history. Throughout the year 2016 MOTOR OIL has provided support • Financed the publication of the Short History of the Hellenic to local newspapers and magazines in the Municipality of Navy 1821-1945 by the Naval History Department. Corinth and Loutraki, which are having difficulty in meeting • Financially supported the publication of book The People of their publishing costs, as well as supporting radio and TV the Naval Mutiny by retired Vice-Admiral Ioannis Paloumbis, stations. published by the Hellenic Maritime Museum. • It also supported the journal Periplous Naftikis Istorias [A The MOTOR OIL Group has provided financial support for Voyage through Maritime History] published each quarter cultural associations and agencies not just in communities near by the Greek Maritime Museum, and assisted the Hellenic its facilities, but elsewhere in Greece as well. Maritime Association in publishing its journal Naftiki Ellas [Maritime Greece], a traditional maritime magazine Institute for the promotion of journalism published every month by the Hellenic Navy Print Shop The Institute for the Promotion of Journalism was founded by since 1928. Nasos Botsis and has been engaged in important and valuable • Supported the conduct of the Mediterranean Photography work since 1980. Its activities include the conferring, every year Festival organised in Rethymno by KOLECTIV 8, an arts since 1982, of Journalism Awards, presented by the President organisation. of the Republic at a special ceremony. In order to contribute • Made a significant donation to the Cretan Vrakoforoi to promoting the institute, the Motor Oil group has acted as Association for its work to preserve and disseminate the a sponsor, providing financial support for its invaluable social, Cretan cultural traditions as well as to the Pan-Cretan cultural and educational work. Association for the re-publication of a book on the historical Monastery of Arkadi. •Supported the Friends of Music Association of the 3.3. Education and Youth We provide consistent support in the sphere of education, support which reflects our belief in the power of knowledge to cultivate our minds and characters and to turn us into active citizens heeding the call of conscience. It is for these reasons that we take such a keen interest in assisting and promoting the work of education, research and technology. In 2016, the Motor Oil group: School of Gerani, Rethymno, helping the schools to provide • Provided assistance to the Agioi Theodoroi children's day more effective teaching for their students. care center, 1st and 2nd Kindergarten, the 1st Primary School, the • Provided financial assistance to the Episkopi Junior and Senior Junior High and General Senior High School, the Episkopi Junior High School, Rethymno, the Episkopi 6th Primary School, and Senior High School, Rethymno, the 3rd Primary School of Rethymno, the Ermioni General Senior High School, the Loutraki, the Kyra Vrysi kindergarten and the Special Junior Kranidi General Senior High School, the Spili General Senior High of Chania, helping all the schools to meet their operational High School, the Agioi Theodoroi General Senior High School, needs. Moreover, it provided computers, interactive boards the Argyroupoli Primary School, Rethymno, assisting them in and printers to the 13th Primary School of Rethymno, the 1st the organisation of events, the running of student exchange General Senior High School of Rethymno and the Primary programs and school trips. 74 5. Social Responsibility • Helped through purchase of toys, invitations and lottery tickets conditioners at the Rethymno 3rd Primary School. the Corinth Special Kindergarten and Primary School, children’s • Supported with a sponsorship the conduct of the 4th Festival of day care centres, kindergartens and primary schools in Agioi Architecture Schools in Corinth, which has produced ideas and Theodoroi, the General Senior High School in Agioi Theodoroi, designs for improving public spaces and the regeneration of the kindergartens in Isthmia and the Isthmia Special School. area. • Financially supported the reconstruction replacement of the • Provided heating oil to dozens of schools in Corinth, Perama, flooring of the school yard of the 1st Primary School in Kranidi, Crete, Ermioni and Stylida as well as other areas in Attica and improving the school's safety standards. across Greece, helping schools to run smoothly and providing • Provided financial assistance in the installation of new airbetter conditions for learning. Scholarship program in association with the Athens School of Fine Arts In 2012 Motor Oil embarked on a strategic collaboration with the Athens School of Fine Arts, in an effort to support education and the arts and to help young people wishing to continue their studies abroad. The collaboration involves the granting of a 12,000 euros scholarship each year to a graduate of the School to allow him or her to pursue postgraduate studies in the visual arts at a foreign university and 2 additional awards of 2,000 and 1,000 euros each. Τhe successful candidate is chosen by a five-member panel, and the award-winning work becomes the property of Motor Oil, the hope being that over time a permanent collection of works can be built up for display around the company’s premises. At the same time, along with their portfolios the candidates submit 1-2 original works to be shown in an exhibition to be staged at the head offices of the group over a six-month period. Vardinoyanneion Foundation refineries in Europe, with presentations and a guided tour of The Vardinoyanneion Foundation, whose main sponsor is the production facilities and workplaces, with information on Motor Oil, was established in 1989 and is administered by a the environmental protection programs run by the company, seven-member board of trustees. Its purpose is the granting as well as on its varied program of community work both of scholarships, awards and grants to candidates who have in local communities and in society as a whole. During the distinguished themselves academically or who are in need of 2016 program, around 741 persons visited the refinery and the financial support to do undergraduate or postgraduate studies facilities of our commercial partners. at colleges and universities in Greece or abroad. Student Internships The areas of study and the scholarships available are not fixed, Every year the company takes on a number of students for but change each academic year, by decision of the board of paid summer internship, lasting from one to two months. The trustees. students fill various positions in the refinery and at head office. In the academic year 2016-2017 support was given to In addition to this, we give a number of students the 71 students in the following areas (by way of example): opportunity of a sixmonth internship, when this forms part of economics, history, biology, psychology, chemistry, etc. Prethe degree course they are taking. We also provide positions graduate scholarships were also given to 2 students in the for foreign students to gain work experience, in collaboration area of Information Technology, 1 in Maritime Studies, 1 in with the International Association for the Exchange of Students Chemical Engineering, and 1 in Naval Architecture and Marine for Technical Experience (IAESTE). Engineering. As part of this activity in 2016 we filled 90 trainee positions of Since the Foundation began its scholarship program, 167 1-2 months, and 36 positions of over two months, at a total scholarships and 1,788 bursaries have been granted. cost of more than 197,000 euros. Educational visits to the Refinery Every year we arrange visits to the refinery for students at universities and technical colleges, Armed Forces schools and ordinary secondary schools. The idea is to allow visitors to learn about the operation of one of the most advanced 75 Shell Eco Marathon Coral, owner of the Shell trademarks in Greece, actively supports the Shell Eco Marathon, a global initiative, whose main aim is to promote sustainability in transport, innovation and energy efficiency. Coral invites schoolchildren and students from Greece to compete in this leading educational programme organized by Shell, with teams from all over Europe, constructing energy-efficient vehicles. The winning team will be that which travels the greatest distance with the equivalent of one litre of fuel of its own choice: Traditional internal combustion engines burning petrol or diesel, engines using biofuels, electric motors, hydrogen cells or solar panels are concealed beneath the exterior of modern, futuristic vehicles which cut a striking figure on the race track. Greek teams from leading universities and technical colleges in Greece, as well as schools all over the country, have been participating since 2004 in the Shell Eco Marathon. In 2016 the Greek teams won 3 out of the 5 off-track awards! The Prometheus Team from the National Technical University of Athens took part for the eighth year running. It ranked 16th with the Battery Electric class reaching 287 km/kWh with its prototype electric vehicle Pyrphorus, while also winning the Technical Innovation and Communication Strategy off-track Awards. The Poseidon Team from the Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Automation Engineering Departments of the Piraeus Technical Educational Institute and the Departments of the School of Administration and Economy of the Piraeus University, took part in the competition for the fifth consecutive year with their vehicle Triiris. It was entered in the Prototype (Βattery Electric) category and won 19th place, achieving a rate of 248km/kWh. The team TUC Eco Racing of the Production Engineering and Management School of the Crete Polytechnic, in its 8th year of participation won one of the most important off-track awards, the Safety Award, for the 3rd time in its history. 3.4. Sports We have offered our support to sports and are also happy to offer substantial assistance to smaller clubs and sporting associations in the amateur sector. During the year 2016 the MOTOR OIL Group has supported the club, the Ermionis Sporting Association, the Koronis Sporting Club Episkopi Sports Club, Rethymno, and the women’s team of the of Koilada, the Corinth Tennis Club, the Isthmia Sporting Club, etc. Rethymno Volleyball Club (ΟPER). Finally, every year MOTOR OIL makes a doctor and a fully equipped It also provided assistance to the Kymi Gymnastics Association ambulance available for the famous Spartathlon long-distance race, KAE, the Ermis Sports Club of Zoniana, the Spili Sports Club, the also supporting the Control and Aid Centre located in front of the Poseidon Sports Club of Loutraki, the Corinth Pan-Corinthian refinery. AVIN OIL S.A. great sponsor of the Rethymno KAE basketball team AVIN Oil supported once again the Rethymno KAE team in its participation in the 2015-16 Basket League season. Our company has demonstrated its steadfast support for the Cretan representative in the large league of Greek basketball, as a valuable ally to a club that teaches fair play and solidarity. We supported the Shoot in Crete program for the 2015-16 season, giving once more the opportunity to the young students of Rethymno and the neighbouring prefectures to meet their idols. More than 20 visits were made to primary schools of the region of Crete, where players from our team, apart from getting to know the children, also offered material-technical sports equipment and invited the children to our home-court games, which were held in the School Court of the Melina Merkouri Gymnasium. 76 6. Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2016 6. Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2016 MOTOR OIL participates in the United Nations Global Compact, which constitutes the biggest Corporate Responsibility initiative in the world. In year 2008, MOTOR OIL became a signatory of the UN Global Compact; at the same time the company became a member of the Global Compact Network Hellas. The Global Compact incorporates ten fundamental environmental practices and the outcomes thereof, principles relating to human rights, labour rights, which underline our commitment to the Global environmental protection and anti-corruption. Compact. The following chart lists the compliance of We are committed to these principles, which we MOTOR OIL with the ten Global Compact Principles, have integrated in the policies and processes of by making reference to the relevant chapters of the the company. MOTOR OIL’s Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2016, and to the GRI indicators 2016 contains information relating to our social and taken into account in compiling the Report. The ten Principles Reference in the Sustainability GRI Indicator (G4) of the Global Compact Report or Description of the Implementation Approach Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect Chapters 2 and 3. G4-10, G4-11, G4 LA5-8, the protection of internationally Full compliance with relevant Greek legislation G4 HR4 proclaimed human rights. and international conventions. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they Chapter 2. G4 HR4 are not complicit in human rights abuses. Full compliance with relevant Greek legislation and international conventions. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom Chapter 2. G4-11, of association and the effective recognition G4 HR4 of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination Chapter 2. There is no reference of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Full compliance with relevant Greek legislation of an indicator, as this and international conventions. has not emerged as a material issue during the G4 process. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective Chapter 2. There is no reference abolition of child labor. Full compliance with relevant Greek legislation of an indicator, as this and international conventions. has not emerged as a material issue during the G4 process. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination Chapter 2. G4-10, GA LA1 of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Chapters 1 and 4. G4 EC2, approach to environmental challenges. G4-EN19, G4-EN31, GA EN32 Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives Chapters 1 and 4. G4 EN3-4, EN6, EN8-10, to promote greater environmental EN15-16, EN20-26, EN29, responsibility. EN31-33 Principle 9 Businesses should encourage Chapters 1 and 4. G4-EN6, EN10, EN19, EN31 the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in Chapter 1. G4-15, G4-34, G4-56 all its forms, including extortion and bribery. G4 S05 77 7. GRI Compliance Level 7. GRI Compliance Level The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report, which has been published every year since 2002, is the main tool available for communicating with our stakeholders about the Group’s efforts and performance in achieving sustainable development through the application of the principles and objectives of Corporate Social Responsibility. It contains the most important facts and data relating to the previous year’s financial, social and environmental performance. The Sustainability Report 2016 has a similar structure material issues, it was recognized that financial performance, to previous editions, so as to facilitate comparisons of greenhouse gas emissions, energy, water, health and safety in performance over time. The information and data presented the workplace, employment, supplier assessment and local in the Report concern the parent company MOTOR OIL, the communities, are common and material issues.This procedure Group subsidiaries AVIN OIL, CORAL, CORAL GAS, OFC was followed in order to crosscheck and confirm the material and LPC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL, and whose issues identified by the internal procedures of MOTOR OIL. activities have a significant impact on issues considered as material for sustainable development. Step 2: Identification and understanding of significant issues, as these arise from the corporate strategy of MOTOR OIL, The compilation of the Sustainability Report 2016 is based through internal procedures. For issues which can be measured on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, just as in in quantitative terms, such as greenhouse gas emissions, there the six previous editions, and specifically of the G4 edition are recognized methods of determining their materiality. For In Accordance Core. The GRI guidelines have provided a issues of a qualitative nature, various methods were used to sound basis for the selection of the material issues that had assess their materiality, with the involvement of stakeholders to be covered by the Report, for an effective communication but also through the benchmarking process. with stakeholders. Step 3: Bringing together of the results into a matrix, and The Sustainability Report 2016 is not certified by an external evaluation of each issue on the basis of its more general social, certification authority. environmental and economic impact, based on a scale of 1-10. Each issue was evaluated and given a materiality ranking Report Methodology (Materiality Assessment) in accordance with its importance to stakeholders and the One of the most important and fundamental guidelines of the company. The issues located in the top right corner of the Global Reporting Initiative is the concept of materiality. An graph are regarded as the most material, as appears in the organization must report on those matters which have the graph. most significant economic, environmental and social impact, or those matters viewed as most significant by its internal and Step 4: Subsequently, the Report included all issues with external stakeholders. Within this context, and in order to the highest level of materiality. Issues of less materiality are determine which issues are material to us, we have actively mentioned only if they are affected by or dependent on issues involved our stakeholders in order to arrive at a list of issues of greater materiality. for this edition of our report. On completion of the above steps, the following areas were Materiality Assessment Procedure referred to as material issues: financial performance, indirect Given the nature of our business it is evident that our report economic impacts, procurements practices, energy, water, will lay emphasis on matters of safety and the environment, waste, emissions of greenhouse gases, environmental financial results, as well as our social contribution, which are of i nve s t m e n t s , s u p p l i e r e nv i r o n m e n t a l a s s e s s m e n t , major importance to our stakeholders.In selecting and ranking employment, health and safety in the workplace, employee the material issues, we have used a detailed procedure based training, trade unions, local communities, anti corruption, on the principles of relativity, importance and ranking. This compliance with legislation and products labelling. procedure involved: Step 1: Determination and understanding of the issues significant to our stakeholders, through a process of research and focus groups made up of employees, local community, suppliers and customers and through benchmarking in the energy sector. More specifically, by benchmarking the latest company reports in the sector, with reference to the 78 7. GRI Compliance Level Graph of Material Issues Regulatory Compliance Waste (Environment/Products) Product Labelling Emissions of Greenhouse Gases Indirect Economic Impacts Water Financial Performance Energy Occupational Health & Safety Environmental Investments Supplier Environmental Assessment Regulatory Compliance (Society) Employment Local Communities Anti-Corruption Complaint Management: Society Safety Practices Supplier Assessment: Human Forced Labour Rights, Labour Practices Employee Training Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Non-Discrimination Equal Pay Procurement Practices Transportation Unions Employer/Employee Relationship Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms Non Competitive Behaviour Supplier Assessment: Society Diversity Biodiversity STAKEHOLDERS Marketing Communications Child Labour Human Rights Grievance Mechanism Political Party Funding MOTOR OIL BOUNDARIES AND LIMITATIONS OF MATERIAL ISSUES Material Boundaries Limitations Issues Within the Outside the Within the Outside the Organization Organization Organization Organization Financial Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and Shareholders, investors, performance its subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC analysts, partners, and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. suppliers, customers. Indirect economic Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and Local communities, public impacts its subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC authorities, suppliers. and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Procurement Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and Suppliers practices its subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Energy Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL. Data only for the refinery. Water Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL. Local Communities Data only for the refinery. Waste Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL. Local communities Data only for and public authorities. the refinery. Emissions Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL. Local communities Data only for of greenhouse gases and public authorities. the refinery. Environmental Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL Shareholders, investors, investments and its subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas analysts, local communities, LPC and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR public authorities. OIL. 79 Material Boundaries Limitations Issues Within the Outside the Within the Outside the Organization Organization Organization Organization Supplier Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and Shareholders, investors, Environmental its subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC analysts, suppliers. Assessment and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Employment Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Health and Safety Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and Contractors’ staff and tank its subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC lorry drivers of 3rd party and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. companies Employee Training Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and Contractors’ staff and tank its subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC lorry drivers of 3rd party and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. companies. Unions Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Local Communities Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and Local communities its subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and public authorities. and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Anti-Corruption Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and Shareholders, investors, its subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC analysts, partners, suppliers, and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. customers, public authorities. Compliance Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and Partners, suppliers, its subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC customers. and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Products labelling Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and Partners, suppliers, its subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC customers. and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Overall in the Sustainability Report, where numerical data The following table records the GRI Indicators, and in the column or performance indicators are presented, the method of headed “Reference” the source of information relating to each data collection and calculation of results is also stated. The indicator is given. Environmental and Health and Safety performance indicators are specifically calculated according to internationally The symbols used in the table are: accepted procedures. Also in chapter 4 “Responsibility for the p.: indicates the page(s) of the Sustainability Report 2016 that Environment” the data relating to investments and recycling refer include information on the indicator. to the whole MOTOR OIL Group, whereas other indicators in : indicates reference to the Annual Financial Report 2016. this chapter refer solely to the MOTOR OIL refinery. : indicates reference to the company’s website. Table of GRI.G4 Indicators – GRI Content Index for “In accordance” Core GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Indicator Description Reference Company Profile G4-1 Management statement. p. 5 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. p. 18-19, 52, p. 32-34 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the reporting organization. Back cover G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services. p. 11-14, p.11-13, 20-30, 80 7. GRI Compliance Level Indicator Description Reference Organizational Profile G4-5 Location of organisation's headquarters. Back cover G4-6 Countries where the organisation operates. p. 14 G4-7 Ownership structure and legal form. p. 12-13, 15-16, 22-23, p .31, 40-44, G4-8 Markets served. p. 12-15, p. 11-12 G4-9 Scale of the organization. p. 10-15, 19-20, 27-31, 68-69 p. 9-20 G4-10 Workforce profile. p. 27-29 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. p. 27 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. p. 19 G4-13 Significant organizational changes in the reporting period. p. 2-3, 12-13, 19-20 p.17-20 G4-14 Application of the precautionary principle. p. 15-16, 21-22, 36-38, 50-52 G4-15 Voluntary support for external economic, environmental and social p. 17 charters or initiatives. G4-16 Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations. p. 17 Identified Material Issues and Boundaries G4-17 List of entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements. p. 12-13, p. 20-30 G4-18 Process for defining report content. p. 9, 76-79 G4-19 Material Issues. p. 76-78 G4-20 Issues boundaries and limitations within the organization. p. 78-79 G4-21 Issues boundaries and limitations outside the organization. p. 78-79 G4-22 Explanation of the reasons for re-stating information provided in earlier reports. p. 77 G4-23 Changes from previous reports. p. 9, 77 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. p. 22-23 G4-25 Stakeholder identification. p. 22-23 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. p. 22-23 G4-27 Topics raised by stakeholders. p. 18-19, 22-23 G4-28 Reporting period. 1/1/2016-31/12/2016 G4-29 Most recent previous report. p. 84 G4-30 Reporting cycle. p. 9 G4-31 Contact point for questions. p. 9 G4-32 Location of the Standard GRI Disclosures. p. 77-82 G4-33 External Assurance. p. 77 Governance G4-34 Corporate governance structure. p. 15-16, p. 40-44, Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Corporate policies, mission and value statements related to sustainability. p. 5, 18-19, inside cover page 81 Table of GRI.G4 Indicators – GRI Content Index for “In accordance” Core SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Aspects Indicators Description Reference Category: Economic Εconomic G4-EC1 Directly generated and distributed economic p. 14-15, 68-69, p. 9-10 Performance value. G4-EC2 Climate change financial implications, risks or Climate change impacts regarding the possible financial opportunities. implications, risks or opportunities, constitute parameters thoroughly taken into account in the process of analysing, evaluating, approving and planning for investments or other initiatives. G4-EC4 Significant state financial assistance. MOTOR OIL has not received any significant financial assistance from the state. Indirect Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure p.68-69 Impacts investments and services supported. G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, includp. 68-69 ing the extent of impacts. Procurements G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at p. 69 Practices significant locations of operation. Category: Environment Energy G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy p. 56-58 source. G4-EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 9,851 MWh from the Electricity Market. G4-EN5 Energy intensity. p. 56-58 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. p. 56-58 Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. p. 64-65 G4-EN9 Effects of water withdrawal. p. 64-65 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recyp. 64-65 cled and reused. Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions. p. 58 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions. p. 58-62 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions Intensity. p. 58 G4EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. p. 58 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. Non-existent. G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions. p. 61-62 Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge. p. 62-63 G4-EN23 Solid waste. p. 63-64 G4-EN24 Significant spills. There were no significant spills. G4-EN25 Quantity of hazardous solid waste. p. 63-64 G4-EN26 Areas impacted by the organisation’s disNon-existent. charge of water and runoff. 82 7. GRI Compliance Level Material Aspects Indicators Description Reference Category: Environment Compliance G4-EN29 Significant fines and sanctions There have not been any relevant fines or sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws. established by final court Investments G4-EN31 Environmental protection investments and p. 53 expenses. Supplier G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were All important suppliers are evaluated using questionnaires Environmental screened using environmental criteria which also include criteria on environmental performance. Assessment G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative No significant impact. environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. Category: Social Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee p. 27-29 hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that p. 30-33 are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by significant locations of operation. Occupational Health G4-LA5 Workforce representation in occupational The Health and Safety Committee of the refinery employ& Safety health and safety committees. ees represents all staff. G4-LA6 Occupational injuries and lost day rates. p. 38-39 G4-LA7 Occupational diseases. p. 38-39 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal p. 27, 37-38, 45-47 agreements with trade unions. Training and G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year p. 31-33 Education per employee. G4-LA10 Programs for skills development and p. 31-33 lifelong learning. Freedom of G4-HR4 Operations that limit freedom of association No such operations, p. 27 Association and and collective bargaining. Collective Bargaining Local Communities G4-SO1 Impacts on local communities. p. 66-75 Anti-corruption G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions No such incidents. taken. Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total No such fines. number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Product and service G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of noncompliNo incidents of non-compliance. labeling ance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for No such fines. noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 83 Sustainability Reports of Previous Years ALL THE MATERIALS USED FOR PRINTING THE MOTOR OIL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ARE FRIENDLY TO THE ENVIRONMENT Key Group Data for 2016 16.4% 25.3% Turnover 6,357 million euros Earnings after tax 298 million euros Allocation Dividents paid 1 0.90 euros/share of Social 4.6% Total assets 2,863 million euros 53.7% Responsibility Funds 2016 Refinery production 11.5 million tons Motor oil sales 13.0 million tons domestic sales 3.9 million tons export sales 9.1 million tons Social Solidarity Culture Youth (education, sports) Heating Oil Crude oil refining capacity 185,000 barrels/day Refinery storage tanks capacity 2.5 million cubicmeters 9.3% Petrol stations 1,430 Employees (annual average)2 1,925 people 19.0% Man-hours Training man hours 21,000 hours 67.3% devoted to each Total investments 2000-2016 1,563.4 million euros educational training area 2016 1.6% Environmental investments and 791.5 million euros Total expenses 2000-2016 hours = 21,000 2.8% Recycling Solid Waste Disposal 5,653 tons Health and Safety 162.2 million euros investments 2000 2016 Health, Safety & Environment Τechnical matters Management IT Finance Social contribution 2007 20163 37.0 million euros Social product4 662.4 million euros Emissions CO2 2,216 2,164 Refinery certifications ISO 9001:2008 2,111 ISO 14001:2004 1,945 1,965 1,968 ISO 17025:2005 OHSAS 18001:2007 EMAS III ER1221/2009 EN 12591:2009 0.195 (for asphalt) 0.183 0.178 0.178 0.179 1. An interim dividend amount of 0.20/share was paid in December of 2016 while 0.174 the dividend remainder amount of 0.70/share will be paid in July of 2017. 2. Includes the employees of MOTOR OIL, AVIN OIL, CORAL, CORAL GAS, OFC and LPC. 3. Refers to donations and sponsorships. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 4. Refers to the portion of revenues distributed to stakeholders. Annual Emissions (thousand ΜΤ) Specific Annual Emissions (ΜΤ CO2 per ΜΤ of raw material) Lost Time Injuries Frequency Index (LTIF) Energy Consumption for Motor Oil Group 30,825 27,848 28,774 27,298 7.4 26,912 27,139 Frequency Index = Number of injuries 2.79 per million working hours 2.50 2.49 2.46 2.37 2.8 2.7 2.26 2.3 2.2 2.0 2.1 1.8 1.3 1.2 0.9 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Energy Consumption (TJ) Specific Energy Consumption 20002007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2006 (TJ/thousand MT of raw materials) Headquarters 151 24 Maroussi, GREECE +30 210 8094000 Fax: +30 210 8094444 Refinery P.O.Box 23 20 100 Korinthos, GREECE +30 27410 48602, 48702 Fax: +30 27410 49001, 49101, 48255
