Communication on Progress 2016 Communication on Progress 2016 1 CONTENTS Message from the CEO 3 Sustainability at Pacific Hydro 4 Human Rights Principles 6 Principle 1, 2 Labour Principles 12 Principle 3, 4, 5, 6 Environmental Principles 18 Principle 7, 8, 9 Anti-corruption Principles 22 Principle 10 2 Communication on Progress 2016 Message from the CEO Michael Fuge It gives me great pleasure to confirm that in 2016 Pacific the Carlos Vial Espantoso Award which recognized Hydro reaffirmed its support for the Ten Principles of the our company for its superior labour practices and United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Foundation Chile Unido and Ya magazine, which rate Rights, Labour, Environment and Anticorruption. the best companies for working parents, gave us a fourth-place award in the category of SMEs. Amidst significant change, including the acquisition of Pacific Hydro by State Power Investment Corporation In Australia, neighbour satisfaction at our South (SPIC) early in the year, our commitment to continue West Victoria cluster of wind farms has doubled since developing, operating and constructing sustainable 2014, further underpinning our deep commitment to renewable energy projects remains steadfast, along the communities in which we operate. with our commitment to health and safety. But with success, come challenges and 2016 was SPIC’s wealth of experience as one of the top five no exception. In February the spillway of our 111MW power generation groups in China provides Pacific Chacayes run-of-river hydro plant failed. However, Hydro with outstanding growth opportunities and we acted swiftly and safely to guarantee resumption adds significant value to our global cultural diversity. of its operations. After five months of hard work from all areas of the company we had the asset operating Highlights of the year included audiences between with a partial flow which was increased in November. SPIC’s Chairman Hou Xuezhong and President We are currently working in the definitive spillway. Michelle Bachelet in Chile and, in Australia, with Federal Minister for Energy, Hon. Josh Frydenberg. The incident precipitated major reviews of our Commercially, 2016 was a strong year for Pacific practices, from design and engineering through to Hydro in all areas of the business from development, quality control and management, to ensure firstly through construction to acquisition and the launch that safety remains our number one priority and that of a full retail business, Tango Energy. preventable incidents are prevented. Acquisition of Taralga Wind Farm, with 107MW of Pacific Hydro’s commitment to working collaboratively installed capacity occurred within the first 100 days and sharing the benefits with our communities of Pacific Hydro’s new ownership while construction throughout the entire life cycle of our projects is commenced at Yaloak South, Victoria and Punta stronger than ever and we are assessing new ways Sierra – our first wind farm in Chile. to improve the way we work with these important stakeholders to maintain our competitive advantage Diversification into large scale solar was also a and meet or exceed our communities’ expectations. strong focus in Australia with two sites identified in Queensland now in advanced stages of planning. Our support and promotion of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact will continue Pacific Hydro received two important awards in Chile: across the business during 2017. Communication on Progress 2016 3 Sustainability at Pacific Hydro Our commitment to sustainability has been that requires a tailored approach. We define our reaffirmed since Pacific Hydro’s acquisition. Our new stakeholders as individuals and groups who are owner has confirmed their commitment to continue impacted by our activities or those who can have developing, operating and constructing renewable an impact on our future development. energy projects in a sustainable way, thus creating economic, social and environmental value. Due to the diverse interests of each group, which varies in each of our business units, we adapt We also continued to strengthen our commitment our approach, communication channels and to the principles of the United Nations Global engagement activities as appropriate. Compact. Considerations of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption are integrated in The table below displays our key stakeholder our day-to-day business operations and activities. groups and illustrates some of the ways we have engaged with them in the reporting period. To Pacific Hydro, our stakeholders are a key group Stakeholders How we engage Owner Monthly Board and periodic Committee meetings; regular strategy reviews; representative offices of SPIC in three business units. Banks and Financiers Regular formal and informal meetings; ad-hoc reporting; written correspondence and phone calls; on-site visits; health, safety, sustainability and operational reporting as required. Communities and Landholders Formal and informal community consultation sessions and work tables as required; one-on-one meetings as required; on-site visits; ongoing interaction with community and landholder liaison officers; regular newsletters; regular community engagement and investment activities; employee visits to community; social media; claims and suggestions tab. In Chile, in 2016 we adopted the Guidelines of Participation launched by the Ministry of Energy. 4 Communication on Progress 2016 Stakeholders How we engage Employees Monthly CEO or business updates; regular HSS updates, monthly line manager communications; monthly lunchtime forums hosted by CEO, general managers or functional teams; six monthly and annual performance reviews; regular social functions and events; internal communications survey; regular intranet news updates; mailings; social media. Contractors and suppliers Expressions of Interest; execution of quotations and tender processes; consideration of formal economic and technical evaluations; regular meetings; Sustainable Supplier Assessments as required; contracts across the project lifecycle – development, delivery and operations; social media. Customers Regular meetings; ongoing written communications and phone conversations with existing customers; on-going relationship development with a range of prospective customers through meetings, attendance at market events and sponsorship of market-related seminars and conferences; social media; ad hoc screenings for free market clients and the regulated market. Water right holders (irrigators) Regular formal participation in the Board of Water User and landholders in Chile Organizations; one-on-one meetings with landowners and negotiations as required; on-site visits; ongoing interaction with landholder liaison officers; social media. Government authoritiesRegular meetings; regular written submissions as local, state and federal required; on-site visits; ongoing formal participation and representation in industry associations and other bodies; social media. Opinion leaders Regular meetings; regular written information; occasional on-site visits; social media. General Public Media; social media, mostly Facebook, but also LinkedIn, and YouTube. Communication on Progress 2016 5 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Flexible Working Guidelines in Australia, Brazil and We respect the rights of our employees, contractors Chile allow all employees to achieve a balance between and the broader community. Specific human rights managing personal affairs and ensuring that individual, commitments are covered by the following highteam and business objectives are met. level documents: Our workplace is family-friendly and we encourage Code of Conduct employees to balance family commitments with work responsibilities. Our Parental Leave Policy Equal Opportunity Policy in Chile and Australia extends beyond statutory requirements. Health, Safety, and Environment Policy We offer a broad spectrum of internal and external Sustainability Policy training courses to all staff. Relevant health and safety training is provided to site and office-based Community Charter, Engagement employees and contractors to ensure our staff are Framework and Investment Guidelines equipped with the knowledge required to perform Flexible Working Guidelines their job safely. Whistleblower Disclosure and The Compliance pillar within our risk management Investigation Procedure framework sets guidelines for us to identify and comply with all relevant laws, including those laws Enterprise Wide Risk Management relating to human rights. A Breach Register enables Framework a transparent process to record, investigate and rectify any breach in a timely manner. Implementation We have a broad range of strategies within our global We seek to establish and maintain respectful Health and Wellbeing program designed to prevent and collaborative relationships with our local serious conditions and illnesses in employees. Our communities. Community support is fundamental Health and Wellbeing Policy raises awareness about to the success of our projects and we believe that these issues and promotes a positive and equitable mutual trust and respect is only earned through workplace for employees. Our Employee Assistance transparency, open and early engagement, and Program offers confidential, external counselling for communication. employees and their immediate families. 6 Communication on Progress 2016 We recognize and respect the rights, local laws, What we did customs and cultures of the people living in the communities where we develop, build and operate. 2016 presented relevant challenges in H&S. Through established policies and procedures and through the entire life cycle of our projects, During the first half of the year, Chile recorded we work with local communities to identify and six incidents. Fortunately, the Health and Safety mitigate potential impacts (social, cultural, health, injuries sustained were minor in nature, but served safety, environmental). We also believe that our as a reminder that we must remain diligent when work in this area must continue to evolve to it comes to safety. ensure we are meeting and exceeding community expectations. In order to address this situation, Chile’s business unit assembled a program to generate more Measurement of outcomes awareness which included meetings with all Targets are embedded in our Business Plan and contractors, celebration of Safety Week, training are measured periodically throughout the year and of Contractor Administrators, Driving Campaign annually. (“gamification”). What we said we would do In Australia, we pioneered the implementation of a safety training program for 10 turbine operators Health and Safety Excellence: continue to build and on our windfarms. sustain a healthy and safe culture and workplace, with zero harm to employees and others. State Power Investment Corporation visiting site Safety program for turbine operators Australia pioneered the successful implementation of a safety training program: 10 of our wind turbine operators undertook a blended learning process of face to face and practical classes designed around the health and safety aspects of wind farm and hydro operation. All 10 received certificates and now similar programs will be introduced across all business units. Communication on Progress 2016 7 In Brazil, our assets achieved a great health and them. Using International Association of Public safety performance under OHSAS 18001 standard: Participation (IAP2) methodology and principles it was recommended we be allowed to keep Pacific Hydro went back to basics to better international certification until July 2017. understand risks from a community perspective. The tool kit can now be applied in the field as a Brazilian Contractor Management System reviewed direct response to feedback and project neighbour us based on HSE standards. Our contractors were concerns. This has helped to address several legacy audited internally to verify that they were complying issues in a fair, transparent, and empowering way. with Brazilian law and Pacific Hydro’s requirements. Through Pacific Hydro Australia’s Sustainable We continued to promote our H&S culture with a Communities Fund more than AUD$2M has been number of safety leadership initiatives. On average, provided to over 600 sustainable projects. This has every employee in the business submitted more than further cemented our relationship and commitment 24 safety observations each, and each member of to the communities within which we operate. Other our leadership team conducted more than 4 safety changes are being considered which would provide walks. a simpler method for local community groups and organizations to apply to the fund, and empower Across all business units, we achieved an incredible members of the community with greater involvement number of 5950 safety observations and our in how funds are allocated. leadership team conducted 140 safety walks. All three business units made significant improvements in closing out gaps in our Health, Safety, and Environmental Management System (HSEMS), reaching all 12 management standards by the end of 2016. This will benefit the business by providing a relevant framework. Our Leadership Team has been involved in regular conversations with staff, talking about the importance of a safe workplace. What we said we would do Earn community trust and have positive relationships with a high level of integrity. What we did We continued to work and support our host communities through a range of relations activities that included community funds in our three markets. In Australia, we applied our innovative Community Engagement Tool kit. Community engagement to Community initiatives in Australia date had focused mainly on compliance but, as part of a major overhaul, Pacific Hydro decided to change course and draw on experience and lessons learned; and create a community awareness culture across the business. The outcome was Pacific Hydro’s Community Engagement Tool kit; a way of collaborating with and empowering project neighbours in decisions on matters that affect 8 Communication on Progress 2016 Community Engagement Tool kit and Community Sustainable Funds In Australia, Pacific Hydro’s Community Engagement Tool kit is a way of collaborating with and empowering project neighbours in decisions on matters that affect them. This tool kit assesses the impact of the Sustainable Community Fund, ensuring that the projects are both safe and create a lasting legacy. This case study is also a demonstration of how far-reaching and important our engagement can also be for other stakeholders including our owners and investors. In 2012, Basalt to Bay Landcare Network Inc. It has caught the attention of senior people applied for and was successful in obtaining in politics and environmental government funding for remote sensor cameras to try organizations. and capture evidence of the southern brown bandicoot’s existence in St. Helen’s Flora Finally, as a direct consequence of Pacific Reserve, which is situated in the vicinity of one Hydro’s community investment, wool buyers of Pacific Hydro’s oldest wind farms, Yambuk. as far away as Italy are now building their sustainability credentials on the back of this Being able to capture the bandicoot and a fox in heart-warming case study as neighboring the same location has provided evidence of pest farmers are accommodating shelter belts animal threats in a visual form and has helped to on their property where sheep graze and mobilize action to eradicate such animals. live hand-in-hand with the southern brown bandicoot. It is a clear demonstration of After several years, in 2016, the project gained what can be achieved when big industry worldwide attention and has been featured in works together with multiple stakeholders R.M. Williams magazine, viewed on YouTube and community groups to delivery enduring more than 12,000 times. legacies that reach far beyond the wind farm. Celebrating with the communities of the Alto Cachapoal Valley In Chile, we celebrated 10 years of our Community Fund Creciendo Juntos with over 140 initiatives implemented in the community of the Alto Cachapoal Valley, Region of O’Higgins. Aware that needs and requirements change, we developed impact measurement tools and started reviewing the application guidelines. The process will be finished during 2017. We also closed another version of the training workshops for our neighbours. 33 people were trained in welding and sewing. In addition, we celebrated the third version of “My View of Pacific Hydro.” Through this initiative, students of the three Valley schools draw and paint how they see the area where they live and the influence of our company. The 12 winners are part of an internal and external calendar. Communication on Progress 2016 9 Celebrating a successful 2016 with the communities of the Alto Cachapoal With important attendees from regional and won the third version of “My view of Pacific local authorities and the community of the Alto Hydro”. Their drawings and painting are part of Cachapoal, we celebrated a successful year of our internal and external calendar. work with our host communities. We awarded the 19 projects that were selected in the 10th Also, the story that won the first version of version of the Creciendo Juntos community the tale category, “A life in the Valley,” was fund; the 33 people trained in welding and represented through a play with the presence sewing workshops; and the 12 children who of the proud author. In 2016, we also launched the first version of “A Life In Brazil, we launched the third version of our in the Valley” tales oriented towards seniors. Sustainable Community Fund, supporting 11 projects applied for by community. Winners of the Version of the Tails “A life in the Valley” Winners of the Sustainable Community Fund in Brazil Focusing on the construction of Punta Sierra wind In addition, we conducted a Community Survey, farm, we increased our work with residents in the area, interviewing 25 leaders in Barra do Camaratuba. applying the Guidelines of Participation that were launched by the Ministry of Energy. We organized We created a Community Committee for Barra do workshops with the communities of Mantos de Hornillos Camaratuba residents to help define community and Caleta Sierra and developed the “Program of Local requirements. They will be our advisors, establishing Development”, which will be implemented during the yearly investment priorities based on regional needs. construction and operation of the wind farm. In 2016, we were also re-certified with the ProPyme Seal granted by the Ministry of Economy. Through this initiative over 400 Small and Medium Entrepreneurs benefit with a 30-day payment policy. We developed the Local Suppliers and Employment Program which contributes to the local development of our host communities and increases the number of services provided by them. 10 Communication on Progress 2016 Community Survey In Brazil, we conducted a Community Survey: courses are jobless women who learned to we interviewed 25 leaders of Barra do make wares which they can sell to tourists in Camaratuba to learn what the local residents the region. think about our sustainability strategy. The people interviewed were community leaders, project promoters financed by the Sustainable Community Fund and project beneficiaries. The results showed that over 80% believe that the Community Fund has contributed to local development. Achieving our objectives, the results of the survey also showed that Pacific Hydro’s investments, in terms of entrepreneurship and professional courses, has increased the families’ incomes and incentivized women’s empowerment locally. Most participants in the Pacific Hydro Brazil joins Ethos Ethos Institute Business and Social in building a sustainable and fair society. Responsibility is a non-governmental With this focus, Pacific Hydro Brazil joined organization created to mobilize, sensitize and Ethos and is working with the organization help companies manage their business in a to reinforce its community and sustainability socially responsible way, making them partners commitment. What we said we would do Any non-compliance is subject to a rectification plan and opportunities for avoidance of similar nonKnow and manage risks and associated strategies compliance in the future are identified. in order to deliver our growth strategy’s compliance obligations. The Enterprise Wide Risk Management Framework is embedded in the business. What we did An automated risk management tool is used across Under the Compliance pillar of our Enterprise Wide all business units. Risk Management Framework, each divisional or functional general manager has processes and tools in place to identify and comply with relevant legislation, industry codes, policies and procedures affecting their areas of responsibility. Communication on Progress 2016 11 Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation We respect the rights of our employees, contractors Our Inclusion and Diversity Strategy currently and the broader community. Compliance focuses on gender, culture and work life balance. mechanisms within our risk management framework allow us to identify and comply with all Our workplace is family-friendly and we encourage relevant laws, including those relating to human employees to balance family commitments with rights. Specific human rights commitments are work responsibilities utilizing our Flexible Working covered by the following high-level documents: Guidelines. Our Parental Leave Policy extends beyond statutory requirements relating to parental Code of Conduct leave rights in Chile and Australia. When returning to work after parental leave, we encourage staff Equal Opportunity Policy to gradually increase their days of work thus acknowledging the challenges of returning to Health, Safety, and Environment Policy work with young children. We also offer returntowork coaching in Chile and Australia to assist Sustainability Policy mothers transitioning back to the workplace. Community Charter Cultural awareness training was provided to staff in each of our regions. Mandarin lessons were Flexible Working Guidelines also provided to staff in Chile and Australia. Whistleblower disclosure and All new employees and contractors at Pacific Hydro investigation Procedure are informed of these Policies and Procedures in the Human Resources new starter induction. This Enterprise Wide Risk Management is an obligation for all members of the company, Framework as a part of the principles that we must know and respect. In addition, we conduct seminars to Parental Policy Chile and Parental Leave reinforce staff awareness. Policy Australia 12 Communication on Progress 2016 Our formal complaint procedures can be utilized by policies and procedures encourage employees employees and community members for concerns to seek and use appropriate mechanisms to relating to Pacific Hydro. Employee grievances are address any grievances. Any issue not adequately covered by our Grievance Procedure, Whistleblower addressed through these provisions can be taken Disclosure and Investigation Procedure, Equal to relevant external organizations. Opportunity Policy and Code of Conduct. These Scholarship and training Pacific Hydro believes that people are our Due to the global interactions between Chile, most valuable asset and therefore we seek to Brazil and Australia and our shareholders, develop our staff in line with business needs languages classes including English, Mandarin and personal aspirations. and Spanish are arranged. These classes are conducted either individually or in group The company promotes growth and setting. Currently in Australia there are 7 development opportunities for staff. This employees undertaking these classes and also helps to improve morale and employee in Chile, over 25% of the team take part in engagement. English classes. One of the policies is to offer a Scholarship and Training Program that supports staff to keep learning and achieve greater professional development. In the 7th version of the program in Chile, there were 11 beneficiaries. They studied preand post-graduate studies. Furthermore, onaverage, each worker receives 53.3 hours of training per year. In Australia, there is a budget allocation in each department for employee training that can be used for external courses and workshops to further advance technical and professional skills. The recent average annual expenditure for training in PHA is AU D$183,209. Communication on Progress 2016 13 Measurement of outcomes Targets are embedded in our Business Plan and are measured periodically throughout the year and also annually. What we said we would do Health and Safety Excellence: continue to build and sustain a healthy and safe culture and workplace, with zero harm to employees and others. What we did Pacific Hydro Team visiting State Power Investment Our H&S culture was strengthened with a number Corporation offices of safety leadership initiatives. On the average, every employee submitted more than 24 safety Cultural awareness training was provided to staff observations each, and our leadership team in each of our regions. Mandarin lessons were conducted more than 4 safety walks. provided to staff in Chile and Australia. All three business units made significant Chinese staff at the offices were trained in improvements in closing out gaps in our Health Spanish and local culture also. Safety and Environmental Management System (HSE MS), with all 12 management standards to A Representative Office of State Power Investment become active by the end of 2017. This will benefit Corporation (SPIC),was established in each the business by providing a framework. business unit. What we said we would do Total Group Target Total People Excellence: Employee engagement, Safety observations 5280 5950 maintaining a lean structure which fosters a culture of simplicity and agility. Safety walks 84 140 What we did What we said we would do An Operating Model was developed, defining ‘the People Excellence: smooth, efficient and timely Pacific Hydro way’ and providing a framework to transition of ownership with an agreed method of identify and execute the transformation required to leveraging from our owner’s expertise. maintain and enhance our business performance using a simplified, standardized and strengthened approach. What we did A formal Transition Team was established to manage business-critical transition items during the first three months of the new ownership with representation of the three business units. Key staff from each region visited our owner in China to better understand their operations and leverage from their expertise. Although the Transition Team was disbanded as we moved into steady-state operations, we continue to work with our owners on the implementation of a Pacific Hydro and State Power Investment Corporation signing an agreement during the visit of the number of longer term transition-related activities. President Xi Jiping to Chile 14 Communication on Progress 2016 President Bachelet meets our owners In April 2016, the Chairman of State Power Investment Corporation (SPIC), Mr. Wang Binghua, visited Chile. In this opportunity, in addition to visiting our assets and meeting the management and the staff, Mr. Wang was received at La Moneda Government Palace by the President of Chile, Michelle Bachelet, and the Minister of Energy of that moment, Máximo Pacheco. In these meetings, Mr. Wang promised authorities that SPIC and Pacific Hydro would continue to respect all Chilean laws, the environment and generate local benefits for communities that are close to Pacific Hydro’s projects in order to be successful and continue developing, constructing and operating projects in Chile. Opening Ceremony of State Power Investment Corporation Overseas Representative Office in Chile Communication on Progress 2016 15 Operational Structure in Chile In order to respond to new challenges by improving the quality standards across and expectations of the business, aligned the operating portfolio, with Pacific Hydro with world-class safety performance, the management being able to have closer control operational structure of the company has of the execution of frontline activities, as changed, bringing key frontline operations and well as assuring the training and competence maintenance activities in-house. This strategy of the people assigned to such tasks. The has resulted in a reduction of the external implementation of this strategy has also labour required to perform key frontline resulted in a simplification of the operational activities, by increasing the number of full time structure, by reducing the layers within the equivalent staff in Pacific Hydro structure. organization, in order to deliver more efficient reporting lines within the business. The new structure has helped achieve world-class asset management excellence, In 2016, Pacific Hydro Chile implemented a process that distinguishes Pacific Hydro as a company with review analysis under the Lean Methodology. The excellent labour practices. Lean analysis included 10 different processes across IT, Finance and Health and Safety areas, in We earned another important award by being one which we reduced costs and time in each process. of the best companies for working parents in the category SMEs of Foundation Chile Unido and Ya In addition, in Chile, we were awarded recognition magazine. This award is very relevant because it that highlights our programs and policies. One of provides feedback and inputs in how we can improve. the awards is the Carlos Vial Espantoso Award Communications Survey In Chile, during 2016, we conducted our first Internal Communications Survey for staff to provide feedback on the company’s internal communications. The results showed, staff satisfaction in relation to communication of strategic business information was an average of 80%. Furthermore, Pacific Hydro’s internal communication media received an average rating of 4.2 out of 5. Staff with Carlos Vial Espantoso recognition 16 Communication on Progress 2016 Pacific Hydro awarded In 2016, Pacific Hydro Chile received questionnaire was given to all parents at Pacific two important awards. We ranked among Hydro who have children under 15 years of age companies with the best labour practices in and a Human Resource survey was distributed. the notable “Carlos Vial Espantoso” Award, The President of Chile, Michelle Bachelet, and with over 16 years of trajectory in Chile. The relevant ministers participated in the ceremony. aim of this award is to show that focusing on people is good business. Winners were selected through interviews with H&S leaders and management, on-site visits and interviews with contractors. The ceremony was led by the Minister of Labour. Additionally, Pacific Hydro achieved fourth place among the best companies for working parents in the category SMEs of Foundation Chile Unido and Ya magazine. To select winners a Our Inclusion and Diversity Strategy currently Code of Conduct and Equal Opportunity Policy. focuses on gender, culture and work-life Our Global Senior Leadership Team (SLT) gender balance. Equal employment opportunity and antibreakdown is 6:3. discrimination are also specifically covered in our Table: Employee profile as at 31 December 2016 Australia Brazil Chile China Staff 49 12 93 34 13 31 Executive Manager 6 2 5 5 0 1 General Manager 4 0 2** 2 1 0 Director 2* 0 1 4 0 *Includes CEO **Includes Executive Chairman of Pacific Hydro Chile Communication on Progress 2016 17 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals As a global clean energy solutions provider, we develop, build and operate renewable energy Puma Working Table projects and sell electricity and carbon abatement Our commitment to local flora and fauna, has products to customers in our chosen markets. led us to expand our studies of protected species in the Upper Cachapoal Valley. Our new owner is fully committed to respecting the laws and the environment. We are committed We have been studying pumas in the to managing the impacts of our activities, and Cachapoal Valley.Scientific studies and strive to set an example of best environmental workshops conducted between 2014 and management practices for renewable energy, 2016 generated a Working Table with the based on principles of sustainable development. regional authorities led by the Agriculture and Livestock Service (SAG). Our Health, Safety, and Environment Policy addresses the prevention and management of The main objective of this Working Table environmental risks, while the Code of Conduct was to address the conflict between the requires all employees and Company Directors to Puma and the muleteers in the Upper respect and comply with our Health, Safety and Cachapoal Valley and to provide tools to Environmental Management System (HSE MS). resolve the conflict. Implementation Our HSE MS helps us identify all environmental impacts of constructing and operating projects and allows us to respond promptly and effectively to any known or new significant environmental impact caused while under our control. We have the responsibility to protect and improve the environment, and are committed to conducting our business in accordance with the spirit and letter of all applicable environmental laws and regulations. 18 Communication on Progress 2016 All Pacific Hydro Directors and employees are obliged All Business Units have developed initiatives related to observe the HSEMS as part of our Code of Conduct. to the reduction and/or measurement of greenhouse At an operational level, responsibility for environmental gas and energy. management is undertaken by relevant line managers, with additional support from dedicated environmental Measurement of outcomes professionals. Targets are embedded in our Business Plan and are measured periodically throughout the year and also We recognize the importance of educating and engaging annually. the broader community in environmental issues and we strongly advocate wind power, renewable energy, Since Pacific Hydro commenced operations in the action on climate change, and the environment. In Cachapoal Valley in Chile, we have studied the socioChile and Brazil, we speak at schools and community environmental impacts of our current assets and future groups, publish information and support studies on projects. These analyses have allowed us to identify local flora and fauna, and participate in other activities potential challenges which could arise as a result of that promote local environmental sustainability. our activity and take steps to minimise these impacts and ensure we are compliant with our HSE policy. Scientific Fund Seminar brings together students and the community During March 2016, a seminar was held to society, and flora and fauna of the Cachapoal discuss the results of the second and third Valley, where we operate. versions of the Scientific Fund of Pacific Hydro. The objective of this initiative was to increase knowledge of the culture, flora and fauna of the Cachapoal Valley. Regional authorities, members of the community and students of different universities and educational establishments of the country participated in this activity. Studies of amphibians, guanacos and the society of the Cachapoal were presented. Since the first version of the fund, a total of 20 initiatives presented by students throughout Chile have been awarded and the results are available to improve awareness about the Communication on Progress 2016 19 Our commitment to the local flora and fauna, has led us to expand our studies of protected species in the Upper Cachapoal Valley. In 2016, We prioritized the collection of information to learn more about the ecology of the short breast duck. In 2017, we incorporated studies that will allow us to understand its displacement, feeding and nesting preferences: with this information we can implement future measures to mitigate the impact on this species. What we said we would do Portfolio Excellence: Develop and build outstanding Pacific Hydro Australia Staff on site pipeline greenfield projects that provide portfolio benefits and achieve growth, with a strong focus on building scale and diversity throughout the portfolio using best capital management practices. Taralga Pacific Hydro acquired Taralga windfarm, What we did which has an installed capacity of 107 MW and began commercial operation in June We further progressed and delivered our development 2015. portfolio of renewable energy assets: In Chile, we started the construction of Punta Sierra The project has 51 wind turbines, and (82MW), our first wind farm in the country. produces enough energy to power The Environmental Impact Assessment for our Nido de approximately 45 thousand homes and Águilas hydro power plant in Chile continued. reduce CO2 emissions by more than 255 thousand tons per year. In Australia, we acquired Taralga wind farm (107MW), located in Golburn, New South Wales. We also In addition, Taralga has a long-term commenced construction of Yaloak South wind farm. community relations program in which funds were allocated for initiatives of In Brazil, we pursued the development of a cluster interest to local organizations and the strategy with a number of proposed wind farms like park’s direct neighbours. the Paraíso Azul and Paraíso Farol projects, located in the municipality of Touros, Río Grande do Norte state in NE Brazil. Given resource levels, infrastructure and our owners’ expertise as the largest solar operator in the world, we established a solar business in Australia and Chile. In Australia, we signed agreements for 1GW of greenfield solar and are actively pursuing further opportunities in both countries. 20 Communication on Progress 2016 What we said we would do Australia including electricity retailers and large corporate energy users. Help our customers to meet their climate change mitigation, obligations or targets by providing The projects we have built in Chile are all suitable products. registered under the UNFCCC and can trade Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) globally. What we did After joining the UNFCCC platform, Chacayes runAfter its approval in March 2016, a full retail ofriver hydro power plant became one of two business was launched in Australia, primarily projects in Latin America authorized to sell bonds focused on the Small to Medium Enterprises (SME) to natural persons, in order to mitigate their impacts. and Commercial and Industrial (C&I) sectors, as well as some residential customers. What we said we would do The business developed a new retail brand, Embed sustainable procurement practices. ‘Tango,’ in late 2016 and completed the year having exceeded all its milestone targets. What we did Our focuses for 2017 are on completing the brand transition, further developing systems, increasing Procurement Policy at the global level was Tango’s presence in its chosen sectors and launched. This includes requirements for our supporting the rapid growth of Pacific Hydro’s suppliers regarding respect for the environment generation business in Australia. and communities in which we operate. We also sold Large Scale Generation Certificates These requirements apply to all suppliers. (LGCs) to a range of large electricity customers in Lollapalooza During 2016, Pacific Hydro renewed the sustainable partnership with Lotus Producciones in Chile. This company is responsible for presenting among other shows the Lollapalooza Rock Festival and Cirque du Soleil. The partnership establishes that Pacific Hydro is responsible for mitigating the emissions of all shows of 2016. For the second year in a row, Pacific Hydro also participated in Lollapalooza’s “Green Village” which brings together associations committed to sustainability. Our company was able to raise awareness among young people about the effects of climate change emissions and how renewable energies contribute to a greener world. Communication on Progress 2016 21 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals A new antitrust Law was promulgated in Chile and We are committed to complying with all relevant laws, in order to comply with this law we informed the regulations and standards, with various compliance authorities about the history of our Directors. mechanisms built into our Enterprise Wide Risk Management Framework to ensure we are aware of All new employees and contractors at Pacific Hydro and meeting all compliance obligations. are trained in Policies and Procedures as part of the Human Resources new starter induction. This is an Our Code of Conduct provides direction on the obligation for all members of the company, as a part ethical behaviours expected of our employees of the principles that we must know and respect. and Directors. As part of our H R Policies and Procedures induction, all new employees are required to review the Code of Conduct. The What we said we would do Code of Conduct outlines our approach and Ensure a transparent governance structure. responsibilities to stakeholders and guides employees and contractors on issues such as bribery and anticompetitive behaviour. What we did The scope of the Board Charter is reviewed Our Whistleblower Disclosure and Investigation periodically to ensure ongoing relevance and Procedure covers allegations of improper or avoid duplication. corrupt conduct, as well as breaches of Company policy, the Code of Conduct and relevant laws. State Power Investment Corporation Overseas Offices in Implementation Zhuhai, China In Australia, Pacific Hydro provides periodic training on Australian Competition and Consumer Law. In Chile, Pacific Hydro initiated the procedure to become certified as a company that complies with Law 20393, Criminal Responsibility of Companies regarding the crimes of money laundering, financing terrorism, and bribery of national or international public employees. We also initiated the procedure of establishing a Compliance Manual and designated a Compliance Officer to ensure the fulfilment of our policies. 22 Communication on Progress 2016 CONTACT US For further information about this document, please contact Loreto Rivera, Executive Manager, Corporate Affairs. lorivera@pacifichydro.cl AUSTRALIA Floor 11, 474 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000 Australia +61 3 8621 6000 BRAZIL Alameda Santos, 700Cj. 62Condominio Edificio Trianon Corporate Cerqueira César Sao Paulo SP CE P 01418-100 Brazil +55 11 3149 4646 CHILE Av. Isidora Goyenechea 3520, Piso 9, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile. +56 2 2519 4200 Communication on Progress 2016 23 24 Communication on Progress 2016
