Business Inﬁnite and sustainability performance report 2016 value Ideas. Materialized. Full contents are listed under this ﬂap. About this report Reporting period Financial year 2016 (January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016) Reporting cycle Annual Date of publication June 2017 Report scope The data or ﬁnancials relate to Constellium worldwide falling within the scope of consolidation at December 31, 2016. Report content The content of this report is based on our business data and the results of our dialog with stakeholders, the Global Reporting Initiative G4 requirements and other sustainability ratings and rankings. Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 guidelines – Core Assurance The report is in compliance with the GRI G4 guidelines and maintains code of reporting as advised by GRI. It is not externally assured. Contact For further information please contact: communications@constellium.com or sustainability@constellium.com www.constellium.com Inside this report Overview Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s insights 02 Key ﬁgures 04 Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s insights 05 Highlights of the year 06 Creating value throughout the life-cycle of aluminium 08 Our network worldwide 10 Governance in focus Board of Directors 13 Executive Committee 15 Business in focus Innovation – Our driving force 18 Business unit perspectives: Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products 20 Aerospace and Transportation 22 Automotive Structures and Industry 24 Manufacturing Excellence – A new approach to production 26 EHS – Our top priority 27 Operational excellence – Driving improvement through Manufacturing Excellence 28 Sustainability in focus Reﬁning the way we manage sustainability 31 Our sustainability targets: overview 32 Sustainability highlights 34 Our sustainability targets: Products 36 People 38 Operations 41 Responsible business 43 Performance in focus Consolidated income statement 47 Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 48 Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows 49 Share information 50 Sustainability performance 51 GRI content index 56 Memberships 61 Forward-looking statements 61 Constellium 01 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Introduction We are Constellium Overview We are a global leader in aluminium solutions whose business is to materialize today’s and Governance in focus tomorrow’s ideas. For us, aluminium is more than a metal. It is part of the solution for tomorrow’s lighter, faster economy. Abundant, endlessly recyclable and Business in focus reusable, aluminium’s unique properties mean that, together with our partners, we can shape a future of inﬁnite possibilities and inﬁnite opportunities, and create inﬁnite value for our Sustainability in focus customers and beyond. Performance in focus 02 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s insights Improved performance, excellent prospects From a ﬁnancial perspective, How did the strategy Key points how did the business perform unfold during the year? Marked improvement in ﬁnancial in 2016? We advanced several strategic initiatives performance, with Adjusted EBITDA Financially, this has been a year of in 2016, laying the foundations for future up by 10%. marked improvement. Our Adjusted success while also starting to reap EBITDA grew 10% during the year to the rewards of investments made in Well-positioned to reap rewards €377 million, while volumes were stable. previous years. of past investments in markets rich with potential. This performance was achieved on We opened new facilities to meet the back of many major operational the growing demand for automotive Committed to be free cash ﬂow improvements, but I would like to make aluminium sheet in both North America positive in 2019, to generate over special mention of the good progress and Europe, supporting our worldwide €500 million Adjusted EBITDA made by our Packaging and Automotive automotive growth strategy. At Neufin 2020. Rolled Products business unit, Brisach in France, the new ﬁnishing particularly at our Muscle Shoals site. line which was inaugurated in October We also saw strong momentum and is expected to increase our total How do you see Constellium, higher proﬁtability at Automotive annual production capacity by 100kt. after your ﬁrst year as CEO? Structures and Industry, which has Meanwhile, in Bowling Green, Kentucky, This is a very exciting time for everybody more than doubled its Adjusted EBITDA we started to ramp-up the 100kt Auto at Constellium, and I’m honored and in ﬁve years to €102 million and recorded Body Sheet ﬁnishing line with our pleased to lead the company into what nominations of over €1.2 billion in value partner UACJ. These new lines are is shaping up to be a dynamic future. in 2016. Finally, we enjoyed solid results critical milestones in our goal to As a former executive in the aluminium at Aerospace and Transportation become a global leader in Auto Body industry, I already knew that Constellium thanks to higher shipments, improved Sheet solutions. had exceptional assets. But the last operational performance, and focused commercial efforts. We have also taken signiﬁcant steps 12 months have shown me that to support the outstanding growth Constellium’s strengths run even of our Automotive Structures and deeper than I thought – our industrial Industry business unit. We announced roots and expertise, longstanding plans to build a new greenﬁeld plant relationships with our customers, at San Luis Potosí, Mexico, to meet outstanding R&T capabilities, and fast-growing demand from the expanding dedicated employees give us unique auto industry in Mexico. With production advantages. We have leading positions expected to start in 2018, this facility is our in growing markets that are rich with second recent major commitment to the potential – and we’re well-positioned As we reap the rewards of industry in North America, following the to achieve further success. our past investments, we are announcement last year of our plans to build a new automotive structures plant focusing on executing our in Bartow County, Georgia. In Europe, strategy and on strengthening we invested to increase capacity in our ﬁnancial situation.” our plant at Decin, Czech Republic. Constellium 03 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Can we expect to see However, although our safety results changes to the strategy? remain among the best in the industry, We are in the right markets and we have seen a degradation in our 2016 We will continue to focus on our three recordable case rate, which is a major have leading positions with main engines: aerospace, automotive signiﬁcant growth potential.” downside for all of us. Environment, and packaging. In all these markets, Health and Safety remains our utmost we will strive to provide our customers priority and we approach the months with high-end materials and solutions ahead with a renewed commitment In aerospace, we are focusing our that meet their evolving needs. We Overview to improvement. growth potential on high value-added will continue to focus on the highest products and supply chain integration. value-added products, such as body sheet, structures, battery enclosures What are your hopes The undisputed leader in aluminium and ambitions for 2017? and Crash Management Systems for the lithium technology, Airware® is giving automotive industry, Airware® technology 2016 was a pivotal year for Constellium. us unique development opportunities. for aerospace, and bottle cans and We have passed the peak of capital Finally, we are targeting high closures for the packaging market. In spending and our focus now switches to value-added product niches in our addition, we will be more aggressively realizing the beneﬁts of our investments. Transportation, Industry and Defense developing our TID business. The key aspects of our business – our Governance in focus (TID) markets where we expect to markets, products, plants and people – signiﬁcantly increase our presence. What are the key challenges are closely aligned. We have the right that lie ahead? team in place to address the challenges How has the strategy translated ahead and achieve our strategy, and we Our main challenge is our debt, which can rely on the dedication and talent of into customer relationships? is too high, and we therefore need to our employees worldwide. All this fuels Customer connectivity and intimacy are be rigorous and disciplined in how we real conﬁdence for the year ahead. key to our business. We are reinforcing use our resources, capital and people. our capacity to co-design, develop and To this end, we committed to limit our Looking forward, we expect to record engineer the best solutions for our clients’ investments to €275 million in 2017 high single digit Adjusted EBITDA growth needs, through our best-in-class (€80 million less than 2016). We took in 2017 as we execute our strategy, innovation centers in Europe and in the US. some ﬁrst steps to simplify our corporate continuously improve our operational Our renewed long-term partnership with structure, reduce our debt and improve performance, and take advantage of Airbus is one example of this winning our ﬁnancial ﬂexibility. Today, all our attractive and stable fundamentals. Business in focus strategy. We share the same approach bonds are held at Constellium’s level and Our commitment is to be free cash ﬂow with our automotive customers. we do not have a bond maturity before positive in 2019, and to generate over 2021. We also launched Project 2019, €500 million of Adjusted EBITDA in Customers greatly appreciate our 2020. As we build on our strong a cash improvement initiative focused outstanding innovation capacity. We offer relationships with customers and on three core areas – reducing costs, best-in-class research centers in France continue to deliver high-quality lowering trade working capital and and more recently in the US, where we products, solutions and services that reducing capital spending – and I am opened a new hub in Plymouth, Michigan meet their needs, I am conﬁdent we conﬁdent this will help us achieve our to be closer to our North American are on the right path. goal of positive free cash ﬂow in 2019. customers. In addition, with Constellium’s All these initiatives are critical to creating University Technology Center at Brunel shareholder value, another key focus University London, we have the unique Sustainability in focus for the year to come. capacity to prototype extruded alloys on full-scale equipment with unprecedented Jean-Marc Germain speed and time to market. What progress did you Chief Executive Ofﬁcer make on sustainability? We also go where our customers are, especially in the automotive sector. Sustainability is at the heart of As automakers expand their global everything we do. Aluminium, being manufacturing footprint, we are playing inﬁnitely recyclable, is an inherently our part by expanding our own industrial sustainable material, and we aim to base and technical support capabilities, ensure that Constellium itself operates servicing them from our plants in to the highest standards across the key Our commitment to the United Nations Europe, North America and China – areas of products, people, operations Global Compact the latest examples being our new and responsibility. I am proud to report “For the ﬁfth consecutive year we support the that we made good progress in several Performance in focus Automotive Structures plants in Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Georgia and Mexico. areas, including recycling, community Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human rights, initiatives and employee engagement. labor, environment and anti-corruption. These principles lie at the heart of our commitment to sustainability. In this report we communicate on our progress and have referenced the UNGC Communication on Progress logo where applicable.” 04 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Key ﬁgures Unlocking value Group sales Adjusted EBITDA** Full-time employees (FTE) €4.7bn €377m ~11,000 ~ Approximate 377 5,153* 343* 4,743 275 3,666 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 * Includes Wise Metals’ sales from the date of ** Adjusted EBITDA is a ‘Non-GAAP measure’. acquisition, which occurred on January 5, 2015. For a reconciliation of this measure to ‘Net Income’, see the reconciliation in our publicly ﬁled earnings press release for Q4 2016. 1 1 6 1 5 4 3 Adjusted Revenue by FTE by business 3 EBITDA by geographic business unit unit† region 3 2 2 2 1 Packaging and 1 Packaging and 1 France 4 Switzerland Automotive Rolled Products Automotive Rolled Products 38% 7% 52% €201m 2 USA 5 Eastern Europe 2 Aerospace and Transportation 2 Aerospace and Transportation 25% 7% 27% €103m 3 Automotive Structures and Industry 3 Automotive Structures and Industry 3 Germany 6 Asia 21% €102m 21% 2% † The difference between the sum of reported business unit’s Adjusted EBITDA and the Group Adjusted EBITDA is related to Holdings and Corporate. Constellium 05 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s insights A disciplined use of our resources Overview From a ﬁnancial perspective, how of our recent capital investments, which The project will look across the entire Governance in focus did Constellium perform in 2016? include two new automotive ﬁnishing lines, organization for opportunities. We see a new pusher furnace in Ravenswood, real potential in areas like metal recovery, 2016 was a solid year for Constellium. and new automotive structures plants equipment optimization, purchasing, We increased Adjusted EBITDA by in Georgia and Mexico. We expect these and working capital and have already 10%, reaching €377 million for the year. investments to drive signiﬁcant Adjusted begun working on a number of projects. Our Packaging and Automotive Rolled EBITDA growth and, together with our With respect to capital expenditures, Products business unit grew Adjusted cash improvement initiatives, to allow us Constellium has invested heavily over EBITDA by 10% on the back of a notable to strengthen our liquidity and deleverage the past several years to ensure a strong turnaround at Muscle Shoals. The the balance sheet. future. After investing approximately Aerospace and Transportation business Business in focus €350 million in each of 2015 and 2016, unit offset headwinds with signiﬁcant cost reductions and maintained Was the recent reﬁnancing capital spending in 2017 is expected to a ﬁrst step in that direction? decrease by €80 million to €275 million. Adjusted EBITDA equal to the prior year. Our Automotive Structures and Industry Deﬁnitely yes. Early in 2017, we successfully business unit increased Adjusted EBITDA completed an offering of $650 million, What can investors expect by 27%, reaching €102 million – a record 6.625% senior unsecured notes due 2025. over the next few years? performance. So overall, we are very Constellium used the net proceeds of this We are committed to regular and pleased with our 2016 results. offering to repurchase and redeem all of transparent communication on our the Wise 8.75% senior secured notes due strategic direction and ﬁnancial What are your ﬁnance priorities? 2018 held at our Muscle Shoals’ facility. performance. Our ﬁnance priorities are three-fold: This reﬁnancing had an immediate We remain highly conﬁdent in the Sustainability in focus positive impact on our operations, Company’s future. We expect to deliver First, a sharp focus on cash and free ﬁnancial ﬂexibility and capital structure. high single digit growth in Adjusted cash ﬂow. This will include a particular It allowed us to fully integrate Wise into the EBITDA annually over the next three years, emphasis on reducing costs, trade Constellium family, which reduces costs culminating in over €500 million in 2020. working capital, and capital spending. and increases our ﬂexibility in managing We are also committed to generating To this end, we have launched a cash cash. It also reduces our interest cost. positive free cash ﬂow in 2019. We are enhancement initiative, entitled ‘Project 2019’ to help us achieve our Together with the repayment of the Wise 100% focused on delivering on these target of positive free cash ﬂow in 2019. PIK/Toggle notes in December 2016, commitments and on increasing our interest cost will be approximately shareholder value. Second, rigorous capital discipline. €27 million lower annually. And it extends This will include a combination of the 2018 debt maturity to 2025. As a result optimizing existing assets – doing more of this transaction, our nearest bond with what we have – and increasing our maturity is not until 2021. Performance in focus visibility on the outcomes of future expenditures. And overall, we will spend Can you tell us more about less. 2016 represented the peak of our Peter R. Matt Project 2019? Chief Financial Ofﬁcer capital spending. Project 2019 aims to achieve positive free Third, strengthening our balance sheet. cash ﬂow in 2019 or earlier. Project 2019 This will come through solid operating will target reductions in three areas: costs, performance and harvesting the beneﬁts working capital and capital expenditures. 06 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Highlights of the year Adding value across the business Serving Mexico’s growing auto industry By 2019, Mexico’s auto industry is expected to produce nearly ﬁve million cars a year, making it one of the largest in the world. We have announced plans to invest approximately $10 million in a new and readily-expandable manufacturing facility in San Luis Potosí to supply automotive structural components. The new plant will enable us to respond to increasing demand Adding capacity to meet for lightweight, high-strength aluminium Crash Management the needs of automotive Systems and automotive structures in Mexico. customers in Europe… In France, we inaugurated a new A lighter BMW 5 Series… Auto Body Sheet ﬁnishing line at Neuf-Brisach. With a production The new BMW 5 Series, including capacity of 100kt, this facility is its hybrid and touring models, designed to meet the growing demand is 137lbs (62kg) lighter than the from European OEM customers. previous model, thanks to the use of lightweight materials such as aluminium. We are the primary supplier of aluminium body sheets, providing the coils used for the inner and outer applications such as doors, roofs, fenders, deck lids and structural parts. We also designed and produce the rear Crash Management System. …and in the US We opened a new 225,000 sq ft …and Peugeot SUV manufacturing plant in Bowling Green, Kentucky with our joint venture partner, UACJ Corporation of Japan. This strategically located facility has an Peugeot’s new 3008 SUV features an aluminium Crash Management System and body sheets provided by Constellium. This compact SUV is 62kg winning praise for its inspired design, Thanks to the use of lightweight materials initial capacity of 100kt and represents such as aluminium, the new BMW 5 Series is a signiﬁcant step towards securing optimized efﬁciency and a range of 137lbs (62kg) lighter than the previous model. our position as a major player in the high-tech equipment features. fast-growing North American Auto Body Sheet market. 200kt Our investment in our plants at Neuf-Brisach in France and at Bowling Green in the US will increase our production capacity by up to 200kt, and will help us meet the needs of the automotive industry around the world. Constellium 07 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Opening our new technology y center of excellence The new Constellium University Technology Center (UTC) at Brunel University London is a dedicated center enter of excellence for the design, development pment and prototyping of aluminium alloys s and automotive structural components.ents. Overview Featuring industrial-sized aluminiumum casting and extrusion equipment, the UTC is expected to reduce development times by at least 50%, %, closing the gap between fundamental ntal R&T and series production. New long-term aerospace partnership with Airbus Governance in focus We have worked with Airbus for many years – a collaboration that has cemented our position as the leading partner for aerospace aluminium products and solutions. In March 2016, this long-term partnership took another step forward, with the signing of a new contract to supply a broad range of advanced aluminium rolled products for airframes. These include wing skin panels, aero sheets for fuselage panels, as well as rectangular and pre-machined plates for structural components. Boosting our total recycling capacity We installed a new recycling furnace This capacity, which enables the plant at our Muscle Shoals, Alabama facility to recycle products at their end-of-life in order to expand our recycling as well as scrap from customers’ capabilities in North America. recycling, is a key element in our Business in focus With this new furnace, Muscle Shoals commitment to ‘close the loop’ in will have the capacity to recycle the beverage can recycling. See page 21 equivalent of nearly 20 billion cans for more about our new Constellium per year – almost one-ﬁfth of the Metal Procurement business. cans sold in the US. 20bn Muscle Shoals will have the capacity Sustainability in focus to recycle the equivalent of nearly 20 billion cans per year. De Demonstrating our strengths in 3D Thanks Th to new advanced software, automakers can now ex explore our portfolio of aluminium sheet and extrusion-based pr products in 3D. These vivid, interactive visuals offer a unique vie view of our automotive products and are downloadable as an app from the Apple App store and Google Play, and are av available on our website. www.constellium.com Performance in focus 08 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Creating value throughout the life-cycle of aluminium Our role Aluminium is the world’s third most abundant element and a vital material in 21st century manufacturing. Here, we explain the various stages of production and outline our role in the process. We are committed to improving the overall footprint aluminium’s life rint of aluminiums life-cycle cycle and to creating value for customers, suppliers and society. 1 6 Recycling cycling Extraction, reﬁning and smelting Casting, 2 rolling and extrusion Constellium inﬂuences Constellium directly controls Constellium indirectly controls 1. Extraction, reﬁning and smelting 2. Casting, rolling, extrusion and 3. Product design and manufacturing Extraction, reﬁning and smelting are component fabrication R&T and production teams work to leverage production steps which create value for raw Casting: Other metals are added to the molten aluminium’s inherent advantages which include material suppliers and local communities. aluminium to create customized alloys, and then lightness, ﬂexibility, durability and recyclability. Extraction, reﬁning and smelting can also have cast into billets or slabs. C-TEC, our world-class technology center, impacts related to biodiversity and human rights Rolling: Slabs are rolled to produce plates, is at the heart of our commitment to continuous in bauxite mining, waste management in alumina sheets or coils which are then used to produce innovation. Through C-TEC, we work closely with reﬁning and greenhouse gas emissions in cans, car hoods or aircraft wings. our customers to develop, produce and deliver aluminium smelting. innovative and sustainable aluminium solutions. Extrusion: Billets are transformed into extruded We also offer product design capabilities, As a buyer of slabs, billets and ingots, we have products which can be then used in products particularly for component fabrication in developed our own responsible purchasing such as Crash Management Systems. our automotive structures business. policy. However, we recognize that this is not enough to cover the whole value chain. This is Components fabrication: In some of our plants, why we became a founding member of the we go beyond semi-fabrication and machining, Aluminium Stewardship Initiative. and assemble complete components such as Crash Management Systems. In our plants, we work hard to mitigate the potential impact of our operations. Constellium 09 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Understanding our role in the value chain: Constellium inﬂuences Constellium directly controls Constellium indirectly controls Overview Governance in focus Collecting 5 and sorting 4 Business in focus Product design Prod t Product 3 and manufacturing use us Constellium inﬂuences Constellium indirectly controls Constellium directly controls Sustainability in focus 4. Product use 5. Collecting and sorting 6. Recycling Our products are used extensively in the Recycling aluminium within the Aluminium can be endlessly recycled to deliver aerospace, packaging and automotive manufacturing process loop makes sense new products with the same properties as the sectors – reducing weight and improving fuel both economically and environmentally. original products. consumption in a large range of applications We have rigorous processes in place to collect There are three sources of recycled aluminium: that enhance products and improve lives. and sort scrap produced at our own facilities and Scrap produced during our processes We have developed stable, diversiﬁed and also offer these services to customers, creating longstanding customer relationships value by reducing costs and enhancing the Scrap produced during our customers’ through which we deliver products that offer recycling of products into new ones. processes improved strength, lightness and durability. Scrap recovered at the end of a product’s life Efﬁcient collection and sorting systems are Of particular relevance to the transportation critical for the effective recycling of end-of-life sector, our material reduces weight, We recycle all of these categories, with a focus scrap and also help retain the value of the alloy thus leading to a signiﬁcant reduction on end-of-life recycling. We believe we can in the loop. Performance in focus in CO2 emissions during use. further improve recycling through collaboration and partnership with all relevant stakeholders including customers, associations and research centers. 10 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Our network worldwide A global sector leader Constellium operates a global network of production facilities, state-of-the-art technology centers, and ofﬁces around the world to serve our customers where they are. Our main plants around the world North America Europe Asia Van Buren, MI Ravenswood, WV Singen, Germany Neuf-Brisach, France Changchun, China – Produces advanced – Recognized supplier to – Integrated hot/ – Fully integrated, – Joint venture with Engley automotive structures the highly demanding cold-rolling line highly advanced – Provides global customers and Crash Management defense industry – Recognized for closure rolling capabilities with CMS and other Systems (CMS) – Wide coil capabilities stock and functional – Dedicated primarily to can structural components – Features advanced and largest stretcher surfaces stock and Auto Body Sheet prototyping and worldwide enabling – One of the largest extrusion – World-class recycling development capabilities unique product creation presses in the world center – Advanced and highly Plymouth, MI Muscle Shoals, AL productive integrated Valais, Switzerland – Automotive hub – Widest strip mill in the US CMS manufacturing line – Precision plate shop – R&T center to support – World-class – Our largest Automotive for general engineering automotive OEMs recycling center Structures plant products – Sales ofﬁce and – Leading large proﬁle technical support for San Luis Potosí, Issoire, France supplier for high-speed the joint venture with Mexico – One of the world’s two train manufacturers UACJ Corporation – Advanced automotive leading aerospace plate – Casthouses in Steg structures manufacturing mills, with wing skin and Chippis Bowling Green, KY – Expected to start capabilities – Plate shop and casthouse – Joint venture with production in 2018 – Airware® casthouse qualiﬁed for aerospace UACJ Corporation for low-density alloys – Auto Body Sheet White, GA – Recycling facility Decin, Czech Republic ﬁnishing line – Advanced automotive – Europe’s largest hard structures manufacturing Voreppe, France alloys extrusion plant – Started production in 2017 – C-TEC, world-class – Recycling facility Key technology center – Casthouse unit Plant Soft alloys extrusions, Ofﬁce Europe – Five plants supplying Technology center proﬁles internally (for Automotive Structures) Joint venture and to third parties Constellium 11 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Three core business units Overview Packaging and Automotive Aerospace and Automotive Structures Rolled Products Transportation and Industry Develops, provides and recycles Provides technologically advanced Produces advanced solutions for the aluminium sheets and coils for aluminium alloys with wide global automotive industry, including Governance in focus packaging applications (beverage applications across the global Crash Management Systems and and food cans, closures, foils) as aerospace, defense, transportation other structural and safety parts well as automotive solutions, including and industrial sectors. The business and extrusions. This business unit also high-performance products for Auto unit offers a wide range of products manufactures large proﬁles mainly for Body Sheet and heat exchangers. including plates, sheets and road and rail transportation, energy In addition, the business unit recycles extrusions which allow Constellium and other industrial applications. end-of-life products, such as used to provide tailored solutions, Constellium complements this product beverage cans. pre-machining and other added range with a comprehensive offering of value services to its customers. downstream technology and services, including pre-machining, surface treatment and logistic support services. Pages 20–21 Pages 22–23 Pages 24–25 Business in focus Revenue €m Revenue €m Revenue €m 2,748 1,355 1,047 1,002 2,498 1,197 921 1,302 1,576 2014 2015** 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Adjusted EBITDA* €m Adjusted EBITDA* €m Adjusted EBITDA* €m Sustainability in focus 201 103 103 102 183 91 80 73 118 2014 2015** 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Key clients Key clients Key clients – Amcor – BMW Group – Airbus – Pilatus – Audi – Jaguar Land Rover – Anheuser-Busch – Can-Pack – Boeing – Ryerson – BMW Group – PSA Peugeot Citroën InBev – Crown – Bombardier – SpaceX – Daimler – Robert Bosch – Ardagh Group – Daimler – Dassault Aviation – Embraer – Fiat Chrysler – Stadler Rail Performance in focus – Audi – General Motors – Lockheed Martin – ThyssenKrupp Automobiles – Valeo – Ball – Valeo – Ford – Volkswagen – General Motors * Adjusted EBITDA is a ‘Non-GAAP measure’. For a reconciliation of this measure to ‘Net Income’, see the reconciliation in our publicly ﬁled earnings press release for Q4 2016. ** Includes Wise Metals’ sales from the date of acquisition, which occurred on January 5, 2015. 12 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Governance in focus Constellium 13 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Board of Directors A strong leadership team Overview The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the management of the Company, the general conduct of the Company’s business and its corporate governance structure. The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide guidance to the Executive Director, who is entrusted with the day-to-day management of the Company. Governance in focus Richard B. Evans Jean-Marc Germain Michiel Brandjes Martha Brooks Philippe Guillemot Business in focus Chairman Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr. Evans has served as Mr. Germain has served Mr. Brandjes has served as Ms. Brooks was appointed Mr. Guillemot has served as Chairman of our Board as an Executive Director a member of our Board of Director in June 2016. a member of our Board of since December 2012 of the Board of Directors Directors since June 2014. Directors since May 2013. and as a member of our since June 2016 and as Board of Directors since Chief Executive Ofﬁcer January 2011. since July 2016. Sustainability in focus Peter F. Hartman Guy Maugis John Ormerod Werner P. Paschke Lori A. Walker Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Performance in focus Mr. Hartman has served as Mr. Maugis has served Mr. Ormerod has served as Mr. Paschke has served as Ms. Walker has served as a member of our Board of as a member of our a member of our Board of a member of our Board of a member of our Board of Directors since June 2014. Board of Directors since Directors since June 2014. Directors since May 2013. Directors since June 2014. January 2011. Illustrations by Marie-Ange Barbet 14 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Director independence However, our Board of Directors – approval of the 2015 Annual Accounts; We maintain a one-tier Board of has determined that, under current – approval of ﬁling of Form 20-F with Directors consisting of Non-Executive NYSE listing standards regarding the SEC; Directors and an Executive Director independence (which we are not (each a ‘Director’). Under Dutch law, currently subject to), and taking into – approval of the draft agenda the Board of Directors is responsible account any applicable committee for the 2016 Constellium Annual for the policy-making and management standards, as of December 31, 2016, General Meeting of Shareholders, of the Company. The Non-Executive Messrs. Evans, Brandjes, Guillemot, including nomination of Executive Directors supervise and provide Hartman, Maugis, Ormerod, Paschke and Non-Executive Directors; guidance to the Executive Director. and Ms. Brooks and Ms. Walker – ﬁnance reports and items; are independent Directors. As a foreign private issuer under the – list of restricted countries; Securities and Exchange Commission Board meetings in 2016 (SEC) rules, we are not required to – strategy of the Company; In 2016 the Board of Directors held have independent Directors on our 10 meetings and reviewed a number – reports from the business units; Board of Directors, (but it is required of matters including: and that our Audit Committee consist of independent Directors). – reports from the Board’s Committees; – review of 2017 budget. – reports from the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer – including Environment, Health and Safety; Our Committees Human Resources and Nominating/Corporate Remuneration Committee Governance Committee Audit Committee On December 31, 2016, the Nominating/ Members: Members: On December 31, 2016, the Remuneration Corporate Governance Committee consisted On December 31, 2016, the Audit Committee Committee consisted of four Directors: of three Directors: consisted of ﬁve Independent Directors – Peter F. Hartman (Chairman) (according to the NYSE requirements): – Martha Brooks Members: – Richard B. Evans (Chairman) – Werner P. Paschke (Chairman) – Richard B. Evans – Michiel Brandjes – Martha Brooks – Guy Maugis – John Ormerod – Philippe Guillemot Function: – John Ormerod Some of the principal duties and responsibilities Function: – Lori A. Walker Some of the principal duties and of the Remuneration Committee include: responsibilities of the Nominating/ Function: – review, evaluate and make recommendations Corporate Governance Committee include: Our Board of Directors has determined that to the Board regarding compensation policies at least one member is an ‘audit committee – identify and recommend to the Board and establish performance-based incentives ﬁnancial expert’ as deﬁned by the SEC candidates to be elected or appointed that support our long-term goals, objectives and also meets the additional criteria for to the Board; and interests; independence of audit committee members – draw up selection criteria and appointment – review, set and approve corporate goals and set forth in Rule 10A-3(b)(1) under the 1934 procedures for Board members; objectives relevant to the compensation of Securities Exchange Act. – recommend Committee Chairman the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer; Some of the principal duties and responsibilities – review and approve the compensation of and membership appointments and of the Audit Committee include overseeing all employees who report directly to the reappointments for consideration by and monitoring the following: Chief Executive Ofﬁcer; the Board; – review and make recommendations to the – periodically assess the size and composition – our ﬁnancial reporting process and of the Board, and make a proposal for a Board with respect to incentive and equityinternal control system; composition proﬁle of the Board; based compensation plans; – the integrity of our consolidated – make recommendations to the Board – provide oversight concerning selection of ﬁnancial statements; with respect to determinations of Director ofﬁcers, management succession planning, – the independence, qualiﬁcations and independence; expense accounts, indemniﬁcation and performance of our independently – conduct the Board’s annual governance insurance matters, and separation packages; registered public accounting ﬁrm; review with respect to the Company; and assist the Board in reviewing succession – the performance of our internal – establish an appropriate process for planning and the talent development process; audit function; and oversee the self-assessment of the – assess compensation philosophy and policies – our related party transactions; Board (including Board self-assessment, to monitor risk management; and – review of our risk assessment and related Committee self-assessments and Director – prepare responses to any shareholder processes; and assessments), and oversee the evaluation proposals relating to remuneration policies – our compliance with legal, ethical and of management; of the Company. regulatory matters. – conduct timely succession planning for the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer; – supervise the policy of the Board on the selection criteria and appointment procedures for senior management; and – consider questions of possible conﬂicts of interest of Board members and of senior executives. Constellium 15 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Executive Committee Diverse expertise Overview Our Executive Committee focuses on strategy, commercial developments, program execution, ﬁnancial and competitive program, organizational development and Group-wide policies. Governance in focus Jean-Marc Germain Peter R. Matt Ingrid Joerg Arnaud Jouron Paul Warton Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Executive Vice President President, Aerospace President, Packaging and President, Automotive and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and Transportation Automotive Rolled Products Structures and Industry Business in focus business unit business unit business unit Sustainability in focus Peter Basten Nicolas Brun Béatrice Charon Jack Clark Corinne Fornara Executive Vice President, Vice President, Vice President, Senior Vice President, Vice President and Strategy, Business Communications Business Planning Manufacturing Excellence Group Controller Development, Research and Chief Technical Ofﬁcer and Technology Performance in focus Ryan Jurkovic Jeremy Leach Vittorio Rossetti Senior Vice President and Vice President and Group Vice President and Chief Human Resources General Counsel Chief Information Ofﬁcer Ofﬁcer Illustrations by Marie-Ange Barbet 16 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Code of Conduct Business Governance Our worldwide Code of Employee Executive Committee and Business Conduct sets out the Our Executive Committee focuses on strategy, commercial developments, standard of behavior we expect from program execution, ﬁnancial and competitive program, organizational our employees. The Code governs development and Group-wide policies. the way Constellium acts in business, and how we expect our business Members: Function: partners, customers and suppliers – Chief Executive Ofﬁcer – reviews all strategic issues and to behave. It applies to all Constellium – Business Unit Presidents evaluates all signiﬁcant proposed employees, subject to applicable acquisitions or divestments, local law. – Executive Vice President ﬁnancial restructuring, alliances Compliance with the Code is essential and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and strategic partnerships; to preserving and enhancing the – Executive Vice President, Strategy, – develops and monitors Company’s reputation as a responsible Business Development and R&T implementation of key strategic, corporate citizen and, ultimately, – Senior Vice President and ﬁnancial, investment and to maximizing shareholder value. Chief Human Resources Ofﬁcer organizational decisions; For suppliers, we have developed – Senior Vice President, – controls the execution of the a speciﬁc Code of Conduct. Manufacturing Excellence strategic plan and of the budget; and and Chief Technical Ofﬁcer Whistleblower policy – as and when required, submits – Vice President and Group reports, proposals and We implemented a whistleblower General Counsel recommendations on all matters policy to foster an environment where – Vice President, Communications within its scope of responsibility our employees can act without fear to the Board of Directors. of retaliation and report wrongdoing or – Vice President, Business Planning suspected wrongdoing or irregularities – Vice President and Group Controller of a ﬁnancial, accounting, banking – Vice President and Chief Information or corruption nature in Constellium Ofﬁcer to a reporting ofﬁcial. To facilitate this reporting, we have established an external hotline in all the countries and languages we have operations in. Insider Trading policy We have an Insider Trading policy which sets out the restrictions on trading in Constellium securities and the use of inside information. Business in focus Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 17 Performance in focus Sustainability in focus Business in focus Governance in focus Overview 18 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Innovation Our driving force Abundant, endlessly recyclable and reusable, aluminium is a key part of the solution for tomorrow’s lighter, faster and sustainable economy. Fulﬁlling this rich potential demands the brightest experts, the greatest commitment and signiﬁcant investment – all of which are key elements of Constellium’s innovation capability. Investing in innovation By allowing us to prototype alloys and Summary With well over 200 talented and highly components on full-scale equipment qualiﬁed employees, our C-TEC with unprecedented speed, we reduce One state-of-the-art research development times by at least 50% center, with two locations (Voreppe, technology center is the driving force for Constellium’s innovation and long-term and enable our automotive customers France and Plymouth, Michigan) to take products to market in record time. growth. Based at Voreppe in France, this 22 nationalities experienced team has been responsible At the same time, we have identiﬁed 89 engineers including 57 PhDs for many of the innovations that are and addressed a number of initiatives opening up new opportunities for to make R&T even more efﬁcient and 170 active patent families customers across the automotive, to accelerate the development cycle. and trademarks aerospace, packaging, transportation, For example, at C-TEC we have Opening of Constellium’s University defense and industrial markets. successfully introduced a new agile Technology Center at Brunel In 2016, we added greater depth to our methodology, ensuring quicker decisionUniversity London innovation resources, with the opening making and faster time to market of a new R&T hub in the US. This facility through improved project management. International Scientiﬁc Council, With this new process, we have reduced gathering some of the world’s top is now supporting our growth in North America, expanding our connections trial lead-time by approximately 50%, materials scientists to strengthen an increase in prototyping productivity the Company’s technical leadership with academia and ensuring that we continue to meet the increasing needs of 40%. This is translating into signiﬁcant and innovation performance new product development opportunities of the automotive industry on this Rapidly bringing innovations to market continent. Located in the auto industry’s for our customers. Helping customers seize competitive heartland around Detroit, the hub is a advantage key element in our strategy to stay close Highlights of the year to our key customers. Our innovation teams have continued to Monitoring trends, shaping the future be responsible for the development of a Partnerships with approximately Helping customers seize number of critical products and solutions. 50 universities and laboratories opportunities at speed The year saw several patents granted on including: new alloys for aerospace and automotive Time to market is a critical success applications, as well as innovations in USA: University of Michigan, Massachusetts factor for our industry. This means Institute of Technology (MIT), Northwestern the casting and ﬁnishing processes. helping customers incorporate new University, University of South Carolina, Worcester Polytechnic Institute solutions in their ﬁnished products In the auto industry, we launched at speed in order to seize competitive Securalex®HS, part of our new UK: Brunel University London, University advantage. generation of advanced alloys for rolled of Manchester, University of Oxford structural parts. Combining increased France: CNRS/University laboratories The opening of Constellium’s University strength and crash resistance to in Paris, Grenoble, Nancy, Saint-Etienne, Technology Center at Brunel University improve passenger safety, the alloy is Toulouse, IRT M2P (Metz), IRT Jules London is a step towards this objective. Verne (Nantes) manufactured on the new continuous Germany: RWTH Aachen, annealing line at Neuf-Brisach. German Aerospace Center DLR Switzerland: EPFL Lausanne Netherlands: TU Delft Constellium 19 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Overview A log is removed from the DC Caster at the Constellium University Technology Center at Brunel University London. Researchers at C-TEC, Voreppe, France. Governance in focus For extruded structural parts, we have We have also developed a new Airware® Eyes on the future developed 6xxx alloys that are as strong ‘drop-in’ solution that delivers the lowest Our innovation teams at C-TEC and as 7xxx yet compatible with other alloys density in the aerospace industry, and the Plymouth hub work closely with used on the vehicle for closed loop enables customers to reduce the weight the International Scientiﬁc Council recycling. We have also introduced of derivative aircraft. This Airware® of Constellium to identify trends and our Constellium HSA6™ high-strength ‘drop-in’ solution can easily replace upcoming opportunities. alloys on 2017 models, which are existing solutions, and offers limited 15–30% lighter than conventional alloys. qualiﬁcation costs because all its The major megatrend of recent years properties will meet or exceed the has been the ‘aluminization’ of the In aerospace, we are building on the automotive market – and this trend success of Airware® Al-Cu-Li alloys, speciﬁcations of the incumbent material. continued through 2016 as more which are now ﬂying on many aircraft In the packaging sector, we developed automakers sought to access the and spacecraft including Bombardier’s a new solution to improve metal recovery beneﬁts of lightweighting, driven to Business in focus C Series. During the year, the Airware® at customers’ sites. Now patented and a signiﬁcant degree by the marked family welcomed two new additions. in use at one of our major customers, increase in demand for electric and Airware®2074 is a high-performance this solution reduces the amount hybrid vehicles. option that offers an excellent balance of metal lost during manufacture by between strength and uniformity optimizing its usage during the drawing The trend towards 3D printing and (known as isotropy) across all its and ironing process. additive manufacturing has continued physical properties. Airware®2074 to gather pace, particularly in the targets new designs. The defense sector is another area aerospace industry where we are that has great potential for innovative currently partnering with several major products. In 2016, we were proud to manufacturers, tier one suppliers and see Keikor®, our advanced solution printing equipment suppliers. Similarly, for aluminium armored vehicles, be Industry 4.0 has moved from hype to Sustainability in focus selected by TARDEC, the US Army Tank reality, and several solutions have Automotive Research Development and reached a sufﬁcient level of maturity Engineering Center, for its new Combat to be considered real opportunities for Vehicle Prototype platform (see page 23). Constellium. For example, developments around big data, the Internet of Things and autonomous robots could help us to maximize the performance of our assets and increase efﬁciency. A number of projects have already progressed beyond the proof of concept stage, and will continue to be the focus for our teams during 2017. Performance in focus A Constellium research fellow examines the microstructure of an aluminium alloy. 20 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Excellent progress The market for Auto Body Sheet Business unit Improved operational results at Muscle continues to grow, and we expect to see annual double digit growth in both perspectives Shoals in the US and a solid performance Europe and the US from 2016 to 2021. at Neuf-Brisach, France, were the primary drivers for the business unit’s Although still impressive, growth in performance in 2016. In total, shipments Europe is lower than in the US because Packaging and of automotive rolled products grew by 28% to 113kt, and this growth is expected aluminium has signiﬁcant penetration in Europe historically, particularly in the Automotive to continue as our two new ﬁnishing lines in Bowling Green, Kentucky, and high-end car sector. The turnaround at our Muscle Shoals Rolled Neuf-Brisach, France, ramp up. We retained our leadership position plant was one of the major highlights of the year, with the implementation Products in can stock, and are targeting high value-added niche markets in packaging. of a rigorous cost and productivity improvement plan. The plant is also undergoing a major revamping of #2 in Europe and #3 in North Automotive its hot and cold rolling capabilities. Aluminium is increasingly the material The objective is that in addition to end America for can body stock and can body stock, the plant will start of choice for auto manufacturers, #1 worldwide in closure stock driven by its lightweighting properties and supplying Auto Body Sheet substrate consumer demand for safety and design to our Bowling Green, Kentucky, joint Joint #2 in Europe for Auto venture by the end of 2017 to support features. Improved fuel efﬁciency delivers Body Sheet our Auto Body Sheet growth. lower emissions, thereby enabling the Other specialties include industry to address growing national and We remain at the forefront of innovation, decorative, cosmetics and international concerns over air quality – with the additional support of our new paint stock and help the auto industry satisfy the R&T center in Plymouth, Michigan. growing consumer appetite for SUVs. Securalex®HS, our latest and most 2016 at a glance innovative product for the Auto Body Sheet market, is a major breakthrough – Automotive rolled product and is already being used on the new shipments increased by 28% BMW 5 Series. Used for speciﬁc parts to 113kt in the vehicle’s sensitive areas such as – Adjusted EBITDA up by 10% to seating, fuel tank and front parts, this €201 million new solution is designed to provide – Adjusted EBITDA per ton of €199, energy absorption and high strength. up by 13% – Strong momentum generated by improving operational results at Muscle Shoals, AL, in the US – Ramping up production on the new Auto Body Sheet lines at Neuf-Brisach in France and Bowling Green, KY, in the US New Auto Body Sheet ﬁnishing line in Bowling Green, KY. Strategy – Grow Auto Body Sheet business Auto Body Sheet: growth forecast in North America and Europe in the US and Europe; complete North America kt Europe kt ramp-up of new ﬁnishing lines 1,200 1 000 – Optimize capacity utilization between can stock and Auto 1,000 Body Sheet; debottleneck 750 rolling capacity in Europe 800 CAGR CAGR – Continue rigorous cost and 600 +19% 500 +12% capital discipline 400 250 200 0 0 2012 2016 2021 2012 2016 2021 Source: Constellium Internal Analysis, CRU Constellium 21 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 New lines, new capabilities The line will signiﬁcantly boost our However, the domestic packaging Towards the end of 2016, we announced Auto Body Sheet production capacity, sector continues to enjoy signiﬁcant the ofﬁcial openings of two new lines enabling us to meet the growing demand advantages, including ready access that will enable us to exploit the growing from European automakers generated to recycled Used Beverage Containers, demand for Auto Body Sheet in both by tighter regulation of vehicle emissions increasingly efﬁcient operations and North America and Europe. in Europe. proven logistics capabilities. Together, these lines will have the In addition to these new lines, we have In addition to this large volume of can capability to produce 200kt per year. also invested in Auto Body Sheet at stock, we continue targeting high-value Overview Singen in Germany, where we launched markets with high potential, such as At Bowling Green in Kentucky, a new project to upgrade the cold closures, cosmetics and decorative we opened a strategically-located rolling capabilities. This new initiative parts for the automotive industry. 225,000 sq ft facility, with our joint will supply Auto Body Sheet substrate venture partner, UACJ Corporation. We are the world’s #1 provider to Neuf-Brisach and is expected to be Production started on schedule in of aluminium sheets for closure completed in 2018. 2016 and ramp-up is on track. With applications, as well as the preferred a capacity of 100kt and incorporating aluminium supplier for complex Packaging aluminium screw caps – a growing cutting-edge equipment and The global can market is stable, market as wine producers are Governance in focus technologies, the facility provides a ﬂat with demand highly resilient across increasingly transitioning from cork rolled product portfolio for a wide range economic cycles. bottles to screw caps. Aluminium is of applications, including closure panels and body components. also becoming the material of choice We continued to see steady growth for decorative display and design through 2016 in Europe, as customers Meanwhile, at Neuf-Brisach in France purposes for the automotive segment. moved from steel to aluminium, while we opened our ﬁnishing line featuring Our Singen plant has become a the US market remained broadly ﬂat. high-speed thermal treatment, precise key supplier for these decorative temperature control and a highly applications, which require perfect efﬁcient quenching process, as well surface quality and a high degree as greater ﬂexibility regarding the of shine. Singen is also renowned thickness of processed alloys. for producing the special aluminium The diverse range of innovative surfaces sought by the cosmetics technologies will enable us to Bright quality surface being checked in industry, from high-luster to matte Business in focus manufacture high-quality aluminium Singen, Germany. ﬁnishes. products for automotive closure inners, outers and Body-in-White. Sustainability in focus Resilience of can stock since last downturn North America Europe 110% Total North American ﬂat rolled 110% Total European ﬂat rolled products volumes products volumes North American can stock volumes European can stock volumes 100% 100% Securing supplies, building relationships 90% 90% During 2016, we took responsibility for the Anheuser-Busch Recycling Corporation Performance in focus procurement functions and now run the full 80% 80% process – from recycled cans to new can sheets. Under the umbrella of Constellium Metal Procurement, we now purchase 70% 70% Used Beverage Containers directly 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 from suppliers to our Muscle Shoals Source: CRU plant, ensuring we have greater control of this essential metal supply. 22 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 A year of stability Aerospace Business unit During 2016, Aerospace and Strong, stable and offering great perspectives Transportation reported solid and stable potential for future growth, the ﬁnancial results, offsetting aerospace aerospace market is driven by the headwinds with increased shipments. steady increase in air trafﬁc as well Total shipments rose by 5% to 243kt, as by the increasing demand for more Aerospace with shipments to Aerospace customers up by 2% and to Transportation, Industry fuel-efﬁcient aircraft. While aircraft manufacturers report a strong backlog, and and Defense customers by 9%. Cost reduction, productivity measures excess inventory in the supply chain can temporarily impact orders. Transportation and operational improvements all contributed to the growth in earnings. With over 300 patents, Aerospace and Transportation is growing its share of high We reduced metal costs by working with value-added aerospace products through customers to increase recycling, and its unique manufacturing capabilities and Global leader in the aerospace through furnace revamps. At our plants, portfolio of leading-edge alloys. The aluminium market we have reduced equipment downtime focus is on high value-added products #1 in aero plates worldwide by 25% over two years, and also (Airware®), fuselage sheets, wing skins #1 in aero sheets in Europe achieved improved labor productivity. and supply chain integration (premachined parts, closed loop recycling). Solid positions in selected niches Our pre-machining services in particular in transportation and industry offer considerable advantages for #1 in wide coils in North America our customers – during a typical manufacturing process, from plate 2016 at a glance to ﬁnished part, around 90% of the – Total shipments for the year of metal is removed as scrap, either as 243kt – an increase of 5% large pieces or chips. Our machining operations reduce customer costs and – Adjusted EBITDA of €103 million – optimize sourcing by minimizing the in line with 2015 buy-to-ﬂy ratio of aluminium products. – Adjusted EBITDA ﬁgure per ton Receiving pre-machined components of €425 – a decrease of 4%, with also simpliﬁes our customers’ higher volumes and improved manufacturing operations. costs being offset by a weaker mix – Innovative Airware® aluminiumlithium alloys continue to set industry standards and win new customers – New pusher furnace at Ravenswood operational Strategy – Maintain aerospace shipments while increasing value-added content – Grow shipments in Transportation, Industry and Defense markets – Maximize use of current capacities, improve throughput and yields; Airware® +46% Under the Airware® name, our aluminiumCorrosion resistance continue focus on reducing costs lithium alloys are the undisputed market leaders. The materials of choice for military +25% and space applications, no fewer than seven +7% Fatigue resistance Stiffness different Airware® alloys are ﬂying today. Current applications include fuselage skins, stringers, ﬂoor structures and seat tracks, window frames, and large internal wing and -4% +8% Density Strength fuselage components. Airware® technology is incorporated in several key projects currently +6% ramping up at major customers, such as those Toughness for the Airbus A350 and Bombardier C Series. Airware® is now fully industrialized with one Airware® 2050 pilot casting facility at C-TEC and two fully Conventional alloy operational cast houses in Issoire, France. Constellium 23 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Maintaining strong customer relationships Transportation, Customer intimacy is important across We have a very diversiﬁed customer industry and defense all our markets, but nowhere more so portfolio, with customers such as We supply a broad portfolio of than in the aerospace sector, where trust Airbus, Boeing, Bombardier, Dassault differentiated, tailor-made and and close collaboration are the keys Aviation, Embraer and SpaceX. value-added solutions to a wide range to customer satisfaction and long-term Around 90% of our aerospace sales of customers in the transportation, business. Our aerospace teams work are delivered under long-term contracts industry and defense markets. closely with our customers, delivering with blue-chip customers. These areas offer great potential Overview a range of products, solutions and for growth – and we are currently know-how that meet their needs and developing and marketing a new range form the foundations for strong and deep of high-value products to address a customer relationships. multitude of opportunities, particularly in North America. Several regional and Customer Multi-year business aircraft Multi-year For example, Herkal HK34® and Xtral contract manufacturers contract contracts with Boeing contracts with Airbus 728® alloys offer important advantages to transportation customers, such as lightweighting, formability and impact Governance in focus 2014 2015 2016 2017 resistance, while our Gripster™ solution offers a unique combination of durability, grip and silence for truck ﬂoors. In the Airware® A350 entry C Series entry industry sector, we tailor specialized ﬂying into service into service and branded alloys such as Alumold® with Airware® with Airware® and Unidal® to meet speciﬁc customer needs including improved machining 90% of Constellium’s aerospace sales are covered under long-term contracts efﬁciency and cost savings. We also have a proud track record in the defense sector, where alloys such as Sealium® New multi-year contract with Airbus and Keikor® deliver beneﬁts including In 2016, we were pleased to sign a new corrosion resistance and blast protection multi-year contract with Airbus for the provision to seagoing craft and land-based ﬁghting Business in focus of advanced aerospace aluminium products and vehicles respectively. solutions. This contract builds on the partnership agreement signed with Airbus in 2010 that marked the introduction of our Airware® technology on the A350 XWB. Under the new agreement, our plants at Issoire in France and Ravenswood in the US will supply Airbus with a broad range of advanced aluminium rolled products for airframes including wing skin panels and aerospace sheets for fuselage panels, as well as rectangular and pre-machined plates for structural components. In addition, we will collaborate with Airbus to improve Sustainability in focus supply chain and recycling solutions in order Winning the battle with our defense offer to reduce inventories along the value chain – these initiatives will support the ramp-up of key Best-in-class blast performance together This pivotal contract builds on our proven track Airbus programs such as the A320neo and the with superior armor piercing capabilities record and conﬁrms our growing reputation A350 XWB. To help Airbus achieve its continuous have resulted in a Constellium solution being as a leading partner for aluminium armored improvement targets, we are committed to chosen for one of the world’s most advanced vehicle solutions. We have partnered with improving the buy-to-ﬂy ratio – for example, ﬁghting vehicles. defense customers for many years, continuously by developing and implementing near-net developing new solutions for armored vehicles Our leading solution for integral hull shaped and pre-machined products. and upgrading in-service equipment. applications, Keikor® 2139, will play a key role in the new Combat Vehicle Prototype (CVP) platform being developed by TARDEC, the US Army Tank Automotive Research Development and Engineering Center. Under the agreement, Keikor® 2139 from our Ravenswood plant will be supplied to TARDEC for its entire CVP Performance in focus integrated hull capsule. Keikor® 2139 was previously selected for the successful CAMEL (Concept for Advanced Military Explosionmitigating Land) program. 24 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 A record year High growth markets Business unit 2016 was another record year for our The business unit operates in highly perspectives Automotive Structures and Industry attractive growth markets. North business unit, with Adjusted EBITDA American demand for extruded increasing by 27% to €102 million, and aluminium Crash Management Systems, Adjusted EBITDA per ton growing by 24% body structures, chassis components Automotive to €471. In the last ﬁve years, we have more than doubled our Adjusted EBITDA. and battery enclosures is expected to increase from 140kt in 2015 to 250kt Structures From an operational perspective, we continued to achieve solid execution in 2025, while in Europe demand is expected to increase from 190kt in and Industry across all products and facilities, with our key greenﬁeld expansion projects 2015 to 420kt in 2025. In addition, as OEMs transition from on schedule in White, Georgia, USA, traditional internal combustion engines San Luis Potosí, Mexico and our Astrex to electric vehicles, further opportunities Global leader in Crash extrusion JV in Windsor, Ontario, Canada. for growth are expected. Electric vehicles Management Systems The trust placed in us by top-tier are typically aluminium-intensive as and body structures automotive manufacturers resulted vehicle lightweighting will substantially in nominations worth €1.2 billion in European leader in hard alloy increase range. lifetime sales. extrusions and large proﬁles #2 in the soft alloy extrusion Automotive Structures Partnering with our customers sector in Europe We continue to expand our Automotive We remain the supplier of choice Structures footprint, partnering with for the automotive industry across our customers to support development 2016 at a glance three continents with our capacity and production activities for global – Total shipments for the year for innovation supported by a fully programs, with 15 plants strategically of 217kt, up by 3% integrated supply chain. From alloy located across three continents. development to ﬁnal component design – Record Adjusted EBITDA of and production, we work closely with our Following the doubling of our €102 million, an increase of 27% customers every step of the way, helping manufacturing capacity in Van Buren, – Record Adjusted EBITDA per ton them beneﬁt from the latest innovation Michigan, we are now opening two new of €471, an increase of 24% and technology in addition to industryplants to meet growing demand in North – €1.2 billion of new business booked leading expertise and experience. America. Our new facility in Georgia with OEMs started production in 2017, and our new – Continuing solid execution across plant at San Luis Potosí in Mexico comes all products and facilities, with all on stream in 2018. To meet growing growth projects on schedule demand in Europe, we are expanding our German plants at Gottmadingen Strategy and Dahenfeld. – Design, manufacture and supply innovative extrusion-based solutions to satisfy our demanding Proudly supplying blue-chip customers across the world customers While most nominations remain conﬁdential, we are a proud supplier to the following customers, – Follow our customers and invest who trust us to deliver innovative and value-added solutions to reduce vehicle weight, improve fuel efﬁciency and increase safety for drivers and pedestrians. to maintain our leadership position in automotive structures across Ford F-150: Constellium is the largest Peugeot 3008: We supply aluminium three continents supplier of high-strength extruded aluminium Crash Management Systems for the new structural components for the groundbreaking Peugeot 3008, which features a lower – Continue rigorous cost discipline Ford F-150. beam for enhanced pedestrian safety. BMW 5 Series: This new model features our Bosch: In May 2017, our Decin plant – most advanced rear Crash Management the largest integrated hard alloy facility in System, with extrusions made of Constellium’s Europe (see opposite) – signed a multi-year patented high-strength 6000 series contract with Robert Bosch to supply crushable alloys. Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) proﬁles for the automotive industry. With a ramping up volume of several million pieces per year in 2016, additional long-term solutions will be supplied to several Bosch plants worldwide. The expected overall volume per year is targeted to double, subject to auto market demand and ramp-up of future ABS solutions. Constellium 25 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 €1.2 billion of nominations Opened in April 2016, the Constellium Industry awarded in 2016 University Technology Center (UTC) As a leader in the hard alloy extrusion at Brunel University London is our sector in Europe, with the largest hard alloy In 2016, we again won a wide range dedicated center of excellence for of nominations (life-time contracts) extrusion plant in Europe (Decin, see below), the design, development and rapid our products target the engineering, in key product groups with the largest prototyping of aluminium alloys and European and North American car building and construction, and the rail, automotive structural components. bus and marine transportation markets. manufacturers, for €1.2 billion in lifetime sales. Featuring industrial size aluminium Our industry segment plays a critical Overview casting and extrusion equipment in role in supporting the growth of – Crash Management Systems, the ﬁrst phase, Constellium UTC where we have a market share automotive structures. One of our key provides rapid prototyping capability. strengths is our ability to be a true of approximately 35% This reduces development times for – Body structures, with new products material development partner for our advanced aluminium alloys required automotive customers, not just a tier including longitudinals and mixed for the continued lightweighting of material solutions one fabricator or an extrusion company. automotive structural components – Chassis and battery crash protection, by at least 50%. The newly-developed Our soft alloys extrusion plants in driven in particular by the increased alloy and process technologies are Germany, France, Switzerland, Slovakia popularity of electric vehicles Governance in focus being transferred to Constellium’s and Canada give us greater control of extrusion and automotive structures the supply chain and ultimately improve Unique innovation capabilities plants worldwide, thereby closing the speed to market for customers by Our technology centers ensure gap between fundamental R&T and bringing prototyping, serial extrusion and that we are at the forefront of alloy series production. component production closer together. development, process design and To ensure that our extrusion capabilities Our innovation capabilities enable us product solutions. Partnering with are able to match the automotive to continuously improve our product our customers at the initial design demand and satisfy our industry offering. The new generation Crash phase, we produce bespoke solutions customers, we have upgraded our Management Systems combine the which ensure vehicles are safer, wholly-owned European soft alloys properties of the 6xxx aluminium alloy lighter and more fuel-efﬁcient. extrusion plants. Our joint venture in family – offering formability, corrosion resistance, energy absorption and Canada is operational, and enables us recyclability together with high-strength to secure our supply source and protect Business in focus mechanical performance. our intellectual property for our North American customers. Sustainability in focus An operator performs a quality check on an Crash boxes are made on a fully automated aluminium bumper beam. production line to ensure precision. The largest hard alloy extrusion plant in Europe Our Decin, Czech Republic, plant is expanding with a new site to meet growing demand from European customers. A short distance from our existing facility, the plant will feature a Performance in focus new casthouse with a hard alloy billet capacity of 40kt and an extrusion line with variable power. The new facility will offer forging stock applications for the automotive sector, battery enclosures for hybrid and all-electric vehicles, and machined parts for chassis and other structural applications. Production is expected to begin in 2019. 26 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Manufacturing Excellence A new approach to production Manufacturing Excellence has long been a core objective for our management teams. Appointed in October 2016, Jack Clark, Senior Vice President of Manufacturing Excellence and Chief Technical Ofﬁcer, discusses how our approach is evolving. Why does Constellium What will be your priorities? What impact will need a new approach to Safety remains my ﬁrst priority. Manufacturing Excellence Manufacturing Excellence? We want people to come to work, have on the Lean program? When I took up my position at do their jobs and go home safely at the Over the past years, Lean has been Constellium, I quickly grasped the fact end of the day. Safety is the primary the platform for a signiﬁcant that huge steps have been taken in objective of Manufacturing Excellence improvement in the service we provide recent years. After three years of our and we will continue our efforts to to customers, in terms of quality as Lean Transformation, quality complaints achieve our objectives in 2017. well as delivery performance, and this have fallen by nearly two-thirds and Quality is also a high priority. Providing helped us build leadership positions. missed deliveries have more than halved. our customers with quality products, As such, Lean remains a critical Signiﬁcant investments have been made on time, is fundamental to our component of Manufacturing – new Auto Body Sheet lines, new plants business – and Lean projects are Excellence, and will continue to be for extruded automotive parts, to name critical to address this key objective. deployed in the Company. In recent a few, and they are all ramping up Protecting and optimizing our assets years, we implemented phase 1 and 2; on schedule. Now it’s time to harvest is another area of focus. The time we built Lean tools, and trained our these investments. for signiﬁcant investments is behind employees and management on us and we now need to optimize the how to use them, primarily through a output of our assets, using them as top-down approach. We are now entering a coherent system. phase 3: a bottom-up approach to empower people and plants in setting Finally, cash preservation is a priority, targets and deciding how best to because Manufacturing Excellence achieve them. will play a great role in Project 2019 (see page 05). From reducing inventory Manufacturing Excellence to reviewing maintenance expenditures, is about being efﬁcient, I’ll be spending time at the plants to minimizing waste and identify potential savings. Jack Clark above all, doing it in Senior Vice President, Manufacturing Excellence a safe environment.” and Chief Technical Ofﬁcer Constellium 27 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Environment, Health and Safety Our top priority During 2016, we continued to make progress on delivering our Overview commitment to Environment, Health and Safety (EHS). We are working hard to deliver the performance that our people and communities deserve. For us, EHS excellence is about developing a mindset where each of us makes EHS the top priority at all times. Governance in focus The EHS network collaborates closely Safety Renewed commitment with colleagues across the organization While our Recordable Case Rate* has Protecting the health and safety – including those in the Innovation consistently been among the best in the of our employees, contractors and function on issues such as molten metal industry, it increased during the year, visitors and minimizing our impact safety and with the Lean team on areas from 2.86 to 3.31. This is a call to action on the environment will always be including the reduction of risks through for us and we have already taken strong the #1 priorities for Constellium. 8D problem-solving methodology. measures across all sites to improve During the year, this commitment safety for all our employees. More was reafﬁrmed by our new EHS Environment encouraging was the fact that no policy. The new policy document We experienced no major or signiﬁcant recordable cases were experienced at sets out eight key steps for achieving environmental incidents for the second seven sites and that we achieved our excellence, from avoiding accidents year running. While this is cause for target of not more than four serious by assessing the risks involved in satisfaction, we remain committed to injuries across the Group. Looking Business in focus our daily work, to collaborating with continuously improving our environmental ahead, we will focus on behavior-based customers and suppliers in the performance, particularly in the areas measures and will ask each plant to creation of new products. of the amount of waste we send to develop a program based on employee landﬁll and energy consumption. involvement. We will continue our efforts 0 60% During the year, our main focus was on waste management in the US, and we to eliminate hand contact. Initiatives include our hands-free casting program recordable cases reduction in launched targeted recycling initiatives at and the launch of a plan to eliminate at seven sites newly-recognized both our Muscle Shoals and Ravenswood hand contact with suspended loads (Gottmadingen, work-related plants (see page 36). In 2017, we will (see page 38). Levice, Nuitsdiseases focus on clearly identifying all waste, Saint-Georges, both plants at 0 and on identifying partners and Looking ahead Sustainability in focus Valais, Bowling technical solutions to recycle waste We face the future with the same Green and our major or that is currently not recyclable by strong determination to deliver an corporate ofﬁces) signiﬁcant traditional means. EHS performance that reﬂects our environmental commitment to our people. incidents Health Key initiatives for 2017 include a In addition to our work on Substances of EHS forms one of the key pillars continuing focus on operator behavior, of the Manufacturing Excellenc Very High Concern, we launched a global supported by supervisor training and the program, for more see page 38. health initiative in 2016. This raised further roll-out of Standard Operating awareness among our employees of the Procedures. We will also concentrate importance of physical activity, healthy on speciﬁc risk prevention programs, food, sleep and mental well-being. We At Constellium, we actively health management, waste management also recorded our lowest ever number of demonstrate our commitment and energy. newly-recognized work-related diseases, Performance in focus to EHS. Through the theme which fell to eight from 20 in the previous ‘Take care of yourself, take care of year. The reduction in conditions such as others’, we empower our people to hearing loss is attributable to investment * Constellium’s Recordable Case Rate implement our new EHS policy in new equipment and changes in measures the number of fatalities, serious in every moment of every day.” working practices. injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work Jean-Marc Germain CEO injuries or medical treatments per one million hours worked. 28 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Operational excellence Driving improvement through Manufacturing Excellence Our Manufacturing Excellence program is about becoming the very best manufacturer in our business by focusing on being safe, doing our jobs and manufacturing our products efﬁciently and without waste. 2016, the Year of Flexibility Summary After the Year of Quality in 2014 and the Constellium is taking a new approach Lean is undergoing change as it Year of Just-in-Time in 2015, 2016 was to the pursuit of excellence at its enters phase 3 of its development, the Year of Flexibility. The main focus production sites. While the objectives which focuses on empowering site was on equipment changeovers, to make (working in a safe environment, management. Plants will now decide them safer, quicker and more efﬁcient. being efﬁcient, minimizing waste) on the appropriate Lean tools to Speciﬁcally, we aimed to halve the remain the same, we are changing our achieve their business priorities. time needed to complete a changeover, approach and organization to reﬂect while doing everything right the ﬁrst time. Manufacturing Excellence will We also worked to have more frequent recent progress. greatly contribute to Project 2019 changeovers, so that we can produce Manufacturing Excellence now (see page 05) by optimizing the use smaller batches. This means shorter brings several departments already of our assets worldwide. lead times for customers, improved involved in production under a single on-time delivery and higher quality. Safety remains the #1 priority for all umbrella: Environment, Health and Manufacturing Excellence programs. Away from the production line, Safety, Reliability, Technology and Lean. A new Manufacturing Council ofﬁce paperwork was another target. comprised of Jack Clark, Senior The aim was to respond more quickly Vice President of Manufacturing to internal and external customers Excellence and Chief Technical regarding tasks such as order Ofﬁcer, and the three Business Unit processing, purchasing, ﬁnancial Presidents (Ingrid Joerg, Arnaud reporting and employee recruitment. Jouron and Paul Warton) will meet Manufacturing Excellence is monthly to discuss production issues. about continuous improvement, A poster campaign in multiple languages about how we become the very ensured that employees in all our facilities best manufacturer we can be. were able to engage with the Year of Flexibility. It’s about taking full advantage of the talent of our people, our assets and our technology.” Constellium 29 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 The evolution of Lean The Central team will focus on providing As part of our Manufacturing Excellence Lean plays a key part in our vision of support for tools and techniques, program, we will be strengthening this Manufacturing Excellence. Our Lean and promoting best practice across process, which is already implemented journey started in November 2012 our network of plants. Acting as a bridge between Neuf-Brisach and Singen – with an improved focus on people, between different production unit we use the existing capacity at Singen customers and operations through a managers around the world that are to respond to the saturation of most of series of KPIs at the plant level. Phase 2, carrying out similar processes, the our equipment in Neuf-Brisach. which was launched in 2015, built on that team can share the approach taken Manufacturing Excellence will also by Constellium’s top performer in any Overview success – driving it deeper by involving enable us to identify potential savings. production unit managers and extending given area. For example, a study on engineered Lean to our support functions. inventory is already underway. Involving Optimizing the use of our assets an analysis of the amount of inventory Lean has already had a great impact After a period of strong investment in required in front of a piece of equipment, on our performance and demanded the Company to build its future growth, this study will help us target where we the commitment and involvement of all major investments are now up and can reduce in-process inventory. As we all our people. Today, the vast majority running. These include new Auto Body look at reducing our capital spending in of plants and production unit managers Sheet lines in Bowling Green and 2017, Manufacturing Excellence projects now understand Lean principles and Governance in focus Neuf-Brisach, new plants for the will also review our maintenance capital are using the tools in their everyday automotive structural parts business, to ensure that we protect our assets in working lives. a pusher furnace at Ravenswood the most efﬁcient way. We are now moving Lean to the next and the expansion of our Decin plant. level, which shifts responsibilities for Now is the time to beneﬁt from these performance from senior management investments and to deliver quality to the individual plants and ofﬁce products, while strengthening our Manufacturing Excellence functions. Production units and function ﬁnancial position. Our Manufacturing is about optimizing the managers will be tasked with delivering Excellence programs will make a critical business results – including safety, contribution to these objectives. use of our assets, allowing proﬁtable growth and cash generation – Constellium to fully realize Rather than investing in a new asset, and are empowered to decide which we will be focusing on our existing assets, the beneﬁts of past tools are most appropriate. investments.” using all our plants as a global system Business in focus and constantly looking to optimize the whole system, rather than optimizing individual plants. The team at Muscle Shoals celebrates the award of their Lean ﬂag. Sustainability in focus Our central Lean team shares best practice across Constellium. Total Productive Maintenance Day in Singen, Germany Performance in focus 30 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Sustainability in focus Constellium 31 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Reﬁning the way we manage sustainability Representing all areas of our business, the Sustainability Council ensures that sustainability is fully integrated into everything we do at Constellium. During 2016, we reorganized the Council in order to sharpen our focus on achieving our 2020 targets. Tightening our focus to Sustainability is at the Members of the reach our targets heart of everything we do Overview Sustainability Council Sustainability is integral to everything The Council meets four times a year, Arnaud Jouron we do. It inﬂuences every business including one meeting with the President, Packaging and Automotive decision we make and shapes how Executive Committee of Constellium. Rolled Products (Chairman) we work with customers, employees, The Council’s members represent communities and other stakeholders. Philippe Abeillon every area of our business, reﬂecting The Sustainability Council sits at Director of Engineering, our view that sustainability is everyone’s the heart of our commitment to Aerospace and Transportation responsibility. After serving on the sustainability. This formal body, Sustainability Council since 2012, ﬁve Christel des Royeries founded in 2012, is responsible for Governance in focus members stood down in 2016. We would Director, Communication deﬁning and updating Constellium’s like to place on record our thanks for the Europe and Digital Global sustainability policy. huge contributions made by Béatrice Susanne Dock During 2016, we reﬁned the Council’s Charon, Sophia Elasri, Frédéric Dunod, Human Resources Business Partner, structure and scope so that individual Rovertos Gross and Guy-Michel Core Executive Team Council members are part of the Raynaud. Together, they have helped taskforce that delivers our sustainability advance our sustainability agenda. Christian Keidel vision and targets. The objective is to New members were appointed during Group Director, Strategic Purchasing, create a more focused, responsive the year, including Arnaud Jouron, Metal and Energy organization that can ensure that President, Packaging and Automotive Stéphanie Massambi Constellium is on track to meet its 2020 Rolled Products, who became Chairman Group Environment Manager sustainability objectives. Each Council of the Council. He replaced Ingrid Joerg, member owns at least one of the President, Aerospace and Transportation, Olivier Néel following speciﬁc action areas: who remains an Advisor to the Council. Group Sustainability Manager Business in focus Catherine Athènes, General Secretary – Increasing the beverage can recycling Mike Tanchuk of the Council, works with the Chairman rate in Europe and the US; CEO, Muscle Shoals plant to ensure a clear roadmap is developed – Ensuring that customer satisfaction to achieve the Company’s sustainability Philippe Tchen is measured and shows regular targets and measure progress towards Group Director, Indirect Purchasing improvement; these targets. – Making progress in safety; Catherine Athènes – Increasing employee satisfaction; For more information on how Constellium Marketing Director, Packaging and – Ensuring that all sites have a is managed, please see the Governance Automotive Rolled Products and community program; section on pages 12–16 General Secretary of the Council – Improving energy efﬁciency; Sustainability in focus – Reducing production waste sent For information on materiality and to landﬁll; engagement, please see the GRI – Evaluating the sustainability content index on pages 56–60 performance of all key direct and indirect suppliers; – Gaining certiﬁcation for at least one plant to the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative standard; and – Establishing a greenhouse gas emissions reduction target. Performance in focus 32 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Our sustainability targets: overview Products People We will enhance the environmental beneﬁts of We will ensure our people are safe, our products and improve customer satisfaction. skilled, motivated and engaged. More information on pages 36–37 More information on pages 38–40 Increase beverage can recycling Further improve our safety record Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance: Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance: 80% beverage can Recycling rates from large countries in Reduce our Recordable Our performance deteriorated recycling rate by Europe indicate that we are on track. Case Rate* every year in 2016, from 2.86 to 3.31. 2020 in Europe Status: On track by 10% Status: Off track Work with the The beverage can recycling rate A maximum of four In 2016 we experienced four industry and with actually decreased in 2016, serious injuries a year serious injuries. from 54.4% to 49.5%. our stakeholders to by 2020 Status: On track increase the beverage Status: Off track can recycling rate in The industry has made progress both Be in the industry’s the US in Europe and the US but we remain top quartile in terms ahead in terms of performance. of safety results Status: On track Increase customer satisfaction Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance: Engage our people Each business unit to Following an extensive customer carry out a customer satisfaction survey across the Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance: Company, we have launched speciﬁc satisfaction survey action plans at business unit, plant Six point increase The 2016 survey showed a 2% every two years and market segment levels. improvement versus the 2014 survey, in overall employee with a stable participation rate. Status: On track satisfaction by 2020, from a 2014 baseline Status: On track Continue to innovate Strengthen our communities We constantly innovate to offer lighter, safer and Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance: inﬁnitely recyclable solutions to our customers. All our major new innovation projects undergo At least one More than half of our plants Life Cycle Assessments and we are working to increase community activity organized a community program in 2016, with our US sites being the percentage of our sales from innovative products. per site every year particularly active. More information on pages 18–19 Status: On track * Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries or medical treatments per one million hours worked. Constellium 33 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Operations Responsible business We will minimize the impact We will manage our business of our operations. in an ethical and responsible way. Overview More information on pages 41–42 More information on pages 43–44 Reduce production waste Build a standard for aluminium sent to landﬁll Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance: Governance in focus Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance: Have at least one We have actively participated in site ASI certiﬁed by ﬁnalizing the ASI certiﬁcation Reduce production Due mainly to temporary and program, which will be available waste going to landﬁll non-recurrent issues, the amount 2020 (based on the early 2018. by 10%, including of production waste going to landﬁll assumption that there increased in 2016. Improved data will be a certiﬁcation Status: On track Muscle Shoals (vs. 2015) collection process have led to an scheme in place) updated 2015 data baseline. Status: Off track Ensure sustainable purchasing Improve energy efﬁciency Business in focus Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance: Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance: 100% of key suppliers At the end of 2016, we had evaluated and those suppliers key suppliers which represent 20% 10% energy efﬁciency Our energy efﬁciency only improved of the key suppliers’ spending. by 0.3%, which is lower than the initially assessed as improvement by 2020, We also conducted on-site audits average annual improvement of 2% high risk evaluated at 10 out of 11 suppliers identiﬁed including Muscle required to achieve our target. or audited according as carrying high risks. Shoals (vs. 2015) Status: Off track to United Nations Status: On track Global Compact principles by 2020 Sustainability in focus Deﬁne a GHG emissions target Continue to monitor and reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) across our value chain Performance in focus We have a long track record of monitoring our GHG emissions. This data allows us to understand emissions, and complements our environmental initiatives around energy management. We are now working on deﬁning an emissions reduction target and developing a suitable plan to achieve it. More information on page 45 34 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Sustainability highlights 2016 was another year of progress, as we launched or extended a number of important sustainability projects and programs. Here we focus on several examples that demonstrate the innovative nature and diversity of our efforts to embed sustainability as a way of life across Constellium. Recycling Nespresso capsules A cup of Nespresso coffee may often mark the end of a meal, but it does not mean the end of the used capsule. Our Singen plant is at the center of a new initiative which has seen us work closely with Nespresso to transform end-of-life coffee capsules into iconic Victorinox knives and Zena peelers, as well as new capsules. Once the capsules have been sorted by waste management companies, they are recycled and delivered to Singen where we process the slabs into high-quality aluminium which is then shipped to the appropriate manufacturers. The launch of the knives and peelers made from recycled capsules was celebrated at a special event in Zürich in July 2016, in the presence of the CEOs of both Nespresso and Victorinox. Identifying the future Reducing energy consumption of recycling Although aluminium has extensive In February 2016, the network came Our teams work hard to understand and beneﬁts across the life-cycle of together at our Singen plant in Germany plan for the ﬂow of recycled material – products, its production is a relatively for its ﬁrst ofﬁcial meeting. not just for this year or next, but for the energy-intensive activity. Energy managers from all Constellium decades to come. First established towards the end of plants shared their plans on how they For example, we have developed a 2015, our energy network is tasked with would contribute to meeting our 2020 Material Flow Analysis model which reducing energy consumption in order to target of a 10% reduction in energy maps the anticipated ﬂow of recycled reduce our environmental footprint and efﬁciency improvement from a 2015 material in Europe by market as well also cut costs. baseline. The outcome of the meeting as by alloy family. We presented the included a clear roadmap for each plant, model to the industry at the Aluminium which is reviewed quarterly by our Fair in Düsseldorf in December 2016. business units. We will use the model to guide our future decisions related to recycling initiatives and investments. Constellium 35 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Rolling out a bright idea Stressing the importance of working safely across the United States Representing 20 Constellium Their artworks were showcased An idea that began life as an employee sites, more than 300 of our in a company-wide poster campaign initiative at Ravenswood in the US has employees’ children participated to help strengthen our safety culture now been taken up at all our sites in an art competition, illustrating and improve our safety performance. across the country. Under the CARES ‘Why we work safely’. banner, our people have helped local communities in a wide variety of ways. Overview At Muscle Shoals, American Heart Month saw our people raising awareness of heart disease as well as funds for The American Heart Association. Our Ravenswood team organized a community clean-up and ‘painted the plant in pink’ to raise awareness of breast cancer, while at Van Buren this year’s highlights included a food drive Governance in focus and a home renovation project. Improving safety in our casthouses The ﬁrst stage in the casting process is the time when molten metal is at its most hazardous. In addition to introducing a number of actions that will protect casthouse Business in focus operators with immediate effect, we also launched a more fundamental project which aimed to reduce the exposure of the operators to such risk. This was based on automating the process, with remote monitoring via video and sensors, and optimizing the casting start-up procedures. After carrying out a successful pilot project at C-TEC, this new way of working has been deployed on several casting lines and we now plan to extend it to all casting lines across Constellium. The success of this project was acknowledged by a THANK YOU AWARD in 2016, an internal award which recognizes top contributing projects. Simple recycling for new alloy Sustainability in focus Launched in 2016, our new Constellium HSA6™ product is a 6xxx high-strength alloy that enables us to reduce the weight of automotive structural parts while at the same time providing greater strength. A key objective in the development of HSA6 was to ensure simple recycling. As most current automotive alloys are either 5xxx or 6xxx, HSA6 does not add a new alloy family and can therefore be recycled using existing solutions, unlike our competitors’ 7xxx alloys. Performance in focus Constellium HSA6™ is now in production on several vehicle programs across the globe. 36 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Our sustainability targets Continuous improvement in Europe Slow overall progress in the US… Products Aluminium beverage can recycling rate Unfortunately, 2016 saw no improvement ﬁgures for 2014, from large countries in the recycling rate in the US. In fact, in Europe, show that the 75% target for the recycling rate went down. The situation 2015 is within reach. In a representative is complicated by different legislations panel of beverage can consuming and behaviors in different states. Increase countries, the recycling rate from 2013 to 2014 has either increased (Italy from Although some areas provide efﬁcient collection and sorting services, others beverage can 67% to 74%, France from 63% to 67%, Poland from 79% to 80%) or stayed the provide none. recycling same (Germany with 99%, UK with 65%). A major factor in this success story, …but positive moves at Constellium While the industry needs to work together to improve the end-of-life the European Aluminium Association, As a major player in the in cooperation with packaging recycling rate in the US, we succeeded beverage can stock market, manufacturers, continued to work in increasing our own recycling activities we are committed to working during 2016. Our new furnace will closely with the European Parliament increase the recycling capacity of with all relevant stakeholders and member states as well as other our Element 13 facility in Muscle Shoals to increase the percentage of materials industry associations. The aim from 14 billion to nearly 20 billion cans is to build a constructive dialog for the aluminium cans that undergo circular economy. This initiative includes per year – almost one ﬁfth of the cans end-of-life recycling in positioning aluminium as a permanent sold in the US. Europe and the US. material and identifying the right point of measurement for recycling. It also seeks Looking ahead to establish recycling targets which are both realistic and ambitious, and which Continue to support European recognize sustainable practices that Aluminium and the Every Can have already been established by the Counts program. aluminium industry. Work with The Aluminum Association and Can Manufacturers Institute to intensify US recycling efforts. Environment “With already high and still improving recycling rates, aluminium packaging is well prepared for the European 2020 target Circular Economy.” 80% beverage can recycling rate Maarten G. Labberton Director Packaging Group, by 2020 in Europe European Aluminium 2016 status On track New recycling furnace 2020 target at Muscle Shoals Work with the industry and with Using advanced technologies, our stakeholders to increase the the new furnace meets beverage can recycling rate the Best Available Control in the US Technology environmental requirements. It is expected 2016 status to improve the safety, energy efﬁciency and environmental Off track footprint of the plant, while signiﬁcantly increasing our recycling capacity. Constellium 37 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 An extensive survey Developing our response Products The 2016 survey was conducted with over While the survey highlighted a few areas, 300 customers, representing more than such as supply chain, which require half of our customer base. It measured addressing at Group level, the speciﬁc satisfaction across a number of different nature of the results shows that action areas: product range and quality; the plans are best developed by speciﬁc Increase service provided by our sales team; technical support; claim management; sales and production teams. customer supply chain; innovation; communication; and sustainability performance. For example, feedback from one particular group of customers was that we should work more closely with them on innovation. Overview satisfaction The survey was conducted via 20-minute phone interviews. The customer sample We are therefore organizing meetings where we present our R&T capabilities reﬂected a broad cross-section of the and collaborate on relevant innovations. Satisﬁed customers are customer base of our three business Other customers reported unsatisfactory the key to a sustainable units and included a representative levels of on-time deliveries. Our response future. Every two years, each variety of functions and hierarchical has been to develop a system to ﬂag business unit carries out an levels within our customers’ businesses. potential delays and enable us to make Governance in focus extensive survey in order to a timely intervention. Pleasing results – but still room measure and understand what for improvement customers think of us. In 2016, Overall, customers are satisﬁed with Looking ahead this survey was organized our products and services. However, the Monitor the effectiveness of our company-wide in a centralized degree of satisfaction varies by business action plans. and standardized way for unit and, to a greater extent, by market segment (packaging, aerospace or Conduct another customer survey the ﬁrst time. in 2018. automotive) and even by sub-segment (functional surface, heat exchangers, transportation industry or defense). Business in focus Recognizing performance During the year, we were delighted to win a major honor for supplier Sustainability in focus performance, awarded by our customer Valeo Group. We have a long track record of co-development with Valeo and this award is a tribute to the hard work and customer Innovation partnership focus of our heat exchanger team. with Can-Pack Since June 2014, we have been working closely with Can-Pack to develop innovative solutions that save metal, reduce weight and improve production efﬁciency. We provided support in several areas including numerical modeling, 2020 target data analysis and aluminium metallurgy as well as innovative Each business unit to carry out patented solutions such as Performance in focus a customer satisfaction survey convolute blank design. The close every two years relationship between our team and Can-Pack has opened up an Left to right: 2016 status Marc Guédon Purchasing Director, Valeo Group opportunity to work together Kevin Gatenby Project and Site Manager (R&T Hub Plymouth), Constellium on new product development, Lionel Gerber Segment Manager – Heat Exchanger and Foilstock, Constellium underlining our reputation as On track Yann Delarocheaulion Segment Director – Rolled Aluminum, Valeo Group Vincent Louyot Non-Ferrous and Transformation Group Commodity Director, the leading and most innovative Valeo Group aluminium metal supplier. 38 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Our sustainability targets (continued) Increase in recordable case rate We continued to roll out our safety People We are disappointed to report that our policy in 2016, reviewing the Standard recordable case rate increased during the Operating Procedures in all our plants. year, from 2.86 to 3.31. This trend occurred We also made further progress on across most sites and means that we standardizing our Hazard Identiﬁcation must develop and implement improved Risk Assessment and Risk Control Further safety initiatives Company-wide. processes, with 69% now complete. As safety is closely aligned with improve our Decrease in serious injuries We believe that one serious injury is one behavior, we continued to provide regular coaching to our shift supervisors, safety record too many – and although we achieved our target of no more than four serious with one supervisor coached every month on safety leadership. injuries in 2016, we will never be satisﬁed Nothing is more important or complacent. In fact, incidents in the Looking ahead to us than the safety of our ﬁrst months of 2017 served as stark reminders of the need to be relentless Each plant to develop a program employees and contractors. in our pursuit of safety excellence. focused on employee involvement, Sadly, our 2016 safety safe behavior and hazard performance fell short of Safety initiatives deliver success identiﬁcation. our high expectations – Despite relatively disappointing results, Continue the hands-free casting and we therefore approach our activities did deliver a number of program; commence a program the years ahead with successes during the year. For example, to eliminate hand contact with our Muscle Shoals and Singen sites suspended loads; and implement renewed commitment. reduced their recordable case rates, the environmental assessment. with Singen achieving a historic low level of 1.47 per one million hours worked. Roll out the ‘Take 5’ program to encourage people to spend ﬁve minutes assessing the risk of non-routine activities. Safety ambassadors in Gottmadingen Establish behavior-based measures Safety ambassadors are volunteers such as the Ambassador program in on each shift whose role is to all plants (see case study on the left). promote safety practices among their colleagues. Feedback from shift supervisors ensures that safety ambassadors stay engaged Labor Rights and motivated in their role. 2020 target Reduce our Recordable Case Rate* every year by 10% 2016 status Off track * Constellium’s Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work 2020 target injuries or medical treatments per one million A maximum of four serious hours worked. injuries a year by 2020 Recordable Case Rate* 2016 status 25 26.0 On track 24.5 18.5 18.5 20 17.5 19.0 16.0 15.0 13.3 14.0 14.0 13.5 15 11.5 10.0 2020 target 10.7 13.3 8.4 7.8 7.8 10 10.8 7.2 6.9 Be in the industry’s top quartile 8.6 6.2 6.3 9.2 7.3 3.31 in terms of safety results 7.2 3.7 2.86 5 5.1 3.8 3.5 3.2 2016 status 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.7 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 On track Legacy Constellium European Aluminium Muscle Shoals, Bowling Green and Changchun US Bureau of Labor Statistics Aluminium Constellium 39 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 On track to meet our target Looking ahead People During 2016, we carried out our most recent global employee survey. With a Roll out all activities related to 75% response rate (identical to the 2014 communication, leadership and survey), the survey showed a two point Company culture. increase in satisfaction, conﬁrming that Engage we are on track to achieve our 2020 target of a six point increase. Follow up activities at each site. Carry out the next survey in 2018. our people Highlights included strong progress in the US, driven by initiatives at our Overview Labor Rights An engaged workforce is Ravenswood site (see below) as well as improved scores in several key the foundation for a strong areas These included interactions and productive business. with management, our Environment, Every two years, we carry Health and Safety policy and practices, out a comprehensive survey empowerment and general in order to measure the job satisfaction. Governance in focus satisfaction of our employees Aiming for further improvements and track our progress At the same time, the survey revealed towards our 2020 target. opportunities where we can make further improvements, particularly in leadership, communication and culture. Global action plans have Gottmadingen scored already been launched to better explain particularly well on our strategy, to improve management satisfaction with our communication and to strengthen leadership. This is due the sense of belonging. to open and transparent In addition, we are sharing best practice across Constellium in order to address a communication on matters such as investment Business in focus number of site-speciﬁc issues, with each plant and ofﬁce tasked with developing and nominations as an appropriate action plan. Workshops well as regular dialog have been organized, and progress is monitored monthly by our HR team and between management quarterly by business unit management. and employees.” Adalbert Maier Plant Manager, Gottmadingen Sustainability in focus Improved communication spaces at Neuf-Brisach We reorganized our communication spaces at Neuf-Brisach in order to improve employee awareness of important information regarding the site, the business unit and 2020 target the Company. Six point increase Performance in focus in overall employee satisfaction Strong progress in US At Ravenswood, a range of activities by 2020, from a 2014 baseline have helped achieve an uplift in 2016 status employee satisfaction. These include more training, more On track presentations on the Company strategy and speciﬁc initiatives around recognition and reward. 40 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Our sustainability targets (continued) Laying the foundations Looking ahead People We have provided every site with guidelines and examples of relevant Support all sites as they work to programs such as those focusing on identify and implement a relevant environmental awareness, educational program. Use quarterly management and social issues, community outreach, meetings to share best practice and Strengthen and sports and healthcare. However, we know that local sites are best-placed enable teams to learn from the experiences of others. our to identify local needs – and the ﬁnal decision on which programs to Strengthen guidelines and recommendations based on communities implement is taken at a local level. feedback and the outcome of events. Early successes We are committed to Some sites already have a track record Follow up twice a year across supporting the communities of implementing extensive community each business unit. close to our operations, programs. For example, at our plant in Ravenswood, West Virginia, employees playing a part in their are regularly involved in events ranging successes and being a good from supporting health campaigns to neighbor. Our target is for encouraging children to read. each site to identify where our At the same time, other sites remain involvement can make a real in the early stages of establishing their difference, and to introduce community involvement. A number at least one community action of projects are planned for 2017, with the highlights including the per site per year. 50th anniversaries of our Neuf-Brisach and C-TEC sites. These events will focus on community participation and educating local people about our operations and our customers. “As a large company, we believe we have a A Company-wide program Keen to play their part, our ofﬁces have responsibility to support our also organized a range of community community. Our diverse and events. While many of these involved extensive program has sporting or charity events – such as our Zurich employees competing in increased the engagement a race – others have focused on of our employees. They feel supporting employment opportunities prouder to belong to a (see below). company which cares.” Buddy Stemple CEO, Ravenswood plant Ravenswood in pink October is breast cancer month in the US. Everyone is invited to wear pink, including all Ravenswood employees. The aim is to educate people about the disease and how early detection can improve outcomes. 2020 target At least one Supporting employment community activity Employees in our Paris ofﬁce donated unworn business clothes per site every year to La Cravate Solidaire, an 2016 status organization dedicated to helping unemployed people prepare for On track interviews. Constellium donated 10 euros per kilo of clothing given by employees. Constellium 41 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Greater focus and better measurement Looking ahead Operations The increased focus on production waste has enabled us to improve the ways in Ensure that data is gathered which we measure waste. It has also accurately. helped us identify waste streams of Identify partners for all mixed which we were previously unaware. Reduce The reporting of this ‘new’ waste has inevitably led to an increase in the total scrap and ensure waste is sorted at plant level . production amount of waste produced. Find technical solutions for speciﬁc production waste such Overview waste sent Good progress During the year, we placed particular as ﬂue-gas dust. to landﬁll emphasis on waste management in the US. For example, at Muscle Shoals Environment we installed recycling dumpsters to We have implemented separate plastic, cardboard and paper several programs to recycle for recycling. This initiative has already reduced the amount of mixed waste sent Governance in focus production waste at key to landﬁll by 400 tons, a decrease of 8%. sites and expect a signiﬁcant At Ravenswood, a similar approach has reduction in the amount seen the installation of new sorting bins, we send to landﬁll over and discussions are ongoing with the next ﬁve years. a local recycler to further improve our performance. Challenges remain One of our most important goals is to clearly identify all waste. Another key challenge is to recycle waste that is currently not recyclable by traditional means. For example, we are Business in focus continuing to work with partners such as Strasbourg University in order to “We have put in place a speciﬁc ﬁnd ways to process ﬂue-gas dust. Sustainability Committee in For our US operations, a major our plant to push and review challenge is to identify local facilities all actions related to the able to recycle our sorted waste. Group sustainability target.” Mike Tanchuk CEO, Muscle Shoals plant Sustainability in focus Better sorting New sorting containers at Muscle Shoals are ensuring that mixed scrap is not sent to landﬁll. Production waste Metric tons 150,000 129,445 2020 target 120,000 Reduce production waste going 120,229 Performance in focus 90,000 to landﬁll by 10%, including 85,451 88,266 34,223 Muscle Shoals (vs. 2015) 27,928 60,000 2016 status 30,000 6,850 6,956 Off track Recycling Incineration Landﬁll Total tons/year 2015 2016 42 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Our sustainability targets (continued) Disappointing progress On track with our projects Operations Our target is to increase energy However, we have continued to target efﬁciency by 10% by 2020, from a 2015 improvements and all our energybaseline. This translates into an average related projects remain on schedule. improvement of 2.1% per year. During For example, new furnaces at Muscle Improve the last 12 months we recorded only a 0.3% improvement, largely due to the temporary effects of ramp-ups and Shoals, Neuf-Brisach, Issoire and Ravenswood are coming on stream, and will start to deliver results in 2017. energy operational changes. Other improvements will be delivered by upgrades to our rolling mills and efﬁciency Ramping up new investments leads to additional consumption changes in slab dimensions as well as the installation of LED lighting. The proven success and sound In addition to equipment upgrades By sharing best practice prospects of our business units have and new energy efﬁcient equipment, across Constellium, our wellbeen the foundations for signiﬁcant signiﬁcant energy efﬁciency established energy network is investments in new production improvements should be delivered by the driving force for efﬁciency equipment at many of our plants. improving process control, sharing best While such investments are excellent practice and increasing metal yields. improvements. Progress is indicators of the Company’s strength, reported to the business units they have the unavoidable effect of on a regular basis. temporarily impacting our energy Looking ahead performance. During the ramp-up Deliver current projects in order period, energy consumption rises while to achieve the expected energy output remains low. This is particularly savings. true at four of our sites: Decin, where we built a new casting unit; Muscle Shoals, Make further improvements to where we upgraded casting units and our metal recovery. invested in new pit furnaces; and at Identify and launch new projects Neuf-Brisach and Singen where we to ensure we achieve our goals. have invested to meet the growing demand of the automotive segment. Environment Through the energy network, we share best practice and ensure that all plants fully embrace our energy efﬁciency goals.” Philippe Abeillon A&T Director of Engineering, Energy Network leader 2020 target 10% energy efﬁciency improvement by 2020, including Changing the way we work At Issoire, our production, quality, Muscle Shoals (vs. 2015) sales and engineering teams worked 2016 status together to develop a new wide slab format that has removed the need Off track for two energy-intensive stages of production, thereby reducing our energy consumption. Constellium 43 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Signiﬁcant expansion Looking ahead: for the Responsible business When we joined the ASI, membership ASI organization comprised just six companies. Later, as one of 14 members, we were one Following public consultation of the main instigators of the ASI’s regarding the Chain of Custody performance standard. We are pleased standard, take feedback on-board Build a that the organization now has over 40 members, including companies at both and enter a second round of consultation before summer 2017. standard for ends of the value chain – from Alcoa and Rusal to Coca-Cola and Apple. Issue the assurance manual, the revised performance standard and Overview aluminium Developing a certiﬁcation process the guidance documents for public consultation before summer 2017. In April 2016, we were elected to Supported by Constellium, the Standards Committee, the body Ensure all documentation is ﬁnalized the Aluminium Stewardship responsible for developing the by the end of 2017, and that auditors Initiative (ASI) is building a standard’s certiﬁcation process. are selected and accredited. The Committee, strongly supported standard for the responsible by ASI Secretariat, meets regularly Governance in focus production and usage of and has already made good progress: Looking ahead: for Constellium aluminium. We expect a a pilot project during the summer of certiﬁcation process to be 2017 is expected to be followed by the Launch a pilot project in 2017. in place at the end of 2017 full launch of the certiﬁcation program by the end of the year. and aim to have at least one of our plants certiﬁed by 2020. Working to achieve our target Although we have not made our ﬁnal choice of which Constellium plant(s) will be the ﬁrst to apply for certiﬁcation, the most likely candidate should be from the Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products business unit. Business in focus Anti-Corruption, Human Rights, “The launch of the ASI Labor Rights and Environment certiﬁcation scheme in 2018 has the potential to drive signiﬁcant change in the aluminium value chain. While we continue to discuss related opportunities with our customers, we are also looking Sustainability in focus at our own manufacturing operations and our supplier partners to determine areas we need to improve upon in order to comply with the ASI standards. 2020 target At Ball, we see ASI as one Have at least one piece of the puzzle to make site ASI certiﬁed by 2020 the can the most sustainable (based on the assumption that packaging solution.” Performance in focus there will be a certiﬁcation Björn Kulmann scheme in place) Director Global Sustainability, 2016 status Ball Corporation On track 44 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Our sustainability targets (continued) Evaluating more suppliers These sessions cover our global Responsible business In 2016 we continued to use Ecovadis sustainability policy, the challenges to evaluate the sustainability of sustainable purchasing practices performance of our key suppliers, and the methodologies to deliver them. which account for more than 65% of More than 40 purchasing managers our total expenditure. To date, we have were trained during 2016 and in the Ensure evaluated suppliers representing 20% of the total key suppliers’ spending. ﬁrst months of 2017. sustainable We also identiﬁed 11 suppliers that potentially carried greater sustainability Looking ahead purchasing related risks due to their location and activities, conducting on-site audits Expand Ecovadis evaluation to cover key suppliers by site, as well as our of 10 of them. aluminium scrap suppliers. We want to work with suppliers Improving performance Ensure that all suppliers have signed who are as committed to Overall, our suppliers performed well. up to our Code of Conduct. sustainability as we are. There was one exception and we are Following evaluation, deﬁne action All suppliers are required to working with this particular supplier plans where relevant and follow up commit to our Code of Conduct in order to help them achieve a better those plans. – and our evaluation processes rating in 2017. The on-site audits include on-site audits in continued to deliver valuable speciﬁc markets and regions. information, speciﬁcally on labor Anti-Corruption, Human Rights, Labor Rights and safety issues. and Environment Encouraging Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) membership We are pleased that more of our metal suppliers have joined the ASI. This will support us in our drive to provide ASI metal to our customers in the future. Training our purchasing teams Our purchasing teams are key to improving supplier sustainability. We aim to empower these teams, giving them the skills and the tools they need to make a real difference. For example, during 2016 we introduced a four-hour training program for our purchasing managers. “RHI is a key partner for us, delivering refractory material to our sites in Europe. We asked for their sustainability performance to be evaluated by Ecovadis and they scored high marks. For Constellium, evaluation 2020 target is not about ticking a box 100% of key suppliers and those but about making progress.” suppliers initially assessed Compliance in action Ramon Lorente as high risk evaluated One of our most important Manager, Strategic Purchasing or audited according to aluminium suppliers, Emirates United Nations Global Compact Global Aluminium (EGA), has made good progress in complying with principles by 2020 our sustainable purchasing policy. 2016 status The company achieved a very good silver rating in the Ecovadis On track sustainability evaluation and has also recently joined the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative. Constellium 45 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Stable emissions intensity Therefore, we are currently working to Across our value chain During 2016, our own GHG emissions deﬁne a target that takes into account (Scope 1 and Scope 2)1 increased the full life-cycle of our products. at a similar rate as our production To achieve this, we developed and volumes, leading to a globally stable are currently ﬁne-tuning a Life Cycle emission intensity across Constellium Assessment (LCA) model. Before it can Deﬁne (see graphs below). become fully auditable, this model will need to be veriﬁed by a third party. a GHG Deﬁning our GHG emission target across the full life-cycle of our products In addition, our LCA model will support Overview emissions Measuring our own emissions, however, is not sufﬁcient to describe the impact local EHS management, as it is aligned with the updated ISO14001:2015 standard, which speciﬁes the target of our activities. There are two reasons for this. introduction of a life-cycle approach into environmental management. – Firstly, our product mix is moving We have a long track towards more energy-intensive record of monitoring our products such as automotive body Looking ahead Governance in focus greenhouse gas (GHG) sheet. These products help to decrease GHG emissions during Complete the LCA model and run emissions. This data allows appropriate scenarios for the their use, due to savings in mass us to understand emissions, (see pages 08–09 for more details). next 5–10 years. and complements our – Secondly, we are increasing our Proceed to the third party environmental initiatives recycling capacity. Using recycled veriﬁcation of our model. around energy management. aluminium reduces the need for primary aluminium, and signiﬁcantly Deﬁne and communicate a suitable We are now working on GHG reduction target. reduces GHG emissions. However, deﬁning an emissions it also increases our own emissions reduction target and for the same quantity of products 1 Scope 1 or ‘direct’ emissions refer to emissions developing a suitable plan shipped because the impacts occurring within our plants, while Scope 2 or to achieve it. associated with recycling and casting ‘indirect’ emissions refer to emissions associated operations become incorporated in with the production of the electricity we use. Business in focus our own ﬁgures. Stable emissions intensity Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity t of CO2 per t of aluminium 0.79 0.79 0.50 0.49 0.29 0.30 Sustainability in focus Scope 1 Scope 2 (Scope 1+2) 2015 2016 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions kt CO2e 1,600 Our next step is to deﬁne 1,185 1,215 an ambitious but realistic 1,200 752 759 GHG emissions reduction 800 Performance in focus target which is consistent 434 456 400 with our position in the aluminium value chain.” Scope 1 Scope 2 (Scope 1+2) Béatrice Charon 2015 2016 Vice President, Business Planning Figures have been rounded to the nearest kt CO2e. 46 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Performance in focus Constellium 47 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Consolidated income statement Year ended Year ended Year ended (in millions of euros) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Revenue 4,743 5,153 3,666 Cost of sales (4,227) (4,703) (3,183) Gross proﬁt 516 450 483 Selling and administrative expenses (254) (245) (200) Research and development expenses (32) (35) (38) Restructuring costs (5) (8) (12) Overview Impairment – (457) – Other gains/(losses) – net 21 (131) (83) Income/(loss) from operations 246 (426) 150 Finance costs – net (167) (155) (58) Share of loss of joint ventures (14) (3) (1) Income/(loss) before income tax 65 (584) 91 Income tax (expense)/beneﬁt (69) 32 (37) Governance in focus Net (loss)/income (4) (552) 54 Net (loss)/income attributable to: Equity holders of Constellium (4) (554) 51 Non-controlling interests – 2 3 Net (loss)/income (4) (552) 54 Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of Constellium Year ended Year ended Year ended Business in focus (in euros per share) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Basic (0.04) (5.27) 0.48 Diluted (0.04) (5.27) 0.48 Note: More detailed information on our ﬁnancial performance can be found in our Annual Report on Form 20-F at: www.constellium.com/aluminium-company/ﬁnance/regulatory-ﬁlings Sustainability in focus Performance in focus 48 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position (in millions of euros) At December 31, 2016 At December 31, 2015 Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 347 472 Trade receivables and other 355 365 Inventories 591 542 Other ﬁnancial assets 117 70 1,410 1,449 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 1,477 1,255 Goodwill 457 443 Intangible assets 79 78 Investments accounted for under equity method 16 30 Deferred income tax assets 252 270 Trade receivables and other 47 53 Other ﬁnancial assets 49 37 2,377 2,166 Assets classiﬁed as held for sale – 13 Total assets 3,787 3,628 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade payables and other 839 867 Borrowings 107 169 Other ﬁnancial liabilities 34 107 Income tax payable 13 6 Provisions 42 44 1,035 1,193 Non-current liabilities Trade payables and other 59 54 Borrowings 2,361 2,064 Other ﬁnancial liabilities 30 14 Pension and other post-employment beneﬁt obligations 735 701 Provisions 107 119 Deferred income tax liabilities 30 10 3,322 2,962 Liabilities classiﬁed as held for sale – 13 Total liabilities 4,357 4,168 Equity Share capital 2 2 Share premium 162 162 Retained deﬁcit and other reserves (743) (715) Equity attributable to equity holders of Constellium (579) (551) Non-controlling interests 9 11 Total equity (570) (540) Total equity and liabilities 3,787 3,628 Constellium 49 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows Year ended Year ended Year ended (in millions of euros) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Net (loss)/income (4) (552) 54 Adjustments Depreciation and amortization 155 140 49 Finance costs – net 167 155 58 Income tax expense/(beneﬁt) 69 (32) 37 Share of loss of joint-ventures 14 3 – Overview Unrealized (gains)/losses on derivatives – net and from remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities – net (74) 23 52 Losses on disposal and assets classiﬁed as held for sale 10 5 5 Impairment – 457 – Other – net (14) 5 5 Interest paid (174) (143) (39) Income tax paid (14) (9) (27) Governance in focus Change in trade working capital Inventories (42) 149 (95) Trade receivables 28 343 (48) Margin calls – 1 11 Trade payables (18) (161) 170 Change in provisions and pension obligations (5) (20) (26) Other working capital (10) 4 (33) Net cash ﬂows from operating activities 88 368 173 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (355) (350) (199) Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired 21 (348) – Business in focus Proceeds from disposals net of cash (5) 4 (2) Equity contribution and loan to joint ventures (37) (34) (21) Other investing activities 11 6 6 Net cash ﬂows used in investing activities (365) (722) (216) Net proceeds from issuance of Senior Notes 375 – 1,153 Repayment of Senior Notes/term loan (148) – (331) (Repayments)/proceeds from revolving Credit Facility and other loans (69) (211) 13 Payment of deferred ﬁnancing costs and exit costs (19) (2) (27) Sustainability in focus Withholding tax reimbursed – – 20 Transactions with non-controlling interests (2) 3 (2) Other ﬁnancing activities 8 45 (34) Net cash ﬂows from/(used in) ﬁnancing activities 145 (165) 792 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (132) (519) 749 Cash and cash equivalents – beginning of period 472 991 236 Cash and cash equivalents classiﬁed as held for sale – beginning of period 4 – – Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 3 4 6 Cash and cash equivalents – end of period 347 476 991 Less: cash and cash equivalents classiﬁed as held for sale – (4) – Performance in focus Cash and cash equivalents as reported in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 347 472 991 50 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Share information Share price evolution in US$ (from April 16, 2016) 10 8 6 4 2 April 16 May 16 June 15 July 15 Aug 15 Sept 16 Oct 16 Nov 15 Dec 15 Jan 15 Feb 15 Mar 15 April 15 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2017 2017 2017 2017 Shareholding structure Average number of daily shares traded in 2016 (as of December 31, 2016) 0.9 million 1 2 shares 1 Bpifrance 12.2% 2 Free ﬂoat 87.8% Constellium 51 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Sustainability performance In this section (pages 51–60), we provide our performance across the four pillars of Constellium’s sustainability strategy: Products People Operations Overview Responsible business Products Pages 36–37 for more information on Products Governance in focus Aluminium beverage can recycling rates 80 75% target for 2015 68.3% 69.5% 66.7% 71.3% 70 63.1% 64.0% 61.8% 58.0% 60 54.5% 54.5% 52.0% 56.7% 49.4% 49.2% 48.4% 54.1% 54.2% 54.9% 48.0% 48.0% 50 50.9% 49.7% 43.0% 48.5% 48.2% 45.0% 46.0% 44.3% 45.1% 45.0% 45.3% 40 Business in focus 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2014 2015 2016 Europe US * This is the most recent data available for Europe. Figures for this data take a long time to process and the aggregate 2014 data is not yet available. Initial ﬁgures from large countries indicate a continued increase in recycling rates for 2014. The beverage can recycling rate has seen a tremendous improvement from 43% (in 2000) to 71.3% (in 2013). People Sustainability in focus Pages 38–40 for more information on People Recordable Case Rate* 25 26.0 24.5 18.5 18.5 20 17.5 19.0 16.0 15.0 13.3 14.0 14.0 13.5 15 11.5 10.7 10.0 13.3 9.2 8.4 7.8 7.8 10 10.8 7.2 6.9 6.2 6.3 8.6 7.3 3.3 3.7 Performance in focus 7.2 2.9 5 5.1 3.8 3.5 3.2 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.7 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Legacy Constellium Muscle Shoals, Bowling Green and Changchun European Aluminium US Bureau of Labor Statistics Aluminium * Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries or medical treatments per one million hours worked. Project contractors and visitors have been systematically included in these statistics since 2008. Before that only extended contractors such as canteen and security staff were included. 52 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Sustainability performance (continued) People (continued) Pages 38–40 for more information on People GRI G4–10: Total workforce Temporary (agency, Inactive Inactive excluding Apprentice restructuring without pay Permanent Fixed-term contractors) All Constellium Number of employees with Male 252 5 43 – – – speciﬁc employment type Female 38 1 15 – – – Number of employees Male – – – 9,116 435 per employment contract 837 Female – – – 1,075 75 Number of employees Full-time 290 6 51 9,980 507 working full/part-time 837 Part-time 0 0 7 211 3 Total 11,892 Total permanent and ﬁxed terms 11,055 Europe Number of employees with Male 252 5 17 – – – speciﬁc employment type Female 38 1 12 – – – Number of employees Male – – – 6,751 245 per employment contract 800 Female – – – 763 37 Number of employees Full-time 290 6 22 7,303 279 working full/part-time 800 Part-time 0 0 7 211 3 Total permanent and ﬁxed terms 8,121 Asia Number of employees with Male – – – – – – speciﬁc employment type Female – – – – – – Number of employees Male – – – 11 190 per employment contract – Female – – – 12 38 Number of employees Full-time – – – 23 228 – working full/part-time Part-time – – – – – – Total permanent and ﬁxed terms 251 North America Number of employees with Male – – 26 – – – speciﬁc employment type Female – – 3 – – – Number of employees Male – – – 2,354 – per employment contract 37 Female – – – 300 – Number of employees Full-time – – 29 2,654 – 37 working full/part-time Part-time – – – – – – Total permanent and ﬁxed terms 2,683 Constellium 53 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 People GRI G4–LA1: Employee turnover Apprentices and temporary ﬁxed-term contract employees have been excluded, for accuracy in turnover rate calculation Under Between Between Above Overview 26 26 and 45 46 and 55 56 Total Europe Number of new employees hired in 2016 Male 251 302 53 7 613 Female 100 53 9 3 165 Number of employees who left the Male 155 162 84 201 602 Company in 2016 Female 65 47 14 19 145 Number of employees on Male 296 3,073 2,354 1,295 7,018 December 31, 2016 Governance in focus Female 43 403 235 132 813 Turnover rate Male 52.4% 5.3% 3.6% 15.5% 8.6% Female 151.2% 11.7% 6.0% 14.4% 17.8% North America Number of new employees hired in 2016 Male 21 65 15 8 109 Female 4 14 3 2 23 Number of employees who left the Male 15 57 33 44 149 Company in 2016 Female 3 11 9 9 32 Number of employees on Male 82 896 791 611 2,380 December 31, 2016 Business in focus Female 16 132 96 59 303 Turnover rate Male 18.3% 6.4% 4.1% 7.2% 6.3% Female 18.6% 8.3% 9.4% 15.3% 10.6% Asia Number of new employees hired in 2016 Male 42 64 9 0 115 Female 8 21 3 0 32 Number of employees who left the Male 34 28 2 0 64 Company in 2016 Sustainability in focus Female 4 15 4 0 23 Number of employees on Male 40 149 10 2 201 December 31, 2016 Female 5 39 6 0 50 Turnover rate Male 85.0% 18.8% 20.0% 0.0% 31.8% Female 80.0% 38.5% 66.7% 0.0% 46.0% Performance in focus 54 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Sustainability performance (continued) Operations Pages 41–42 for more information on Operations Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions kt CO2e 1,600 1,215 1,200 1,185 800 752 759 434 456 400 Scope 1 Scope 2 (Scope 1+2) 2015 2016 Figures have been rounded to the nearest kt CO2e. Water consumption 106 m3 30 29.6 29.7 20 21.4 22.2 8.9 7.1 10 0.3 0.4 Water from public net Surface water Groundwater Total water 2015 2016 Production waste Metric tons 160,000 129,445 120,000 120,229 85,451 88,266 34,223 80,000 27,928 40,000 6,850 6,956 Recycling Incineration Landﬁll Total tons/year 2015 2016 Air emissions Metric tons 1,400 1,225.2 1,200 1,111.0 1,059.4 1,000 617.4 624.7 800 899.7 283.7 261.5 600 400 200 NOx Particulate materials SO2 VOC 2015 2016 Constellium 55 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Operations 2015 2016 * Indirect energy consumption (TJ) Overview Electricity TJ 5,482 5,847 Direct energy sources* Anthracite 500 522 Liqueﬁed Petroleum Gas (LPG) 15 15 Natural gas 13,243 13,224 Diesel 119 119 Heavy fuel 159 152 Total 14,036 14,032 Governance in focus Total Direct + Indirect 19,222 19,569 * As we locally produce part of our energy, total energy consumption does not exactly match the sum of direct and indirect energy consumption. From energy consumption to energy efﬁciency Raw energy consumption per ton is not necessarily the most relevant indicator of energy efﬁciency, because we need to take into account the effect of different product mixes. For instance, the manufacture of automotive sheet requires signiﬁcantly more energy during rolling and ﬁnishing operations than beverage can body sheet. Therefore, increasing the share of one product over another will affect the overall energy per ton, independently of any other change. For this reason, we correct our energy efﬁciency indicator to avoid any bias. We have identiﬁed the relative energy consumption per ton of different product lines and use this to transpose raw energy per ton data into an energy efﬁciency index. This index therefore reﬂects the intrinsic manufacturing performance of our operations, regardless of any changes in our product mix. Business in focus At the same time, we also rely on Life Cycle Assessments to make sure that we manufacture environmentally sound products. We are particularly keen to ensure that products requiring greater energy during manufacture deliver greater energy savings during their lifetime. Responsible business Sustainability in focus Pages 43–44 for more information on Responsible business Code of Conduct training 96.0% 99.8% 99.3% 99.8% Achieved Achieved Achieved Achieved 1,600 1,301 1,298 1,118 1,116 1,144 1,136 1,200 974 935 800 Performance in focus 400 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of people targeted Number of people achieved 56 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 GRI content index GRI G4 disclosure We have achieved full disclosure against the general standard disclosures and speciﬁc standard disclosures listed below, and reported against the mining and mineral sector guidelines (which are marked with an *). General standard disclosures DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s insights 02-03 decision-maker of the organization Organizational proﬁle G4-3 Name of the organization Constellium N.V. (Constellium) G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Innovation, Business units perspective 18-25 Our main brands are: Airware®, Sealium, Alumold®, Unidal, HerkalHK34, Xtral 728, Diamal R, Diamal S, Alplan, Certal, Fortal, Alcast, Fibral, Surfalex®, Formalex®, Strongalex®, Ultralex®, Skybright®, Inoxal®, Solar Surface®, Longlineﬁnish®, Securalex®, HSA6™, Modalex™, Butlerﬁnish®, Staybright™, Keikor®, Aeral™, Dokima®, Kool X™, Plan, Ox and Gripster G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Amsterdam, The Netherlands Back cover G4-6 Countries where the organization operates Our network worldwide 10 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Constellium is a public company that aims to operate with the highest ethical standards and best practices, to be responsive to our shareholders and other stakeholders, and operates under a worldwide Code of Conduct. We are listed on NYSE and on Euronext under the ticker symbol ‘CSTM’. Shareholders as of December 31, 2016 – free ﬂoat: 87.8%; Bpifrance: 12.2% G4-8 Markets served Three core business units 11 Business unit perspectives 20-25 Business and sustainability highlights of the year 06-07, 34-35 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Key ﬁgures 04 Our network worldwide 10 For capitalization data, see our Annual Report 2016, section F-5 http://www.constellium.com/content/download/8887/128529/version/1/ ﬁle/2016+Dutch+Annual+Report.pdf For quantity of product: see our Annual Report 2016 on page 08 G4-10 Workforce characteristic Sustainability performance 52-53 G4-11 Employees covered by collective A vast majority of non-US employees and approximately 50% of bargaining agreements US employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Creating value throughout the life-cycle of aluminium 08-09 G4-13 Changes in organization’s size, Start of operation of a new facility operated by our joint venture with structure, ownership or its supply chain UACJ Corporation in Bowling Green, Kentucky, USA (Sept. 2016) G4-14 Precautionary principle Our sustainability targets 41-42, 45 See Constellium Code of Conduct on page 09 http://www.constellium.com/content/download/2640/58091/version/5/ﬁle/ D16196-Code-of-Conduct-UK-US-interactif.pdf G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles or Build a standard for aluminium 43 initiatives to which the organization subscribes Memberships 61 G4-16 Membership of associations or organizations Build a standard for aluminium 43 Memberships 61 Constellium 57 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 General standard disclosures DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page Organizational proﬁle (continued) G4-17 Entities included in the organization reports All entities owned by Constellium and all operating joint ventures during reporting year 2016 Our network worldwide 10 Overview G4-18 Reporting principles for deﬁning report content About this report IFC Identiﬁed material aspects and boundaries G4-19 Process for deﬁning content Sustainability in focus 31-33 and aspect boundaries During 2014, we undertook a materiality assessment to identify the issues that matter most to Constellium and our stakeholders. Our sustainability targets are aligned with this vision See pages 36-39 of our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report for more, available at www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/ Governance in focus version/2/ﬁle/Business+%26+Sustainability+Report_June+3+2015.pdf G4-20 Material aspects within the organization Our sustainability targets 32-33, 36-45 G4-21 Material aspects outside the organization Our sustainability targets 32-33, 36-45 G4-22 Restatements of information provided Our waste production data had to be corrected 41 in earlier reports See ‘Greater focus and better management’ on page 41 G4-23 Signiﬁcant changes from previous About this report IFC reporting periods in scope and aspect boundaries Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged Build a standard for aluminium 43 by the organization Ensure sustainable purchasing 44 Strengthen our communities 40 Business in focus Memberships 61 G4-25 Identiﬁcation and selection Build a standard for aluminium 43 of stakeholders to engage See also our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report, available at www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/ on pages 30 and 39-41 G4-26 Organization’s approach to Build a standard for aluminium 43 stakeholder engagement Strengthen our communities 40 See also our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report, available at www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/version/2/ﬁle/ Business+%26+Sustainability+Report_June+3+2015.pdf on page 30 G4-27 Key topics collected through Our sustainability targets: overview 32-33 Sustainability in focus stakeholder engagement Our targets were deﬁned to address key topics emerging from our materiality assessment See also our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report, available at www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/version/2/ﬁle/ Business+%26+Sustainability+Report_June+3+2015.pdf on page 30 Report proﬁle G4-28 Reporting period About this report IFC G4-29 Date of the last report Issued in 2016. Available on our website’s sustainability section at http://www.constellium.com/content/download/8339/123901/version/1/ﬁle/ Business+and+sustainability+performance+report+2015.pdf G4-30 Reporting cycle About this report IFC Performance in focus G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report IFC G4-32 GRI Content Index GRI G4 disclosure index 56-60 G4-33 External assurance About this report IFC 58 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 GRI content index (continued) General standard disclosures (continued) DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page Governance G4-34 Governance structure Governance in focus 13-16 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, Governance in focus 13-16 standards and norms of behavior Our sustainability targets: responsible business 43-44 Speciﬁc standard disclosures Category: economic Increase economic performance Material aspect: economic performance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s insights 02-03 Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s insights 05 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Key ﬁgures 04 Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s insights 05 Increase economic performance G4-EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities Due to the uncertainty of the effects of climate change it is difﬁcult to quantify its impact. for the organization’s activities due to Possible scenarios that could create ﬁnancial risks for our business include availability of water, climate change additional regulation to mitigate climate change, serious weather events causing damage to operations and supply chain, and climate warming/cooling trends in different regions positively or negatively affecting the sales of ﬁnished products in particular beverage cans. As a participant since 2013 in the European Union Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS), changes to this system and a higher price of carbon could have an impact There are, however, opportunities related to climate change and associated legislative changes. New technology and products which are lightweight and recyclable and are being used to lower fuel emissions in vehicles present an opportunity for aluminium, including: increased sales and opening of new markets as well as increasing aluminium share in existing markets, promotion of aluminium for new markets, providing innovative solution for customer needs, R&T investment, and expansion of manufacturing facilities. Opportunities from the EU ETS include being able to trade excess emissions certiﬁcates, which would provide an additional income, and no costs except those to reduce emissions to the required level to have excess certiﬁcates Category: environmental Increase recycling activities Material aspect: materials* G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Creating value throughout the life-cycle of aluminium 08-09 Increase beverage can recycling 36 See also our recycling brochure: http://www.constellium.com/content/download/7813/120379/version/3/ﬁle/ Constellium+-+recycling+brochure+-+october+2015.pdf G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that We do not consider recycled content as a relevant metrics for environmental are recycled input materials performance. For more detail, see our recycling brochure, available online at the following address: http://www.constellium.com/content/download/7813/120379/version/3/ﬁle/ Constellium+-+recycling+brochure+-+october+2015.pdf Improve energy efﬁciency of operations Material aspect: energy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Improve energy efﬁciency 42 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Sustainability performance 55 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Deﬁne a GHG emissions target 45 The use of our products often saves energy through mass saving, especially in transportation, and recycling. See this report on pages 06-09 and 34-35 for illustration Constellium 59 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Speciﬁc standard disclosures Category: environmental (continued) G4-EN5 Energy intensity Improve energy efﬁciency 42 At Constellium, ‘energy efﬁciency’ is the way we deﬁne ‘energy intensity’ G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Improve energy efﬁciency 42 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements Improve energy efﬁciency 42 of products and services Overview Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Material aspect: emissions G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Deﬁne a GHG emissions target 45 Creating value throughout the life-cycle of aluminium (4. Product use) 09 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Deﬁne a GHG emissions target 45 G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Deﬁne a GHG emissions target 45 G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Deﬁne a GHG emissions target 45 Governance in focus G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) None recorded in the reporting year G4-EN21 NOX, SO2, and other signiﬁcant air emissions Sustainability performance 54 Reduce waste from operations Prevent pollution from operations Material aspect: efﬂuents and waste G4-DMA* Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Reduce production waste sent to landﬁll 41 G4-EN22 Water discharge Sustainability performance 54 G4-EN23 Waste disposal Reduce production waste sent to landﬁll 41 Sustainability performance 54 G4-EN24 Signiﬁcant spills No major spills recorded in the reporting year Business in focus Develop products with environmental beneﬁts Material aspect: products and services G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Creating value throughout the life-cycle of aluminium 08-09 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products See ‘Deﬁne a GHG emissions target’ for more information on how we manage 45 and services the Life Cycle Assessment of our products See also our website: http://www.constellium.com/sustainability/life-cycle-of-aluminium G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Build a standard for aluminium 43 Ensure sustainable purchasing 44 G4-EN29 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total None recorded in the reporting year number of non-monetary sanctions for Sustainability in focus non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Engage suppliers in sustainability performance Material aspect: supplier sustainability G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Ensure sustainable purchasing 44 G4-EN32 Suppliers screened using environmental criteria Ensure sustainable purchasing 44 Category: social Sub-category: labor practices and decent work Improve employee satisfaction Material aspect: employment Performance in focus G4-DMA* Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Engage our people 39 G4-LA1 Number and rates of new employee hires and Sustainability performance 53 employee turnover G4-LA2 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees Part-time workers have pro-rata beneﬁts of full-time employees; temporary that are not provided to temporary or workers are not eligible for the same beneﬁts. Some selected beneﬁts related part-time employees to health insurance are granted depending on seniority 60 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2016 GRI content index (continued) Speciﬁc standard disclosures (continued) Material aspect: labor/management relations G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our sustainability targets: people 38-39 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding The minimum notice period changes depending on the country of operation and is based operational changes on local regulations. We follow the rules of the country in question G4-MM4* Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding None recorded in the reporting year one week’s duration DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page Ensure safety at work Reduce psycho-social risks Reduce use of harmful substances Material aspect: safety G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach EHS – Our top priority 27 G4-LA5 Workforce represented in health and 100% of our sites have workforce representation in health and safety committees safety committees G4-LA6* Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, EHS – Our top priority 27 absenteeism and total number of workFurther improve our safety record 38 related fatalities G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal EHS – Our top priority 27 agreements with trade unions Further improve our safety record 38 Health and safety topics are covered not only in agreements with trade unions but also in our procedures and directives Develop training and empowerment Material aspect: training and education G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Explanations from pages 46-48 of our 2015 report remain valid. http://www.constellium.com/content/download/8339/123901/version/1/ﬁle/ Business+and+sustainability+performance+report+2015.pdf G4-LA11 Employees receiving regular performance and Our professional grade employees receive annual performance and career career development reviews development through the new global HR platform, Success Factors. This has been extended to some supervisory levels in France All other employees receive an annual performance review but this is done on a site-by-site basis and tracked centrally for all managers Sub-category: human rights Promote and enforce ethical business practices Material aspect: non-discrimination G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our sustainability targets: responsible business 43-44 G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective No discrimination incidents or non-compliances in this respect have been reported actions taken to the Group level through the formal compliance process in the course of the year. In case of incidents on site level or allegations of discrimination on grounds of race, age, color, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin, they have been reviewed and dealt with in line with the applicable legal and management review processes. Where appropriate, the necessary corrective actions have been deﬁned and put in place by the local management in charge Material aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Engage our people 39 G4-HR4 Risks to the right to exercise freedom None identiﬁed of association and collective bargaining Sub-category: product responsibility Innovation G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Innovation 18-19 Highlights of the year 06-07 Creating value throughout the life-cycle of aluminium 08-09 Sustainability highlights 34-35 Customer satisfaction G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Increase customer satisfaction 37 Constellium 61 Business and sustainability performance report 2016 Memberships Participates in projects and Membership Has positions in governance committees Aluminum Association (AA) Member Yes Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Member of Standards Committee, Yes Catherine Athènes ARPAL, Spain Member No Aluminium France President, Yes Béatrice Charon Association Française des Entreprises Privées (AFEP) Member No Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) No No Cercle de l’Industrie Member No European Aluminium Foil Association (EAFA) Member Yes European Aluminium Member of the Executive Committee, Yes Arnaud Jouron France Aluminium Recyclage (FAR) President, Yes Raphaël Thevenin Gesamtverband der Aluminium Industrie (GDA) Member of the Board, Yes Dieter Höll Groupement des Industries Françaises Aéronautiques et Spatiales (GIFAS) Member No Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) No No International Aluminium Institute (IAI) No Yes La Boîte Boisson (BCME) Member Yes Swiss Aluminium Association (alu.ch) Member No Syndicat National des Fabricants de Boîtes, Member Yes emballages et bouchages Métalliques (SNFBM) United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) No No Wirtschafts Vereinigung Metalle (WVM) Member of the Board, Yes Dieter Höll Forward-looking statements This report contains statements All statements that reﬂect Constellium’s These risks and uncertainties include, that relate to future events and expectations, assumptions or but are not limited to, those set forth expectations and as such constitute projections about the future other under the heading ‘Risk Factors’ forward-looking statements within than statements of historical fact in our Annual Report on Form 20-F, the meaning of the Private Securities are forward-looking statements. and described from time to time in Litigation Reform Act of 1995. subsequent reports, ﬁled with the US The forward-looking statements Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements include contained in this report are subject those statements containing such to a number of known and unknown Constellium disclaims any obligation words as ‘expects’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, risks, uncertainties and other to update publicly any forward-looking ‘scheduled’, ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘will’, factors and are not guarantees statements, whether in response to new or other words of similar meaning. of future performance. information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. www.constellium.com This report was released in June 2017 Coordination: Corporate Communications Department and Sustainability Council. Design and production: Radley Yeldar | www.ry.com Print: Printed by Geoff Neal on FSC® certiﬁed paper. Geoff Neal Group is a UKAS certiﬁed company and its Environmental Management System is certiﬁed ISO 14001. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. This document is printed on Cocoon Silk 100; process chlorine free (PCF) paper containing 100% recycled ﬁbre approved by the FSC®.
