COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Statement from jp.ik’s President To the United Nations Secretary General Your Excellency Mr. António Guterres, For a decade, jp.ik has had the mission of implementing innovative and sustainable solutions, which contribute to the transformation of communities through technology, engineering and pedagogy. In pursuing its mission, jp.ik supports the ten principles of the Global Compact regarding Human Rights, environment and fighting corruption. Our first Communication on Progress strengthens our intention to implement those ten principles and our commitment to integrate the Global Compact and its principles on our strategy, our culture and our cooperative projects that drive the broadest sustainable goals from the United Nations, in particular, the Sustainable Development Goals. Our commitment to the promotion of Human Rights through the support of initiatives in the context of Education, which promote the development of the community. For this reason, we support various projects within the scope of technology and education and we strengthen partnerships in order to foster said projects. In the context of labor rights, we continue to strengthen some measures of personal and professional appreciation and the gathering of workers from different areas. Therefore, we invested on the organization of initiatives, such as the ‘Breakfast with the Administration’, healthy eating and wellbeing workshops or the promotion of the Code of Ethics. Regarding external initiatives, we have participated in Forums dedicated to the importance of human capital. With this first Communication on Progress, we manifest our motivation, commitment and dedication to integrating the Global Compact network, believing that through the implementation of the 10 Principals of the Global Compact we can contribute to a better future for the Organizations. The President, Jorge Sá Couto • Communication on Progress • 2 INDEX JP.IK’S CULTURE JP.IK’S PRINCIPLES OF ACTION IN THE CONTEXT OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery • Communication on Progress • 3 JP.IK’S CULTURE Mission Implement innovative and sustainable solutions that promote the transformation of communities through technology, engineering and pedagogy. Vision Provide global access to knowledge through technological solutions. VALUES Local Awareness We offer solutions that are unique and tailored to the needs of our clients and respective communities. Innovation We create advanced technological solutions that guarantee the success of projects in the present and in the future. Ambition We are bold! We want to continue growing and evolving. Humbleness Ours is a success story! However, we have not forgotten our origins and how we got here. We do not underestimate others and are constantly learning. Persistence We are committed and never give in to adversity. Integrity We act honestly! We strive to honor our commitments to employees, clients, suppliers and shareholders, creating relations of trust. Change Our capacity to adapt and transform in the face of adversity pushes us further forward! • Communication on Progress • 4 JP.IK’S PRINCIPLES OF ACTION IN THE CONTEXT OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY jp.ik bets on a responsible and sustainable business model, rooted on the fostering and strengthening of relations and sharing of values with stakeholders. Our daily activity is guided by three principles: • Motivation and satisfaction of our workers; • Supportive, conscious and socially responsible behavior to the communities; • Socially responsible practices in the context of relations with all stakeholders. Therefore, jp.ik’s organizational management integrates in its essence the Human Rights and jp.ik’s conduct and communication reflect transparency to the stakeholders. • Communication on Progress • 5 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights We fully support the principles of the Global Compact regarding Human Rights. Therefore, jp.ik promotes the respect for Human Rights as formal criteria, present in the process of value creation and in the process of decision making and investment/ acquisition with the purpose of ensuring that all commercial partners with who we relate for the execution of our business projects are not associated with Human Rights’ violations. Sustainability of jp.ik’s Education Projects For a decade, jp.ik is present in over 70 countries and implemented over 20 large-scale education technology’s projects. In this context, jp.ik has benefitted the lives of over 14 million students worldwide. In this context of large Education projects’ implementation, jp.ik intends to contribute to the sustainable development of communities that benefit directly from those projects, so we consider that is fundamental to work with local partners with deep knowledge on their communities, like for example, the real needs of the Country, the development goals and social and cultural specificities. To strengthen those trust relations, jp.ik participates in some reference events linked to Education and Technologies, namely: Bett 2017, january 25th to 28th, EXCEL London BETT is the first event of the year regarding Education technologies, gathering the sectors’ biggest companies, edtech start-ups and thousands of participants from over 130 countries of the global education community. Therefore, BETT is the forum to share and debate the future of education, as well as the role that technology and innovation have on the capacitation of educators and students all over the world. This Event gathered more than 30 000 visitors who dedicate their professional lives to Education and to the integration of Technology in Education. • Communication on Progress • 7 Virtual Educa Summit, june 13th to 16th, Bogota, Colombia Virtual Educa is a multidisciplinary initiative dedicated to Education innovation for social transformation and sustainable development created in 2001 in the framework of the Organization of American States (OAS). Through the work developed throughout nearly two decades, Virtual Educa is nowadays, considered the institutional reference model of public-private cooperation in the field of education innovation. This Event brought together almost 30 000 participants. For four days the participants had the opportunity to engage with each other and share experiencies and challenges regarding the integration of Technology in Education. Moreover these four days were full of conferences and workshops dedicated to the most edge and hot themes in the context of Innovation in Education. Innovation Africa, october 23rd to 25th, Maputo, Mozambique This is the African Ministerial Forum dedicated to Innovation, Education and ICT. This forum gathers governmental agents involved in Education and ICT, and partners from the technologies’ sector to share experiences, challenges and solutions in the field of technology integration in Education. This referral Event in Africa counted with the participation of more than 50 ministerial agents of 30 african countries whose main mission was to share and debate their experiences (challenges and opportunities) in the context of Technology integration in Education. • Communication on Progress • 8 Training Policy jp.ik contributes to the increase of market’s competitiveness through the promotion of human resources’ quality and the training provided to its workers, investing in the following aspects: • Internal training initiatives that aim to trigger synergies and the share of knowledge and experiences between workers from different areas; • Workshops that aim to contribute for personal enrichment and promotion of the workers’ wellbeing, among them we point out, for example, healthy eating workshops. Therefore, by promoting the development of our workers’ skills, it is possible to create the conditions to their individual personal and professional growth, contributing to their own professional fulfilment. With this purpose in mind, it was implemented in the beginning of 2017 the Skills Development Reward with the value of 1500€, available to all workers with the goal of supporting them on their training. In the period of july 2016 until september 2017 jp.ik has provided 2761 hours of training to 155 of our employees. • Communication on Progress • 9 PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Since its creation, jp.ik has solid values and humanistic principles as the basis of its foundation, which are reflected in our way of being and in the relations we built and strengthen daily with our partners and clients. In this perspective, in May 2017 came into force the Code of Ethics which assumes itself as a document through which we formalize our way of being and acting, focusing topics like our Principles of Action, legislation compliance or the management and protection of property and other resources. Our Code of Ethics was distributed to our team, which means it was distributed to 350 employees, and it was published online in our website in the following languages: Portuguese, English and French. • Communication on Progress • 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT Labor PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Diversity and equality of opportunites are fundamental values, so we developed clear policies of non-descrimination for recruitment processes, training and career progression. In 2016 the recognition of our effort and dedication was materialized with the achievement of the 25th place in the Initiative Best Companies promoted by the magazine Exame, a national reference publication in the Human Resources’ area. jp.ik was also elected Best Company to Work for the X Generation. • Communication on Progress • 12 PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor jp.ik fully complies with contracts and working hours of all workers, not condoning compulsory work. We comply with the legal obligation regarding working hours and public holidays according to the legislation of each country and under the principles of the International Labor Organization. We take on a fair wage policy, which meets the basic needs of the workers and enables a substantial quality of life to the families. PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labor In each stage of our processes, it is strictly forbidden the use of child labor. jp.ik considers that the proximity relations with partners and suppliers and the audits carried out to them contribute to the mitigation of the problem and to the awareness of the managers, therefore allowing continuous advances throughout the whole supply chain. • Communication on Progress • 13 PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our workers are the most valuable asset of our company, so we invest in the continuous improvement of our working conditions, namely Hygiene and Safety at Work, professional development of our workers, implementing continuous training programs, which contribute to the capacitation and talent promotion. Furthermore, and with the purposes of strengthening the relation between workers and Administration by promoting dialogue and sharing experiences, we carry out regularly the ‘Breakfast with the Administration’. This initiative aims to gather workers from different areas, from Accounting to Product Management, from Human Resources to Marketing and Logistics, for a moment of share and informality because we believe that our people are our most valuable asset. • Communication on Progress • 14 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT Environment PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Our commitment to the Environment is based on the active contribution for a sustainable Planet, reflected on the promotion of a sustainable economic growth, and so we invest on innovation with the goal of minimizing environmental impacts in order not to compromise the interests of the future generations. PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Lights off, Nature on We invest in the awareness of our workers regarding the importance of energy saving, namely electricity and water. Therefore we implemented the internal initiative ‘Lights off, Nature on’ which consists on putting stickers on the computer monitors and next to light switches and air conditioning remotes, calling for electricity saving. With this Initiative with an ecological aim we were able to reach all our employees, because the warning stickers were glued in the technological equipments right next to the on/ off button and next to the light switches and air conditioning remotes. • Communication on Progress • 16 PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The jp.ik’s Popup School is an eco-friendly multipurpose solution. It features a design aligned with a sustainable engineering and eco-friendly materials to enhance communities around the world towards a lasting development. Therefore, our Popup School is an integrated solution with a simple and fast implementation process – a sustainable and convertible infrastructure to communities. The green construction combines cutting-edge technology with recycled, low energy consumption materials. The inclusion of solar panels turns the Popup School into a self-sufficient learning environment. The Popup School aims to be the pillar of the whole community, promoting lifelong educational and training opportunities. It can serve as a training center, health center or community center. The usage model is up to each location and community’s needs. Until now we have implemented about 20 Popup Schools in 14 countries. • Communication on Progress • 17 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT Anti-Corruption PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery The formalization of our acting policy through the publication of our Code of Ethics reflects the respect for our corporate values and the rejection of all types of practices related to bribery or favoring other entities. In addition, the publication of the Account Report ensures the diffusion to all stakeholders of important information concerning our activity, namely financial situation, performance indicators and investments. • Communication on Progress • 19
