COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP REPORT) OCTOBER 2017 COMPANY NAME: INTERGEO ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY LTD. CONTACT PERSON: Dr. S. PAPADOPOULOS EMAIL: stelios.papadopoulos@intergeo.com PHONE: +30 2310 478147 FAX: +30 2310 478149 Communication On Progress 2017 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT INTERGEO’s environmental sense and keen awareness of environmental issues led our Company to join such an organization where one the four issue areas is the environment and associated principles. Our Company continuous to supports and acknowledges all ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Initiative. All ten Principles are implemented to our Company’s operations and philosophy and assist us to improve our Company’s goals and targets. Our philosophy is to provide exceptional technical services according to the actual demands of each customer, in lower possible cost. INTERGEO commits itself as a Company for continual improvement by assessing high standards, goals and targets to the UN Global Compact. INTERGEO is currently working on hundreds of environmental projects worldwide. Besides our key initiative for the protection of the environment, our specialized and enthusiastic workforce is our greatest company assets. Our priority is to ensure the health and safety of our employees by setting and obligatory participation of staff in our seminars. Our strong commitment and continuous support to the principles of the UN Global Compact Initiative is communicated across our Company from the General Manager down to our support staff and subcontractors as well as to our stakeholders and the general public. As an active member of the UN Global Compact Initiative, it is also our obligation to communicate annually our corporate responsibility efforts through the publication of our Communication On Progress (COP) report. Dr. Stelios Papadopoulos General Manager 2 Communication On Progress 2017 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF OUR COMPANY INTERGEO Environmental technology Ltd is an independent firm of specialisized and dedicated consultants. The company was founded in Thessaloniki in 1991 having an aim to provide services in the fields of environmental and geotechnical sector and transfer know-how as well as the international experience of the parent company in Greece. Key personnel in our firm consist of engineering geologists, hydrogeologists, environmental engineers, chemical engineers, chemists, process and civil engineers. Our permanent staff is highly specialized and uniquely qualified to guarantees efficient execution of each project the company undertakes. INTERGEO is engaged in several European and overseas projects. Activities within the company range but are not limited to:  Environmental Site Assessment: (characterisation, transportation, Water-Soil-Air. storage, treatment, recovery/  Due Diligence Studies. disposal in Greece or abroad).  Soil and groundwater remediation.  Investigation for the presence of  Environmental Risk Assessment in asbestos containing materials industrial installations and (removal and management). industrial accidents.  Management of Ozone Depleting  Environmental Impact Studies. Substances (ODS).  Landfills: Design, Assessment and  Soil, water and air chemical Decontamination. studies.  Health & safety inspections  Management of biosolids (sludge audits. from wastewater treatment  Hazardous and Non-Hazardous WWTP). Waste management INTERGEO is certified according to EN ISO 9001:2008, EN ISO 14001:2004 and OSHAS 18001:2007 accreditation standards. In addition, INTERGEO has an analytical laboratory that has been certified according to EN ISO / IEC 17025, since July 2010. 3 Communication On Progress 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. COMMITMENT INTERGEO pays special attention to its commitment to respect and support the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights as well as its commitment to operate to the highest level of integrity and ethics in all business activities. SYSTEMS INTERGEO has implemented a Code of Business Ethics which applies to all activities and services for securing and protecting human rights as well as to promote proper and safe working conditions, effective environmental management and high ethical standards. This Code is based on the company’s principles and policy and is in accordance with the relevant legislative framework. It is the duty of both the upper management of the company as well as each employee to comply with this code as well as with the relevant national and international laws. ACTIVITIES Employees are encouraged to report to the upper management any behavior within the company that they believe may be a violation of the laws or the Code of Business Ethics. The upper management is expected to give the necessary attention to the issue and also to seek a satisfactory solution which will comply with the Code as well as the relevant legislation. PERFORMANCE No cases of violations of human rights or improper behaviour regarding this issue have been recorded within our company since the first year of its operation. 4 Communication On Progress 2017 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. COMMITMENT INTERGEO is committed to ensure that its operations, either directly or indirectly to the extent possible, are not complicit in human right abuses. For this purpose, compliance with a relevant Procedure within the IMS named of “Code of Business Ethics” is an obligation of our contractors and suppliers as well. SYSTEMS At the beginning of any collaboration with our suppliers and contractors, our company monitors them where possible to ensure that they are respect human rights. This is achieved through rigid evaluation from our Procurement Department. In addition, a periodically evaluation takes place in several suppliers and contractors in order to ensure that their policy in this aspect has not been changed, ACTIVITIES In the case of an incident of violation of human rights or refusal of compliance with our Code of Business Ethics by our suppliers and contractors, then immediately the relevant contract is terminated. PERFORMANCE No such cases have been recorded during the past years. 5 Communication On Progress 2017 LABOUR Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. COMMITMENT INTERGEO upholds the freedom of association and the right of employees to be involved in collective bargaining. INTERGEO recommends and encourages all its employees to feel free to participate if they wish to associations or unions of their choice. SYSTEMS INTERGEO’s employees appointed by a unanimous vote a Representative of Employees. The role of the Representative is to consult with the upper management on issues relating to health and safety at work and other issues. ACTIVITIES Every three months, designated regular meetings have been scheduled between the Representative of Employees and the staff. These meetings ensure that employees:  Participate in the development and review of company’s policy and procedures relating to risk management.  Express their opinions on health and safety and technical issues.  Are informed of accidents or near accidents. PERFORMANCE The employee representative consults with the General Director, the person responsible for management systems as well as with Safety Engineer and expresses its opinion on issues relating to health and safety at work. These meetings are taking place whenever the need arises. In 2016, five meetings took place in the followings months: March 2016, June 2016, September 2016 (2 meetings) and October 2016. 6 Communication On Progress 2017 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. COMMITMENT INTERGEO complies with national and international law relevant to labor rights to all its activities and operations. Our company is committed to prevent forced and compulsory labor by enabling its employees to exercise all their legal rights such as to resign voluntarily from their work or to reward them for extra hours of work. SYSTEMS All recruitments, dismissals and resignations to the company are conducted in a transparent way and in accordance with employee’s contracts/ collective bargaining agreements etc. All relevant procedures laid down in relevant legislation are followed. ACTIVITIES The payment of wages is deposited to the bank and at the date of payment all employees receive an analytical breakdown for their payroll including tax and social security deductions. Following the recruitment, each employee has given a job description which clearly states all the responsibilities, terms and conditions of its contract. PERFORMANCE The account department of the company controls and maintains all the relevant procedures in accordance with national and international law. 7 Communication On Progress 2017 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. COMMITMENT INTERGEO does not accept, support or encourage any form of child labour. SYSTEMS All INTERGEO employees are over 18 years old. The average age of our employees is about 35 years old. Prior to any recruitment all essential documents are requested in order to verify the exact age of each employee in order to make sure that they are within the age limits required from the relevant legislation. ACTIVITIES Our support to the effective abolition of child labour is reflected to our suppliers and contractors within our sphere of influence. PERFORMANCE In all our cooperation with supplies and contractors, no cases regarding any form of child labour have been observed. We continue to support and encourage the effective abolition of child labour. 8 Communication On Progress 2017 Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. COMMITMENT INTERGEO’s policy is that no employees shall be discriminated in respect of employment and occupation. Specifically, all employees shall not be discriminated against such as race, color, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, pregnancy, parental status, religion, political beliefs ethnicity, national/ social origin, social status, disability, age. All employees shall be aware of their working conditions. SYSTEMS INTERGEO recommends that all employees with the same working experience, performance and qualifications to receive equal pay for equal work under similar working conditions. The health and safety at work for all employees is always a priority for the company. This applies to all aspects of their working environment such as proper ventilation, temperature, noise level, labeling and handling of chemicals, lighting, quality and easy access to sanitation (male/ female toilets). ACTIVITIES By recruiting a new employee, a training program relating to the requirements of its position is taking place (five days seminar, 40 hours). This training program is an important tool for new staff to be familiarized with its new duties. In addition, all employees at any time can attend seminars relating to their jobs from accredited institutions in order to advance their career and knowledge. PERFORMANCE In 2016, all employees participated in a number of training and seminar programs including health and safety at the workplace, Integrated Management System, Risk Management, first aid, legislation, proper use of personal protective equipment and others, hazardous waste management, asbestos removal and treatment. During the reporting period, a total number of 444.5 training hours for employees were provided by the company. Each year, the company pays special attention to the quality of the employees training to be in a satisfactory level. 9 Communication On Progress 2017 ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. COMMITMENT INTERGEO is committed to develop its activities in relation to the protection of the environment and human health. This commitment is depicted by the Company having and conforming to ISO Standards (EN ISO 9001:2008, EN ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007). SYSTEMS INTERGEO implements a Quality Management System since 2005 in accordance with the International Standard ISO 9001:2008. In 2006, INTERGEO implemented an Environmental Management System in line with the ISO 14001:2004 as well as an Occupational Health and Safety Management System in accordance with the Hellenic Standard of OHSAS 18001:2007. These three management systems were applied simultaneously completing one another and created the company’s Integrated Management System (IMS). INTERGEO applies the above ISO standards for the following scope: Soil, groundwater, surface water and soil gas sampling. Soil and groundwater remediation. Design and implementation geoenvironmental, geological and geotechnical investigations and studies. Management, treatment, storage of hazardous waste. Management (collection and transportation) of non hazardous solid waste Asbestos removal. Studies and implementation-Environmental measurements in working environments, air emissions, ambient air, wastewater and solid waste. Management of ozone depleting substances (ODS-Halon, Freon). 10 Communication On Progress 2017 Solid waste sampling. Within the ISO process, INTERGEO has identified several environmental goals and targets for its main business activities. During 2016, thirteen (13) programs regarding the Quality, Environment, Health and Safety were realised. ACTIVITIES Set targets for recycling and regeneration of materials. Set targets for reduction of electricity and water consumption. Set targets for renewable energies, water resource management and energy water nexus. Set targets for training in environmental issues. Set targets for monitoring of sound. Set targets for zero accidents. Set targets for monitoring of soil and air emissions. PERFORMANCE INTERGEO monitors water and electricity consumption on an annual basis. The targets set for 2016 regarding the reduction of electricity consumption as well as reduction of water consumption were achieved due to the best available techniques that are used by all personnel. For 2017, new targets have been set. In addition, our Company has set an upper limit of 800m3 for water consumption and the 140.000kWh for electricity consumption. Our target is not to exceed these values. In 2016, photovoltaic systems have been installed in our company. The heating of the building is now realized by heating pumps as heating oil is not used any longer by the company. For 2016, Company’s targets regarding recycling and regeneration of materials were achieved in a large percentage. For 2017, INTERGEO set new targets for recycling of all types of recyclables materials such as paper, toners, household batteries, electrical lamps and appliances and others by a total of 100%. In addition, the Company strongly encourages its employees to consider the environment before printing in order to prevent any unnecessary consumption of toner and paper. Last but not least, 11 Communication On Progress 2017 INTERGEO collects plastic caps in order to contribute to the ‘Association of paraplegic and physically disabled of Prefecture of Pella’ for the purchasing of wheel chairs and other orthopaedic supplies. 12 Communication On Progress 2017 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. COMMITMENT INTERGEO operates its core business with emphasis on environmental protection ensuring full compliance to National and European legislation. SYSTEMS All environmental projects conducted by the company adhere to ISO Standards and Health and Safety protocols and procedures. Our Company conducts on a regular basis internal ISO audits (twice per year, and more often if it’s necessary). Furthermore, our company operational activities are audited annually by a certified ISO Auditor for compliance. ACTIVITIES In 2016, our company had several in-house training activities including health and safety seminars, hazardous waste management and remediation technology seminars. In addition, the Company continually improves its Integrated Management System by having an external certified auditing body conduct on an annual basis, ISO inspection audit of its environmental activities and operations. PERFORMANCE During 2016, the company set specific number of training hours for each employee in relation to their speciality area and the proper implementation of the Integrated Management System procedures. Specifically, our company’s personnel attended several training programs and seminars regarding health and safety issues in the workplace, hazardous waste management. 13 Communication On Progress 2017 Our company supports and participates in several conferences, exhibitions and events. In 2016, upper management was encouraged to present the Company’s environmental innovative technology at a minimum of 4 conferences. The upper management of the company realised at least 5 presentations at this period. This is a target that continuous for the next year. 14 Communication On Progress 2017 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. COMMITMENT INTERGEO encourages the use of environmental friendly technologies, especially in Hazardous Waste Management. Instead of final disposal to landfills/ treatment facilities, INTERGEO uses exclusive techniques to render hazardous materials into non-hazardous by remediation and encapsulation. SYSTEMS INTERGEO uses in its projects specialised liquids to bioremediate impacted soils in order to render them from impacted to conforming materials. Furthermore, it uses innovative techniques such as soil vapour extraction, pump and treat, air sparging and bioventing to clean-up soil and groundwater as well as to prevent off-site disposal of these media. ACTIVITIES INTERGEO is constantly challenged to improve its technological remedial activities at its project sites. INTERGEO promotes the minimal excavation and offsite removal of contaminated material. PERFORMANCE INTERGEO has completed successfully more than 200 remediation projects of soil and groundwater in Greece and Cyprus and more than 1500 environmental soil and groundwater investigations. INTERGEO has managed more than 27000 tonnes of hazardous waste in Greece and has removed over 6300 tonnes of asbestos containing materials in private and public buildings. 15 Communication On Progress 2017 ANTI‐CORRUPTION Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. COMMITMENT INTERGEO has a total commitment to comply with anti-corruption, especially in the form of extortion and bribery. Our Company’s philosophy is to be transparent to all its business activities and transactions. In addition, since the Company deals in Waste Management, it is our Company’s policy to not accept any non-conformance environmental activities/transactions under any circumstances. SYSTEMS Our Company follows and applies to its system all the national and European regulation and legislation and it strictly rejects any illegal transactions. All our employees follow strict company procurement procedures regarding the purchasing of goods. INTERGEO for tender purposes, always requests a minimum of 2 proposals in order to prevent unlawful bidding. The company conducts periodic assessment to suppliers as determined by company’s procedures. This assessment was realized at the end of 2016. ACTIVITIES In 2016, a seminar was realized regarding business ethics and rules in environmental management. PERFORMANCE Cases of corruption and bribery are routinely investigated by the upper management. To date no such cases of bribery and corruption have been reported. 16
