United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 1 January 2016 Sarabha Advanced Technological Corridor Co.Ltd No.390 , Room (1), No.1 Industrial Road (opposite to the central bank), Bahan Township,Yangon. Tel : 959 250120296 Email: satc.technologies@gmail.com http:// www.satc-technologies.com SATC Communication on Progress 2016 No. Content Page 1 Statement of Continued Support for the UN Global Compact 2 2 Introduction of Sarabha Advanced Technological Corridor Co.,Ltd. 3 2 Human Rights Principles 4 3 Labour Principles 7 4 Environmental Principles 8 5 Anti – corruption Principles 9 Page 1 SATC Communication on Progress 2016 H>E Ban Ki-Moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, Statement of Continued Support for the UN Global Compact In 2016, Sarabha Advanced Technological Corridor Co.,Ltd became a participant to the United Nation Global Compact (UNGC). I am satisified to verify that Sarabha Advanced Technological Corridor Co.,Ltd confirms and completely supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respects to Human Rights Principles, Labour Principles, Environmental Principles and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress (COP), we express our actions to constantly advanced the incorporation of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and day to day operations. SATC proud and delighted to keep on our energetic support to UNGC and also encourage the others to be UNGC’s members. Period covered by Communication on Progress (COP) From January 1,2016 to January 1,2017 Sincerely yours, Mr.ZAW NAING OO PRESIDENT SARABHA ADVANCED TECHNOLOGICAL CORRIDOR CO.,LTD Page 2 SATC Communication on Progress 2016 INTRODUCTION Of SARABHA ADVANCED TECHNOLOGICAL CORRIDOR CO., LTD. Sarabha Advanced Technological Corridor Company Limited also known as SATC which was established on th 26 February, 2013. At first step, we operated as marketing and satellite image data service. Our goal is to contribute to establishment of National Land GIS with updated information and data for always in this country. We will provide Consultation and System Integration of National Land GIS (Geographic Information System) which has many kind of land information in the database and can be used by Ministries, State Governments, Cities, Townships and private sectors. We will also provide updated data and information for the database. Our company provides the following for layers of GIS – Geo Database. 1. `RapidEye : Optical Satellite Image Data and Information 2. UrtheCast : Near Real-time Color Video from International Space Station (ISS) 3. exactEarth : Ship Monitoring and Tracking Service using Satellite-based AIS Data 1. RapidEyeOptical Satellite Image Data and Information Service We will provide RapidEye Optical Satellite Image data and information for the layers of GIS and decision making. The data and information are for:  Mapping  Forestry Monitoring  Agriculture  Environment Monitoring  National Security 2. UrtheCast Near Real-Time Color Video from International Space Station We will provide High Definition Streaming Color Video of Planet Earth from International Space Station (ISS). The video is useful for:  National Security  Environment Monitor  TV Media 3. exactEarth Ship Monitorinmg and Tracking Service using Satellite-based AIS Data Our solution will be used for:  Ship Monitoring and control  Detection of illegal fishing boats  Search and Rescue  National Security Page 3 SATC Communication on Progress 2016 HUMAN RIGHT PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ASSESSMENT,POLICY and GOALS SATC is committed to respecting the protection of internationally declared human rights and ensuring that our company is not complicit in human rights abuses. We provide a background which supports and promotes equivalent opportunities, distinction and mutual admiration. SATC Policy : Our Company values all of the company activities, operations and services and protects the Human Rights and spread our Human Right commitment to our business partners. SATC Goals : Our company goal is to influence all our business partners admiration and sustain Worldwide Declaration of Human Rights or essential Human Rights. IMPLEMENTTION At first, the protection of Human Right embeds in our own company’s operation and services to employ our Human Right Policy and Goal. Reducing Emissions from Deforestration and Forest Degradation (REDD+)Training at MoECF In 2016, SATC supported the REDD+ training with the professors from New Zealand at Ministry of Environmental Conservation and Forestry (MoECF), free of charge, in which the staffs from MoECF can learn the latest REDD+ technology. They can distribute and use the REDD+ knowledge widely. Because MoECF is establishing the National REDD+ Programme, to establish a The national forest monitoring system (NFMS) to monitor the forest area changes, to support the MRV of actions and achievements of the implementation of REDD+ activities. As we respect the Human Right, we support the training to MoECF’s staffs and cooperating with government to implement the REDD+ Programme. In August 2016, we went to some ministries in NayPyiTaw (Capital of Myanmar) to introduce the GroundProbe Radar which is a useful device for mine sites in Myanmar. It is imported from Austrial. This radar is a device that warms people of a danger. By monitoring the changes of image with this, the danger of collapse of mine site can be predicted and can prevent people from the loss of lives and their properties. Satellite Image Data Complaint We concern our customer’s feedback and complaint. We are ready to resolve our customers’ problems until they obtain satisfaction. Equal Employment Opportunity and Respect for Human Rights SATC struggles to offer equal employment opportunities. Page 4 SATC Communication on Progress 2016 In addition, SATC is committed to take care of our employees with no illegal discrimination based on race, religion, gender, social status, physical or mental disability, and sexual orientation. Compliance with Employment Laws and Regualations SATC holds to the applicable laws and regulations which it manage in treating our employees. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES SATC accomplish periodic review of results by management team and the results demonstrate there is no case of human right violations, complaints and breaches during this report period. This area reviewed were Working Hours, Employment Status, Employee Benefits Programs, Training Development, Performance. REDD+ TRAINING’S PHOTOS at MoECF Page 5 SATC Communication on Progress 2016 GroundProbe Presentation at Ministries Page 6 SATC Communication on Progress 2016 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ASSESSMENT,POLICY and GOALS SATC employs over 15 members of staff. Our employees are entitled to all applicable rights under Myanmar Labour Law and International Standards. We identify the dignity of all persons and respect their freedom and privacy. Employees shall be enabled to fair working hours and public holidays. All employees should be allowed to perform their role without being bullied, harassed or threatened. We will not force anyone to work for SATC .We consider these rights to be the minimum standards that we offer our employees. IMPLEMENTTION SATC employs above 18 years old employees. Therefore, our company doesn’t have the child labour. According to Myanmar Labour Law , SATC working hours are 44 hours per week and employee will get the overtime fees if any extra hour. For relaxation and general knowledge, our staffs were brought to Bagan which is a famous place of Archaeological sites in Myanmar. Regardless of race and religion, all employees are working together under the same roof of SATC. Moreover, we offer various benefits to all employees, including provision for health care. We allowed our qualified employee to attend the training related with our business. For that reason, we can give the perfect service to our business partners and government in order to obtain their satisfactions. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES According to the local labour law and ILO standards, we can update our employee’s handbook. There is 0% of childhood labour in SATC. We are struggling to offer more and more benefits to employees. Page 7 SATC Communication on Progress 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ASSESSMENT, POLICY and GOALS SATC aims to implement a paperless society. Besides, we are demanding to increase the percentage of recyclable waste and encourage generating power (energy) from waste. Moreover, we are trying to reduce the carbon stock and maintain the forest. Therefore, we support in environmental conservation by growing and maintaining trees. IMPLEMENTTION Our company initiated to diminish the paper utilization and support our employees to utilize other products such as recycle paper and avoid needless operating cost. In order to reduce the usage of paper, our company promoted the employees to communicate via Email. Our company educates not only our employees but also our business partners about the environmental awareness, benefits of growing trees and REDD+ activities. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES According to our company’s policy, we completed our alteration to a paperless operating environment. In addition, our company supported and shared the REDD+ knowledge to our business partners and government. As the future arrangement, our company has the plan to grow trees and other relevant events for the improvement of maintainable green environment. Page 8 SATC Communication on Progress 2016 ANTI – CORRUPTION Principle10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion nd bribery. ASSESSMENT, POLICY and GOALS SATC acquires a zero tolerance approach to corruption or bribery committed by our directors or employees, in spite of of their situation in our organization, or business partners. We do not provide, agree, or offer to discuss giving an unjustified advantage to any person, whether a public official or private employee to control that person to act in an improper manner. We have a complete assistance, hospitality and operating expense policy to ensure that our employees are not getting unjustified advantages. IMPLEMENTTION Our company is reviewing the due diligence that we complete on our suppliers and business partners to make sure that they also commit to work against corruption. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Our management team regularly reviews our company transactions for signs of any irregular payments. This tem also supervises gifts and operating expense received by our employees to ensure that they are proper. Page 9
