CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 28 For more than 40 years now, KMD’s DNA has been to The CSR work is coordinated by the Company's CSR create solutions that support the operation and Board, which is chaired by the CEO. The CSR Board maintenance of our society. Together with our defines guidelines for the Company's CSR efforts, and customers, we have developed the Danish society monitors and ensures progress on the targets set for of which we are now a fully integrated part, while our the various focus areas. In addition, KMD's works IT systems impact on thousands of Danes every single council serves as a reference group for the development day. We are involved when a new citizen is officially of CSR work. welcomed into Danish society with a civil registration number (CPR). We facilitate the payment of child KMD considers its overall CSR efforts to be satisfactory. allowances and salaries to a million Danes. And we play a part in the holding of parliamentary, regional and local Eva Berneke elections. Our systems safeguard sensitive personal CEO, KMD Holding ApS data against hacking. And we help social care workers and schoolteachers to work more efficiently. We therefore see it as our duty to act responsibly toward the society in which we have such a prominent place. We are an IT company that wants to help create digital shortcuts that benefit our customers and society. In terms of work on corporate social responsibility (CSR), this means KMD wants to create digital shortcuts DECLARATION CONCERNING that contribute to a richer, safer and more sustainable THE UK MODERN SLAVERY society. ACT FOCUSED STRATEGY KMD supports the UK Modern Slavery Act and its aim In 2016, KMD turned the focus of its CSR strategy onto to eradicate all forms of slavery, forced labor and the use of core competencies. Under the heading human trafficking. We do so through a range of Together we develop society, we are focusing on three policies and procedures, including our procurement main areas: health, education and security. These are a policy, in which we clearly dissociate ourselves from clear extension of some of the strategic focus areas slavery, forced labor and human trafficking as well as within our business, with data security a particular focus committing our suppliers to do likewise. A more in 2016. In addition, we have clear targets for our work detailed description of our commitments, including in with employees, climate & environment and supply relation to the UN Global Compact, can be found at chain. http://www.kmd.dk/csr. These four themes have been selected based on our CSR policy, which clearly states that, for KMD, CSR is about making an active contribution – rather than presenting a barrier – to social, economic and STATUTORY REPORT environmental sustainability and having a clearly formulated respect for international human rights. This report constitutes the statutory report on corporate social responsibility for KMD Holding In 2016, we established new partnerships and ensured ApS for the year 2016 pursuant to section 99a that we were compliant with all international and of the Danish Financial Statements Act. It does national guidelines and legislation. Our work on the not, however, cover the subsidiaries Edlund, four themes are described in more detail below. UVdata and EMT Nordic, all acquired in the calendar year 2016. The report provides an SOLID STRUCTURES overview of KMD's work as a socially Since 2011, KMD has been committed to observing responsible business. As a supplement, further and applying the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles information about KMD's CSR efforts can be for corporate sustainability. We are proud and pleased found on our website at www.kmd.dk/csr. to continue this commitment, which provides us with However, that additional information does not a general framework for our CSR work. form part of the Company's reporting pursuant to section 99a. 29 30 TOGETHER WE DEVELOP SOCIETY ”Together we develop society” is KMD’s message to a teaching program for schoolchildren in grades 6 to 9 our customers and partners. We therefore want to that aims to prepare them for the demands of the 21st collaborate with those customers and partners to century, where the ability to understand and create bring our knowledge to bear and build on our skilled digital solutions is vital. In all, 15 classes in both Vejle employees and their competencies. and Copenhagen are taking part in the program. KMD donated a total of DKK 100,000 to the project. In 2016, we focused on developing digital solutions to relevant social challenges, both nationally and Through the KMD Educa Award, which recognizes internationally. We have done this with our customers innovative digital teaching programs devised by trainee through our solutions in the market, but also in tandem teachers, KMD is also focusing on the next generation with NGO partners, where we have also deployed our of teachers and the need to train them in 21st-century employees’ personal skills through mentorships and skills. The KMD Educa Award was presented at the hackathons. We collaborated on a number of activities School Fair in Aarhus, attended by four of the seven in 2016, including with the Danish Red Cross on a University Colleges in Denmark. In 2017, the award will Disaster Partnership. be renamed the Digital Teaching Prize and presented at the Learning Festival in Copenhagen. REFUGEES IN DENMARK In recent years, the number of global refugees has risen Citizens at the other end of life also have a need to to its highest level since World War Two. The trend has acquire digital skills. Since 2012, KMD has worked with also been manifest in Denmark, where the large influx DaneAge to develop and update the digital training of, in particular, Syrian refugees is presenting a program “Get to know your PC.” In that time, more than challenge to the Danish welfare system. But KMD also 148,000 senior citizens1 have completed the program sees an opportunity. Among the many refugees, there on DaneAge’s courses. In 2016, the program was used may be potential employees for the IT sector, which is by 18,616 senior citizens. It was also used by 44% short of workers. In 2016, KMD therefore entered into of DaneAge’s teachers, 4 percentage points lower than a partnership with the Danish Red Cross and the City in 2015, which meant that KMD and DaneAge failed of Aalborg in which 16 KMD employees would help to achieve their minimum target of 55%. 16 refugees with IT skills get closer to the Danish labor market through a six-month mentoring scheme. The In 2016, KMD and DaneAge jointly updated the aim was not to secure employment for the refugees at program, producing a version intended for use on KMD, but to identify their needs and wishes in relation tablets, which are increasingly the preferred digital to the labor market. On completion of the mentoring device of senior citizens2. The target is for at least scheme, 79% of the refugees were in work placements, 10,000 senior citizens to be using the tablet version jobs or university education. Eight of the 16 mentors in 2017. stayed in contact with their mentees after the scheme had finished. DIGITAL SOLUTIONS TO FUTURE PROBLEMS In 2016, KMD partnered with the Danish Red Cross to KMD has also admitted three Syrian refugees to the establish the Code for Good hackathon. More than 50 KMD Academy, where they are being trained alongside KMD employees and experts from the Danish Red Cross six Danes in .NET programming and, from day one, are met up for 32 hours in October to tackle five challenges part of a KMD department. arising from the Danish Red Cross’s experience of digital issues, from re-establishing contact between family FUTURE SKILLS members fleeing from wars and natural disasters, The challenge of a worker shortage and the need for through system integrations that make it easier for innovation also led in 2016 to KMD collaborating with asylum seekers to enter the Danish job market, to an a number of other companies in the Danish IT Industry improved understanding of the work of the Danish Red Association (ITB), the association Coding Pirates (which Cross in visiting the many thousands of Danes living on aims to promote IT skills in children and young people), their own. The winners of Code for Good had the honor Vejle Municipality and the City of Copenhagen to of being able to donate DKK 50,000 to the Danish Red establish the Coding Class project. This comprises Cross’s disaster fund on behalf of KMD. 1 2 As at 31 December 2016. Danish Agency for Culture: Internet use and devices 2015, http://slks.dk/mediernes-udvikling-2015/internetbrug-ogenheder/. 31 KMD was also a partner in Open Innovation X, organized helps wheelchair users to find disabled-friendly roads by the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) with the in Warsaw. The employees also participate in Akademia aim of increasing innovation in Denmark and finding Intergracji’s annual summer camp, where terminally solutions to actual business problems. More than 50 ill children can enjoy camaraderie and find respite from students participated in the project, working over the the loneliness that often affects their lives. course of a single weekend to come up with solutions for KMD, Danske Bank, IBM and others. Together with the organization Warsaw Family, employees from KMD have provided tutoring and Furthermore, KMD partnered with CBS and Danske Bank homework help for children with ADHD. This help has in a competition for students focused on use of open given the children greater self-confidence and improved data. KMD provided access to public data that, when their academic performance, with the vast majority processed in parallel with customer data from Danske improving by one or two grades in mathematics, Bank, could give new insight for customers and the physics, chemistry, English, Spanish, Polish and other bank. The first prize of DKK 75,000 went to four subjects. students who used the large quantities of data to improve the contact between customers and the bank. In all, 40 employees have taken part in the Polish programs. EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT Together with Falck, Copenhagen Airports and a number KMD DONATES of military organizations, in 2016 KMD set up the In addition to the strategic partnerships on developing association Welcome Home, which aims to help veterans future skills and solutions, KMD also donates both of the Danish Armed Forces find civilian employment equipment and money to projects that we consider after they have finished their military service. While a good fit with our focus on digital solutions. By way 85% of all veterans are fully functioning and able to of example, in 2016 we donated more than 40 laptops take a job, they often lack the know-how to convert to the organizations Mind Your Own Business, Football their military skills into a civilian context. Through a for A New Tomorrow (FANT) and the Foundation for six-month mentoring scheme, the member companies’ Social Responsibility. All these organizations use IT employees give the veterans an increased appreciation to support their aims, namely integration of of their own skills and how they fit with a company’s disadvantaged young people through entrepreneurship, needs. In 2016, KMD employees mentored four the promotion of democracy in Sierra Leone through veterans; two are now in jobs, while two are still in sporting associations, and the development of solid mentoring. KMD donated a total of DKK 100,000 to association structures with a social aim. the project. In 2016, KMD has also donated DKK 40,000 to Helpline The Homework Online project closed at the end of 2016. Charity Trust in Bangalore, India, which runs the KMD had been a partner since 2012, and during the children’s home Vishwas. The donation covers the entire lifetime of the project more than 120 KMD employees food budget for five employees and 45 children aged were involved as online homework helpers. From call 6-18. The children also get help with their homework centers at KMD’s offices in Odense, Aalborg and as well as mentoring time with employees attached Ballerup, the employees provided homework help to KMD’s operation in Bangalore. The children have also on more than 4,000 occasions to children and young visited KMD’s offices in Bangalore and taken part in people from disadvantaged areas3. various other KMD events. At KMD’s Polish subsidiary, we have established a In connection with KMD’s Disaster Partnership with the collaboration with Akademia Integracji, an organization Danish Red Cross, a group of KMD employees collected that supports education, socializing and, especially, more than DKK 20,000 from their colleagues during the sport regardless of disability. Among other things, Danish Red Cross’s national appeal in October. KMD’s employees run the KMD Junior Academy, where upper-secondary pupils can learn coding once a week at KMD’s offices. The pupils work in teams on designing apps for use in everyday situations, such as an app that 3 KMD's employees had the opportunity to swap four working helpers at KMD completed an induction program with hours a month for shifts as homework helpers. All homework Homework Online. 32 Finally, in 2016 KMD’s employees had the option to donate their company Christmas gift to the Danish Red Cross and the Menu project, which helps poor women in Nepal to create a sustainable business by sewing quality clothes and toys. The option was taken up by 283 employees, who donated more than DKK 40,000 for the project. KMD considers its overall CSR efforts in relation to “Together we develop Denmark” to be satisfactory. GOALS FOR 2017 REFUGEES IN DENMARK EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT KMD will repeat the refugee mentoring program and Code for Good: KMD will again hold the Code for Good expects to have at least 15 employees mentoring hackathon with at least 40 employees participating. refugees in the Capital Region of Denmark. Welcome Home: KMD will mentor at least four veterans FUTURE SKILLS and remain on the association’s board. Coding Class: Together with a number of companies in the Danish IT Industry Association (ITB), KMD will Akademia Intergracji, Poland: KMD will continue its continue its engagement with Coding Class and extend engagement in the project for children and young the project to more schools, local governments and people in Warsaw. teacher-training establishments. Helpline Charity Trust/Vishwas Children’s Home, India: The Digital Teaching Prize: In 2017, the KMD Educa KMD will donate DKK 40,000 to buy food for all 45 Award will be renamed the Digital Teaching Prize and children and five employees. Furthermore, KMD’s presented at the Learning Festival in Copenhagen. employees in Bangalore will continue their voluntary work as mentors to the children. DaneAge: In 2017, KMD and DaneAge will have at least 15,000 unique users of “Get to know your PC” and at least 10,000 users of “Get to know your tablet.” At least 55% of all DaneAge’s tutors will use one of the two programs in their teaching. 33 EMPLOYEES KMD wants to be an attractive workplace where In 2016, three Syrian refugees were admitted to the employees are proud of the contribution we make to KMD Academy, and our work with the Danish Red Cross society, by virtue of both our products and our behavior on a mentoring scheme for refugees in Aalborg has also and knowledge. We believe we will remain strong as turned the spotlight onto ethnicity in the workplace. a company if we create clear structures for our employees and give them scope for personal and HEALTHY EMPLOYEES professional development. In 2016, the average sickness absence among KMD's employees was 3.3%, above the national average for In 2016, the level of overall employee satisfaction private companies of 2.9%. at KMD increased followed a few years of falling satisfaction attributable to a number of organizational This is partly explained by a greater number of longchanges. Intensive efforts involving workshops and term absences resulting from stress and other factors. dialogue meetings identified various improvement KMD has therefore established a health insurance actions, and these have contributed to higher employee scheme that erects a “scaffold” around the individual satisfaction. and has introduced initiatives to counter long-term sickness absence. In 2016, 40% of employees benefited There is fierce competition for employees in the IT from KMD’s in-house clinics, attending 5,155 sector4, which is a huge challenge to KMD’s ability appointments. Furthermore, we have trained more than to develop and retain employees. We have therefore 30 “stress spotters,” who are able intervene early where launched a number of initiatives intended to help ensure needed. that KMD continues to have the right employees going forward. One such initiative is our ambitious graduate In collaboration with Danish pension fund Sampension, program, which in 2016 brought in 27 new graduates in 2017 we will also be launching the Health Percentage, in areas such as project management, business an online guide that enables individual employees to development and, in particular, SAP platforms. self-test and aspire to a healthier lifestyle. In 2016, we also established a new KMD Academy KMD is also keen to provide opportunities for employees with special focus on Microsoft’s .NET, where we boost to exercise at whatever level. With this in mind, KMD new employees’ competencies in relevant technologies organizes training for employees both at and away from to create the right match for KMD’s needs. its locations. In 2016, more than 450 employees took part in KMD’s IRONMAN triathlons. Furthermore, KMD A DIVERSE WORKPLACE has a number of running and cycling clubs as well as KMD strives to attract the most talented employees various other sports and staff clubs. regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, religion or sexual orientation. This is why KMD also has a diversity policy KMD considers the CSR work relating to employees addressing issues such as the representation of women to be satisfactory. in Management, attracting more new graduates and increasing ethnic diversity. In 2016, 26% of all new employees were either straight out of university or had little professional experience. By 2020, KMD is aiming to increase the proportion of employees with a non-Danish ethnic background to reflect the national average. In 2016, we again made progress toward achieving this aim, reaching 3.6%, compared with 2.8% in 2015. However, this is still below the national average of 7.9%. 4 In May 2016, a government report concluded that by 2030 https://erhvervsstyrelsen.dk/sites/default/files/media/rapport_Denmark would be facing a shortage of 19,000 IT experts, _virksomheders_behov_efter_digitale_kompetencer.pdf. 34 GOALS FOR 2017 DIVERSITY HEALTHY EMPLOYEES KMD will strive to maintain a share of female managers KMD will maintain its focus on a healthy workplace that is proportionate to the overall number of female based on its already successful sports clubs. Special employees (24.2% against 34% as at 31 December training programs for employees wanting to take part in 2016). the KMD 4:18:4 and KMD IRONMAN triathlons will continue across the business. KMD expects more than KMD will continue to ensure a high proportion of new 500 employees to take part in one of these events. graduates (26% of all new appointments in 2016 were in the “young professionals” category). KMD will also seek to reduce the level of sickness absence from the current 3.3% to the national average KMD will repeat the mentoring scheme for Syrian (2.9%) and continue health-promoting measures in the refugees – this time in Ballerup – and explore the workplace, including prevention of stress-related illness. possibility of creating additional places for refugees at our KMD Academy. 35 CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT With 3,200 employees plus large data centers and In 2016, KMD's carbon emissions from direct energy Denmark's largest print center, KMD uses a lot of consumption totaled 7,128.3 tons, up 3.5% on 2015. energy and generates a lot of waste. For this reason, The increase was due to generally higher energy we are very aware of our environmental footprint, and consumption8. Over the period 2008 to 2016, KMD in 2016, we expanded the scope of our certification cut its carbon emissions from 17,796 to 7,128 tons, under the environmental management standard ISO a reduction of 59.9%. 14001 to cover all KMD A/S locations in Denmark. TRANSPORT KMD’s policy and strategy for our environmental work In 2016, KMD reduced total carbon emissions from focus on our own impacts as well as the positive effect transport by 3.4% compared with 2015. Since 2012, of our products on our customers’ energy consumption5. KMD has specifically focused on reducing its carbon footprint from transport between the Company’s ENERGY locations, and over the period we have achieved a In 2016, KMD was audited in accordance with section reduction of almost 1,000 tons, or 11.4%, thereby 4.3.3 of the ISO 50001 energy management standard. meeting our goal of 10%. In all, KMD emitted 2,021 In mapping our energy consumption, we found that tons of CO2 from transport in 2016. KMD’s total energy consumption comprised 58% in data centers, 35% in offices and 7% in print centers. WASTE KMD produced 648 tons of waste in 2016, of which we In 2016, KMD had total electricity consumption of recycled 68.3%. We thus achieved the goal set in 2014 31,980,991 million kWh, an increase of 1.8 million kWh, to increase our overall recycling rate from 62% to 67% or 6%, compared with 2015. The increase was primarily by the end of 2017. In our print and data centers, which due to outsourcing of cloud infrastructure to Tech account for 48% of our waste, our recycling rate in 2016 Mahindra and growth in customers. The outsourcing has was 97.3%, an increase of 14 percentage points meant duplication on a number of applications and, as compared with 2015. The remaining 52% of our waste a consequence, greatly increased energy consumption comes from offices and canteens, where the recycling in our data centers (8.7%). KMD expects energy rate in 2016 was 41.2%, an increase of 1.3 percentage consumption to be the same in 20176. However, as we points compared with 2015. In total, we improved our go forward, the newer cloud structure will be far more recycling rate by 4.5 percentage points compared with energy efficient and KMD therefore expects to achieve 2015. a reduction in energy consumption once implementation is complete7. Since 2008, KMD has found energy The higher recycling rate is mainly due to improved savings of 15.1 million kWh – equivalent to the annual sorting across KMD. We have established bio-waste consumption of 3,000 detached houses and 28.2% of sorting in the canteens and introduced “follow me” KMD’s total energy consumption in 2008. Total heat printing, which reduces wasted prints. Both schemes consumption increased by 573.6 MWh, or 6.9%. were introduced in 2015, but the full effect was only seen in 2016. 5 7 The international think tank GeSI estimates that digital In 2016, KMD verified energy savings of 6,290,395 kWh from solutions will be able to reduce current carbon emissions by up the replacement of equipment in our data centers. 8 to 20%: SMARTer2030, http://smarter2030.gesi.org/. The CO2 equivalents for heating and electricity are from 2015 6 A major renovation of our oldest buildings in Ballerup is also and thus unchanged, as the equivalents for 2016 were not expected to result in a reduction in energy consumption, partly available at the time of writing. through the introduction of LED lighting. However, this will not be complete until 2018. 36 PRODUCTS Finally, KMD offers a full palette of services in the area In 2016, KMD began implementing KMD Atrium, a fully of welfare technology. By way of example, patients and integrated facility management system that will ensure healthcare professionals are able to meet virtually, thus improved monitoring and overview of our energy saving on transport and reducing carbon emissions as consumption, thereby providing a better basis for a result. environmentally friendly decision-making. Combined with the Energy Key product from our subsidiary EMT KMD considers the CSR work relating to climate & Nordic, KMD is able to deliver full monitoring of environment to be satisfactory. environmental data to our customers. Depending on the customer’s maturity level, this could mean reductions in carbon emissions of up to 15%. Efficient operation of our server parks and continual focus on energy efficiency allow us to offer customers more energy-efficient performance than if they were to operate their own data centers. GOALS FOR 2017 ENERGY WASTE KMD will continue to focus on identifying energy In 2017, KMD will establish new targets for savings in data centers and offices, but does not yet proportion of recycled waste. This follows successful anticipate a change in energy consumption due to achievement of the goal of 68% waste recycling in the continued migration of data in connection with 2016. KMD will continue to focus on its recycling rate the outsourcing of the server park to our Indian in office buildings and canteens. partner, Tech Mahindra. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TRANSPORT In 2017, KMD will switch to the environmental In 2017, KMD will establish a new target for reducing management standard ISO 14001:2015. carbon emissions from transport between own locations. This follows successful achievement of the KMD will establish a number of new goals for energy, goal of a 10% reduction in 2016. transport and waste as part of developing a new environmental strategy. PRODUCTS KMD will map the climate effect of selected products and present these to our customers. 37 SUPPLY CHAIN Signing the UN Global Compact has committed KMD In 2016, KMD designed a further e-learning program in to 10 fundamental principles relating to protection of competition law, which will be rolled out to relevant human and labor rights, climate & environment issues, employees across the organization in 2017. and anticorruption measures. These considerations are formulated in our policy for social responsibility and in In the course of the year, KMD ran an information our Supplier Code of Conduct, which provide a concrete campaign on the rules for giving, receiving and framework for the requirements that we place on reporting gifts. This initiative was part of the ongoing ourselves and our suppliers. embedding of the obligation for employees to report any gifts received with a value above a certain triviality limit, SUPPLIER SCREENING introduced when the policy on gifts and entertaining was In 2016, KMD initiated a process to transition from revised in 2015. EcoVadis SAS’s screening tool to a new Danish tool from Aperitas. As a so-called Frontier Member, KMD has been In order to ensure compliance with the policy on active in developing the tool and expects to begin using anticorruption and the policy on gifts and entertaining, it in the first quarter of 2017. KMD carries out annual regular checks are carried out in various parts of the screening of all high-risk suppliers, identified on the organization as well as planned audits in conjunction criteria of revenue, geography and industry. In 2016, with KMD’s Internal Audit. In the second half of 2016, 43 suppliers were screened, none of which were asked an audit process was initiated in relation to to provide further information relating to their anticorruption compliance and will continue into 2017. procedures and policies. In 2016, KMD also proceeded with the work of ensuring This screening gives KMD a tool that enables fact-based that our IT security policies and programs support our dialogue with our suppliers about their CSR work, while goal of secure and correct data management. placing KMD’s Supplier Code of Conduct in a concrete context in which we can collaborate on action plans During the year, KMD processed two cases within the to help suppliers improve their efforts in selected areas. Company’s whistleblower program, which provides This will make it easier for us and our suppliers to employees with an alternative to the regular reporting achieve our goal of all key suppliers working in pathway when notifying breaches of legislation or of accordance with the principles of the UN Global KMD's internal rules within the Company’s seven Compact. compliance areas, namely anticorruption, IT security, authorizations, competition law, intellectual property In 2016, KMD began updating its Supplier Code of rights, contractual risk management, and document Conduct, which is expected to be completed and management and storage. All employees, members of implemented in the second quarter of 2017. the Executive Board and Board of Directors, and external reporters can make use of the whistleblower CORPORATE COMPLIANCE program. Corporate Compliance continued to be a high-priority area for KMD in 2016. Following a major revision KMD’s corporate compliance work is continually being of the anticorruption policy and program in 2015, KMD developed based on risks, trends and requirements, initiated a number of compliance-related measures both internally and in the outside world. In 2017, there in 2016. will be particular focus on compliance in the supplier chain and in KMD’s independent subsidiaries, audit During the year, KMD implemented a new e-learning initiatives in relation to anticorruption, and rollout of program across the organization focusing on an e-learning program in competition law for relevant anticorruption, including KMD’s rules on gifts and employees. entertaining. The program, intended for KMD employees with external relations, was completed by more than In 2016, KMD’s certifications comprised ISO 20000 (IT 1,100 employees in 2016. It is scheduled to be run service management), ISO 9001 (quality assurance), every two years. ISO 14001 (environmental management) and ISO 27001 (information security), which now also cover New employees, including those who join following a KMD’s subsidiary in Poland. company acquisition, also complete an induction course in corporate compliance via an e-learning program. KMD considers the overall CSR work relating to the supply chain to be satisfactory. 38 GOALS FOR 2017 PARTNERSHIPS CORPORATE COMPLIANCE KMD will implement a new screening platform for KMD will continue implementation of the prioritized suppliers in relation to CSR parameters. KMD will screen compliance measures, which focus on, among other at least 75 selected suppliers and draw up relevant things, compliance in KMD’s independent subsidiaries, action plans for suppliers identified via screenings in the control measures relating to anticorruption, and rollout Aperitas system. of an e-learning program in competition law for relevant employees. KMD will revise its Code of Conduct for Responsible Supplier Management. 39
