SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CONTENTS 1.0 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S INTRODUCTION 03 2.0 SUSTAINABILITY INDICES 05 3.0 MANAGEMENT OF SUSTAINABILITY 04 4.0 COMMUNITY 06 5.0 STAKEHOLDERS 09 6.0 EMPLOYEES 10 7.0 ENVIRONMENT AL 11 8.0 PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS SUMMARY 19 Note: The timeframe of 2016–2017 for implementation of the objectives and targets is consistent with the financial year, which is 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017. 2 1 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY IS EMBEDDED IN THE MANAGEMENT OF OUR BUSINESS. WE CONTINUE TO DEVELOP OUR STRATEGY AND ITS IMPLEMENTATION ACROSS ALL ASPECTS OF OUR OPERATIONS. Our strategic focus continues to be the re-use and careful management of existing buildings. We pride ourselves on our ability This report forms part of our UNGC Communication on to extend the economic useful lives of our buildings through changes Progress against the ten principles. More detail on our strategy of use and reconfiguration, within the constraints of legislation, so and data performance can be found in the following documents that they continue to meet the needs of modern occupiers. This on our website: emphasis on restoration and repair forms the core of our sustainability strategy and is measured through an increased number of schemes • Sustainability Policy on course to achieve BREEAM* certification. • Sustainability Data Report 2016 In an urban location, which is intensively used by huge numbers of • 2016 Annual Report visitors and a large working population and residential community, social issues and challenges are bound to arise. We therefore focus • OPlanet ur Greenhouse Gas statement is independently assured by and Prosperity. See page 12. on community related activities which help to support organisations that tackle these problems. We are long-term, socially responsible neighbours and investors in our area and are integrated into our Brian Bickell community. We measure our continued involvement in line with the Chief Executive London Benchmarking Group methodology. 29 November 2016 We remain committed in our support of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are implementing programmes internally and across our supply chain with emphasis on engaging with our principal suppliers and how they operate in the management of our portfolio. We are encouraging the payment of the London living wage and are progressing the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 throughout our supply chain as objectives for 2017. We have also continued to engage and collaborate with neighbouring owners and other stakeholders to further sustainability objectives in London’s West End. We are an active member of both, the Better Building Partnership and the Wild West End biodiversity collaboration. Through the latter we are gaining momentum with the implementation of biodiversity features throughout the portfolio. We are also an associate member of the New West End Company which is working on the Air Quality 2020 initiative a partnership of London companies concerned about congestion and resulting air pollution issues in the West End. In the year ahead we will work together with stakeholders to identify and implement practical measures that can contribute to reducing traffic movements, through coordinated delivery and servicing, and consequently reduce air pollution. *BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method 3 2 SUSTAINABILITY INDICES IN ORDER TO MEASURE AND BENCHMARK OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST OUR PEERS WE HAVE MAINTAINED OUR LISTING IN THE FOLLOWING INDICES. Continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good 84% GRESB Green Star Scored 68 (2015: 72) Silver award winner for sustainability reporting (2015: silver). Continued Member of Ethibel Excellence CDP Continued inclusion on Carbon Disclosure Project scoring a grade B Achieved Oekom prime status 4 3 MANAGEMENT OF SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IS AN INTEGRAL ASPECT OF BOTH OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY AND ITS IMPLEMENTATION ACROSS OUR OPERATIONS. With the growth of our business and the increasing importance that we Below is the result of our first assessment which shows a materiality are placing on sustainability, we have formed a Sustainability Committee. matrix setting out the most significant issues. These were identified Chaired by the Chief Executive, it comprises members of the management as: community, central London air pollution, living wage, health and team and the Company Secretary. It meets quarterly to define objectives, safety, infrastructure, greenhouse gas emissions, human rights, agree strategies and review progress. We have a robust Sustainability waste, material use and biodiversity. Policy which is reviewed annually by the Board and is available on our Whilst we will continue to consider the core factors as part of our website. This is supported by a materiality framework outlined below. sustainability strategy, we will prioritise these top ten issues and aim to address them in the year ahead. MATERIALITY We have based our sustainability strategies and goals on the following core factors: Community: engaging with community groups and charities to HIGH ensure we are aligned in our community. Community Air Pollution Stakeholders: engaging with our tenants, investors and principal advisors ensures that we are aware of their expectations and can Infastructure respond accordingly. In particular, we work with tenants to identify GHG ways in which they can use our buildings more efficiently and Living Health operate in a more sustainable manner. wage and safety Environment: the re-use and careful management of existing buildings is inherently sustainable. In addition, reducing the running costs of INTERNAL the buildings and improving their operational efficiencies is essential to attract tenants, as well as meet future regulatory requirements. Suppliers: working closely with our suppliers enables us to control our potentially most significant indirect impacts and facilitate better standards of service. Material Human Biodiversity use Waste rights Employees: investing in the welfare and development of our employees ensures high standards of performance and continuing low turnover of staff. We aim to progress towards reporting in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 requirements and formalise a LOW HIGH materiality assessment from an external and internal perspective: EXTERNAL External review – a review of external influences, views of investors, benchmarking indices, activities of our peers and other companies to provide the basis for identifying the issues that are material to the business now and in the future. Internal review – the findings from the above were reviewed internally by the Sustainability Committee and then we held an internal workshop to establish the relative importance of the issues to our business, balanced with the importance to stakeholders. 5 4 COMMUNITY WE ENSURE OUR ACTIVITIES AND ENGAGEMENT ARE ALIGNED WITH THE COMMUNITY IN WHICH OUR PORTFOLIO IS LOCATED AND IN THE ASPECTS THAT SUPPORT THE WEST END BOTH AS A COMMUNITY AND VISITOR DESTINATION. 6.2% We have continued our membership of the London Benchmarking What we contribute 5.3% Group (LBG). Our LBG contribution is measured in accordance with 40.0% their framework and equated to £723,000. The breakdown of the Cash elements that make up this figure are set out opposite. Staff time Our Section 106 contributions (an agreement to make a payment to a In kind contributions 32.8% local authority in respect of planning obligations) were £166,000 Pro bono 15.7% giving an overall total of community investment of £889,000. Management costs Our collaborations provided community leverage of £73,000 to stakeholders. 7.1% How we contribute 33.4% Charitable gifts LBG Community investment Commercial initiatives £723,000 in the community 59.5% s106 13.3% £166,000 What we support 31.9% Education Health Economic development Environment 1.3% Arts/culture 35.7% 5.9% 1.3% Social welfare 10.6% Other CHARITY PARTNERS This year we have continued our relationship with charity partners in our villages. We work with the nominated charity to promote their aims and activities to a wide audience, through events and media activities. We work with other charitable and not-for-profit organisations that we support, as a Group, which reach across a number of our villages. These include: LandAid The Sustainable Restaurant Association/Food Made Good London Law Centre Westminster Kingsway College Sir Simon Milton Foundation (including Westminster Tree Trust sponsorship of Westminster City Council Zoological Society of London tea dance) University of the Arts Stage One Westway Trust 6 4 COMMUNITY CONTINUED Our village charity partners are: COVENT GARDEN CARNABY The Connection at St Martin’s, located next to Trafalgar Square in 34 young adults in their 20s and 30s are diagnosed with cancer Westminster, is the UK’s biggest and busiest homeless centre, open every day in the UK. Trekstock provides relevant social and practical seven days a week, all year round, The Connection helps approximately support, helping young adults navigate their journey through and 200 homeless people every day. Seeing 5,000 individuals a year, the beyond treatment. Connection provides an integrated range of specialist services including a day and night centre, outreach for rough sleepers, career advice and training, advice on housing and various programmes of activity, including Other organisations supported in Carnaby include the London support for specialist immigration, mental health and addiction. College of Fashion, Deal Real Legacy, Stage One, The Samaritans and Pride in London. Other organisations supported in Covent Garden are Covent Garden Community Association, The Seven Dials Trust, Donmar Warehouse, the ENO’s community choir and Central St Martins. CHINATOWN SOHO ⼒औЁᖗ Chinese Community Centre The London Chinese Community Centre is committed to maintaining The House of St Barnabas is a charity pledging to break the cycle and developing services and activities to improve the quality of life of homelessness and social exclusion in London. They run a social and wellbeing of the Chinese community, particularly those who are enterprise, a not-for-profit members’ club, to help the people disadvantaged. Their services include community development they support back into lasting paid work. Their Employment services: offering various English, computer, arts and cultural Academy offers accredited qualifications, on-site work classes; information and advice services; elderly health experience, real job opportunities and mentoring. improvement services; and a youth club. Other organisations supported in Soho include The Soho Society, Other organisations supported in Chinatown include London Soho Create, Museum of Soho, Soho Parish Primary School and Chinatown Chinese Association, Chinese Information and Advice West End Community Trust. Centre and China Exchange. 7 4 COMMUNITY CONTINUED CASE STUDY THE HOUSE OF ST BARNABAS EMPLOYMENT ACADEMY – EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMME GRADUATE STORY STEVEN’S STORY* “ W  hen I was at a point where I didn’t know what I was going to do, I got a phone call from someone I knew at Turning Point, which is a support organisation in London, and she told me about the Employment Academy at The House of St Barnabas. Before the training started, I was excited about it but I didn’t really know what to expect. I thought I might learn how to work in a kitchen. I found the team building games fun and very positive. The other trainees were very friendly and we were a good group. I thought I would be placed in the kitchen but I left it to the staff to decide what would be best for me and they suggested I become a waiter. I had good, supportive, members of staff helping me and I enjoyed the work. It was fun, it was a nice environment and I enjoyed talking to people. I definitely felt supported after graduating and I met up with my mentor once a month. It was good to have someone to talk things over with. I am currently working part-time for Benugo at one of London’s leading museums and I will have been there for a year in December. It’s a good place to work. I am happy working in the museum café and I hope to increase my hours in the future. The whole experience has been very positive and I feel happy and content with my life. Thank you to Shaftesbury ” for funding my place on The House of St Barnabas Employment Programme. * Steven’s name has been changed to remain anonymous. 8 5 STAKEHOLDERS WE CONTINUE TO ENGAGE WITH OUR KEY STAKEHOLDER GROUPS This year we engaged with the New West End Company, a business LOCAL GOVERNMENT improvement district, and their Air Quality 2020 project. We work together with Westminster City Council and Camden Landowners and other stakeholders are working together to identify Council on public realm projects in order to improve the areas ways to improve the flow of vehicles, reduce congestion and surrounding our portfolio. improve air quality in the West End. TENANT ENGAGEMENT During the reporting period, we commissioned a pilot study to identify potential delivery and servicing consolidation schemes that We continue to provide subsidised membership of the Sustainable could be considered by retailers, restaurants and businesses in Restaurant Association and this is included in the Heads of Terms Seven Dials. Four potential measures were identified: supplier for new restaurant tenants. Eleven tenants have signed up this year. consolidation, re-timing of deliveries, mandating the use of a single An online Building Guide for commercial tenants is being developed approved courier and discouraging personal deliveries. The results and should be completed shortly. The Guide will cover all of the pilot study will be fed back to participating businesses and management issues relevant to the tenants, such as sustainability the study will be extended to all the restaurants in Seven Dials. The advice including fit-out, emergency response, fire protection and ultimate goal is that through sharing delivery and waste vans, vehicle recycling facilities within the portfolio. movements will be reduced, improving traffic flow and consequent emissions, to the benefit of occupiers, residents and visitors to the We have over 800 commercial tenants. We aim for each tenant to area. have direct contact with at least one director and/or member of the property team and, in addition, full time estate managers are We have continued our membership of the Better Building available to deal with day-to-day concerns. As in 2015, we Partnership, a collaboration of the UK’s largest commercial property conducted a formal customer satisfaction survey of our tenants in owners working together to improve the sustainability of their Carnaby and Seven Dials. The feedback for Carnaby was largely commercial portfolios. Through this we have the opportunity to positive and an improvement on last year but there was a slight drop engage with peer group companies to identify best practice in performance at Seven Dials which is being addressed. The opportunities appropriate to our operations and to benchmark the exercise will be repeated in the forthcoming year in Carnaby and performance of a selection of our buildings. Seven Dials. SUPPLIERS Results of customer satisfaction survey: With our outsourcing model, we are concentrating our efforts on transparency within our supply chain in the following areas. PROPERTY NAME AVERAGE RATING % SATISFIED In accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015, we have published Carnaby Residential 3.94 81% a statement on our website detailing how we are tackling slavery and Carnaby Office 4.10 90% human trafficking in our supply chain. We have written to all our first tier suppliers to raise awareness of the legislation, telling them of our Carnaby Retail 3.97 83% plans which include carrying out a due diligence exercise throughout Carnaby Restaurant 3.94 75% our business to establish the areas of risk, and reviewing all relevant contracts and requesting that our suppliers also contact their suppliers Response rate: 35% to raise awareness of the legislation. Overall average: 82% (2015: 71%) We have other policies in place which address human rights, whistleblowing and the ethical conduct of our business, all of which PROPERTY NAME AVERAGE RATING % SATISFIED are included within our Sustainability Policy. Our policy is provided Seven Dials Residential 3.53 62% annually to each member of our supply chain to encourage them to adopt and enforce similar policies in their own business. Seven Dials Office 3.44 67% An objective last year was to address the implementation of the Seven Dials Retail 3.46 69% London living wage throughout our supply chain. We are making Seven Dials Restaurant 2.75 50% good progress with our managing agents reviewing facilities contracts for our portfolio to ensure, as a minimum, that the pay Response rate: 29% scales meet the national living wage and, where possible, meet the London living wage. We recognise that for refurbishment projects, Overall average: 62% (2015: 77%) enforcing the requirement is proving more challenging but our project management teams are aware of the requirement and are disseminating it to contractors and subcontractors. 9 6 EMPLOYEES WE RECOGNISE THE IMPORTANCE OF THE WELFARE AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF OUR EMPLOYEES, AS WELL AS ENSURING AN INCLUSIVE CULTURE THROUGHOUT OUR ACTIVITIES. We employ 27 staff including executive directors. There continue to We believe that training and development of our staff is essential be five women in senior executive positions (50% of executive staff and, this year, each employee underwent an average of 12 hours excluding directors) and three female non-executive directors. Our training. All staff also underwent a personal development review. commitment to promoting gender equality is reflected in our Flexible working is available and 11% of employees currently work membership of Real Estate Balance, whose objective is to work with part-time. both men and women in the real estate industry and with corporate This year we organised a training session for all staff, conducted by an leaders to achieve a greater gender balance at board and executive external law firm, which covered bribery, giving and receiving of gifts management level across the real estate sector by supporting, in a and whistleblowing. There have been no instances of non-compliance practical way, the development of an enduring female talent pipeline. with our Anti-Bribery Policy during the financial year. We have also committed to the RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark which aims to drive behaviour changes by encouraging businesses in the real estate sector to look carefully at their employment practices and to ensure inclusivity is embedded in their operations. 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of female staff overall 52% 56% 60% Percentage of female staff in senior positions 50% 50% 50% Percentage of female board members 30% 30% 30% Average training hours per employee 30 19 12 Number of staff receiving professional development review 100% 100% 100% Average length of service 12 12 12 Staff turnover 0 0 1 Absenteeism (average per employee) 1.4 days 2 days 2 days Number of staff with flexible working 3 3 3 HEALTH AND SAFETY The Board has overall responsibility for health and safety. There were two reportable health and safety incidents in the managed portfolio. The Accident Frequency Rate for Shaftesbury In our refurbishment projects, responsibility for health and safety is employees was zero (2015 – zero) and there were no health and identified within all pre-tender documentation and is monitored by safety prosecutions, enforcement actions or fatalities in 2016. site and project managers. Managing agents oversee day-to-day health and safety matters throughout the portfolio. 2014 2015 2016 Number of reportable injuries 0 0 2 Work related fatalities 0 0 0 Number of Enforcement Agency prosecutions or fines 0 0 0 Number of prohibition notices 0 0 0 Employee accidents and incidents 0 0 0 Number of employee days off work from injury 0 0 0 10 7 ENVIRONMENTAL WE PROMOTE SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH OUR RE-USE AND CAREFUL MANAGEMENT OF EXISTING BUILDING STRUCTURES, FABRIC AND SPACE BY IMPROVING THEIR OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES. WE REDUCE RUNNING COSTS TO THE BENEFIT OF BOTH OURSELVES AND OUR TENANTS. ENERGY PERFORMANCE Overall, energy consumption decreased by 7% primarily attributed to the refurbishment of Newport Sandringham and other larger buildings, which in previous years, had high energy consumption. Absolute energy consumption COVERAGE OF 2014 2015 2016 2015-2016 APPLICABLE % CHANGE USAGE (kwh) PROPERTIES Total 209 out of 209 3,753,344 4,645,047 4,322,090 -7% A comparison of like-for-like performance between 2015 and 2016 shows a 21% decrease which reflects the rolling programme of small scale refurbishment as well as variations in occupancy levels. Like-for-like energy consumption NUMBER OF NUMBER OF 2015 2016 DIFFERENCE 2015-2016 PROPERTIES PROPERTIES % CHANGE USAGE (kwh) REPORTED ON REPORTED 2015 ON 2016 Total 180 180 3,524,797 2,788,230 -736,567 -21% We continue to purchase green tariff 100% renewable electricity for 75% of the portfolio. ENERGY SAVINGS OPPORTUNITY SCHEME (ESOS) In compliance with legislation, we undertook an ESOS audit during 2015. We used an external consultant to conduct the audit which was prepared in accordance with Environment Agency requirements. The audit focused on the landlord controlled areas and a small number of buildings where we are responsible for the purchase of electricity and gas for the whole building. The energy savings identified equate to 558,030 kWh and a carbon reduction of 191.1 tCO2 . We have an ongoing programme to identify and implement energy savings improvements, such as progressive replacement of existing lights with LED spotlights. Improvements identified, such as boiler upgrades, will be considered when the buildings are due for refurbishment. The total budget implementation costs for the recommendations across the portfolio are approximately £129,510 which should provide total estimated annual energy savings of £49,300 with a simple average payback period of 2.6 years. Three years’ data is included in this section. For five years’ data, please refer to the Sustainability Data Report 2016 on our website. 11 7 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions We report these numbers in accordance with 2015-2016 UK legislation. The figures relate to landlord SCOPE 1 2014 2015 2016 CHANGE controlled common parts such as staircases. Total tCO2e 164 312 376 20.2% The numbers are therefore minimal. 2015-2016 For the reporting year we have again followed SCOPE 2 2014 2015 2016 CHANGE the UK Government environmental reporting guidance and used the 2016 UK Government’s Total tCO2e 1,559 1,405 964 -31.4% Conversion Factors for Company Reporting. Greenhouse gas emissions are reported using Like-for-Like Scope 1 GHG emissions the following parameters to determine what is included within the reporting boundaries in SCOPE 1 2015 2016 DIFFERENCE % DIFFERENCE terms of landlord and tenant consumption: Total tCO2e 291 185 -106 -36.4% SCOPE 1 – direct emissions includes whole building gas data. Fugitive emissions from air Like-for-Like Scope 2 GHG emissions conditioning are included where it is the SCOPE 2 2015 2016 DIFFERENCE % DIFFERENCE landlord’s responsibility within the common Total tCO2e 1,042 878 -164 -15.7% parts. There are no company vehicles to report within Scope 1. Absolute Scope 3 emissions SCOPE 2 – indirect energy emissions includes purchased electricity for the head office and 2015-2016 landlord controlled common parts areas and SCOPE 3 2014 2015 2016 CHANGE a small number of buildings where the Total tCO2e 199 176 167 -4.85% occupied areas and common parts are on the same meter. Electricity used in refurbishment The chosen emissions intensity is common parts floor areas, which has been measured in projects has also been recorded. 59 of the 122 reported properties with common parts only and the emissions intensity figure has been obtained of 37.3 kgCO2e/m2 (0.037 tonnes CO2e/m2), a decrease over last SCOPE 3 – other indirect emissions, which year’s 50 kgCO2e/m2 (0.05 tonnes CO2e/m2) . includes emissions associated with electricity losses and generation. It also includes GHG Intensity by floor area business air travel and rail, but no other COMMON business travel as given the central London NUMBER OF PARTS FLOOR FLOOR AREA KWH CONSUMPTION location this is considered negligible. PROPERTIES AREA FT² M SQ FT (ELECTRICITY) INTENSITY KG CO2E/M² Greenhouse gas emissions for the portfolio, Total 59 34,447 3,200 289,569 90.5 37.3 head office and refurbishment sites (tCO2e) are set out opposite and show a significant Assurance statement year-on-year variation. Overall, energy Our greenhouse gas emissions data has been subject to an independent assurance process consumption is, in absolute terms, small, provided by Planet & Prosperity Ltd. A full copy of the verification opinion statement, covering mainly landlord -controlled areas. including the scope and basis of the work, can be found on our website. The final opinion of The increase in Scope 1 emissions is the assurance provider is summarised below, but readers should be aware of the context attributed to increased reporting of gas within which this statement is made by reading the full statement and opinion. consumption in Carnaby and Seven Dials and We have conducted a verification of the greenhouse gas data reported by the above entity the decrease in Scope 2 emissions is due to in its Annual Report for the period 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016. On the basis of the refurbishment of Newport Sandringham. the verification work undertaken (which is reported in Annex 2 of the full statement and Data for 2014-2015 is restated for gas excludes the managing agents’ accounting processes) nothing has come to our attention to consumed as it had previously been reported suggest that these data are not fairly stated with the exception of a small number of using the incorrect units. This equates to an non-material issues. We have not checked prior year data that is reported nor the details of increase of 216 tonnes for 2015. the restatement of data for 2012-2015 which resulted from material errors in the primary source data. 12 7 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED WASTE We exceeded our target recycling rate with 51% recycled at Carnaby and Seven Dials and 48% at Longmartin. We encourage composting by our restaurant tenants, and active engagement with tenants has increased the proportion to over 7%. The remaining waste is diverted from landfill to energy from waste. Absolute waste within operational control TOTAL RECYCLED ENERGY FROM WASTE COMPOSTED TONNES OF WASTE 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Totals 776 1,000 1,407 1,081 1,286 1,353 63 73 223 TOTAL RECYCLED ENERGY FROM WASTE COMPOSTED PERCENTAGE OF WASTE 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Totals 40.4% 42.4% 47.2% 56.3% 54.5% 45.4% 3.3% 3.1% 7.5% Our refurbishment projects diverted, on average, over 99% of waste from landfill. WATER The extent of water consumption reporting is Absolute water consumption with operational control improving with increased clarity of which properties are within landlord control. Overall 2015 2016 TOTAL USAGE (M3) 2014 2015 2016 CHANGE consumption across the portfolio has shown a significant decrease primarily attributable to Totals 43,134 42,993 18,789 -56.3% Newport Sandringham undergoing refurbishment. Like-for-like, there has also Like-for-like water consumption within operational control been a decrease reflecting the reduced occupancy levels in the properties PROPERTIES PROPERTIES concerned. REPORTED REPORTED TOTAL USAGE TOTAL USAGE 2015 2016 ON 2015 ON 2016 (M³) 2015 (M³) 2016 DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE In Chinatown, the small volume of water Total 9 9 11,700 10,815 -885 -7.6% usage for steam cleaning in South Service Yard remained consistent. 13 7 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED 16.0% BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS Wholly-owned (Total count of EPC assessments) We have had in place for a number of years an objective to achieve BREEAM Very Good for all new commercial developments of which A-E 949 there have been five over the past six years. Progress has been F-G 250 17.4% made over the year to extend the coverage to include Not done 233 refurbishment projects, both domestic and non domestic; four are in progress and are on course to achieve a minimum of our target 66.6% of Very Good: • 5against 7 Broadwick Street is on track to achieve BREEAM Excellent BREEAM for Offices 2008 requirements. • 3refurbishment 9 William IV Street has been registered to BREEAM Domestic and has achieved Very Good at the design stage. Longmartin (Total count of EPC assessments) 25.0% (see case study). A-E 93 • 6track 5-75 Monmouth Street is also a domestic refurbishment on to achieve a BREEAM Very Good. F-G 7 • 9BREEAM Kingly Street is at early design stage and is likely to aim for Non Domestic Very Good. Not done 33 5.0% 70.0% The Energy Act 2011 requires that by 2018 properties at the time of A proportion of the lower grade properties (just over 40%) are letting should be have an Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) of listed and we are consequently limited as to what are considered Grade E or above. There are still a proportion of our properties that feasible improvements. Of the remaining properties, the rolling are under the threshold or have not yet been assessed. The programme of refurbishment is proving effective with over 80% majority of those that have not been assessed are let under long achieving a C rating or above. term leases which have not undergone a lease transaction since 2008 and do not therefore require an EPC at the current time. USE OF MATERIALS Volume timber purchased (m³) We maximise the re-use of materials on site in all our refurbishment projects above a capital value of £150,000, with a significant 300 proportion of the primary structure and external façade retained. Similarly, our approach is to re-use timber where possible. Timber 200 features such as windows, joists, floorboards, staircases and paneling were retained where possible. 100 For the small volume of timber purchased, 67% was Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified and overall 90% was sustainably 0 sourced with full chain of custody which is an improvement in 2014 2015 2016 performance. In addition in Carnaby, the principal contractor that % FSC Certification works on minor refurbishment work has achieved full FSC Chain of Custody Certification for the sourcing and use of timber products % Sustainably Sourced (with Chain of Custody) on all projects. Other timber 14 7 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED CASE STUDY SUSTAINABLE REFURBISHMENT AT 39 WILLIAM IV STREET Shaftesbury chose 39 William IV Street to test the feasibility of achieving BREEAM Very Good on domestic refurbishments in older buildings. The completed scheme will deliver 576m2 of modern residential accommodation and 405m2 of restaurant space, all with high operational efficiency. As a result of the project, Shaftesbury now plans to target BREEAM Very Good on more domestic refurbishments, as well as commercial schemes. On track for BREEAM Very Good EPC B Modern space for residents and restaurants Extending the building’s useful life “ O  ur experience at 39 William IV Street has shown that if you introduce BREEAM early enough on domestic refurbishments, it’s possible to significantly improve long-term energy performance, without significant additional efforts or costs. BREEAM is helpful in maximising sustainability performance and credentials, which brings benefits both for Shaftesbury and ” for the people and businesses based in our buildings. Rob Kirk, Portfolio Executive SITUATION The refurbishment of 39 William IV Street in Covent Garden is a typical example of Shaftesbury’s programme to improve Through Shaftesbury’s active refurbishment programme, the buildings, grow rents, and unlock value. Thought to be a 1940s company is improving the long-term sustainability of its rebuild following bomb damage, the whole building had been buildings. Shaftesbury aims to reduce energy consumption by occupied by one tenant since the 1970s. The refurbishment 3% year on year. retains much of the building’s structure and façade, whilst creating two restaurants on the lower levels and seven residential apartments on the upper levels. Works include reinstating the original third floor as residential and introducing an access route to the new apartments via the residential building at 38 William IV Street. The project team includes architect and project manager Fresson and Tee, structural engineer Franks and Lewin, main contractor Roots Contractors Ltd and BREEAM Assessor RPS. The team started on site in July 2016 and the scheme is due for completion in August 2017. 15 7 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED CASE STUDY ACTIONS FINANCIALS The scheme achieved BREEAM Very Good at design stage, • Approximately £2 million total project cost. scoring above 70% for Energy, Water and Management and • Energy cost savings for restaurants and residents. above 60% for Waste. The project team is now working towards BREEAM Very Good for the completed scheme. • £10,000 BREEAM assessor and certification costs. Energy BENEFITS • Applying a ‘fabric first’ approach – adding wall, floor and roof Benefits for Shaftesbury insulation, as well as installing new party walls, windows with u-values up to 75% better than before and doors with • Enhanced occupier appeal, creating modern space that is both attractive and efficient. u-values up to 17% better. • and 2 • Fwith itting energy efficient LED lighting internally and externally, multiple circuits that can be individually controlled and 14% increase in rental space, delivering 980m of residential restaurant space, up from 857m . 2 dimmed to minimise consumption. • retaining 40%  R educed construction costs and environmental impacts by • Icommon nstalling motion sensors and timers on external lighting and in areas. • Good and upgrading thecredentials, S  tronger of the building structure and façade. sustainability targeting BREEAM Very • dry NOx emissions S  pecifying high efficiency gas boilers in each apartment, with up to 40mg/kWh, versus 100 mg/kWh for • CEfficiency EPC to B from F. ompliance with the Government’s Minimum Energy conventional boilers, and new insulated pipework for heating Standards, which come into force in 2018. and hot water. • element of the area’s A  dding to Covent Garden’s residential community, an essential • IEfficiency nstalling A+ rated fridge freezers under the EU Energy Labelling scheme. character and economy. Benefits for residents and restaurants occupiers • Iresidents ntroducing energy display devices in each apartment, so can monitor and proactively manage their energy use. • Modern space, with excellent thermal comfort levels and air quality. Water • Improved energy efficiency, cutting costs and CO emissions. 2 • Installing water efficient appliances, such as dual-flush WCs and low-flow taps. • 1BREEAM 9% less water consumption per person than the minimum requirement, at up to 104 litres per person per day. • Fresidents itting individual water meters in each apartment, so can proactively manage their water use. Waste • Carefully managing the construction process to minimise waste and maximise reuse and recycling, implementing a site waste management plan. • Tprojectargeting 16.9 tonnes of construction waste per £100,000 cost. • Ikitchenncluding fixed recycling bin with 30-litre capacity in each to maximise recycling by residents. Materials • More than 80% of new building materials and elements responsibly sourced using the BRE Green Guide to Specification. Management • Providing Home User Guides for residents, to help them run the new space as efficiently as possible. • Oasffering aftercare support to residents for at least 12 months, well as carrying out site inspections and post occupancy interviews within three months of moving in. Health and Wellbeing • Targeting an airborne sound insulation and impact sound insulation 3db better than Building Regulations Part E. • All decorative paints and varnishes with low VOC emissions. 16 7 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED BIODIVERSITY We recognise the importance of promoting biodiversity. The West End is an intensively used urban area, which needs thriving and connected green spaces. This is important for both wildlife and health and wellbeing of occupiers and visitors. We have continued our membership of Wild West End (www.wildwestend.london). The West End’s largest property owners are working together to encourage birds, bees and bats back, and create greater connections with nature for residents, visitors and workers to enjoy. This year we have undertaken a baseline ecology survey of the portfolio and defined objectives. We promoted the initiative to the public through the Carnaby Street Eat event, a one day food festival, informing visitors at the food festival of the importance of enhancing habitats for pollinators. This year we installed six green walls as part of ongoing refurbishment projects. We undertook another project to improve the biodiversity of vacant and inaccessible roof tops, by installing sedum pods and planters in such areas in Carnaby and Seven Dials. ’ NEE ES D BE We were shortlisted for the Pollinator Award at the CIRIA sponsored S BIG Biodiversity Challenge and were awarded a DEFRA Bees Needs 16 Champions for our work in improving the biodiversity of the West End. CH AM 0 PIO N 2 We will continue in the year ahead to select similar roofs throughout the portfolio and install larger areas of sedum pods where space allows. BIRD GREEN GREEN SEDUM HANGING INSECT WINDOW BEE BOX WALL ROOF PODS BASKETS HOME PLANTERS TREES BOXES HIVES 21 12 7 27 46 2 125 10 880 3 2016 21 6 7 0 46 2 96 13 823 3 2015 0 6 0 27 0 0 29 -3 57 0 Difference Three trees were irreparably damaged by a vehicle. 17 7 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED CASE STUDY POLLINATORS IN CARNABY Following the launch of the Wild West End biodiversity collaboration with other property owners, Shaftesbury has implemented a pollinator project across Carnaby. Initiatives include installing 25 mixed-species sedum pods on roofs and planting pollinator friendly species in 635 window boxes, 98 planters and 46 hanging baskets. Encouraging bees and other pollinators back into London’s West End Creating opportunities for residents, visitors and workers to enjoy nature Shortlisted for CIRIA’s Big Biodiversity Challenge Pollinator Award 2016 “ W  hen biodiversity is planned, our initiatives prove nature can thrive in urban environments. To engage with the local community, Shaftesbury promoted Our Pollinator project in Carnaby shows that Wild West End and the Pollinator project during the 2016 even small scale enhancements, such as sedum Carnaby Street Eat event. Hundreds of visitors to the food pods, hanging baskets and window boxes, can festival found out more about the importance of enhancing ” enhance biodiversity and create a better habitats for pollinators and picked up free sachets of seeds for environment for people. pollinator friendly plants. They were also able to sample honey from beehives on roofs in Covent Garden. Penny Thomas, Company Secretary The newly planted sedum pods, window boxes, planters and hanging baskets create small areas of habitat, which provide BACKGROUND stepping stones to larger green areas nearby. These include a Shaftesbury set an objective to increase the number of well-established green roof at 26 Carnaby Street, installed in biodiversity features across the portfolio in 2016. The focus is on 2010. At 22 Ganton Street in Carnaby, where Shaftesbury’s head supporting pollinating species. Not only are pollinators, such as office is located, there is also an extensive green roof, green bees, popular with people, they also provide vital ecosystem wall, wildflower areas, bird boxes and insect hotels. services, pollinating food crops and flowers. However, many pollinator populations are in decline across the world. BENEFITS The project only began this year, but benefits are already apparent. ACTIONS However, through Wild West End, regular surveys and group The pollinator project in Carnaby was coordinated by Shaftesbury’s objectives are proposed to assess biodiversity enhancements, management team and implemented by the estate team. against a baseline survey undertaken in early summer. Through the project, 25 sedum pods were installed on roofs. Over time, benefits are expected to include: The 1m2 pods comprise up to 12 species of sedum for optimal year-round performance. A coarse substrate of recycled organic material acts as a growing medium, all contained within a • London’s Ecology: Encouraging bees and other pollinators back into West End by increasing food sources, creating green lightweight, 100% recycled plastic tray. stepping stones and raising community awareness of the In addition, pollinator friendly species were planted in 635 importance of habitats for pollinators. window boxes, 98 planters and 46 hanging baskets across Carnaby. The seasonal planting regime includes: • Wandellbeing: Creating new opportunities for residents, visitors workers to enjoy nature in London’s West End, fulfilling • fuchsia, Summer: nectar rich flowering plants, such as geranium, the instinctive bond between humans and other living systems. lobelia, bacopa and salvi. • Cenhancing ommunity engagement: Through events such as Street Eat, • Wwithinter: perennial evergreens, such as ivy, lavender and buxus, seasonal flowering plants for colour. Shaftesbury’s reputation with people living and working around this iconic area of London • Searly pring: primulas added to provide a food source for bees • Sproject taff engagement: Providing regular updates on the Pollinator to the Shaftesbury management team, based in Carnaby. in the season. 18 8 PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS SUMMARY WE SET OUT BELOW OUR ACHIEVEMENTS AGAINST THIS YEAR’S TARGETS AND OUR TARGETS FOR THE CURRENT YEAR OBJECTIVE ACHIEVED IN 2016 TARGETS FOR 2017 Stakeholders and community Maintain membership of various Membership of Carbon Disclosure Project and Continue participation in UNGC, GRESB, benchmarking indices FTSE4Good. Participated in GRESB and achieved a four FTSE4Good, Carbon Disclosure Project and Green Star rating. EPRA Sustainability reporting Silver others award against EPRA reporting requirements Signatory to UNGC Continue to support local Membership of the London Benchmarking Group and Continue membership of London community groups and be use of their methodology for reporting community Benchmarking and further develop proactive in identifying and involvement has continued. benchmarking measurements for reporting working with charitable and other Contribution to community and stakeholders (including organisations Section 106 payments) equates to 2.2% of EPRA pre-tax earnings Continue to maintain regular liaison Undertook tenant satisfaction surveys in Seven Dials and Repeat tenant satisfaction surveys for Seven with tenants Carnaby with a 74% overall satisfaction. Dials and Carnaby and extend to other parts Ongoing subsidised offer of membership to the of the portfolio. Sustainable Restaurant Association which is included Promote the ‘Close the Door’ initiative with within the Heads of Terms of the leases as a requirement retail tenants in the portfolio for all new tenants Work with other local occupiers, Associate member of New West End Company lobbying to Review findings of consolidation study and local authorities and the Mayor’s improve air quality in central London. extend to other villages office to investigate and promote Commissioned pilot consolidation delivery study for Seven solutions to reducing air pollution Dials in central London Principal suppliers to ensure The requirement for the payment of London living wage Increase number of supply chain contracts that an appropriate system for has been included in new contracts in one village that include London living wage remuneration and in compliance with the London living wage is in place within the supply chain Ensure all refurbishment schemes 100% of eligible schemes were registered Continue to achieve 30 out of 50 (above a above a specified value are registered 87% of schemes achieved the target score on the first visit. ‘satisfactory’ score) with the Considerate Constructors’ The overall average for the sites visited was 33 out of 50 Scheme and continue to achieve 30 out of 50 (above a ‘satisfactory’ score) Employees Ensure there are procedures to No reportable health and safety accidents recorded in a Review health and safety policies across the minimise risk of reportable health refurbishment project portfolio and safety accidents/incidents Two reportable incidents in the portfolio Aim for no reportable accidents and throughout the portfolio incidents throughout the Group’s activities Ensure compliance with antiUndertook internal training of all staff. Maintain compliance bribery and corruption policy No noncompliances or fines Comply in all respects with 60% of staff are female of which 50% are in senior Continue to measure and improve relevant employment legislation positions and 30% of the board are female employment metrics and implement an action plan for the RICS Inclusive Employer One person left this year Quality Mark Corporate sponsor of Real Estate Balance in order to Continue active involvement with Real Estate promote gender equality in the sector and signatory to the Balance including membership of one of task RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark groups 19 8 PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS SUMMARY CONTINUED OBJECTIVE ACHIEVED IN 2016 TARGETS FOR 2017 Environment Full legal environmental compliance No breaches of legal requirements have been reported Full legal compliance Invest in brownfield sites only 100% regeneration of central London sites Continue to achieve 100% use of brownfield sites Operate in an environmentally Of the EPCs assessed, 80% were a grade C or above post Extend the useful life of buildings and sustainable manner throughout our refurbishment improve their sustainability by raising the activities EPC rating of properties being refurbished according to predetermined targets Aim for BREEAM Very Good for all new Four schemes both commercial and residential on course commercial developments and larger to achieve a minimum of BREEAM Very Good refurbishment schemes both commercial and domestic Timber to be sourced where Reuse of timber maximized throughout all schemes. Continue to maximize the proportion of possible from well-managed timber that is reused. sources, certified by third party Source a minimum of 70% of all timber from certification schemes Over 90% of timber has been confirmed as sustainably certified sources and ensure all timber is sourced with full Chain of Custody and 67% using FSC purchased from legal sources timber Monitor and, where possible, A decrease of 7% principally attributed to the Achieve a year on year 3% energy reduction reduce energy consumption refurbishment of Newport Sandringham. Like-for-like throughout the portfolio in common parts. Investigate performance has shown a 21% decrease opportunities for the use of 75% of portfolio sourced 100% renewable energy renewable energy Purchase green electricity where costs are within 5% of brown electricity Reduce Greenhouse Gas emissions by a rolling target of 5% from the baseline of 2015 by 2020 Manage construction waste to All the schemes that reported, achieved an average of Aim to reuse or recycle a minimum of 90% ensure legal compliance and 99% diversion from landfill, by weight of non hazardous non hazardous demolition and construction maximise re-use and recycling of demolition and construction waste waste non-hazardous waste Recycle a minimum of 40% of In Carnaby and Seven Dials, 51% of tenants’ waste was Recycle and compost a minimum of 50% of tenants’ waste at Carnaby and Seven recycled and 5% was sent for composting. The remainder tenants’ waste and divert a minimum of 90% Dials and divert 90% from landfill was diverted from landfill to energy from waste of waste from landfill Improve biodiversity appropriate to Continued membership of Wild West End. Baseline study of Continue membership of Wild West End and the Group’s urban location biodiversity initiatives. Continuing to maximise the benefits increase number of biodiversity features of using planters, sedum pods and window boxes and other throughout the portfolio in particular on features through appropriate species selection service roofs 20
