General Information June 20, 2017 To our stakeholders: Consultoría Colombiana S.A. is in agreement and fully supports all the principles the United Nations Global Compact abides by, and therefore is committed to their fulfillment. We are committed to develop our business in accordance with the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor Standards, Environment and Anti –Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Andres Manrique Manrique Chief Executive Officer Human Rights Assessment Policy Goals • We are in full agreement with all 30 articles of United Nations Universal Declaration of HumanRights.. • Our company's Labor Code of Conduct complies with Global Compact principles on Human Rights as well as with Colombia´s applicable laws. This document includes a Chapter regarding Labor Harassment and internal solution procedures, as well as a Chapter regarding the creation of a Coexistence Committee composed both by employees and employer nominees for the study and solution of differences among employees in various aspects. Implementation • Our company culture includes an Open Door Policy, therefore providing access to all stakeholders to file verbally any grievances they might have. • We have a suggestion box where employees can file their suggestions or grievances. • We have an Intranet site, where employees can go to the virtual suggestion box and file their suggestions or grievances. • We offer equal opportunity employment without discrimination of Race, Religious Beliefs, Sexual Orientation, Gender or Disability. • We foster communication spaces through meetings with senior management such as corporate meeting, focus groups, breakfasts with presidency, among others. Measurement and Outcomes • Suggestions and grievances are taken to our Joint Committee or to our Coexistence Committee (composed 50% by employee elected representatives and 50% by employer elected representatives) for their solution or follow up of taken actions. Among the employer elected representatives we count top executives of the company. • In the last year, we received a couple of grievances in our Coexistence Committee. • Both were ruled negative as they didn´t comply with the laws description of labor harassment. However, we performed interventions through our HR department to improve employee relationships. • Each quarter, we convene general company meetings, where we share Company performance figures and/or strategic views on subjects of interest. In these meetings, our employees have the opportunity to make open questions that are answered directly by the company´s CEO. • We have created direct communication spaces between the company and its employees. On one hand, we have a program named “Breakfast with the CEO”, where different groups are convened to have a direct conversation with the CEO of any matter of interest to them. On the other hand, we have focus groups, leaded by HR, oriented to identify improvement opportunities. • Twice a year meetings are held with the attendance of the whole company where the President provides first-hand information of the company's results as well as any other information considered of general interest, such as corporate changes, new projects, etc. During these meetings, there´s room for the general attendance to ask questions about any corporate topic over which they have concerns o need clarification. • The suggestions have been taken into account and in various cases implemented. Labor Assessment Policy Goals • Our company's Labor Code of Conduct complies with Colombia´s applicable laws. This document contains all employee’s rights and responsibilities as well as how compensation and benefits are applied.. Also, there is one article where it prohibits employees from inhibiting others to join any labor union. • Our company has been certified by Bureau Veritas Quality International – BVQi under OHSAS 18001:2007 for which we get audited on a yearly basis. Also, we are members of the Colombia´s Safety Council (Consejo Colombiano de Seguridad), and we also get audited on a yearly basis. • As part of our OHSAS 18001:2007 compliance, we perform a Labor related risk assessment for each project we perform and therefore determine the safety protection equipment and procedures to be supplied to each employee. • In order to strengthen the skills of the workers, the company has created the ConCol Corporate University, which seeks to generate opportunities for growth and development at all levels. Implementation • We have a suggestion box where employees can file suggestions or grievances. • When an employee joins the organization, he/she has to go through an induction process where we thoroughly explain how the company operates, this includes information about the existence of our Labor Code of Conduct, which is published in many places in our premises, as well as on the intranet. Employees must go through a re-induction process on a regular basis. • Our company culture includes an Open Door Policy, therefore providing access to all employees to file verbally any grievances they might have. • We perform a Labor related risk assessment for each project, which allows us to determine the risks and required safety equipment and procedures, we also perform entry and regular basis exams, to determine the employees health status and evolution, with recommendations about healthy living. • We offer equal opportunity employment regardless of Age, Race, Religious Beliefs, Sexual Orientation, Gender or Disability. We select people based on résumé credentials, and perform in many cases standardized psychological tests to determine who to hire. Regarding pay, each project has a pay schedule based on the approved offer by our client; people are hired based on these schedules. For those who are permanent employees of the firm, we have a Qualification system that determines the pay bracket each person belongs to and they get paid accordingly. • We offer reliable Payment of Payroll and benefits. We have an intern program where we enroll technical and college students providing them the opportunity to have a real work experience as part of their education process. Many of these apprentices have joined the organization right after their internship, therefore improving their and their families’ quality of life. • We developed the Psychosocial Risk Program and the Biomechanical Risk • Prevention Program, both focused on bringing support and improving wellness conditions of our employees in their work environment. • In order to deploy new and best business practices for each business area, we perform regular meetings oriented towards technology, reengineering, strategy and occupational health among other topics. • We have a wellness plan which is focused on generating balance, life and work for the company's workers. Where we find special activities, fairs of interest such as Housing, Education, financial health, activities with family and children, as well as the possibility to participate every month in recreational hours that the company designs for recreation and integration. • Among our wellness plan activities geared towards employee development we have created our corporate university called “Universidad Corporativa ConCol”. Its purpose is to improve training practices within the company as we as bringing lectures from top world leaders about work environment skills. • We have organized all our personnel into more than 30 knowledge groups. This organization allows us to distribute labor load more evenly amongst professionals of the same discipline, and therefore have a better work-life balance. These groups also allow us to share knowledge between experiences and new professionals, as well as standardizing procedures using best practices that reflect in better quality and lower costs. A byproduct of this organization is better work climate. Measurement and Outcomes • Every year, at the stockholders meeting we distribute an Annual Report that includes information about work related Accidents and Incidents, results of the annual audit preformed by BVQi and the Colombian Safety Council, information about lawsuits filed by employees, statistical information about health exams performed. • Senior Management reviews results through the Joint Committee and the HSEQ Committee which meet on a regular basis. • We get external Audits from BVQi (ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001), by the Colombian Safety Council and by the External Audit appointed by the stockholders. These Audits review compliance of all internal procedures, as well as compliance with the law. • Every year we perform a Trust Index Employee Survey through the Great Place to Work Institute. This lets us identify our strengths in the implementation of good labor practices, as well as their improvement actions, letting us generate a better labor environment and a better work-life balance. Our trust index has improved continuously in the last three measurements • A group of approximately 120 employees completed successfully the courses in our corporate university. • Our company’s labor turnover is very low. Environment Assessment Policy Goals • We are a Consulting Engineering firm, an therefore have a very limited environmental footprint and impact. We've performed a footprint and impact assessments, where we've determined that Paper consumption, Energy Consumption, Water Consumption, Vehicle CO2 Contamination and garbage Disposal are our main environmental impacts. • We have a Reduce, Reuse and Recycle policy which we apply to all our impacts. • Our goals are to progressively reduce impacts based both on culture change and on adoption of environmentally friendly technologies when applicable. Implementation • We perform periodic training and awareness campaigns. These include waste recycling, water and energy consumption habits, and use of paper. • We have signed agreements with our corporate suppliers for appropriate recycling of batteries, light bulbs, and vehicle lubricants. • We have virtually eliminated Logo paper, so we can print reports on both sides, review of blueprints is performed though PDF files or usage of reduced size paper formats. • Most of our vehicles operate on diesel fuel and on natural gas for low emissions and low consumption costs. • We have installed timed valves, and low consumption toilets in all sanitary facilities. In our newest facilities, we also installed waterless urinals. • We have installed low consumption illumination in most of our facilities, including led lighting and movement sensors. • We have an agreement with a Recycled paper manufacturer to sell them any paper waste we generate. • We have implemented in our offices garbage disposal cans so people can separate at the source. • We perform an assessment of our CO2 footprint and purchase through CO2less.org enough trees to compensate such footprint. Each of our employees receives a tree (card) as a symbolic birthday present. • We work with many foundations to which we donate recycled material. In turn, this foundations use these resources to address social causes. • We have programs with the corresponding containers for disposal of used batteries as well as expired drugs. These programs are extended to our employees and their families, who can bring this elements for proper disposal. • When a worker’s family member dies, we accompany our collaborators with “Hojas Verdes” as an institutional presence, which denotes a tree that has been planted in commemoration of the deceased family member and also contribute to mitigating the impact of CO2. Measurement and Outcomes • Senior Management reviews results through the Joint Committee and the HSEQ Committee with are performed on a regular basis. • We get external Audits from BVQi (ISO 9001 and ISO 14001), by the Colombian Safety Council (It includes several Environmental Measurements). These Audits review compliance of all internal procedures, as well as compliance with the law. • Reduction of the corporate CO2 footprint. • Improved per capita water and energy consumption. • Reduction in recycled paper and waste paper, and improvement in print costs. • Reduction in fuel costs and consumption. • Improved recycle and reuse of all our consumption elements. Anti-Corruption Assessment Policy Goals • In association with País Libre (a Non Government Organization), we have performed assessment of our exposition to Extortion and Kidnapping. • We support the UN Convention Against Corruption and we are determined to report to the corresponding authorities any corruption activity or indication thereof. Implementation • Using the before mentioned assessment with País Libre, we have performed training courses with our project managers and established protocols for management of crisis situations. • When possible, we work with Transparency International to prevent bribery and corruption in the tenders where this organization gets involved. • We have also involved in multiple cases government control entities such as the Contraloría and the Procuraduría. These entities are responsible of assuring on a preventive basis or punishing any irregular activity related to the correct application of law by government contracting entities and officers. • We report, on a preventive basis, any irregular situations to the Colombian Infrastructure Chamber, so they take, when possible, the necessary actions. • We’ve taken legal actions against public entity members where we’ve perceived corruption acts against our interest in bidding processes. • Before we enroll new employees, we perform a security and background check to avoid enrollment of people with doubtful track records Measurement and Outcomes • As we mentioned in the implementation section, we have involved in some cases government control entities. • Also, as a result of our reports during bidding processes, where we consider there might be a bias in the terms of reference we have reported such situations to the contracting entity and in some cases also to the Colombian Infrastructure Chamber which in time have rendered changes in Request for Proposal documentation, making of these processes more balanced and transparent.
