ONWARDS AND UPWARDS Sustainability Report 2016 ABOUT THIS REPORT 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT In this Sustainability Report 2016, we inform our stakeholders about progress made in relation to our sustainability strategy, goals and the implementation of measures in the 2016 reporting year. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 KEY FIGURES AND AUDIT data based on estimates is 9 % for electricity consumption, The Sustainability Report 2016 of ista International Whereas the key figures regarding the workforce structure 22 % for gas consumption and 40 % for district heat and GmbH is ista’s seventh sustainabilty report. It also reprein the chapter Employees were recorded as of December 31, water consumption. In this report, we have corrected some sents the progress report for the Global Compact of the 2016, the specific key environmental figures are based of the key figures for 2015 as the consumption figures for United Nations. In addition, we are reporting the inforon the average full-time equivalent (FTE) for 2016. The emsome branches were not yet available on the publication mation in our Sustainability Report for the first time in ployee figures for the subsidiaries GENEK GmbH & Co. KG date of the Sustainability Report 2015. The corrected key accordance with the German Sustainability Code. The and Betriebskosten Geräte Software GmbH were not taken figures have a footnote to that effect. relevant declaration can be viewed here. into account. Selected employee key figures, for example the number of training days per head, are also based on the CO2 emissions, for example, were calculated on the basis of G4-17 FTE figures. Furthermore, there are differences in the the conversion factors of the International Energy Agency, FRAME OF REFERENCE headcount figures between the consolidated financial the Bavarian State Office of the Environment (Bayerisches The report includes 50 companies worldwide and is based statements and this sustainability report. This is due to a Landesamt für Umwelt) and the Institute for Housing and on the key figures for the 2016 calendar year. different definition of headcount. In the context of the susthe Environment (IWU). When balancing CO2 equivalents, tainability report, groups of employees such as temporary we converted the other greenhouse gases emitted (e.g. carGUIDELINES AND REPORT PREPARATION student workers, apprentices and employees on maternity bon dioxide or methane) into CO2 emissions in line with In our reporting, we comply with the internationally or parental leave are recorded differently than in the contheir impact on the climate and then stated them, together recognised guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative solidated financial statements. with the CO2 emissions, as CO2 equivalents. www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 (GRI). We report in accordance with the version GRI G4 and satisfy the “in-accordance core” option. This report Selected key environmental figures for financial year EDITORIAL NOTE has also been verified by the Materiality Disclosures 2016 were the subject of an audit with limited assurance The copy deadline for this report was May 31, 2017. To Service of the GRI. The correct positioning of the G4 mateconducted by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfunggesellimprove readability, we have avoided using both genders riality disclosures (G4-17 – G4-27) has been confirmed by schaft. Audited key figures are identified in the chapter and only use the masculine form. However, the feminine the GRI. In preparation for this report and to determine Key figures by the symbol . You can view the audit form is also meant. The sustainability report of ista Interthe report contents, we once again conducted a materiality certificate here. national GmbH appears annually. The next report will analysis. We involved internal and external stakeholders probably be published in the summer of 2018. in this analysis and conducted an assessment from the We professionalised recording of the key environmental business perspective. We present the process and results figures still further in the reporting year. Consequently, in the chapter New focal topics. there are fewer estimates than in 2015. The proportion of ONWARDS AND UPWARDS – SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 3 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION PORTFOLIO ENVIRONMENT 04 Foreword 21 – 26 27 – 31 05 Portrait 07 ista Core Business 08 Sustainability Strategy 11 Sustainability Management 16 Materiality 19 Sustainable Development Goals EMPLOYEES DIALOGUE FACTS AND FIGURES 32 – 37 38 – 41 42 Key figures www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 46 GRI G4 Content Index 50 Imprint FOREWORD 4 FOREWORD Dear readers, Going forward, we want to extend the scope of the project to the whole of Germany and even roll it out internationally. Keeping in step with the future is good. Being a step ahead is better. This is one of the reasons why the title of this Our actions are guided by our company codes but also by year’s sustainability report is “Onwards and Upwards”. general codes of conduct such as the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. In particular the Shared Values, For we at ista take responsibility for our customers and our five company values, form ista into a homogeneous employees and for the environment and society by steadily unit despite its global presence in 24 countries and give developing ourselves further. “Carrying on as before” is our employees clear guidelines. never enough for us. Together with our customers, we want to continually make further improvements to our This report also represents our progress report to the solutions for greater energy efficiency in buildings. And Global Compact of the United Nations and illustrates we want to launch new, innovative products and services how we promote human rights, good working conditions, that fully exploit the opportunities of digitalisation. Not environmental protection and anti-corruption programmes just for the mere sake of using a new technology but in throughout the world. order to achieve maximum energy savings from every euro invested. We are committed to driving our company onwards and I am very much looking forward to moving onwards and upupwards so we can continue making a sustainable contriwards with you into a transparent and energy-efficient future. To achieve this, it is important to conduct a regular critibution to the success of the energy transition. www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 cal review of ourselves and to check whether the path we If you have any suggestions or would simply like to have chosen is the right one. Therefore, in 2016 we launched Against this background, we also started our new, largeshare your impressions with us, please write to us at a comprehensive, Group-wide strategy and development scale sustainability project “ista schools in energy efficiency” sustainability@ista.com. programme designed to make our company fit for the in the reporting period. In 2017, the city of Essen was awardfuture. We want to become even better – together with ed the title “European Green Capital” by the European ComYour Thomas Zinnöcker our employees and customers. To do this, we want to mission – also in recognition of the successful structural strengthen the quality of our services and seek even more transformation which the former mining and coal metropolis intensive dialogue with our customers. We want to has undergone. ista is promoting the project and equipping further digitalise our metering technology and, with a schools in Essen with the latest metering technology to view to our long-term corporate goal, continue growing make consumption transparent and consequently make CEO ista International and significantly enlarge our workforce. the pupils enthusiastic about energy-efficient behaviour. PORTRAIT 5 WE WANT GREATER ENERGY EFFICIENCY – TOGETHER WITH YOU. ista is developing further and becoming even better. From a specialist for heating cost billing to a modern real estate service provider for greater energy and process efficiency. To achieve this, we are systematically focusing on digital technologies: today for transparent metering, billing, visualisation and management of individual heat consumption, tomorrow for additional services for our residential real estate customers. GLOBAL We think and act globally. Our head office is in Essen, Germany and we operate in 24 countries worldwide. In addition to Germany, we focus in particular on European markets such as Denmark, France, Italy and Spain. But fast-growing markets outside Europe, such as the United Arab Emirates, China and Russia, are also gaining importance. We are already the market leader in many countries. In Germany, the Group is one of the leading companies in the industry. ista’s activities are supported in some counwww.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 tries by independent service partners. TRANSPARENT We create transparency. People can only save energy if they know what they are consuming. Submetering enables every resident of a multi-family building to receive an individual bill for heating and hot water costs. Everyone therefore only pays for the energy they actually consume. And everyone can decide how actively they want to manage their own energy consumption. Residents make sustainable energy savings of 20 % on average and therefore also achieve lasting cost cuts when they receive transparent Only people who know what they are consuming can save energy and costs in a targeted manner. annual consumption information. See here what contribution ista is making to the energy transition. PORTRAIT 6 850.4 Our customers are housing companies, house owners and SMART home owners’ associations. We are also increasingly exThe Management Board of ista International GmbH is tending our activities to include commercial properties. responsible for strategic and operational control of the ista Group. The managing directors are Thomas Zinnöcker, DIGITAL million euros sales in 2016 Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Christian Leu, Chief Financial We want to become even more digital together with our Officer (CFO), and Jochen Schein, Chief Operating Officer customers. Together we want to develop and use digital (COO). The remuneration of the Management Board contechnologies so that they provide greater comfort, greater sists of a fixed component and a variable component that quality and in particular greater energy efficiency for depends on the overall success of the company. Christian 4,211 the user. To achieve this, in the first stage we intend to Leu, Maria Oestreicher and Pierre Baumruck sit on ista double our percentage of digital metering devices which Deutschland GmbH’s Supervisory Board – Christian Leu can be read completely remotely by the end of 2017. 80 % is the Supervisory Board Chairman. The parent company of our devices on the market are to be digital by 2021. of the ista Group is Trius Holdings S.C.A. headquartered Today, the fully remote reading of consumption figures in Luxembourg. The majority of this company’s owners has two major advantages: firstly, there is no need for million euros capitalisation in 2016 are funds advised by CVC Capital Partners. The ista meter-reading appointments, secondly, consumption and Management Board also holds shares in the company. costs are processed even more transparently on the web portal or on a smartphone – not only once a year but also at regular intervals during the heating period. The latest 134.3 studies show that, thanks to the monthly visualisation 5,710 of their data, residents consume on average another roughly 10 % less energy than residents who do not receive such information. RESPONSIBLE million euros invested in 2016 employees worked for ista in 2016 We act responsibly in everything we do. For our customers and employees, for the environment and society. And we www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 get involved everywhere we are represented. For example, at our head office in Essen. In our school project, “ista 49% schools in energy efficiency”, we are equipping schools in Essen with the latest technology for metering energy consumption and therefore creating greater awareness for energy efficiency in schools. ¤ 103.0 million alone in hardware components which we of ista employees were female in 2016 G4-17 rent out to our customers. 5,710 employees worked for the LEADING Group. The full-time equivalent as at December 31, 2016 In 2016, ista recorded worldwide sales of € 850.4 million, was 5,397. Women accounted for nearly 49 % or almost one a year-on-year increase of 4.9 %. Total capitalisation in two of the workforce in 2016. In addition to ista Luxemamounted to some € 4.2 billion. € 134.3 million was investburg GmbH S.à r.l., another 49 companies are included in ed in the reporting period, including the consolidated financial statements of ista Luxemburg. ISTA CORE BUSINESS 7 SUSTAINABILITY AS THE CORE BUSINESS All over the world, we help our customers to meter, visualise, bill and manage individual energy and water consumption. Now already in 24 countries. As an energy service provider, we consider it our duty to systematically develop solutions that protect our natural resources and the climate. HOW A HEATING COST BILL IS GENERATED: After an appointment for a personal Our service technician then consultation, a field representative installs our innovative, digital comes out to check the premises and metering devices. We offer metering points and assesses the exactly the right solution to suit heating system in the building. the particular heating system. www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 The individual heating cost bill makes On this basis, ista generates bills for A wireless gateway collects the Saving in households the tenants’ consumption behaviour each tenant in the building and sends consumption data of each tenant that receive information transparent for them so they can react them to the property manager, who and transmits them every month about their heating accordingly and save energy and costs. then distributes them to the tenants. to our servers. Transmission is consumption in a bill encrypted and fully in line with once a year. data protection legislation. SUSTAINABILIT Y STR ATEGY 8 COURAGE TO INNOVATE We see the dynamics of digitalisation as an opportunity to further develop our company in a sustainable manner for the future. Our core business is already very much geared to digitalisation today and therefore provides an excellent basis. With courage to innovate, we will continue changing and further expand our position as a technology leader. A BUSINESS MODEL WITH A FUTURE ista is on a sound economic footing. Thanks to the high ONE ISTA, TOGETHER, FOR EXCELLENCE We would like to advance very dynamically to a leading We help property owners commitment and motivation of our employees, we have a leading market position in European core markets and real estate service provider for greater energy and process efficiency. To achieve this, we will further improve and managers all over the can grow sustainably. But we cannot and do not want to rest on our laurels. Our customers expect us to continue collaboration with our customers and, through customer advisory boards, working groups and customer forums, world to manage their assets delivering innovative products and services that simplify the pro­cesses in the residential real estate industry even seek even closer dialogue in a spirit of partnership. At the same time, we will, however, also systematically further sustainably and thus save more, provide greater energy efficiency and make modern housing attractive. At the same time, progressive climate expand and optimise our internal process landscape. Every employee is to have clear responsibilities and scope valuable resources. We therefore change makes it urgently necessary to promote, implement and roll out clever, affordable solutions for greater for decision-making. Thus, we want to further improve the way we cooperate with each other. We are methodically contribute to a future which CO2 and resource savings. tackling all these objectives with our new internal corporate development programme, “One ista, together, for our children and grandchildren www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 We take our responsibility towards our customers, the tenants, the environment, politicians and society very excellence”, and making our company fit for the future. Professionalism, reliability and a culture of trust are the will also find worth living. seriously and continuously invest in the technical foundation for our actions. THOMAS ZINNÖCKER advancement of digital metering technology. We digitalise CEO ista International GmbH not for the sake of it but as a means to the end of greater energy efficiency. We want to create even greater trans­ parency and therefore possibilities for the individual to influence their consumption so we can help our customers and their tenants to save more resources and reduce costs. This makes us a key partner for political decision-makers, landlords and tenants alike. SUSTAINABILIT Y STR ATEGY 9 If we are to further increase our innovativeness, we have to reduce complexity even more, concentrate on the essentials and understand even better how we, together with our customers, can offer sustainable solutions for greater resource efficiency in buildings. JOCHEN SCHEIN COO ista International GmbH SUSTAINABLE INNOVATIONS As we were able to prove in a field test conducted throughFor us, innovation begins with people. We harness the out Germany together with the German Energy Agency, advantages of digitalisation in our company so we can the targeted provision of regular sub-annual consumption be even more efficient and active for our customers. Digiinformation is key to the much more responsible use of talised work processes can reduce our employees’ workresources ( see page 41). load and give them more time for what is important. Digital management systems also provide the transparency G4-18, G4-26, G4-27 needed for intelligent decisions. The basis for our perforSTRATEGIC POSITIONS FOR THE FUTURE mance is open and honest communication that permits In our strategy, we never lose sight of overarching goals: a culture of trust. This includes creating scope for conthe clear roadmap for a sustainable economy and society structive criticism from our employees. For only when that the United Nations drew up with its 17 Sustainable everything is thought of and discussed can we arrive at Development Goals is also an important yardstick for the best result for our customers. us, a yardstick against which we adjust our goals and the www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 direction of our strategy. In our “Future Lab”, we are working flat out on new solutions so we can continue offering our customers innovative products and services. Alongside the digitalisation of our internal processes, we also see these new solutions in the digitalisation of customer processes and in the fields of digital energy management and smart buildings. With new innovations we can help our customers throughout the world to manage their assets sustainably and thus ultimately increase their value ( see the chapter Portfolio). The 17 Sustainable At the same time, we take our responsibility to raise people’s Development awareness for greater energy efficiency very seriously. Goals of the United Nations. SUSTAINABILIT Y STR ATEGY 10 We see five specific goals to which we can make a The Management Board has just initiated a process to contribution: review and further hone our sustainability agenda. OUR GOALS FOR 2017 During this process, we will also adjust our present goals and make them more concrete. We see our own opera1 D  evelopment of a sustainability agenda and tional efficiency as the prerequisite for being able to think definition of sustainability goals that make a and act for the long term. It is only with a sound economic specific contribution to SDG 7, 8, 11, 12 and 13 foundation that we can make forward-looking investments from which everybody ultimately benefits. Projects, 2 E  xpansion of sustainability particularly those that transform society like the energy communications and measures to create transition, require the different aspirations of all those awareness involved to be carefully balanced. One thing is certain: a successful business model can only be developed in the 3 Expansion of sustainable mobility by long term if it is in tune with the interests of the environsystematically adhering to our strategy of ment and society. And sustainable innovations can only choosing replacements for the vehicle be developed if business interests are also taken into confleet according to energy efficiency and low sideration. emission criteria, also by purchasing electric and hybrid vehicles. Affordable and Clean Energy (SDG 7), Decent Work and 4  onductance of interactive stakeholder C Economic Growth (SDG 8), Sustainable Cities and Commudialogue between our Management Board nities (SDG 11), Responsible Consumption and Production and our customers, associations, NGOs, (SDG 12) and Climate Action (SDG 13). Through our prodsuppliers and politicians. ucts and services or our role as an employer, we exert a direct influence on these goals in our business activities 5 I n the medium term: appointment of an or can help indirectly to achieve the goals in dialogue with internal sustainability manager politicians or customers. We decided to focus on these five www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 goals in the light of an analysis involving our stakeholders which was performed in the reporting period. From page 19, we describe why we consider these subjects to be important and what action we have already taken or are planning in this respect. SUSTAINABILIT Y M ANAGEMENT 11 SUSTAINABILITY UNDER CONTROL At ista, ethical action is anchored in strong values, guidelines and structures. For us, an integral part of aspiring to act responsibly in our business operations throughout the world is to have transparent processes and clear responsibilities in our own company and in the supply chain. By intensively exchanging information and views with the sustainability delegates in our countries, we ensure that sustainability is lived in the entire company. G4-18 SUSTAINABILITY COORDINATION AT ISTA CLEAR DIRECTION LOCAL IMPLEMENTATION At ista, the subject of sustainability is the direct responThe Sustainability Council, which consists of delegates from CEO sibility of the Management Board. Two bodies set the all national organisations, manages and implements susista International GmbH strategic guidelines and are in charge of operational tainability measures. The council also shares ideas from implementation. the countries with the Steering Committee. This way we Sustainability Steering Committee ensure not only that strategy topics are operationally imThe Sustainability Steering Committee sets the focus plemented in the countries but also that we get input from Corporate Communications Procurement & and direction of our sustainability engagement. To do the countries for the further development of content. & Public Affairs Supply Chain this, the heads of strategically relevant departments at www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 the Essen head office, who make up the Sustainability We also work in specialist bodies on specific sustainability Corporate Marketing & Marketing & Business Steering Committee, meet at least twice a year. Their work topics. In Germany, for example, an energy team concenBusiness Development Development includes developing sustainability standards, initiating trates on implementing energy measures resulting from environmental and climate protection projects, and the requirements of the energy management system to ISO Corporate Internal Audit Corporate HR identifying relevant social topics. Furthermore, this body 50001. Here again, every branch in Germany has a repre& Compliance is responsible for approving the materiality analysis sentative who takes charge of the topic and initiates impleCorporate Corporate Business and therefore helps to set the focus of this report. The mentation measures to improve the energy efficiency at IT Management Solutions Sustainability Steering Committee reports directly to his or her branch. The members of the energy team therethe CEO. fore form their own network and are the contact persons for all energy topics at the branches. Products Sustainability Council (Delegates) SUSTAINABILIT Y M ANAGEMENT 12 GUIDELINES AND COMMITMENTS Corporate Internal Audit and Compliance is responsible Thanks to the organisational anchoring of sustainability, for monitoring compliance with the guidelines and comclear responsibilities are defined throughout the entire mitments as part of its regular audit activities and is the Group. Furthermore, Group-wide principles and commitcentral point of contact for employees. In selected counments are lived by all employees in everyday business tries, employees were personally trained on these guidepractice at ista: Shared Values (see information box), interlines and codes and a central monitoring process was set nal guidelines, international agreements such as the UN up for areas which appear to be particularly at risk from Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Convencorruption. tion against Corruption and the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration of Principles. SHARED VALUES The ista Shared Values shape daily working together at ista. The five values are the foundaInternal guidelines Company values External guidelines tion of our corporate culture. They influence the implementation of strategic and operational measures in all countries and therefore largely Codes determine our long-term development and our sustainable success. They are the basis for fair cooperation in a spirit of partnership, not only OUR PILLARS FOR RESPONSIBLE ACTION: with colleagues but also with external partners. In the reporting period new employees learned the values in a Shared Values game at onboardInternal guidelines Company values ing events. Some of our staff events, such as the The entire ista Group has to comply with guidelines, The ista Shared Values are five values which give annual soccer cup or the head office summer for example on gifts and gratuities (Germany), employees guidance in daily working life: Keeping festival, were also a celebration of these values. money laundering or the funding of terrorism Commitments, Encouraging Empowerment, Taking The “Team Olympics” during the head office (international). The ista Environmental Guidelines Responsibility, Promoting Trust and Building Partwww.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 summer festival gave colleagues the opportunity help us to reconcile our company’s economic perfornerships. to demonstrate in various team games what mance with ecological responsibility. good cooperation is really about. For example, at one station they had to construct a tower together from building blocks under very difficult conditions. Codes External guidelines The employees formed a circle, each holding a The Code of Conduct contains important princiAs supporters of the Global Compact of the United string in their hand that was connected to all the ples for all employees of the ista Group, such as Nations, we support and promote human rights, other threads by a hook in the middle of the circle those on avoiding conflicts of interest and rejecting working standards, environmental protection and so the tower could only be built if everybody corruption and bribery. The Code is binding on all the fight against corruption. worked together. employees and is available in printed form and on the intranet. The Supplier Code lays down standWe are also committed to the Sustainable ards for our suppliers. Development Goals of the United Nations. SUSTAINABILIT Y M ANAGEMENT 13 COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE OF CONDUCT CORPORATE COMPLIANCE – STRATEGY To ensure that non-compliant conduct is heard about, Corporate Internal Audit and Compliance is currently setting up an employee hotline for reporting infringeista Compliance Standard ments. This hotline is to be run by an independent, external provider. Furthermore, we offer appropriate training to create Prevention Detection Reaction Continual measures greater awareness of our Code of Conduct. This training includes a compliance game where the employees are faced with delicate situations and have to solve them in what they consider to be a compliant manner. In addition, • Identification of • Reporting of fraud • Treatment of cases • Periodic reports regular compliance training sessions are conducted compliance risks • Observance of all stand• Analysis of causes • Monitoring for managers. In 2016, all employees in Germany were • Training of all ards and guidelines and implementation informed about the compliance requirements in a separate • Auditing employees measures communication. • Proactive search for • Reviews and tests • Country-wide complipossible infringements A compliance reporting and approval system will be ance programme • Investigation • Periodic compliance introduced in the emerging markets (China, the United checks • Improvement Arab Emirates, Turkey, Belarus and Russia) in 2017. In future, the east-European countries Hungary, Croatia, Romania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland will also be included in a compliance management system that has been introduced centrally. Under this system, after National organisation comprehensive analysis of the compliance risks, measures for reducing the identified risks are set and their impleRegional management www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 mentation continuously monitored. In each of these countries, there will be a compliance officer who will ensure local observance of the compliance rules. Two Management Board compliance managers from Corporate Internal Audit and Compliance in Germany carry out random checks The diagram shows the various process steps and stages of the ista Compliance Standard. on the units. In doing so, they follow the methodology of the internally developed ista Compliance Standard (see diagram on the right). SUSTAINABILIT Y M ANAGEMENT 14 Logistics Gladbeck SUPPLY BASE EUROPE: Manufacturing Au Focus on: Low-volume products Head Office Essen and mechanical products We have a very good relationSUPPLY BASE ASIA: Focus on: Electronic components ship with ista. We know whom we can contact if problems arise SUPPLY BASE SE-ASIA: Focus on: EMS & Electronic components and have two ista employees at Engineering and Supplier our manufacturing facilities who Quality Office (Thailand) are very supportive. As far as ista supply chain locations sustainability is concerned, we Major supplier locations Locations in the ista supply chain have various certifications – an FAIRNESS internal auditor ensures that our The sector inquiry initiated by the Federal Cartel Office in 2014 in the industry for the consumption-dependent In addition to the actual inquiry, the report gives suggestions as to how to make the market for submetering practices are compliant. www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 metering and billing of proportionate heating, water and services even more consumer-friendly. Given the desire QUOTE FROM A THAI SUPPLIER hot water costs in buildings continued in the reporting for even greater transparency, we see these recommendaduring the stakeholder survey year. The Office presented the report on the findings of tions as positive. We will continue to dedicate ourselves the sector inquiry in May 2017. The report clarifies the to offering practical and economical solutions for landsignificance and special features of the consumptionlords and tenants. dependent metering and billing of heating and hot water costs and disproves prejudices existing against subWhen setting our prices, we always consider the overall metering providers. As expected, the nearly two-year-long context including our customers’ requirements, competicomprehensive investigation revealed that metering tiveness and investment in new, innovative technologies. service providers are operating in compliance with comThe high quality of our products and services is the petition law. Therefore, the Federal Cartel Office sees no decisive criterion. need for any intervention by the competition authorities. SUSTAINABILIT Y M ANAGEMENT 15 We attach great importance to a sustainable and fair value chain. We ensure that both our employees and our suppliers comply with environmental and social standards. Next year, we will therefore again review and extend our Supplier Code. GÜNTHER VAN DE RIJT Senior Vice President Procurement & Supply Chain RESPONSIBILITY RIGHT DOWN INTO To produce our devices, we work closely and in a spirit COLLABORATION WITH SUPPLIERS THE SUPPLY CHAIN of partnership with suppliers in Asia and Europe. They We currently work in direct procurement with some 250 We expect ethical conduct and the observance of environproduce the devices according to our specifications. suppliers worldwide and in indirect procurement with mental and social standards not just from our own emDirect support from the Procurement & Supply Chain some 3,000 suppliers from all over Germany. The miniployees and managers at our branches. We know that our department is ensured by our own engineering office mum requirements we place on environmental and social purchasing materials from Germany and abroad comes in Bangkok. So the observance of quality standards and standards are laid down in our Supplier Code, which is with the responsibility for what goes on at suppliers’. A the defined manufacturing processes can be guaranteed. based on the OECD principles of responsible corporate good understanding of our supply chain is the basis for In addition, we deploy resident engineers at our most governance and on the ILO core conventions. Among other this. In our supply chain management we distinguish important Asian main suppliers (electronic manufacturthings, our Supplier Code expressly prohibits child, forced between the materials needed for end products which we ing services). These engineers provide support and quality and compulsory labour and therefore we are also implewww.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 manufacture for our customers (direct materials) and assurance. After production, finished end products are menting the relevant principles of the Global Compact of materials which we need for the operation of our own dispatched directly to our Warehouse & Distribution the United Nations. In addition, ista requires its suppliers organisation (indirect materials & services). Most of Centre in Gladbeck and from there they are transported to conclude a similar agreement with their suppliers. It the latter are purchased by each national organisation to the national organisations. However, some devices are is planned to conduct a new review of the content requireitself. By contrast, new end products and devices are first also delivered as semi-finished parts to our Manufacturing ments of our Supplier Code in 2017. developed centrally by the Product Development departCompetence Centre in Au in der Hallertau for final assemment at ista International GmbH and then manufactured bly. Our employees perform the final assembly and the Suppliers with minimum sales of € 50,000 to ista must in series by the Procurement & Supply Chain department calibration inspection there before the devices are also commit to meeting the requirements of the ista Supplier in Asia and/or Europe. sent to Gladbeck. Code. Responsibility for ensuring observance of the Code always lies with the supplier. Furthermore, observance of the Code is checked in periodic supplier audits. M ATERIALIT Y 16 NEW FOCAL TOPICS What topics are crucial to ista's future sustainability? It is very difficult to find an answer to this important question alone. So we again included internal and external stakeholders in the preparations for this report and thus gleaned very interesting information. We further professionalised and internationalised the process for identifying major topics. 1. 2. G4-18 G4-18, G4-23 G4-18, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 2016 IDENTIFICATION OF THE TOPICS ASSESSMENT BY STAKEHOLDERS We conducted the first systematic materiality analysis The first stage was an internal process in which we critiIn the second stage, we involved internal and external in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting cally examined the eleven topics formulated after the stakeholders to find out where they see the greatest need Initiative (G4) in 2014. In order to take account of the materiality analysis in 2014. They represent the basis for for ista to act. The internal stakeholders comprised eminternationality of our company as well as internal and subsequent prioritisation by our stakeholders and compaployees from all hierarchical levels and national organisaexternal developments, the materiality process was nies. To determine whether it was necessary to adjust the tions. The external participants were largely people who extended in 2016 to also cover branches outside Germany content of the topics, we took into account national and know the company well and/or are affected by ista’s www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 and potentially relevant sustainability topics were international sustainability standards, the international business activities. These included customers, suppliers, newly identified. development agenda as well as trends in the company and sustainability experts as well as representatives from its environment. Moreover, we asked selected department politics, NGOs, associations and the press. In addition to In addition to intensifying dialogue with stakeholders, the managers for their evaluation. This resulted in 13 topics, Germany, they came from France, Belgium, Denmark, aim of the materiality analysis is to identify important some new, some revised. The new topics are Apply fair the Netherlands, Italy, the United Kingdom, Spain, Poland topics, pinpoint strategic approaches and consolidate our business practices , Create awareness and Drive smart and Thailand. They prioritised these 13 potentially releinternal sustainability competence. living forward . We expanded the definition of other topics vant topics in an online questionnaire. Moreover, we used or reworded them in order to achieve a more appropriate this survey to determine the most important Sustainable We established our current focal topics in a three-stage focus in the light of new developments. Development Goals for ista from the stakeholders’ point process: of view. They also assessed our previous sustainability performance. M ATERIALIT Y 17 3. We supplemented the online survey with qualitative G4-18 G4-27 interviews to gain a greater understanding of our stakeASSESSMENT BY GROUP OF EXPERTS FOCAL TOPICS FOR ISTA holders’ expectations. In these roughly half-hour teleIn a materiality workshop, the Sustainability Steering The diagram of the materiality matrix shows what relephone interviews we also discussed ista’s role in the field Committee discussed the results of the stakeholder survey vance the 13 sustainability topics have from the stakeholder of the smart building, our mission to create awareness in and assessed the 13 topics itself. In doing so, the Commitperspective (y-axis) and the business perspective (x-axis). society for greater energy efficiency, and the contribution tee members focused on their relevance for business The topics in the right-hand quadrant highlighted in of our products to the energy transition. In addition to success: they asked themselves to what extent each topic colour are the topics which were identified as key for ista. external stakeholders, we also talked to selected managers contributed towards “increasing image and reputation”, They guide us in our reporting and provide important from various departments. That helped us to compare “cutting costs” and “exploiting earning opportunities”. stimulus for our internal advancement. the external assessments with internal opinions. Our CEO, Thomas Zinnöcker, also participated in the lively exchange of views. On the same day, he and the Sustainability Steering Committee set the strategic course for the future of sustainability in the company. 1 Offer innovative products 8 Further develop 1 and services employees Very important 3 2 2 Ensure customer 9 Make the supply chain 4 satisfaction sustainable 6 5 7 www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 3 Apply fair business 10 Protect data 9 8 practices 10 11 Engage on behalf 11 12 4 Make a contribution of society to climate protection 12 Recruit new employees 13 5 Create awareness Stakeholder assessment 13 Maintain dialogue 6 Act in an eco-friendly manwith politicians and ner in our own company stakeholders 7 Drive smart living forward Very important Business perspective M ATERIALIT Y 18 G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23 Topic Aspects Inside/Outside Chapter MATERIAL GRI ASPECTS The table on the right provides an overview of the topics Offer innovative products Products and services; economic performance; Outside Portfolio we have defined as material. It assigns the relevant GRI and services ista-specific aspect Research and development aspects to these topics and shows whether the topics reported have ecological and social impacts inside or Ensure customer Customer health and safety; labelling of products Outside Dialogue outside our company. satisfaction and services Apply fair business Compliance; anti-competitive behaviour; the fight Outside Sustainability practices against corruption; ista-specific aspect Pricing management policy ; freedom of association and collective bargaining; child labour; forced or compulsory labour. Make a contribution to cliProducts and services; economic performance Outside Portfolio mate protection Create awareness ista-specific aspect Create awareness Outside Dialogue Act in an eco-friendly manMaterials; energy; water; emissions; transport Outside Environment ner in our own company Drive smart living forward ista-specific aspect Smart living Outside Portfolio Make the supply chain Assessment of suppliers as regards ecological Outside Sustainability sustainable aspects, human rights, work practices, social impacts; management freedom of association and collective bargaining; child labour; forced or compulsory labour Further develop employees Employment; vocational and further training; Inside Employees www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 diversity and equal opportunities; equal pay for men and women; equal treatment What is really material? In the run-up to the materiality analysis, our Sustainability Steering Committee sets the fields of action that are most important for ista. The materiality analysis with internal and external stakeholders helps to validate these fields of action. SUSTAINABLE DE VELOPMENT GOAL S 19 OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS As one of the world's leading energy service providers for greater energy efficiency in buildings, we can make an important contribution towards achieving the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In order to determine where the greatest possibilities of exerting influence along our value chain are and which SDGs are linked to the highest expectations placed RAW MATERIALS & ISTA on ista, we asked internal and external SUPPLY CHAIN OPERATIONS USE stakeholders to rank the 17 SDGs as part of our materiality analysis. Five SDGs were identified which were then checked and 8 13 8 13 11 7 12 13 11 7 confirmed in an internal process. www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 The chart shows which five goals were rated as the most following page, we describe, for each of the goals, where important for ista. We are planning to assign ista-specific we see the relevance and our possibilities of influence and goals to all SDGs by the end of 2017 and to underpin them what contribution we are already making today to their with further action to improve energy efficiency. On the achievement. SUSTAINABLE DE VELOPMENT GOAL S 20 7 Affordable and clean energy. As a provider of ser11 Sustainable cities and communities. What are the 13 Climate action. In contrast to manufacturing vices for the consumption-dependent recording and demands of the city of tomorrow? And how can ista companies for example, ista already makes a posibilling of energy, water and ancillary costs in buildings, help to shape them? These questions play a key role in the tive and sustainable contribution to climate protection we ourselves do not supply any energy. However, with our direction our company takes in terms of product develthrough its core business and the energy savings this core business, we contribute directly to a sub-goal of opment and strategic partnerships. In addition to business makes possible. A life cycle analysis of our heat SDG 7: by 2030, the global rate of improvement in energy continually optimising our core competence – the metercost allocator doprimo 3 radio net shows that consumpefficiency is to be doubled. Through our products and ing, billing and visualisation of energy consumption – we tion-dependent heating cost billing saves 158 times more services, we make energy consumption transparent and are systematically developing our product portfolio in the CO2 than the device causes over its entire life cycle. The enable the fair distribution of consumption costs in direction of the smart multi-family building. For us, it is calculation included the production of raw materials, multi-family buildings and commercial properties. In above all about finding innovative solutions that take a manufacture, transport, installation, use and disposal addition, we are committed to the sub-annual recording holistic view of buildings and offer landlords and tenants or recycling. We also help to reduce CO2 emissions by the and visualisation of consumption data, which encourages real added value for energy efficiency, process efficiency, measures we take at our branches. They include setting people to review their own consumption even more home comfort and safety. To make an optimal contribuup an energy management system, employee engagement regularly and which can lead to additional energy-saving tion, we cooperate with partners from the housing indusfor greater environmental protection, reducing the emispotential of up to 10 % per household (also see “Saving try and invest in research and development. sions of our vehicle fleet and saving water and paper. Money through Clever Heating”). 8 Decent work and economic growth. With sales 12 Responsible Consumption and production. By of € 850.4 million and sales growth of 4.9 % comrecording individual consumption, we give tenants pared with the previous year, we again demonstrated the transparency they need to make conscious decisions our performance in 2016. Our success not only secures on consumption. We have made it our mission to pass on sustainable growth for ista but also for the locations our knowledge and help consumers save natural resources. where we operate. We create jobs in 24 countries – both Our materiality analysis has shown that stakeholders also at our company and at our suppliers’. In 2016, about 5,700 wish us to take on this role. Consequently, we have therewww.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 employees worked for us directly. In the next ten years, we fore defined “Create awareness” as a new major field of acwant to grow further, sustainably increase our sales and tion for ista. With our project “ista schools in energy so also recruit more employees. Internal staff surveys and efficiency”, we are taking an important step in this respect: external awards confirm our success as an employer. we are starting with the young generation and getting them enthusiastic about protecting resources. 21 Scoring points with PORTFOLIO smart solutions With our products and services, we contribute to greater energy efficiency in buildings and actively help to shape the energy transition. We also enter into collaboration with other companies to find intelligent, digital SATISFIED CUSTOMERS PAGE 25 solutions for tomorrow’s homes. PROGRESS WITH RADIO Customer surveys help us to find PAGE 22 www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 out how we can further optimise our service. SAFE PRODUCTS PAGE 24 PORTFOLIO 22 PROGRESS WITH RADIO increasingly forging partnerships with other companies Our portfolio focuses on heat meters, water meters such as Dr. Riedel Automatisierungstechnik GmbH. This and heat cost allocators which record energy and water cooperation has produced the platform solution, “ista consumption using digital radio technology and Smart Building”, with which the residents of multi-family therefore give our customers and their tenants trans­ buildings can control the heating system via a display in parent information on their individual consumption bethe entrance area of their apartment and receive detailed haviour. Our portfolio also covers solutions for greater information on their consumption behaviour. Further tenant safety by offering smoke alarm device services solutions for tenant communication, lights, roller blinds, and drinking water analyses. ventilation systems and electrical appliances are also inteIn order to be able to offer our customers and their tenants grated into the system. So far approaches to the smart modern, cutting-edge technology, we have been committed to the systematic digital expansion of our infrastruchome / smart building have ture for some years now. So today more than 16 million of our metering devices are already “connected devices”, mainly focused on single-family which can digitally transmit the metering data to our systems and servers. Another roughly 400,000 devices are houses. However, digital techadded every month. We have therefore laid the foundation for a smart infrastructure and can, in future, make major nologies must be available for progress with regard to customer service, transparency and environmental impact. Thanks to remote consumpeverybody and therefore also in tion meter-reading, tenants no longer have to be home at appointed times for the meter reader, there is no need to multi-family buildings, creating travel to the tenants to read the meters so CO2 emissions are cut and information on individual consumption can be WE WANT TO INCREASE THE PERCENTAGE not only greater comfort but also OF REMOTELY READABLE ISTA PROPERTIES provided in a simple and low-cost way every month. Such information offers further potential savings of ten per cent IN GERMANY TO 80 % BY 2021. greater energy efficiency. We are www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 on average as the pilot project “Saving Money through Clever Heating” has demonstrated. When it comes to digital infrastructure in the smart building of tomorrow, the ‘Internet of working flat out on this. Things’ plays a major role for ista. In a pilot ANTONIO FISCHETTI SMART MULTI-FAMILY BUILDINGS project with Deutsche Telekom, we are currently Head of Marketing & Business Development In addition to continually optimising our core competence – examining how we can exploit the Internet of ista Deutschland GmbH the metering, billing and visualisation of energy conThings for the housing industry all over Germany. sumption – we are systematically developing our product As part of the pilot project, we are evaluating portfolio in the direction of the smart multi-family builddata transmission via narrowband IoT, one of ing (see Systematic transparency, page 26). For us, it is the most discussed innovations in machine-toPhoto: Jochen Schein, COO ista International, Achim Dicke, above all about finding innovative solutions that take a homachine communications, and assessing whether Senior Vice President Products and Thilo Kirchinger, Director listic view of buildings and offer landlords and tenants this provides a basis for future developments. Corporate Product Management, at the largest fair for real added value for energy efficiency, process efficiency, innovations in the mobile industry, the Mobile World home comfort and safety. To develop such solutions, we are Congress, in Barcelona. PORTFOLIO 23 SMART HEATING SYSTEMS Anticipation of market trends ista Poland is collaborating with the start-up Support eGain in order to optimise the energy efficiency Competition analysis of multi-family buildings and, at the same time, Scouting lobbyism improve the indoor climate for residents. Innova(techn. regulations) tive algorithms combine thermal structural buildInnovation ing features with weather forecasts to dynamically influence the heating system control and predictively optimise the temperature in the With the “Technikum”, our heating circuit of the building. sts fun c ti new technology centre, we are creating the right conditions to co on ali innovation ty RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT & efficiency In early 2017, we pooled our entire product development become even more effective in a capability – from electronics and mechanics development quality to quality management and industrialisation – in the fully digitalised environment. new technology centre “Technikum” in Essen. So we have created a place where know-how is concentrated and short Bundling Technology scouting & anticipation With over 16 million connected communication paths help ensure that ideas are implemented efficiently. Parallel to this, our production facility Standardisation devices, we are already the in Au was converted into a manufacturing competence centre for heat meters. Virtualisation Modularisation technology leader in our The Products department is responsible for the entire Automation industry in terms of www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 technical product portfolio throughout the entire product lifecycle. We gear our product development to The triad of ista product development: we develop our products digitalisation. The future in inno­vation and efficiency, taking care to get a good according to the maxims quality, functionality and costs. All three balance between quality, functionality and costs (see diacentre on innovation and efficiency . which we will further expand gram). Our aim is to evaluate new, sustainable technologies and modularise them exactly to our needs. So we can 99 % of our entire device portfolio is harmonised across our this lead has now begun. equip our products to provide even more options for furnational organisations and looked after by a central engither services and even greater flexibility of use. This is the neering team. Only one per cent of the product portfolio is ACHIM DICKE basis for continuing to offer our customers innovative and adapted to suit local conditions. So we can ensure consistSenior Vice President Products reliable services in the fields of energy management, tenently high quality and reliability in our entire product ant safety and home comfort. portfolio. PORTFOLIO 24 COUNTRY-SPECIFIC SOLUTIONS When we develop products and services, the focus is on 3 bundling and scaling international requirements. One example of this is the use of a standardised hardware 4 platform for international radio frequencies. We can then adapt the software for this hardware to country-specific requirements so we can not only satisfy customer demands but also comply with national laws. Country-specific solutions to meet the requirements of a particular market are also important. For example, ista developed 1 two new apps for ista Italy in the reporting year. These apps contain instructions for commissioning and reading heat cost allocators. Used with a tablet and a mobile gateway (MGW), they enable property managers in Italy to read their consumption themselves. With this method, ista is for the first time positioning itself as a software provider among its competitors and offering modular sales of 2 its products and services. SAFE PRODUCTS ista’s most important products: heat cost allocator, water meter, heat meter, smoke alarm device The same principle applies to all our products: they must be safe for the environment and man and meet the highest PROPER DISPOSAL 1 Heat cost allocator quality standards. At the German locations in Gladbeck When our products have reached the end of their lives, we (Warehouse & Distribution Centre), Au (Manufacturing make sure that the individual components are profession2 Water meter Competence Centre) and Essen (Head Office), we have ally separated and properly disposed of. As a result, valuaintroduced a quality management system certified to ISO ble resources can be recycled: for example, water meters 3 Heat meter www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 9001. The certification of these three locations relates to contain brass, heat meters and heat cost allocators contain products for data acquisition and tenant safety. lithium batteries. We can guarantee the highest-possible 4 Smoke alarm device recycling rate as most of our devices are only rented to the customers for use and so they remain our property. For the recycling process, we prefer to cooperate with workshops for the disabled. In Germany, we are supported by the Haus Hall Foundation, and in Luxembourg by “Luxemburger Liga zur Unterstützung von Menschen mit geistiger Behinderung” (Luxembourg league to support mentally handicapped people). PORTFOLIO 25 IN GOOD HANDS SATISFIED CUSTOMERS POSITIVE FOOTPRINT As a service provider, we naturally store data on our cusWe always strive to offer customers and tenants the best tomers and tenants. These data include not only personal products and services. With the aid of our annual customA life cycle analysis taking the example of our information such as addresses but also individual energy er satisfaction survey, we would like to better understand heat cost allocator doprimo 3 radio net has consumption. We are obliged to protect these data against how we can further optimise processes, products and sershown that consumption-dependent heating unauthorised access. To this end, we do not just rely on our vices and, at the same time, measure our customers’ satiscost billing saves 158 times more CO2 than the data protection officers but also use systems which guarfaction. In 2016, 2,024 customers from seven countries device causes over its entire life cycle. The CO2 antee data protection for all ista’s transactions in compli(Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netheremissions were calculated over the entire life ance with the applicable regulations. New statutory lands and Spain) took part in the survey either by telecycle of the device, which is 10 years on average requirements as well as constantly changing threat phone interview or by online questionnaire. The results and includes the production of raw materials, scenarios require data protection measures to be continuare summarised in the Customer Retention Index (CRI). In manufacture, transport, installation, use and ously modified. 2016, the satisfaction ratings for meter reading and billing disposal or recycling. were in the high satisfaction range on a scale from 1 to 10 Naturally, ista implements the new requirements of the in nearly all countries surveyed. The questions on overall EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This regusatisfaction as well as active and passive retention also lation came into force in May 2016 and has to be applied in showed that overall satisfaction is good. The survey rethe EU member states from May 2018. The EU’s aim with vealed potential for improvement, above all in complaints this regulation is to achieve a standard level of data protecmanagement. Our customer survey concept has been in tion throughout Europe. Although some country-specific use for five years. In the light of continually changing mardetails have yet to be clarified, ista is already taking ket and customer demands, we are currently working on account of the requirements of the GDPR in new projects. new ways of obtaining feedback. So far our customer survey only gives us a snapshot of satisfaction. The aim is to also incorporate the knowledge our ista employees gain about our customers in day-to-day business and to use various interfaces with the customer more efficiently so we also get feedback during the year. This is the only way we www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 can make prompt adjustments, rectify faults, increase performance and strengthen cooperation with the customers in the long term. A new video gives our customers insight into how a heating cost bill is generated. Heating cost bill: how the bill gets to the tenant. SMART BUILDINGS 26 SYSTEMATIC TRANSPARENCY With the “ista Smart Building” platform solution, which ista offers in cooperation with Dr. Riedel Automatisierungstechnik GmbH, the energy consumption of a multi-family building can be considerably reduced. The residents receive detailed information on their energy consumption via a display in the entrance area of their apartment and can actively optimise it. Further radio-based smart home applications can be integrated into the solution, e.g. for lighting, electrical appliances, ventilation systems or roller blinds. SECURITY COMFORT 1 2 1 2 3 4 www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 3 MAINTENANCE ENERGY USE 5 4 5 6 ENERGY EFFICIENCY 6 HEATING OPTIMISATION 27 Protecting the environment ENVIRONMENT – our self-perception We see protecting the environment and conserving resources as a task that is at the heart of our SELECTED ENVIRONMENTAL ME A SURES business model and thus at the PAGE 30 heart of ista. Just as we enable others to conserve resources with our products and services, we ISTA SE ARCHES FOR THE SUSTAINABILIT Y HERO also continually strive to optiPAGE 28 mise our consumption of energy, www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 water and raw materials and avoid emissions. HE ATING ENERGY, ELEC TRICIT Y AND BUSINESS TRIPS BY CAR, PLANE AND TRAIN PAGE 29 ENVIRONMENT 28 STANDARDISED ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES corresponding certification. In doing so, we commit to susWe oblige each and every employee – from our managers tainably reducing our energy consumption and increasing to our apprentices – to breathe life into resource conservaour energy efficiency in a continuous improvement protion and to spread the word. Only if our employees get cess. Specifically, we are aiming for a continual improveactively involved can we effectively implement and susment of energy efficiency by an average of 1.3 % per antainably underpin the goals we have set and the measures num for ista Germany and for ista International. we have planned. We describe how we see our company in our Environmental Guidelines, which formulate our MAKING PROGRESS COMPARABLE mission and set the framework for our actions. ista also continued to grow in 2016. This is reflected in particular in the higher number of employees (+5.7 %) and OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT larger building area used (+7 %). In order to permit a Environmental management at ista is organised Groupcomparison with 2015, we therefore record not only the wide. As a member of the Sustainability Steering Comabsolute consumption figures but also the figures related mittee and as Head of the Sustainability Council, the to building area or the number of employees (in FTE = fullCEO Thomas Zinnöcker at the sustainability environmental consultant is responsible for ecological time equivalent). Wherever possible – depending on the hero award ceremony issues. When implementing measures and projects in the landlord’s consent and the technical possibilities – we respective countries, the consultant is supported by the measure the consumption ourselves. Since the energy ISTA SEARCHES FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY local people responsible. Central recording of the important management system to ISO 50001 was introduced at ista in HERO key figures regarding energy, emissions, water and materiGermany, we have improved processes and since the “base als gives us internal transparency and targeted manageyear” 2015 have had a better data basis both for electricity It is often small things that together have a big ment. For example, we see that fuel consumption accounts consumption and for heating energy consumption. We effect. That is why ista launched the “Are you for the largest proportion of the energy we consume and have provided all consumption figures relating to the an ista sustainability hero?” competition in 2016. our greenhouse gas emissions. And we are continually environment together in the chapter Key figures. Our employees were called upon to enter the optimising the process for collecting key data. As a result, competition with projects demonstrating their in the reporting period we managed to once again considcommitment to environmental protection and erably reduce the proportion of consumption estimates, sustainability either in the company or in a volunwith regard to electricity consumption for example, from teering capacity, in addition to their daily work. www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 22 % to now only 9 %. The idea behind it was to find out more about the volunteering work of our employees and at Management certifications are an integral part of our qualthe same time to promote it. The winners were ity aspiration in the environmental field. Accordingly, we Johanna Rapp with her involvement in the have had our environmental management certified to ISO granting of microloans to women in Africa, the 14001 in Spain, England and Turkey. At the same time, we Madrid branch in Spain with various environmencomply with the statutory requirements of the European tal campaigns as well as the two “dual studies Energy Efficiency Directive with other certifications in students”, Vanessa Derksen and Julia Jasinski, some countries: in 2015 we conducted an energy audit in who conducted an actual-target analysis of France to DIN EN 16247-1, which is specially geared to the sustainability at the Bonn branch. optimisation of energy efficiency. This is also currently taking place in Poland. In Germany, we set up an energy management system to ISO 50001 in 2016 and acquired the ENVIRONMENT 29 – 22% heating energy per square metre – 10% average fleet vehicle fuel consumption per 100 km from 2013 2016 HEATING ENERGY Internationally, ista reduced its heating energy consumpBUSINESS TRIPS BY CAR, PLANE AND TRAIN tion per m2 from 85 kWh/m2 (0.30 GJ) to 66 kWh/m2 The fuel consumption of our vehicle fleet accounts for by (0.24 GJ) in comparison to the previous year. This was far the largest proportion of resources used. In the Group achieved above all thanks to the targeted efforts of certain as a whole, more kilometres were travelled by company car national organisations. In the Netherlands, for example, in the reporting period and consequently more fuel was they managed to cut consumption by 14 %. Using their used in absolute terms. However, average consumption per own specially developed “energy check tool” (called FUEL ECONOMY TRAINING 100 kilometres fell from 6.2 litres in 2015 to 5.87 litres in “Mijnketelhuis” in the Netherlands), they compare heating 2016. The data are based on the consumption actually In November 2016, we offered fuel economy requirements and consumption and can therefore heat measured and not on manufacturers’ figures. In Germany, training to our vehicle fleet drivers at head office. efficiently and in line with needs. We are also successfully new vehicles are selected in accordance with the ista In addition to the theoretical part, the course also offering this tool to our Dutch customers. company car regulations, in each case from a list of models included two driving sessions accompanied by a with lower CO2 emissions. From 2013 to 2016, average coach. The training is a good investment: if the –12.9% consumption therefore fell in Germany by 3 % and intercourse participants reduce their consumption by nationally by 10 %. 0.5 litres of diesel per 100 kilometres, the course pays for itself after 20,000 kilometres. Basically we try to reduce air travel, but in an international company it cannot be avoided. Our travel policy regulates electricity consumption per FTE when air travel makes sense and when alternatives such as rail travel should be used. In the past years, the number of www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 air kilometres travelled has continuously fallen. Compared ELECTRICITY with the 2015 reporting year, we cut air kilometres travelled Electricity consumption fell in the reporting period, in the entire ista Group by 11 %. In Germany, we managed both in absolute terms and per FTE: from 1,256 kWh/FTE to achieve a 25 % reduction in air kilometres compared (4.5 GJ) to 1,094 kWh/FTE (3.9 GJ). Electricity consumption with the previous year. One of the reasons for this is the patterns showed different trends at the individual branches. increased use of video conferences. Particularly in Germany, savings of 10 % to 24 % are seen, above all at the branches where they read their electricity consumption meters themselves every month or at least every quarter. So we also see in our own processes how effective regular consumption transparency is for our own behaviour. At rented premises where self-reading is not yet possible, we are trying to find solutions for the prompt installation of our metering devices. ENVIRONMENT 30 – 4.5% CO2 emissions per FTE – 15.5% water consumption per FTE SELECTED ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES AT OUR BRANCHES CO2 EMISSIONS WATER We record our greenhouse gas emissions in accordance As a service provider, we use water primarily for sanitary with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol in the categories Scope purposes and as drinking water. At all branches we obtain FRANCE 1, 2 and 3. We give information on the basis for the calculathe water we need from the local water utilities. Water CO2 compensation tions in the chapter About this report. The largest part of consumption per FTE and year fell from 5.92 m3 to 5 m3. our direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) is caused by our vehicle This figure contains the largest proportion of estimates, This year, our French headquarters in Massy and the fleet, followed by the combustion of fuel for heating. In which was, however, reduced from 60 % in 2015 to 40 % Île-de-France and Lille branches have starting feeding comparison to the previous year, the Scope 1 emissions innow. The estimates are necessary partly because some the equivalent of their energy consumption into the creased by 3 %, but relatively speaking, i.e. in relation to utilities bill after the reporting deadline and partly begrid as green electricity. the number of employees (FTE), they fell by 2 %. The incause non-consumption-based tariffs apply. crease in fuel consumption is due to the larger number of kilometres travelled on business. By contrast, we managed PAPER to reduce our indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2), resulting We mainly use paper as production and as printing and from electricity consumption and district heat, by 2.9 % copying paper. Our paper consumption increased in 2016 NETHERLANDS (per employee even by 8.1 %) compared with the previous compared with the previous year by 21.5 % in absolute Sustainable coffee time year. We also reduced our other indirect emissions (Scope terms. It was above all consumption of printing and copy3) from the use of rental and private cars, air and train traving paper and marketing materials that rose. By contrast, Two colleagues in the Netherlands had the idea of el as well as our paper consumption by 1.3 % (per employee consumption of production paper has fallen. Among other collecting organic waste, such as the daily coffee by 6.6 %) compared with 2015. In sum total, our CO2 emisthings, the rise is due to higher numbers of employees and grounds, separately and composting them. They also sions in Scope 1, 2 and 3 increased by 0.9 % in absolute customers. We managed to increase our proportion of reintroduced a green rubbish bin in which organic waste terms, but fell by 4.5 % per employee in comparison to the cycled material by two percentage points to 63 % in 2016. can be properly and sustainably disposed of. www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 previous year. ITALY Sustainable Christmas tree In Italy, the staff made a very special Christmas tree in 2016 out of waste materials such as used cardboard and old heat cost allocators. ENVIRONMENT 31 SLOVAKIA UAE GERMANY Energy saving and waste separation in the office Shared journeys Green classroom Our branch in Slovakia is reducing its energy In the United Arab Emirates, employees set up a ista is supporting an open-air learning room in consumption through many small things like car sharing initiative to travel to and from work the grounds of a primary school in Rostock with raised switching the light off or adjusting the room together and so save money and reduce the impact beds, an insect hotel and a circular area for theatre temperature. New coloured rubbish bins are also on the environment. performances. The aim is to raise children’s awareness raising the staff’s awareness for waste separation. of how to treat nature respectfully and encourage them to learn creatively. Energy training A staff training course on “the responsible use of THAILAND energy” was held at the Berlin branch. Employees are Eco-friendly waste disposal to identify where energy is being consumed SPAIN Collecting points for used batteries are not yet unnecessarily and use energy more responsibly. Eco-friendly vehicles widespread in Thailand. So ista employees set up their Our Spanish colleagues increased their vehicle fleet own collecting point which makes sure batteries are by three new hybrid vehicles at the end of 2016 and by disposed of in an environmentally friendly way. another four at the start of 2017. For 2017 they are also planning to replace 30 diesel and petrol vehicles by alternative vehicles (gas, hybrid, electric). In this way they are trying to reduce their future CO2 emissions. www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 ROMANIA & ISS ROMANIA Green engagement In Romania, ista employees and other volunteers planted 500 willows as part of a national project and so made a contribution to the goal of planting one million trees throughout the country. On top of that, colleagues from our service centre in Romania took part in the litter-clearing campaign “Let’s do it Romania” and, together with 200,000 other volunteers, removed rubbish and litter from a wood near Bucharest. 32 Individual development – EMPLOYEES joint success Each one of our employees is an ambassador for greater sustainability. That is why we want to ENJOYING WORK PAGE 35 recruit the best employees, get them enthusiastic and equip them with the skills to cope with INTERNATIONAL the change necessary for a susTRAINING PROGRAMMES FOR MANAGERS tainable future. The individual PAGE 33 development of our employees www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 AC TIVE HE ALTH leads to joint success. PROMOTION PAGE 37 EMPLOYEES 33 5,816 STAFF ADVANCEMENT INTERNATIONAL SKILLS DEVELOPMENT We attribute our success as a company above all to our In France, an “ista Campus” has been pooling all training employees. It is their motivation and commitment day requirements for technical and industrial employees since in, day out to which to we owe our ability to continually 2016. Training courses on improved team communication, improve and achieve our goals. Their targeted training and shared values and teamwork were held in several countries. total employees in 2016 + 328 127 development is crucial for our own advancement. In 2016, every ista employee took part in training for an average A common language is essential for collaboration at interof 31 hours, which is a slight increase on 2015 (28 hours). national level. To ensure this, we have been offering our employees in Germany classroom-based English courses OUR YOUNG TALENTS: INVESTING IN THE FUTURE for many years. At the beginning of 2017, we also introincrease compared with 2015 apprentices 8.4 Investing in vocational training is very important to us duced virtual English courses so the English training can as it means investment in tomorrow’s skilled workers. To be tailored even better to our employees’ individual needs. guarantee high-quality vocational training throughout Therefore, the employees can choose their language course the company, we further harmonised our apprenticeship and their training times themselves and gear both to their standards in the ista Group in the reporting period. In personal role at ista. Germany, we implemented a new appraisal procedure for average number of years of service apprentices. All instructors and apprentice supervisors were trained for this in order to ensure consistent application of the procedure. In addition, we launched the “Learning Goal Catalogue” project. In this project we are standardising the company’s training programmes to ensure that the quality of ista’s various apprenticeships is the same throughout Germany. OUR INTERNATIONAL TRAINING PROGRAMMES FOR MANAGERS Alongside vocational training, we rely on the targeted advancement of young people in order to identify and recruit LEADership Training Odyssey Training www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 talent for ista. For example, we offer foreign students placeOur internal LEADership Training programme is The Odyssey Training programme for all managers ments at our company and support programmes such as targeted at international managers below the is an integral component of our HR development the “Ruhr-Fellowship” programme of Initiativkreis Ruhr, Country Managers, for example operations managmeasures. In this three-day seminar, every particiwhich awards scholarships to support interested students. ers, sales managers, project managers and employpant has the opportunity to reflect on their personalAs a result, last year ista managed to recruit a particularly ees who are about to take on their first managerial ity in the context of leadership so as to improve their well-qualified exchange student for a permanent role. They can register for the programme either own leadership qualities. True to the motto “Lead position in the Electronic Development department. by expressing an interest themselves or by being yourself before you lead others”, the training course nominated by their supervisor. The programme is based on the fundamental idea that knowing provides theoretical and practical training in yourself better enables you to have a more open leadership and offers an opportunity to exchange approach to others. Employees can either express views with other ista colleagues. an interest in this seminar themselves or can be nominated by their supervisor. EMPLOYEES 34 For our Polish colleagues from the Service Centre in Poland, it is essential to not only speak English but also German so they can communicate with customers and colleagues from Germany. So iSS Poland offers all new employees a free German course. An employee with teacher training set up this course at the Service Centre and she has been in charge of giving these CFO ista Germany, Dieter language lessons ever since. In recognition of her Hackenberg, accepts the achievement, she received the internal “istaR Award” Absolventa award together in the category “for iSS”. with colleagues from Corporate HR and the ista Alongside the international management training trainees. programmes, we also offer the JUMP programme at international level. This development programme is tailored to the identification and qualification of staff with high potential for general management positions. Employees with development potential and a desire to have a career in international management are nominated by their supervisors. The aspiring managers take part in special The happy employees and winners of the istaR Award in Poland. training courses to expand their professional and general skills. The programme lasts 18 to 24 months and consists of training, coaching, networking events and developOPEN-MINDED TO CRITICISM ment advice. ABSOLVENTA CONFERS AN AWARD ON THE Only if we receive open and honest feedback from our ISTA TRAINEE PROGRAMME employees can we identify optimisation potential and develop further. Every two years, we give them the ista has already had a trainee programme since opportunity to anonymously assess our leadership culture, 2010. Now it has received an award from the job cooperation and work organisation. In 2014, 80 % of the portal Absolventa. This award is given to fair www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 employees in the entire ista Group took part. In 2016, the and career-advancing training programmes. It staff survey could not be conducted but the 2017 one is aims to reward employers who offer young talents about to be launched. first-class conditions, including assigning them responsible and varied tasks, fair pay, the opporThe results of the survey are included in management tunity of a long-term job as well as an evaluation considerations. For example, our field service workers critiof the programme by external experts. 15 graducised the fact that their jobs made it difficult for them to ates have now started their careers at ista in the rest and recuperate. This has prompted us to introduce Sales, Operations and Finance departments. mindfulness training in the Sales department: in a multistep module, the employees have the opportunity to identify their personal stress factors and develop calmness and composure goals. These goals are explored in greater depth during the training and supplemented by relaxation EMPLOYEES 35 methods so they can be transferred to the individual’s ENJOYING WORK workplace in the last step – for example, during breaks Last year in a survey conducted by meilleures-entreprises. while vehicles are being refuelled at a petrol station or com in cooperation with the French magazine “Les Echos”, before an appointment with a customer. In telephone young employees in France were asked questions on such practice units, external coaches help the employees to subjects as career development, demands imposed by their internalise these break rituals. work and work environment, motivation, appreciation of their work and enjoyment of their work. ista got more than A direct and open exchange of views in the annual staff 3.5 out of 5 stars in all categories. We are particularly appraisal interviews and target agreement talks is equally pleased about the answers in the section on “enjoying important to us. As part of our corporate development programme, we decided in 2016 to separate the results of work”. Here, ista received 4.4 out of 5 possible stars. The results led to the “Happy at Work for Starters” award and We want to offer our customers these talks from staff bonus payments. Employees can develop more freely and unleash their creativity and entreshow how satisfied young people are at ista in France. It was not just France who was able to stand out in this good solutions with our products preneurial spirit if they are freed from the thought of money. At the same time, by linking bonus payments to respect: our international TOP Employer awards in Germany, Austria and Switzerland as well as in Romania, and services – to do this, we need the company’s results, we promote work on a common agenda and make the calculation of bonuses more transFrance and Poland show that our HR management can measure itself against the highest standards and hold its highly engaged and qualified emparent. own against global competition. ployees. With our vocational and further training measures, we promote the skills and knowledge of our employees and help them Some of our ista companies again received awards for 2017 as to develop their potential. www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 82% TOP Employer Europe and TOP Employer Deutschland. JANA EGGERDING Part and parcel of our open way of doing business is that Senior Vice President Corporate Human Resources our employees can form trade unions, join them or conduct collective bargaining negotiations. The interests of our employees are represented by works councils in many countries. In Germany, each branch has its own works of the employees have a council. In the Netherlands, a new works council was permanent position elected in the 2016 reporting period and managers were trained on how to work with its members. However, the co-determination rights of the works councils and their structure vary greatly from country to country. EMPLOYEES 36 G4-26 BALANCING PRIVATE LIFE AND A CAREER There are also many offerings in other countries. In IN CLOSE DIALOGUE We offer all employees programmes and measures to proFrance, for example, social workers are an integral part ista fosters an open feedback culture and promotes it using mote a good work-life balance. These include a fathers’ netof the HR team. In Poland, employees’ children get a fun various dialogue formats: alongside the staff meetings, the work to familiarise our male employees with the opportuopportunity to see what their mum or dad does at work so-called inside talks, which have been a regular occurrence nities to take parental leave. The nationwide campaign on the newly introduced “Mum-and-Dad-at-Work Day”. for many years now, digital and analogue formats have launched by the German Ministry of Family Affairs helps iSS Romania attaches particularly great importance to been introduced in particular to encourage direct contact by organising events and seminars for fathers but also working together in a spirit of partnership. In addition to with the Management Board. The employees can use a mothers so as to enable parents to exchange information a monthly cinema evening in the meeting room, they question box on the Intranet to contact the CEO Thomas and views on reconciling work and family life. In addiorganise a 30-minute meeting with the entire, steadily Zinnöcker and ask him questions on their minds – also tion, we offer our employees a nationwide ista family sergrowing workforce so everybody can get to know each anonymously if they do not want to reveal their name. The vice where they can obtain information from an external other and share views in a creative way. answers to these questions are published on the Intranet provider about child day-care places, school-holiday care for all employees to see. Dialogue is even more direct with and nursing care for close relatives. the newly introduced format of the live chat: at a certain time and date announced in advance in the in-house newsWe also offer various working time models at our branches letter, employees can use the chat on the Intranet to put questions on relevant subjects directly to the Management to enable a good balance between work and private life. For example, nearly all branches have the flexitime system I believe that further training Board and receive a reply just a few seconds later. and in many departments employees have the opportunity to work part-time, have a home office or have trust-based opportunities are crucial – on Furthermore, two new personal dialogue formats, 9@9 and Coffee2Go, are available for our employees at head working hours. Our experience has shown that giving employees more freedom to manage their time leads them the one hand, for my personal office: every month at nine o’clock, 9@9 gives eight employees the chance to have breakfast with one of our manto work more efficiently and also promotes a working atmosphere characterised by a spirit of partnership. development but, on the other aging directors and discuss issues of current interest. The Coffee2Go format promotes personal discussions between hand, also to enable me to keep 49% one employee and Thomas Zinnöcker. The employee’s personal concerns can be discussed over a cup of coffee doing a good job, continue learnwww.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 at the nearest bakery or in the head office cafeteria. ing and stay up to date. ista ofEQUAL OPPORTUNITIES All employees can only develop their full potential in a of the employees are female fers numerous opportunities and non-discriminatory working environment characterised by fairness. This includes filling positions with a balanced also supports staff who organise 34% number of men and women and specifically increasing the proportion of women in first and second-level managetheir own further training. ment positions in the next few years. In 2016, nearly one EMPLOYEE employee in two or 49 % was female while 34 % of our from anonymous stakeholder survey managerial posts were held by women. of the managerial positions are held by women EMPLOYEES 37 FAIR PAY ACTIVE HEALTH PROMOTION At ista, we take the principle of equal pay for equal work However, it is not only fair pay that is part of our HR manvery seriously. We determine pay equity on the basis of the agement and important to our employees but also workspecific demands of a particular job. This leads to gradaplace health. For only healthy employees are motivated tions to which we assign a salary band or a collectively neemployees. In 2016, our employees were absent for 7.6 days gotiated pay group. The overarching goal is that the pay on average; in 2010, the figure was still 8.4 days on average. principles are based on the demands of the job and not on Therefore, the sickness rate fell slightly to 3.4 % compared individual agreements. In order to ensure we keep to this with the previous year (3.5 %). In the reporting period, goal in the long term, we use statistical procedures to reguthere were 16 workplace accidents in Germany. larly check whether groups of employees are being paid differently in relation to other employees because of their We try to actively prevent physical and mental health gender or part-time working rules. problems caused by one-sided strain on the body from an office job or stress from excessive work demands. In 2016, we organised health days at head office and at the branches in Dresden, Kassel and Münster on the focal Every year, over 1,000 colleagues come together topic “Workplace Ergonomics”. Free eye examinations for the ista soccer cup to promote community and flu vaccinations were also part of the health agenda. spirit, health, exercise and enjoyment. In addition, our employees could take part in seminars on relaxation in the workplace while our managers could winning the ista sustainability competition, the attend seminars to familiarise themselves with the subject employees of ista Metering Services España are receiving of “Healthy Leadership”. fruit every week for a year. This prize is designed to raise awareness of the subject of healthy eating. Healthy eating At various branches, employees receive health-promoting is already being deliberately encouraged at many of our Statistically speaking, no pay discrimination on massages if they need them massages which we somebranches in Germany and worldwide. Free fresh fruit is the basis of gender was found at head office in times also subsidise. We also offer a 50 % subsidy on memsupplied in Hanover, Potsdam, Kassel, Karlsruhe and Essen. Male and female employees with employberships of selected gyms. The cooperation agreements Stuttgart as well as in our international locations such as ment contracts not subject to collectively negotiwww.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 also apply to the employees’ partners or spouses. In addiBelgium and Romania. ated pay scales are on a par with each other. The tion, the employees can also obtain external advice on much smaller proportion of employment conphysical or mental health issues or take part in stress mantracts subject to collectively negotiated pay agement training and company runs. The measures are scales showed a difference of just under three heavily geared to the requirements and interests at the parpercentage points but this can be explained by ticular location. While the focus in Denmark continues to the fact that the female employees are, on averbe on healthy eating in the canteen, in Italy weekly yoga age, three years younger and therefore have less courses were held last year. Furthermore, employees at work experience. some locations took part in courses on stress management and the understanding of emotional intelligence. After 38 Energy efficiency – DIALOGUE a social duty As a company that acts responsibly and sustainably, we do not ISTA SCHO OL S IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY just restrict our contribution to PAGE 39 the energy transition to our products and services. We would also like to actively help make society more conscious of energy CLIM ATEefficiency. We do this in our NEUTRAL LIVING PAGE 41 sustainability projects, memberwww.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 PARTNERSHIPS ships and in the close dialogue AND INITIATIVES PAGE 40 we maintain with customers, politicians and associations. DIALOGUE 39 The ink is dry: Lord Mayor of the city of Essen, Thomas Kufen, (left) and ista CEO Thomas Zinnöcker (right) show the signed sponsoring agreement for the “European Green Capital – Essen 2017” project. ISTA SCHOOLS IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY With the “ista schools in energy efficiency” initiative, we raise pupils’ awareness of the energy transition. We have been involved at five selected schools in Essen since the end of 2016, equipping them with the latest metering technology, visualising and making their consumption data accessible to the pupils. We are also developing a teaching concept together with the teachers and climate Saving energy is important and protection managers from the city of Essen. The aim is for pupils to learn in various teaching units how energy confun. That’s exactly what we sumption in the school can be improved through simple action. ista employees can actively participate in this prowant to teach the pupils in our ject as volunteers, helping decide on lesson content and project “ista schools in energy www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 teaching it in workshops or school projects. As one of the main sponsors of the “European Green Capital – Essen 2017”, we are making a contribution at local level to greatefficiency”. For one thing is certain: er environmental and climate protection with this project. people have to learn energy efficiency and there’s no better place for that than school. KATHARINA KEMLER Girls' Day at the Borbeck Girls Grammar School in Essen: as part of Project Manager of “ista schools in energy efficiency”, ista schools in energy efficiency ista employees teach sixth-form Corporate Communications & Public Affairs girls to be energy detectives. DIALOGUE 40 PARTNERSHIPS AND INITIATIVES ACTIVE IN EUROPE benefits of submetering. Therefore, we also support In addition to our new contacts at educational institutions At European level, we have been an active member of the Europe-wide industry associations, for example ANCCA and our cooperation with the Climate Agency in Essen, we European Parliamentary Network on Energy Solutions (Associazione Nazionale Contabilizzazione del Calore e are an active member of numerous associations and initiasince 2017. Together with EU parliamentarians and other dell’Acqua) in Italy, or AERCCA (Asociación Española de tives. Together with other members, we champion greater companies, we are working on a holistic approach for the Repartidadores de Costes de Calefacción) in Spain, which energy efficiency or initiate projects, workshops and netsuccessful implementation of the European Energy Union. explain the advantages of submetering and the effect on working meetings that help solve social problems. We would like to support approaches that promote an environmental and climate protection to consumers. ista efficient and climate-neutral energy policy across national Hungary has also launched an education campaign in LIST OF KEY MEMBERSHIPS borders. collaboration with Matászsz – a Hungarian association of • B  undesdeutscher Arbeitskreis für Umweltbewusstes district heating utilities. They have set up a website where Management e. V. (B.A.U.M. – German Environmental As a result of the implementation of the submetering consumers can obtain information on the advantages of Management Association) requirements of the European Energy Efficiency Directive consumption-dependent billing, heat cost allocators, heat • Bundesverband der Deutschen Industrie e. V. (BDI – (EED), ista is now more active in some European counmeters and their billing. Federation of German Industries) tries. However, some tenants are not fully aware of the • Deutsche Unternehmensinitiative Energieeffizienz e. V. (DENEFF – German Industry Initiative for Energy Efficiency) • A rbeitsgemeinschaft Heiz& Wasserkostenverteilung e. V. (ARGE – Trade Association of Heating and Water Cost Allocators) Constructive dialogue at EU level: ista has been a member of the • Initiative Corporate Governance der deutschen European Parliamentary Network on Energy Solutions since the beginning of 2017. Immobilienwirtschaft (ICG – Corporate Governance Initiative of the German Real Estate Industry) • Initiativkreis Ruhr www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 • U PJ e. V. (German Network of Engaged Companies and Non-profit Intermediary Organisations) • U N Global Compact • Zentraler Immobilien Ausschuss (ZIA – German Real Estate Trade Association) As an expert for greater energy efficiency in buildings, we also see ourselves as a trustworthy partner of politicians. We are committed to transparent and constructive dialogue with all democratic parties. Our political activities are subject to the strictest transparency and compliance rules. ista supports the “transparent politician” project and is entered in the transparency register of the European Commission. DIALOGUE 41 10 % ENERGY SAVING THANKS TO INCREASED HEATING COST TRANSPARENCY CLIMATE-NEUTRAL LIVING Together with the German Energy Agency (dena), ista has been a member of the “Allianz für einen klimathe German Tenants’ Association and the Federal neutralen Wohngebäudebestand” (Alliance for CliMinistry for Environment, Nature Conservation, mate-neutral Housing) since 2016. This is an alliance of Building and Nuclear Safety (BMUB), ista conthe housing industry, industrial companies, associations ducted the pilot project “Saving Money through and research facilities and is helping to achieve the GerClever Heating” with three customers. The aim man government’s goals set in its climate protection plan was to find out whether tenants save more ener2050 by offering solutions for climate-neutral housing by gy if they are informed more frequently about 2050. The alliance advocates a mixture of measures which Handover of the final report on the pilot project conducted by dena, their heat consumption. For a period of three is open to different technologies without ranking them. the German Tenants' Association, the Federal Ministry for Environment and years, some 200 households in Berlin, Munich This mix comprises: ista – (from left) Ulrich Ropertz (German Tenants' Association), Jochen Flasbarth and Essen received monthly information about • technical measures to improve heat generation efficiency (BMUB), Andreas Kuhlmann (dena) and Thomas Zinnöcker (ista) their heat consumption via web portal, app or by and heat distribution and enable more energy-conscious post. The result: the participating households consumption and ventilation behaviour used on average ten per cent less energy than a • modern heating systems reference group that only received an annual • improvements to the structural shell of buildings heating cost bill. Savings of 3 % and more already www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 meant a bottom-line gain for the tenants. Greater consumption transparency therefore pays off simply and effectively for everyone: tenants have more money in their pockets, landlords have a better product and the climate is protected as CO2 emissions are cut. Overall, 90 % of the Continual dialogue with politicians and tenants surveyed said they could basically recommend use of energy data management other stakeholders is becoming increasingly to acquaintances, friends and colleagues. important for a successful energy transition. EMPLOYEE during the online stakeholder survey KEY FIGURES 42 KEY FIGURES FINANCES EMPLOYEES SIZE OF THE ORGANISATION SICKNESS RATE BY REGION 2016 2015 2016 2015 Employees 1 5,710 5,397 ista Group 3.4 % 3.5 % of whom full-time employees 5,397 5,114 ista International 3.5 % 3.6 % (full-time equivalent) Central Europe (excl. D) 2.5 % 2.5 % Branches 50 in 24 countries 48 in 24 countries West, East and South Europe (excl. F) 1.6 % 1.5 % Sales € 850.4 m € 810.4 m North Europe 2.2 % 3.5 % Total capitalisation € 4,211 m € 4,228 m Emerging Markets 0.7 % 0.7 % of which liabilities € 3,959 m € 3,973 m ista Germany 4.9 % 4.6 % of which equity € 251 m € 255 ista France 4.4 % 5.2 % Product and service groups2 45 45 ista Shared Services (Poland & Romania) 3.7 % 3.9 % Total investment (CAPEX) € 134.3 m € 132.5 m Acquisitions and sales • Acquisition of ista Varmemålerservice AS, in 2016 Bergen, Norway TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT • Acquisition of S.L.E.C. S.à r.l, Courbevoie, AND TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 France • Acquisition of BGS Betriebskosten Geräte 2016 2015 Software GmbH, Leipzig, Germany Total number of employees 1 5,816 5,488 • Discontinuation of operating activities of of whom with permanent employment 4,669 4,324 ista Brasil Servicos de Energia Ltda., Sao contracts 2 Paulo, Brazil • Incorporation of istaDES B.V., Schiedam, of whom with fixed-term contracts 1,020 1,024 the Netherlands of whom full-time employees 5,225 4,867 • Furthermore, business activities in Spain of whom part-time employees 463 481 were acquired of whom apprentices 127 140 1 You will find an explanation of the different total employee figures in the chapter About this report. 2 W  orldwide ista has 45 product/service groups such as water or heat meters which, in Germany alone, are offered to 1 You will find an explanation of the different total employee figures in the chapter About this report. customers as 1,500 individual articles. 2 excl. apprentices KEY FIGURES 43 AGE STRUCTURE OF THE WORKFORCE 1 TURNOVER BY REASON FOR EMPLOYMENT TERMINATION AND RECRUITMENT RATE 2016 2015 2016 2015 Under 26 480 490 Termination by employee 372 320 26 – 35 1,980 1,845 Termination by ista 232 304 36 – 50 2,182 2,042 End of fixed-term contract, retirement, 239 270 Over 50 1,047 971 seasonal termination or similar 1 excl. apprentices Total turnover 843 894 New recruits 1,118 1,082 WORKFORCE BY REGION AND GENDER1 Rate (in %) 1 15.6 % 17.3 % 1 total number of departures (divided by total workforce minus total number of new recruits plus total number of departures) 2016 2015 Female Male Total Female Male Total PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES COVERED BY COLLECTIVE Central Europe (excl. D) 87 117 204 85 110 195 BARGAINING AGREEMENTS ista Germany 737 673 1,410 739 663 1,402 ista France 239 432 671 214 424 638 2016 2015 North Europe 116 140 256 111 126 237 France 100 % 100 % West, East, South 439 885 1,324 411 811 1,222 Spain 85 % 83 % Europe (excl. F) Germany 100 % 100 % Emerging Markets 50 101 151 64 129 193 Denmark 70 % 70 % ista International 117 271 388 125 264 389 Belgium 40 % 39 % ista Shared Services 994 291 1,285 829 243 1,072 Italy 100 % 100 % 1 excl. apprentices Netherlands 100 % 100 % www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 KEY FIGURES 44 ENVIRONMENT CONSUMPTION OF ELECTRICITY AND HEAT WITHIN ENERGY INTENSITY THE ORGANISATION 2016 2015 2016 2015 Energy consumption (electricity, heating & 28 GJ 29 GJ Electricity consumption 20,877 GJ 22,659 GJ fuel) per FTE Total heating energy 22,733 GJ 23,185 GJ 1 of which heating oil – 126 GJ of which gas 13,513 GJ 13,194 GJ 1 TOTAL DIRECT AND INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS of which district heat 9,220 GJ 9,865 GJ in tonnes of CO2 equivalent 2016 2015 1 figure adjusted in the light of data now available Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) due to consumption of gas and heating oil 826 818 due to the company vehicle fleet 8,236 7,960 ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF VEHICLES WITHIN THE ORGANISATION Indirect energy-related greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) Energy consumption 2016 2015 due to electricity consumption 2,312 2,350 due to district heat and cooling 756 808 Litres GigaPer cent Litres GigaPer cent joules (of GJ) joules (of GJ) Further indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) Fuel 2,625,302 94,023 – 2,537,824 90,878 – due to rental cars 816 564 company fleet due to private vehicles 290 361 of which diesel 2,458,945 88,433 94 2,371,942 85,304 94 due to air travel 2,109 2,434 of which petrol 166,358 5,590 6 165,882 5,574 6 due to train travel 8 9 Fuel 260,877 9,322 181,863 6,455 – due to paper consumption 521 425 rented vehicles www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 of which diesel 235,547 8,471 91 145,810 5,244 81 of which petrol 25,330 851 9 36,053 1,211 19 Fuel 93,566 3,317 – 117,447 4,146 – DEVELOPMENT OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (absolute changes compared with the previous year) private vehicles of which diesel 73,432 2,641 80 84,582 3,042 73 in tonnes of CO2 equivalent 2016 of which petrol 20,134 677 20 32,864 1,104 27 Heating energy: reduced 44 Vehicle fleet: increased 276 Electricity: reduced 38 Transport: reduced 145 Paper consumption: increased 96 Total: increased 145 KEY FIGURES 45 PAPER USED BY WEIGHT – PERCENTAGE OF MATERIALS USED THAT ARE RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS Paper consumption 2016 2015 Kilograms Per cent Kilograms Per cent (total) (total) Total 535,221 – 440,640 – Printing and copying 130,488 – 97,995 – paper of which recycled 47,660 37 24,483 25 Production paper 260,991 – 263,404 – of which recycled 199,402 76 196,118 74 Share of recycled paper 63 220,601 61 in printing and copying paper and production paper Notepads 6,311 – 3,965 – of which recycled 5 0 2 0 Envelopes 36,076 – 33,150 – of which recycled 22,063 61 21,170 64 Marketing materials 101,355 – 42,125 – of which recycled 5 0 12 0 Total recycled paper 269,136 50 241,785 55 TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 2016 2015 Quantity of water withdrawn 26,620 m3 29,767 m3 1 1 figure adjusted in the light of data now available GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX 46 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX The ista Sustainability Report 2016 has been prepared in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and satisfies the in-accordance core option. The currently valid G4 guidelines have been applied. GRI indicator Page External assurance UNGC GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement by the most senior decision-maker 4 No 1 – 10 Organisational Profile G4-3 Name of the organisation ista International GmbH No G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 5, 6, 21, 22 No G4-5 Location of the organisation's headquarters Essen, Germany No G4-6 Countries where the organisation has significant operations 6 No G4-7 Nature of legal form and ownership 7 No G4-8 Markets served 6, 7 No G4-9 Scale of the organisation 7, 42 No G4-10 Employees by employment contract, gender and region 7, 42, 43 No 6 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 35, 43 No 1, 3 G4-12 Description of the organisation's supply chain 14, 15 No www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 42 No G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary principle 4, 24, 28 No 7 G4-15 Support of external initiatives 9, 12, 15, 19, 20 No 1 – 10 G4-16 Memberships of associations and advocacy organisations 40, 41 No Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List of all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements 2, 7 No G4-18 Process for defining the report content 2, 9, 11, 16, 17 No G4-19 All material aspects 18 No G4-20 Material aspects within the organisation 18 No G4-21 Material aspects outside the organisation 18 No G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports 2 No G4-23 Significant changes in the scope and aspect boundaries 16, 18 No GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX 47 GRI indicator Page External assurance UNGC Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 16 No 1 – 10 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 16 No G4-26 Organisation's approach to stakeholder engagement including frequency of 2, 9, 16, 36 No engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns of the stakeholders and the organisation's response 9, 17 No 1 – 10 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period 2 No G4-29 Date of most recent previous report June 2016 No G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual No G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report 50 No G4-32 The “in-accordance” option and the index selected 2, 46 – 49 No G4-33 External assurance of the report 2 – Governance G4-34 Governance structure including committees of the highest governance body 7 No 1 – 10 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Values, principles and norms of behaviour 12 No 1 – 10 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Economic Aspect: Economic performance – Management approach 8 – 10 No G4-EC-2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change 8, 9 No quantification of the financial implications No 7 of climate change and the handling of opportunities or risks. Environmental Aspect: Materials – Management approach 27, 28 No 7, 8 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 30, 45 Quantities of materials refer to office sites. Yes, for paper consumption 7, 8 www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 Here, paper is the most important input material. Link G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 45 For paper Yes, for paper consumption 7, 8 Link Aspect: Energy – Management approach 27, 28, 31 No 7, 8 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 29, 43 Yes, for electricity, heat and 7, 8 vehicles Link G4-EN5 Energy intensity 28, 29, 44 Yes Link 8 Aspect: Water – Management approach 27, 28 No 7, 8 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 45 Not by source Yes Link 7, 8 Aspect: Emissions – Management approach 27, 28, 30 No 7, 8 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 2, 30, 44 Biogenic emissions are not material Yes, for gas, fuel oil and 7, 8 for ista. company car fleet Link GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX 48 GRI indicator Page External assurance UNGC G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 2, 30, 44 Yes, for electricity consump7, 8 tion, district heat and cooling Link G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 2, 30, 44 Biogenic emissions are not material Yes, for rental cars, private 7, 8 for ista. vehicles, air and train travel and paper consumption Link G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 30, 44 No 8 Aspect: Products and services – Management approach 20 – 25, 39, 41 No 7–9 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 22 – 24, 39, 41 No 7–9 No quantification of action Aspect: Compliance management approach 12, 13 No G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with None No environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Transport – Management approach 10, 27, 28, 29, 31 No 8 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products 29 No 8 Aspect: Supplier environmental assessment – Management approach 15 No G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 15 No indication of percentage No Labour Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment – Management approach 32 No 6 G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover 43 No breakdown of new employee hires and emNo 6 ployee turnover by age group, gender and region Aspect: Training and education – Management approach 32, 33 No G4-LA9 Average number of hours of training 33 No breakdown by gender and employee category No G4-LA10 Programmes that support the continued employability of employees 33, 34 ista offers no transition assistance No programmes. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 35 Percentage was not recorded No Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity – Management approach 36 No 6 www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees according to 7, 36, 42 No breakdown by age groups of manageNo 6 indicators of diversity ment and minorities; no indication of percentage Aspect: Equal remuneration for women and men – Management approach 37 No 1, 6 G4-LA13 Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men 37 No 1, 6 Aspect: Supplier assessment for labour practices 15 No G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices – Management approach 15 No Human Rights Aspect: Non-discrimination – Management approach 36 No 1, 2, 6 G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective action taken No known incidents No 1, 2, 6 Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining – Management approach 15, 35 No 1–3 G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be 15, 35 No 1–3 violated or at significant risk and measures taken to support these rights GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX 49 GRI indicator Page External assurance UNGC Aspect: Child labour – Management approach 12, 15 No 1, 2, 4 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour and measures taken 15 No operations have significant risk No 1, 2, 4 Aspect: Forced or compulsory labour – Management approach 12, 15 No 1, 2, 5 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour and 15 No operations have significant risk No 1, 2 ,5 measures taken Aspect: Supplier human rights assessment – Management approach 15 No G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 15 No Society Aspect: Anti-corruption – Management approach 12, 13 No 10 G4-SO3 Percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified 12, 13 No indication of percentage No G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 12, 13 No indication of percentage; no further No 10 breakdown by region, type of business partner, governance body members and employee category G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No confirmed incidents of corruption No Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour – Management approach 12, 13 No G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices 14 No Aspect: Compliance – Management approach 12 No G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws No significant fines No and regulations Aspect: Supplier assessment for impacts on society – Management approach 15 No G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 15 No Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer health and safety – Management approach 24 No G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of No incidents of non-compliance No products and services Aspect: Product and service labelling – Management approach 25 No G4-PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning No incidents of non-compliance No www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 product and service information and labelling G4-PR5 Results of customer satisfaction surveys 25 No Aspect: Protection of customer privacy – Management approach 25 No G4-PR8 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy No complaints No Aspect: Compliance – Management approach 12 No G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and No significant fines No use of products and services ista-specific aspects Aspect: Research and development – Management approach 8, 9, 23 No Aspect: Pricing policy – Management approach 14 No Aspect: Creating awareness – Management approach 8, 20, 39 No Aspect: Smart living – Management approach 9, 20, 22 No IMRINT 50 RESPONSIBLE Dr Mirko-Alexander Kahre Tel. +49 (0) 201 459-3281 Mirko-Alexander.Kahre@ista.com CONTACT Maike Böcker Tel. +49 201 459-5668 Maike.Boecker@ista.com IMPRINT Published by ista International GmbH Grugaplatz 2, 45131 Essen Tel. +49 201 459-7160 sustainability@ista.com www.ista.de Editorial team Maike Böcker, Janna Carina Bülhoff akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh, Munich Design loveto GmbH, www.inside.ista.com Sustainability Report 2016 Agentur für Markenentwicklung und Design, Berlin Photography Mike Henning Photo credits P. 3 unsplash.com/Chang Qing; P. 18 shutterstock.com/MstudioG; S. 34 Łukasz Grygierczyk; P. 40 Energy Solutions; P. 41 dena/Akhtar; ista International GmbH
