SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Bank Profile The China Development Bank (CDB or the Bank), established in 1994, is a ● National strategies including those in science and technology, culture, and state-funded and state-owned development finance institution (DFI) operating people-to-people exchange; as an independent legal entity under the direct leadership of the State Council. ● International cooperation, including the Belt and Road Initiative, industrial The Bank is dedicated to supporting China’s economic development in key capacity and equipment manufacturing projects, infrastructure connectivity, industries and underdeveloped sectors. energy and resources, and Chinese enterprises “Going Global”; Committed to strengthening national competitiveness and improving people’s livelihood, the Bank aligns its business focus with China’s major mediumand ● Initiatives that support China’s development needs and economic and long-term economic development strategies by leveraging its unrivalled position financial reforms; as a leading bank for mediumand long-term financing and comprehensive ● Other areas as mandated by and aligned with national development financial services, so as to raise and channel economic resources in support of strategies and policies. the following areas: CDB strives to become a world-class DFI and provide sustained support for ● Economic and social development, including infrastructure, basic industries, China’s economic and social development. To this end, it pursues reform and pillar industries, public services and management; innovation and taps into its strengths as a DFI that supports national strategies, ● New urbanization, urban-rural integration, and balanced regional operates on market principles with the backing of sovereign credit, and ensures development; principal safety and modest profitability. CDB never ceases to enhance its own competitiveness, relevance and presence, as well as risk resilience. ● Programs vital for national competitiveness, including energy conservation, environmental protection, high-end manufacturing, and the transformation and upgrading of traditional industries; ● Public welfare, including affordable housing, poverty alleviation, student loans, and inclusive finance; Contents 17 / Poverty Alleviation 19 Clear Roadmap 20 Enhanced Support 21 Concrete Actions 04 / Chairman’s Review 06 / President’s Report 29 / Economic Prosperity 30 Infrastructure Development 08 / Feature Story: Delivery of the Three36 Industrial Transformation and Upgrade Step Reform Strategy 39 The Belt and Road Initiative 10 / Feature Story: Ten Years of Pursuit 43 / Social Equitability of Innovation and Responsibility 44 Urban Renewal 46 Balanced Regional Development 12 / Sustainable Development Strategy 49 Disaster Aid and Relief 13 / Sustainable Corporate Governance 51 / Ecological Sustainability 52 Staying Green 16 / Sustainable Development Activities 53 Green Finance System 57 Green Office Solutions 70 / Looking Forward 59 / Partnerships 71 / Appendices 60 Client Services 62 Staff Development 66 Social Harmony 4 Chairman’s Review In 2016, CDB made new contributions to China’s sustainable development and CDB, including Leading Enterprise in Achieving Sustainable Development secured a solid beginning for the 13th Five-Year Plan Period, as it continued Goals from the United Nations Global Compact Network China, 2016 Special to pursue a proactive yet prudent approach, reinvent itself through reform and Contribution Award for Corporate Social Responsibility from xinhuanet.com, innovation, and focus on supporting the state’s supply-side structural reform. Distinguished Financial Institution in Contributing to Poverty Alleviation in In November 2016, the Bank’s Articles of Association was approved by the China, and Bank of the Year for Best Contribution to the Supply-Side Structural State Council, marking the successful achievement of the Three-Step Reform Reform, among others. Strategy and serving as an enduring driving force to enable CDB to better Standing at a new starting point of reform and development, CDB, a mandated support China’s strategies and sustainable development. 2016 was also the DFI, faces new challenges and tasks in supporting China’s sustainable 10th year since CDB joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) development. China pays increasingly greater attention to environmental and institutionalized sustainability with right policies and processes in place. protection and takes proactive measures to address climate changes while The past ten years have witnessed CDB’s remarkable efforts in applying its advancing its economic and social development, particularly following development finance strength to its social mandate of pursuing sustainable the coming into effect of the United Nation’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable development goals. Development and the Paris Agreement. President Xi declared that China is Back in 2006, CDB became the first Chinese state-owned financial institution determined to help shape and drive the green development and lifestyle, and to sign up to the UNGC, and since then, the bank has begun its new chapter of strives to ensure that the economic and social development goes hand in hand driving development through sustainability. Since the first social responsibility with ecological and environmental protection. The State Council has made report in 2007, we have gone a long way in our pursuit of sustainable special arrangements recently to build experimental zones for green financial development. In 2009, we set the six priority areas, namely, enhancing reform and innovation, and to promote green economic transformation. China responsibility governance, supporting the state’s strategies, fulfilling global shares the same goal with the world to promote a sustainable development commitments, delivering inclusive finance, raising awareness of climate change, featuring economic prosperity, social progress, and beautiful environment. As and promoting social harmony. In 2013, we drew up a special plan on social China’s national DFI, CDB has an inherent obligation to play a more significant responsibility. In 2015, we established our positioning as a DFI. On this journey, role. we remain the leader and champion in driving social responsibilities, and we ● We continue to play our role as a major bank for mediumand long-term never cease to engage all the stakeholders in our efforts. investments and financing; focus on key areas, including the infrastructure, In the past ten years,in fulfilling its mission of strengthening China’s basic industries, pillar industries, and new urbanization; increase its support competitiveness and improving people’s livelihood, CDB has balanced its role in to the state’s major projects and priority constructions; and help firm up the supporting China’s development and living up to its social responsibilities with its foundation for transforming China’s economic development. own growth. Be it the international financial crisis or the supply-side structural ● We pool resources and take precise actions to address weak areas in China’s reform, CDB has been able to provide the reliable financial support needed for economic and social development, including poverty alleviation, affordable sustainable development, as it continues to align its priorities with the state’s housing, education, and health and medical care. mediumand long-term development strategies, focus on priority and weak areas in economic and social development, bring its strength in development ● We align our efforts with green development goals, increase innovation in finance and mediumand long-term financing, and channel both public and green financial products, continue to enhance our capability to deliver green private funds to help ease funding bottlenecks. Meanwhile, CDB has grown to financial services, and promote the integration of economic, social and be a champion in driving China’s new urbanization and overseas investments environmental benefits. and financing, established itself to be a world-class DFI, and proved itself an irreplaceable major player in China’s economic and social development. ● We take the Belt and Road Initiative as an opportunity to increase support to infrastructure connectivity and international cooperation on production In the past ten years, CDB has been committed to a business growth led by social capacity, drive the inclusive economic growth around the world, and mandate, and effectively embedded the sustainable development concepts in promote well-being for all. its strategies and daily operations. We believe that responsibility creates value. In CDB, social responsibilities were intertwined with financing activities, and The challenges ahead can be daunting, yet our determination will never yield. permeate the bank’s strategy and operations, including planning, review and The decade-long practicing social responsibilities has laid a solid foundation approval, credit management, and risk prevention and control. CDB has applied and the successful completion of the Three-Step Reform Strategy marks a new sustainable development principles to drive innovation in services and products, beginning. Aiming to be a world-class DFI committed to social responsibilities, and achieved organic balance between the strategic necessity of projects, we will be firm, be dedicated, be courageous and be purposeful, and will join overall financial equilibrium, and the Bank’s sustainability. Meanwhile, we are hands with all stakeholders to create a brighter future. committed to promoting communications and cooperation with all stakeholders. Being open and proactive, we engage all parties to work together in addressing global challenges. In the past ten years, CDB’s market-driven pursuit of sustainable development has won wide recognition. For 11 consecutive years, CDB has been the winner of the People's Social Responsibility Award from people.com.cn; CDB is also the six-time winner of the award for the Most Socially Responsible Financial Institution of the Year from China Banking Association; and the outstanding performance in 2016 has garnered a large number of honours and award for 5 6 President’s Report In 2016, the international landscape remained complicated, while the Staying green and driving ecologically sustainable development. We are characteristics of the New Normal became more pronounced in China’s committed to promoting good ecological environment as a pillar for economic development. In this context, CDB remained steadfast in its underpinning the sustainable and robust development of the economy and positioning as a DFI, endeavored to fulfill its mission of strengthening China's society, as we continued to uphold the principles of ecological sustainability, competitiveness and improving people's livelihood, continued to deepen its drive the establishment of sound rules and procedures for green financing, comprehensive reform, delivered maximal support to the supply-side structural promote green lending, design and offer innovative green financial products, reform, further strengthened its operations and risk control, and was able and support our top priorities in the environmental protection cause, including to make new achievements in promoting sustainable economic, social and energy saving and emission reduction, prevention and remediation of pollutions, environmental development. We ended the year of 2016 with remarkable clean energies, and ecological restoration. At the end of 2016, the balance of our results for the beginning of the 13th Five-Year Plan Period, with total assets green loans amounted to RMB1,571.6 billion. of RMB14.3 trillion, a balance of loans of RMB10.3 trillion, and an NPL ratio Stepping up operation management and enhancing sustainable development 0.88%, a record sustained under 1% for 47 consecutive quarters. capability. We delivered record highs in fund raising in both Renminbi and Serving national strategies and promoting economic prosperity. We brought foreign currencies, as we continued to enhance our funding systems and our strength in mediumand long-term investments and financing to bolster promote our market-driven funding activities. By optimizing our asset and state’s infrastructures, basic industries and pillar industries. We lent RMB1,590 liability management and vigorously pursuing cost reduction and performance billion to new urbanization, RMB172.5 billion railway, and RMB81.1 billion enhancement, we are able to heighten the efficiency of our development. We water resources. In order to promote the innovation-driven strategy and the also strived to expand our advantages as a group corporation by deepening upgrade of traditional industries, RMB236.8 billion loans were made to support reforms to promote individualized strategies for each and every one of our the strategic emerging industries. USD 12.6 billion loans were made to fund the branches and subsidiaries, as well as driving synergies through combinations Belt and Road Initiative programs, key priorities of the Bank through which we between investments and loans, debts and loans, and leases and loans. Our strived to promote major projects and international cooperation. good asset quality was maintained, thanks to continued strengthening of our enterprise-wide risk management, effective risk warnings, heightened capability Improving people’s livelihood and wellbeing, and helping build a moderately in responding to and resolving of various risk events, and greater efforts in prosperous society. CDB devoted itself to overcoming the biggest barrier mitigating risks. to the goal of building a moderately prosperous society, and helped secure victories in the battles against poverty, by providing RMB315.3 billion poverty As 2017 represents a new starting point for our reform and development, alleviation loans to cover 727 nationally registered underprivileged counties the Bank will continue to pursue a proactive yet prudent approach, take and highly poverty-stricken regions and counties in 2016. With RMB972.5 accountability and initiative to make ongoing contributions to the supply-side billion urban renewal loans, the Bank continued to serve as the major funding structural reform, live up to its role as a DFI in serving the national strategies, channel for urban renewal projects, as it further strengthened the availability of and deliver perpetual support to the economic and social development. funds, increased support to key targets and toughest areas, and helped absorb the housing oversupply. We also undertook to develop holistic plans and pool resources to promote balanced regional development between urban and rural areas, between the eastern and western regions, and new economic zones and old industrial bases, including RMB58 billion and RMB27.2 billion loans to aid the development in Xinjiang and Tibetan regions. 7 Feature Story Delivery of the Three-Step Reform Strategy To follow through on the decision of the State Council to deepen the reform of CDB, the Bank put forward a Three-Step Reform Strategy in July 2013. The three steps are: first, obtaining permanent sovereign credit support for CDB bonds with zero risk weight; second, shaping up a group governance structure; and third, receiving an official mandate for CDB as a DFI. The Three-Step Strategy lays out specific measures to meet the central government’s requirements for China’s financial reform, and embodies the Bank’s vision for deepening its ambitious yet results-oriented reform. In November 2016, the Articles of Association of China Development Bank were approved by the State Council, marking the fulfilment of the ThreeStep Reform Strategy. These efforts put the Bank on a firm ground, inject sustainable impetus into its development, and take it to a new starting point as it continues to support China’s economic and social development. 8 CDB obtained explicit sovereign credit support for its bonds On March 20, 2015, in its approval of the CDB Reform Plan, the State Council confirmed the Bank’s Step One role as a DFI and specified policy support and institutional arrangements. On May 21 of the same year, the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) laid out its policy on the credit rating of CDB bonds, and assigned zero risk weight to CDB’s RMB bonds and foreign currency-denominated bonds for an indefinite period, thus removing the uncertainty over the Bank’s bond credit rating. CDB continued to improve its group structure Since 2014, CDB has established the Housing Program Finance Unit, Poverty Relief Program Finance Unit and CDB Development Fund, and made market-oriented reforms to its subsidiaries, including Step Two CDB Leasing’s IPO, CDB Securities’ introduction of strategic investors, and the third capital injection into the China-Africa Development Fund. As the group governance structure continues to improve, CDB benefits from its integrated operations and synergies across the business lines. The Bank’s Articles of Association were amended On November 24, 2016, the State Council approved CDB’s new Articles of Association. As a major breakthrough in CDB’s endeavors to operate in compliance with rules and laws, the Articles Step Three of Association include specific provisions in areas including business scope, bond credit policies, governance structure, organizational structure, risk management, and oversight and performance assessment. The Articles of Association not only provide an overarching framework for the Bank to better perform its role as a DFI, but also serve as the basis for CDB’s operations, governance, oversight and assessment. 9 Feature Story Ten Years of Pursuit of Innovation and Responsibility Soon after it became the first state-owned bank to join the UNGC, CDB published its first social responsibility report in 2007, In 2008, CDB launched its joint-stock and established its reporting practices structural reform to establish its modern on CDB’s unique social responsibility corporate governance structure comprising philosophy and activities as a DFI, the shareholders’ meeting, the board of In 2010, CDB worked diligently to take which strengthened its dialogues and directors, the board of supervisors and the advantage of the long-term prospect communications with other stakeholders. executive management, and also the One of China’s trending up economy, and This report won the Bank the Award for Group Company Plus Two Subsidiaries helped consolidate the fruits from Exemplary Report of United Nations organizational structure, as CDB sailed overcoming the financial crisis. After Global Compact. into a new stage of its development. carefully going through the exploration By supporting the state’s strategies, and practice in social responsibility, maintaining its own robust development, incorporating advanced concept from diligent work to address the international home and abroad, and soliciting opinions financial crisis, and continued contributions and recommendations from within and to the state’s development strategies through outside the Bank, CDB selected 142 its mediumand long-term investment and key indicators for economic, social, financing advantages, CDB demonstrated environmental and responsibility/ its outstanding value of a DFI in promoting accountability management, and has the sustainable economic, social and since adopted these key indicators to environmental development. underpin its social responsibility work. 2008 2010 2009 In 2009, CDB leveraged its unique strength in mediumand long-term investments and financing to moderate the cyclical impact, and continued to prove a reliable backbone in sustaining the major mediumand long-term economic development strategies of China. Drawing on its years of experience in delivering social responsibilities, CDB underlined six priority areas, namely, enhancing responsibility governance, supporting the state’s strategies, fulfilling global 2007 commitments, delivering inclusive finance, raising awareness of climate change, and promoting social harmony, so as to better guide the Bank in more concrete and systematic fulfillment of its social responsibilities. 10 In 2016, CDB successfully achieved its Three-Step Reform Strategy and significantly heightened the Bank’s capability to serve the national strategies and support sustainable development, bringing the Bank to a new starting point for contributing to the Chinese economic and social development. Looking forward on the way ahead in pursuing its development finance missions, CDB is dedicated to challenging itself to better the best in delivering development finance, meeting its accountability, and opening a In 2015, resolute in its positioning as a DFI and guided grand new chapter in serving the national strategies. by the development concepts of being innovative, balanced, green, open and inclusive development, CDB leveraged its role as a major DFI to support 2016 key industries and underdeveloped sectors during critical periods, actively explored new opportunities for development finance to promote sustainable development, and endeavored to achieve a higher level of organic integration between its own values and the sustainable economic, social, and environmental development. 2015 2014 was the 20th anniversary of CDB. Over the 20 years, CDB remained focused on serving the state’s strategies, made remarkable contributions in many areas, including supporting the state’s infrastructure, basic industries and pillar industries, driving new urbanization, balanced regional development and industrial transformation and upgrade, promoting inclusive finance and sustaining and improving the people’s livelihood, and engaging and expanding international cooperation. Meanwhile, CDB achieved growth by leaps and bounds and delivered top performance in the marketplace. In 2011, CDB delivered crucial support to 2014 aid the development of China in its most urgent areas, and made solid contributions to help China move into an innovation-driven track of intrinsic growth and sustainable development. With its growing influence in the social responsibility area, CDB was invited to join the UNGC LEAD and United Nations Environment Programme Financial Initiative, (UNEP FI) as the Bank continued to deepen its dialogues and cooperation with stakeholders and further heighten its sustainable development capabilities. 2012 2013 In 2013, CDB put forward its Three-Step Strategy for deepening the Bank’s reform in an effort to clarify its positioning as a DFI and also to drive the formulation of clear policies and 2011 rules for DFIs. The Bank devoted great efforts in developing the CDB Social Responsibility Plan to set out clearer sustainable development In 2012, in tune with the world’s sustainable goals, provide a greater selection of tools and development trends as part of its ongoing methods for achieving these goals, and lay a solid efforts to stay current and ahead of social foundation to enable the Bank to better leverage responsibility developments, CDB adopted the development finance to support the sustainable best practices to move from social responsibility development of China and the whole world. reporting to sustainability reporting, so as to report, with greater foresight and in greater scope, on the Bank’s efforts in meeting its responsibilities in promoting the balanced and sustainable economic, social, and environmental development, as well as its own sustainable growth. 11 Sustainable Development Strategy Our Vision For the purpose of helping drive the sustainable economic, social and environmental development in China and around the world, CDB, as China’s leading DFI, is dedicated to the core values of responsibility, innovation, green banking, prudence and win-win solutions, and applying best practices and pursuing sustainable development, and engaged in sustainable development activities adapted to the Chinese environment, in line with international standards, and effectively reflecting the feature of mediumand long-term investments and financing, as we undertake to deliver the greatest value from development finance in key industries, underdeveloped sectors and critical periods, and focus on the six priority areas set for the Bank, namely, enhancing responsibility governance, supporting the state’s strategies, fulfilling global commitments, delivering inclusive finance, raising awareness of climate change, and promoting social harmony. Sustainable Development Vision of CDB Key themes of poverty; employment; urban development; energy; water resources; global sustainable biodiversity; climate actions; and partnership development Sustainable serving the state’s strategies; macro regulation; major development of constructions; inclusive finance; international cooperation; and global economy, Key industries development areas where efforts are aligned to support China’s society and development needs and economic and financial reforms environment protection development finance; mediumand long-term investments and Strategic financing; market-driven operations; and comprehensive financial positioning services Our Goals Our goals are to be able to provide strong financial support to China’s continued and robust economic development by adapting to the needs and requirements of China’s national development and its economic and financial reforms, closely aligning its operations with supporting China’s major mediumand long-term economic development strategies, establishing market-driven operations and practices and effective checks and balances, and maintain adequate capital, sound governance, effective internal controls, safe operations, top quality services, and high performing assets as a DFI. Our Methods In order to promote the continued and robust development of the Chinese economy and society, we are dedicated to leveraging the strength of development finance which is geared to supporting China’s strategies, centering on credit support, market-driven, and ensuring principal safety and modest profitability; bringing the capabilities of mediumand long-term investments and financing on maintaining stable growth and streamlining structural adjustments; contributing to the achievement of the government’s development goals, improving the efficiency in allocating social resources, and easing of fluctuations associated with economic cycles; and increasing support to key industries and underdeveloped sectors. 12 Sustainable Corporate Governance Enhancement of Corporate Governance In 2016, in accordance with the CDB Reform Plan and CDB’s Articles of In accordance with the Bank’s Articles of Association, the Board of Directors Association approved by the State Council, the Bank continued to improve was expanded to include officials from government agencies including the its corporate governance, and established modern governance mechanisms to National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), Ministry of Finance facilitate the Bank’s reform and development through effective decision-making, (MOF), Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM), and People’s Bank of China execution and oversight. (PBOC) as government agency directors. These directors act as coordinators in the making and implementation of major decisions while the Board takes charge In November 2016, the State Council approved the Articles of Association of of the Bank’s strategic planning and overall business development policies. The CDB. In accordance with the positioning of China Development Bank as a DFI Bank’s Board of Supervisors was transformed from an internal Supervisory as determined in the CDB Reform Plan, the revised Articles of Association body into one comprising dispatched supervisors. Each of them is selected as represents the systematic overarching design and scheme of rules for its role as per the State Council’s Provisional Regulations on the Board of Supervisors a DFI based on the general and specific environment of China, as well as the of Key State-owned Financial Institutions (State Council Order No. 282), and long-term practices of the Bank and international experience, serves as the point reports to the State Council. of reference for the Bank’s operations, governance, oversight, and evaluation, and lays a solid foundations of rules and procedures for more effective delivery of the functions and values of development finance. Strengthening Risk Management and Control We have built a risk governance framework to cover all types of risks with Strengthening internal control and compliance management. In light of four hierarchies, three defense lines, robust board-based deliberation and our own needs and circumstance as well as the regulatory requirements, we decision-making mechanisms, and advanced risk measurement systems and continued to make improvements to our internal control and management highly effective IT systems. In 2016, we properly dealt with external changes, systems and mechanisms, and raised the Bank’s compliance awareness and and aligned our efforts in balancing development and risks. We continued to capability in meeting operational compliance requirements, so as to safeguard streamline our risk management system, strengthen risk prevention and control the solid development of our business activities. Internal control assessments in key areas, increase efforts in risk mitigation, and ensure we meet all of our were conducted on a regular basis, as we continued to improve assessment risk management targets and standards. By the end of 2016, the Bank’s NPL methods and criteria to ensure the overall effectiveness of our internal controls. ratio was under 1% at 0.88% for 47 consecutive quarters. Building our risk culture. In addition to promoting our risk culture, we made Enhancing rules and practices. In addition to embedding the concept that concrete efforts to heighten the understanding of risk management concepts and everyone is equal when facing risks and everyone is responsible for risk compliance mindset of our staff. We also organized various risk management management, we enabled proper risk management covering all streamlines, training programs to enhance the skills and competence of our risk management business, products, and areas across departments, branches, products, and personnel across the Bank. currencies, while further sharpening our foresight in anticipating and mitigating risks. Stepping up control over critical areas. Focusing on top priorities without losing sight of the overall progress, we applied strict control over credit review and approval points, and took comprehensive and multi-dimensional considerations, including economic cycles, industries, clients, and projects to ensure risks were properly addressed from the very beginning. Ongoing efforts were also made to study and evaluate risks upfront, screen risks and perform stress testing on key regions, industries, clients, and countries, in order to formulate risk response plans. Thanks to thorough analyses of the risk profiles of projects and greater frequency, depth and breadth in identifying risks, we were able to put in place rapid response measures, enhance the relevance and effectiveness of risk control, and ultimately maintain our solid asset quality. 13 Anti-Corruption and Integrity Advocacy As part of our efforts to promote anti-corruption and integrity, we combine the responsibility of the personnel concerned. Any vulnerabilities in our anti-corruption with risk prevention and mitigation, and the prevention and management practices or loopholes in our rules and procedures identified in the mitigation of integrity risk with those of business risks. We have established inspections will be followed up and rectified in a timely manner to eliminate any robust oversight over integrity risk associated with individual roles and potential threats. responsibilities to effectively address commercial briberies. Anti-corruption Strengthening the management and oversight of our managerial employees. and ethical rules and procedures are developed and upgraded as educational In accordance with the talent management guidelines that require us to look for campaigns are launched to promote our people’s integrity and compliance people with both integrity and competence, evaluate them based on competence with our code of conduct. We have also established our anti-money laundering and performance, and engage them, we have streamlined rules and procedures system, while we continue to heighten their anti-money laundering awareness for selecting and using people, adopted procedures to document the appointment and competence. of managerial positions, and put in place sound rules for the appointment and Enhancing corruption punishment and prevention system. We are diligently oversight of officials whose direct relatives have emigrated abroad, so as to carrying out The Implementation Measures of China Development Bank for deliver concrete results in enhancing oversight. Delivering the 2013-2017 Work Plan for Establishing and Enhancing the Intensifying audit of financial accountability. By establishing a solid Corruption Punishment and Prevention System, including the introduction of foundation of rules and measures for financial accountability audit and putting in the concept for preventing conflicts of interests, and we are carrying out The place the rules and procedures underpinned by the financial accountability audit Provisional Rules for Employees of China Development Bank for Prevention of manual, we endeavor to provide a strong framework to enable our managerial Conflicts of Interests, in order to drive the anti-corruption campaign from simply personnel to maintain their integrity in discharging their financial duties and to preventing exchanges of power for economic gains to preventing conflicts of strengthen the check and oversight over the operation of the powers. interests. Stepping up internal inspections on irregular activities and violations. In doing so, we ensure that every report is followed up, proper action is taken against every corruption identified, and every case is properly handled. Zero tolerance is applied to severe cases, and serious effort will be taken to pursue Engagement of the Stakeholders We respect the wishes and expectations of the stakeholders, and it is an essential Engaging in social responsibility dialogues and exchanges. By maintaining part of our social responsibilities to address the needs of our stakeholders. close ties with international social responsibility organizations, including the In 2016, we further enhanced our practices for engaging the stakeholders, UNGC, the UNEP, and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), as well as domestic strengthened communications, and promoted the synergic growth of the Bank stakeholders, including China Banking Association and other domestic banks, and the stakeholders. we seek to deepen cooperation with the stakeholders in sustainable development and social responsibility causes, while stay abreast with the latest developments Stepping up information disclosure on social responsibilities. Through various and trends in these areas, as we continue to heighten our sustainability. Through channels and in different forms, the information disclosure of our social active participation in the Fifth GRI Global Conference, the GRI Regional Hub responsibilities, including our annual sustainability report, plays a major role China Annual Reporters Meeting as well as the research programs organized by in enhancing communications and mutual understanding between the Bank UNGC for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, among other events and the stakeholders. We have created a special niche for social responsibilities and activities, we discussed the actionable paths for delivering the 2030 Agenda on our official website (www.cdb.com.cn), where relevant information is for Sustainable Development with relevant stakeholders, as part of our ongoing regularly released and updated. Other trendy media, including our official efforts to drive sustainable development in China and around the globe. Wechat and Weibo, are also used to provide easy and greater access to our social responsibility activities. 14 Communications with the Stakeholders and Our Responses Stakeholder Expectations and Needs Our Responses By focusing on supporting the supply-side structural reform and leveraging our strength in mediumand long-term investments and financing as well as our ability to deliver comprehensive financial services, we raised and channeled Remain firmly committed to private funds to support infrastructures, basic industries, serving the major mediumand pillar industries, public facilities and administration, long-term development strateamong other economic and social development sectors; gies of the national economy; new urbanization, urban and rural integration, and regional more effectively and broadly balanced development; transformation, upgrade and deliver the functions and valstructural adjustments of traditional industries; energy Governments ues of development finance in saving, high-end equipment manufacturing, and other key industries, underdeveloped areas that would elevate China’s overall competitiveness; sectors and critical periods; and affordable housing, poverty alleviation, education loans, help promote the continued inclusive finance and areas that will help our people to and robust development of the improve their welfare and quality of life; the Belt and national economy Road Initiative, Go Global efforts of Chinese enterprises, and other international cooperation areas; and relevant areas in support of the state’s development and the economic and financial reforms. Maintain prudent and robust The Bank ensured compliance in its operations by operations, comply with adhering to the laws and regulations, applying higher Regulators relevant laws and regulations, standards where appropriate, establishing enterprise-wide and effectively manage its risks risk management system, strengthening internal controls, and increasing the oversight by internal audit. Continuously enhance its We strived to safeguard and increase the value of statecorporate governance and owned assets by continuously elevating our governance Shareholders safeguard and increase the value capability, enhancing corporate governance practices, of state-owned assets and delivering first-class operating results against international criteria. Deliver reasonable and stable The Bank continued to strengthen investor relationship, investment returns, make timely improve its information disclosure, and heighten its Investors and accurately information business management capabilities in order to achieve disclosure, and provide good steady and sustainable development. services The Bank continued to enhance its service system, and adopted various means and methods to heighten its Continue to improve its service comprehensive financial service capabilities, including Clients quality and provide innovative innovative investment and financing solutions, publicservices and products private partnership (PPP), and government procurement of services, in order to deliver professional and diversified financial services to its clients. The Bank continued to enhance its green lending rules Promote green finance, maintain and practices, made strong investments in promoting Environment green operations, and protect the green finance, and actively pursued green causes in all of eco-environment its operations. The Bank adopted open and competitive recruitment Safeguard their lawful rights practices, continued to streamline the paths for its and interests, provide good people’s education and growth, organized diversified Employees development opportunities, and training programs, continued to strengthen the workforce help promote their individual and cultivation of talents, put in place mechanisms to career development aid people in need, and strived to enhance employee engagement and satisfaction. The Bank actively engaged in cooperation with its Build and maintain good partnerships suppliers, academic institutions, and government agencies, Partners and achieve mutually beneficial and strived to grow together with its partners and deliver results mutually beneficial values. As part of CDB’s commitment to helping build Provide quality financial services, Public and harmonious communities, the Bank organized various organize outreach and volunteer programs in response to the needs and concerns of the Communities service activities, and help promote the public and communities, including financial knowledge development of the communities sharing, and undertook all types of welfare cooperation project in China and abroad. 15 Challenges We recognize that eradicating poverty in all its forms and dimensions, including extreme poverty, is the greatest global challenge and an indispensable requirement for sustainable development. ——United Nations, Transforming our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development By 2020, we aim to deliver solid results in ensuring that underprivileged people in rural areas will be free from worries about food and daily needs, and will be able to enjoy the benefits of compulsory education, basic medical care and safe housing. ——Decisions of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party and the State Council regarding Overcoming Poverty in China Actions As a DFI, China Development Bank is obligated to play a central role in leveraging finance to support poverty alleviation. This is not only CDB’s unshirkable duty and mission, but also a strategic choice we have made to take up the social responsibilities, contribute to social progress, and become a leader in the financial sector in our pursuit of building a moderately prosperous society in all aspects. ——Hu Huaibang, Chairman of China Development Bank, Draw on Development Finance to Help Overcome Poverty Eradicating poverty, improving livelihood and gradually achieving shared prosperity of all people are essential requirements of socialism, and also the most urgent issues that demand attention and resolution to achieve sustainable development. As a DFI, CDB takes it upon itself to apply development finance to help tackle these issues, makes dedicated and solid efforts, and takes major responsibility in driving the campaign to leverage finance to support poverty alleviation, as the Bank continues to increase its input in promoting poverty alleviation, help address weaknesses that may hinder the progress for building a moderately prosperous society, and contribute to the pursuit of the Chinese dream of the great rejuvenation of the China. Poverty Alleviation 19 Clear Roadmap 20 Enhanced Support 21 Concrete Actions The tea plantation project for the underprivileged households in Hanzhong City, Shaanxi Full commitment to support poverty alleviation By 2015 this proportion had fallen to 12 per cent, meaning that Impoverished population living in rural areas has been reduced more than 1 billion people had been lifted out of extreme poverty. from 770 million in 1978 to 55.75 million in 2015, a reduction of While a very significant achievement, approximately 836 million 714.64 million or 92.8%; meanwhile, the prevalence of poverty in remain in extreme poverty. rural areas has dropped by 91.8% from 97.5% to 5.7%. ——UNCTAD Development and Globalization: Facts and Figures ——China Poverty Alleviation and Development Report 2016 In 2016, CDB provided RMB315.3 billion loans to support targeted poverty alleviation, including cross-regional resettlement, infrastructure, industry development, education, medical and health RMB 315.3 billion loans carefully planned to support care, and student loans. poverty alleviation efforts Cross-regional resettlement Infrastructure Industrial development Education RMB446.1 billion crossRMB225.5 billion loan RMB27.67 billion loans were A cumulative total reginal resettlement loan commitments for rural made in 2016 to aid poverty of RMB110.8 billion commitments will make a infrastructure will cover 22 alleviation through promoting were made to 18.55 difference to 9.11 million provinces (municipalities) and industry development in 146 million underprivileged registered underprivileged 417 underprivileged counties, underprivileged counties, students, 2,711 higher people and 2.53 million and will benefit 30,147 delivering change to 3.1 education institutions, relocated population. registered underprivileged million people, including 2,094 counties, and 26 RMB31.06 billion were villages and 52.59 157 thousand registered provinces (municipalities disbursed in 2016. million people, including underprivileged people and autonomous regions), 13.54 million registered including more than 1 million underprivileged people. In registered underprivileged 2016, RMB151.3 billion rural students infrastructure loans were disbursed. 9.11 million people benefit from the cross-regional 52.59 million people benefit from the infrastructure 3.1 million people benefit from industrial 18.55 million people underprivileged students resettlement development development benefit from student loans 18 Clear Roadmap We have established an approach to poverty alleviation that is geared to promote sustainable development through cultivating self-reliance and establishing sound rules and procedures; efficiently prioritized by registering underprivileged villages and population; focused on providing funding support as well as empowering the people with better access to expertise and information; and based on the strategy of being precise and specific in our actions to finance provincial programs for relocating poor populations, county programs for infrastructure development, and village programs for nurturing industrial development, and gave financial support for poor students to innovate their studies, as the Bank continues to identify new ways and methods for leveraging finance to support poverty alleviation, enhancing policies and Chairman Hu Huaibang out to gain first-hand information about roads, safe drinking water and other measures for leveraging finance to support poverty aspects of local production and life at Qiyao Village, Wushan County, Gansu alleviation, and pool quality resources. We have also developed a roadmap for overcoming poverty. Chinese Government: UN: Building a moderately prosperous Transforming our World: The 2030 Agenda society in all aspects by the for Sustainable Development 100th anniversary of the Chinese Eradicating poverty in all its forms and Common Communist Party dimensions Aspirations China: UN: Helping lift out of poverty by 2020 Ending extreme poverty for all Common all underprivileged people in rural the people around the world by Goal areas as defined by current criteria 2030 Established Poverty Relief Program Finance Deepening cooperation between Leveraging the advantages Our the Bank and local governments in intellectual support Actions Provincial programs for Village programs for nurturing relocating poor populations industrial development County programs for Financial support for poor infrastructure development students to pursue their studies 19 Enhanced Support We actively implement the requirements of the Decisions of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party and the State Council regarding Overcoming Poverty in China, and esteblished the Poverty Relief Program Finance in May 2016, which enabled us to be organizationally prepared for the uphill battle against poverty alleviation. Principles Leveraging the policy instrument; operating on market principles; specialized management; separate accounting; and ensuring principal safety and modest profitability Strategy Be targeted in poverty alleviation efforts Priority Areas Cross-regional resettlement, unique industries, education and medical care,as well as infrastructure improvements in underprivileged areas, including transport, water resources, electric power, Internet Plus, renewal of dilapidated housing in rural areas, and remediation of dwelling environment, and other poverty alleviation tasks designated by the State Council Goals Ease the funding constraints faced by the underprivileged areas, and provide reliable support and safeguard for poverty alleviation Poverty Relief Program Finance founded in May 2016 20 Concrete Actions Overcoming poverty is an imperative in pursuit of a moderately prosperous society. To this end, we endeavor to deliver quality against time, strengthen support in funding as well in expertise and information, identify opportunities for better drive poverty alleviation, and follow through the strategy for delivering the four priorities, as we devote ourselves and apply due care and diligence to the cause, and spare no efforts in pushing forward and overcoming one challenge after another. In driving poverty alleviation efforts, we help the underprivileged regions to adopt diversified and sustainable development finance mechanisms to improve efficiency in allocating public and private resources. Through planning, advisory, education and training programs, we bring greater access to financial information and expertise to local governments. We also designate resident financial experts to lead local poverty alleviation activities, in President Zheng Zhijie out to gain first-hand knowledge of poverty alleviation order to not only enhance the self-sustainability of progress and challenges at Shibadong Village, Huatan County, Hunan the underprivileged regions, but support and guide their development in accordance with best practices. Rules and Procedures Circulated poverty alleviation rules and procedures for various areas, including Financial Experts informatization management, IT Allocated 183 financial experts to system management, credit review, risk provide onsite assistance to 174 management, internal control, and statistics underprivileged areas Organized poverty alleviation workshops with the financial experts and thematic training programs Education and Training Organized poverty alleviation training courses for 464 local cadres from 391 underprivileged counties in 8 highly poverty-stricken regions Organized the Investing and Financing Cooperation with Local Governments Workshops for Cross-Regional Relocations in China to systematically explain cross-regional Participated in studies and formulation relocation policies to 138 local government of policies and plans for poverty officials from 22 provinces alleviation Signed cooperation agreements with 21 provinces (municipalities/autonomous regions) to leverage development finance to support poverty alleviation Formulation of Plans Drove the setup of offices for Participated in the formulation of poverty alleviation cooperation in leveraging development plans for 22 provinces finance to support poverty alleviation at Organized the formulation of financing plans for 28 provincial, city and county levels poverty alleviation programs, including those for Encouraged local governments to put the highly poverty-stricken regions along the Dabie in place sound risk participation and Mountains compensation mechanisms for financing Engaged in pilot cooperation in financing planning the development of underprivileged with 22 national poverty-stricken counties areas Comprehensive Support in Funding and Intelligence 21 Financial experts for poverty alleviation Communication Planning Connection Promoted the state’s poverty alleviation Assisted local governments in properly Served as a bridge to facilitate communications policies formulating poverty alleviation and development between the Bank and local governments Promoted CDB’s efforts to leverage financial plans and systematic financing plans Helped local governments address practical support poverty alleviation Worked with local governments in mapping out difficulties and issues in their poverty the poverty alleviation and development projects alleviation efforts To do a good job in poverty alleviation, one needs to focus on hard work and hard facts with empathy; it requires good understanding of the policies, so that poverty alleviation work is firmly grounded, and it needs to be methodical, and requires us to continue to seek new options to better deliver our financing services. ——Dong Shuiping, financial expert from Jiangxi Branch I came from the countryside, and know how hard life is for the farmers, so it's natural for me to care about my work. This care is our attitude, the source of our strength, and the driving force behind productive poverty alleviation I have this to say work. ——Qian Jian, financial expert from Guangxi Branch The expectations in the eyes of the folks weigh so heavy on my shoulders, and I am really committed to being the link that bring the local governments and the Bank together, and help turn our poverty alleviation ideas into operable solutions, and transform each solution into concrete projects and results. ——Ge Wei, financial expert from Anhui Branch Case A poverty alleviation champion in a Wuling village Bringing insights to drive development. He led the work team to conduct indepth studies to identify challenges and responses. The achievements include a new 7.2-kilometre road that connects every household in the village; access to safe drinking water for villager; and upgrade of the vineyards to increase income by RMB5,000 per mu (approximately 667 square meters). Bringing care and commitment to enhance harmony. He encouraged the villagers to bring care and commitment to the place they live, and work together to transform their village to one that is founded on self-reliance, gratitude, green growth, and legacy, and instilled a positive state of mind to the people so as to ensure what had been achieved would be sustained. In July 2016 when Xinzhuang Village was hit by a rare major flood, he fought the flood day and night at the forefront of the battle, diligently organized self-bail out efforts and post-disaster reconstructions, raised more than RMB90,000 in disaster aid, and more than 10,000 kilograms of rice to the villagers. Fu Zhangrong works at CDB Hunan Branch. When the branch sent its resident poverty alleviation team to Xinzhuang Village, Dashuao Township, Zhijiang Working together to create a brighter future. As financial experts dedicated Dong Autonomous County, Huaihua City, Hunan, he became the First Party to poverty alleviation, Fu Zhangrong and his other 182 colleagues continue Secretary of the village. In his one-and-a-half-year stay at the village, he made to anchor themselves to these remote areas and drive development finance to the village his home, pulled the whole village together, and transformed the deliver results in support of poverty alleviation. village. 22 Province-By-Province Resettlement Programs Resettlement programs are the toughest nut to crack in the Five Lots precision poverty alleviation undertaking. We have assisted the local government of 22 provinces (municipalities/autonomous regions) to set up their poverty alleviation-oriented investing and financing vehicles, and implemented the approach for centralized loan origination, centralized government procurement, and centralized loan repayments at the provincial level, in order to more effectively manage loans for cross-regional resettlement. ● Developed tailored and localized support policies Streamlining funding transactions ● Assisted the setup of poverty alleviation-oriented investing and financing vehicles for 22 provincial (municipal/autonomous region) governments ● Set up three-tier funds management system at provincial, city and county levels to apply consistent and effective funds management practices ● Organized the Investing and Financing Workshops for Cross-Regional Resettlement in China Strengthening fundraising ● Issued 9 financial bonds to raise RMB33.6 billion Case Poverty alleviation through relocation to achieve secured housing and improvement of livelihood In order to support the poverty alleviation campaign of Guangxi Province, In May 2016, we provided RMB200 million loans to the relocation projects Guangxi Branch became the first to adopt the tone-at-the-top strategy as part of Guangxi’s poverty alleviation campaign (lot one). As the first loan and maintain an approach characterized by centralized origination at the issued for poverty alleviation with the overall backing of the provincial provincial level, wholesale commitments, and separate signing of individual government, it has been used for the relocation of Zhendong District, contracts, so that the poverty alleviation projects, fragmented in nature Long’an County, Nanning City, in support of the construction of affordable and widely different in terms of timing and duration, may be effectively housing units, schools, hospitals, among other public service facilities, as organized and conducted through the centralized provincial lending platform well as the auxiliary roads, and will enable 14.2 thousand people to relocate and with the backing of government procurement of services at completion and enjoy a better living condition. of these projects, delivering a solution that is duplicable and adaptable elsewhere. 23 County-By-County Infrastructure Planning and Construction Inadequate infrastructures are a crucial barrier to eradicate poverty. Focusing on the tough challenges and weak areas, including roads, drinking water, environmental remediation, and school-building safety, among others, we pool funds and resources for the underprivileged counties, help strengthen rules and procedures for ensuring effective management and utilization of fiscal funds for agricultural programs, rural areas and farmers, and make intensive efforts to accelerate the infrastructural transformation of registered underprivileged areas. 260 thousand kilometers village road construction supported 4,908 projects for improving safety of 19.04 million people whose drinking water safety 19,288 registered underprivileged villages have completed environmental school buildings issue has been resolved remediation projects ● Provided funding support for infrastructural construction in rural areas on a county-by-county basis Deepened cooperation between CDB and local governments ● Worked with the Ministry of Transport to support poverty alleviation by building a million kilometers of roads and completing hundred transport projects ● Strengthened the rules and procedures of rural infrastructure loans that incorporated special fiscal funds. Innovative financing solutions ● Pooled special fiscal funds to leverage credit funds to support poverty alleviation initiatives ● Remained dedicated to properly delivering good causes, and ensured proper preparation before launching Strengthening availability of funds any project ● Strengthened payment/disbursement management to minimize idleness of funds ● Provided fast-track channels to accelerate project review and approval Jiangxi’s rural-urban integrated water supply project 24 Case Development finance brings water to the thirsty and warmth to the cold Poverty due to the water and hardship because of the roads are true descriptions of the dire conditions in the underprivileged counties in Anhui. Knowing this, Anhui Branch makes ongoing efforts to increase funding to infrastructure improvements in water resources and transport projects. RMB1.5 billion loan commitments have been made for safe drinking water improvement and upgrade projects in rural areas in Fuyang in the 13th Five-Year Period, and the projects will deliver safe drinking water to a total of 2.9 million people in 7 underprivileged counties in Fuyang, including 183 registered underprivileged villages and 296 thousand registered underprivileged people. In order to make concrete improvements to the traffic conditions in rural areas, the Branch made a loan commitment of RMB 750 million to the rural road construction project in Lixin County and thus 38.8 thousand registered underprivileged people from 90 villages will be connected. The projects are aiming to resolve the immediate concerns that are directly relevant to the everyday life of the local people, including roads in poor conditions and water resources that are often out of reach, and laying a solid foundation for the local people to lift themselves out of poverty. Main tunnel construction site of Gongqiao Centreal Waterworks in Funan county The rural road construction project in Lixin County Industrial Development Projects Planned and Implemented on an Individual Village (Household) Basis Poverty alleviation through industrial development is a key component in the campaigns to overcome poverty. By adhering to a localized and customized approach and adopting a Four Platforms + Agencies lending model that combines the management platform, the financing platform, the guarantee platform, the public information platform and the credit enhancement agencies, CDB provides solid supports to the specialized cooperatives and collective economies in rural areas to help them develop their unique industries, encourage the underprivileged households to fully engage in industrial development, and enhance the self-sustaining capability of the underprivileged areas. ● Conducted thorough studies of the 14 highly poverty-stricken regions to identify their resources and potentials Localization ● Assisted the local people to determine their industrial development targets and priorities ● Provided strong support to target industries, including special farming, produce processing, household handicraft, produce logistics, leisure agriculture and tourism ● Improved and promoted the Four Platforms + Agencies lending model to help underprivileged households to Individualized solutions overcome poverty ● Facilitated leading local enterprises in driving local development ● Conducted pilot programs for poverty alleviation on lending to guide and channel private funds and deliver synergies ● Placed high priorities on supporting subsequent industrial development following relocations Long-term benefits ● Facilitated poverty alleviation planning for industrial development in relocation areas 25 Case Big love in small oranges as the public crowdfunds hope Gulin County, located in Southwestern Sichuan, is a nationally registered underprivileged county. In response to the call of the state to rise to the challenges of prevision poverty alleviation and self-reinvention, a delegate of CDB, served as the First Party Secretary of Maliutan Village in Gulin, set his eyes on sweet oranges, an economic crop widely cultivated in this region, encouraged and guided the villagers to plant thousands of mu of the orange saplings, and set up a village collective agricultural company, in a dedicated effort to develop its sweet orange industry and in the hope that the underprivileged village may shed poverty by realizing its unique potentials. Planting the saplings is only a beginning, and it takes two years before the saplings begin to bear fruits, a rather long waiting period where continued investments are needed. In view of this problem, a crowdfunding program—We Share Love through Sweet Oranges: Adoption of Gulin Sweet Oranges Trees—was born to call for people to adopt one orange tree for one underprivileged household, a campaign aimed to raise funds from the whole society through the Internet+Agriculture model, where a consumer may adopt an orange tree for a little more than RMB100, the funds raised will be invested in the management and We Share Love maintenance of the saplings during the two-year period, through Sweet and the adopters will receive several dozen kilograms Oranges of fresh oranges when the trees bear fruits. Bank One invests in love and receives rewards in the form Sweet oranges a symbol of fair products and trade and guarantor of sweet oranges. The launch of the crowdfunding rewards of credit to the program was enthusiastically received, and the consumers fundraising target was met soon as the several dozen Care mu of orange saplings planted by 667 households in value creation Gulin’s Maliutan Village were all adopted in one of for the society the outstanding example of poverty alleviation through industrial development. Case Localized industrial development Shaanxi Branch has provided a cumulative total of RMB58.79 million poverty alleviation loans in support of the industrial development in Hanzhong City, including black fungus plantation, tea farming, pig farming and village tourism, among other local industries, enabling about 4,000 underprivileged households to lift themselves out of poverty. 26 Education Aid by Household (Applicant) It is our firm belief that in order to alleviate poverty, we have to first prepare the people’s mindset, and teach the people to learn and utilize their intelligence. For the purpose of raising the overall competency of the people and improve their ability to secure employment and start their own businesses, we are committed to providing funding support to all who qualify, continue to increase the supply, coverage and depth of our education loans, and support the construction of occupational schools and training bases for migrant workers, in order to help the underprivileged people to shed poverty and become self-reliant and prevent poverty from passing to the next generation. Amount of education loans (100 Million RMB) Number of students supported by the loans (10 Thousand) 229 331 285 187 244 213 221 147 120 125 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ● Provided 100% guarantee for meeting the needs for loans of the registered underprivileged students Increased funding support ● Conducted pilot programs for occupational education loans in Gulin County, Sichuan, and supplementary education loans in Chongqing ● Expanded the coverage to include 83 districts and counties ● Launched the first mobile phone APP to increase service channels and methods Improved services ● Provided a fast track channel for registered underprivileged students to enter into loan contracts exempting from qualification review ● Conducted more than 20 job fairs in 11 provinces for graduates who were recipients of education loans, and helped thestudents reach 32 thousand preliminary agreements with potential employers Case Education loans illuminate the path of life for underprivileged students Shandong Branch began to provide education loans to local students since 2008, and has since continued to improve relevant practices, including the acceptance, pre-lending review, post-lending management, risk compensation, and default recovery of education loans, in order to maximize the coverage of education loans as well as minimize their risks. At the end of 2016, the education loans of the Branch were available to 144 counties and districts across the province, accounted for more than 95% of the education loans in the province, and provided a major source of light in illuminating the path of life for the underprivileged students. 27 Challenges During the 13th Five-Year Plan Period, China will focus on supply-side structural reform to expand effective supply and meet effective demand, accelerate the formation of institutions, mechanisms, and development models that steer the New Normal in economic development, and ensure moderateand high-speed economic growth and moderateand high-level of production. ——China’s National Plan on Implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Actions We will undertake to diligently implement the vision of the Central Party Committee; actively adapt to the economic New Normal;pursue a proactive yet prudent approach; act in the spirit of being innovative, coordinated, green, open and inclusive development; focus on the business principles of continuously maintaining solid growth, improving competitiveness, strengthening management, and effectively mitigate risks; and deepen reform and innovation, so as to enable the Bank to better deliver development finance, support the state’s development strategies, help secure a solid beginning for the 13th Five-Year Plan Period, and make greater contributions to building a moderately properous society in all aspects. ——Hu Huaibang, Chairman of China Development Bank In 2016, China entered the 13th Five-Year Plan Period, a new phase when the New Normal features became more distinctive. CDB adheres to the new development concepts, aligns its operations to support the supply-side structural reform, continues to increase support to the key industries and underdeveloped sectors, and continues to make solid contributions to the economic prosperity of China Economic Prosperity 30 Infrastructure Development 36 Industrial Transformation and Upgrade 39 The Belt and Road Initiative The Nanchang-Shangli Highway Project in Jiangxi Infrastructure Development Supported ● major railway projects Transportation ● state’s major highway projects and auxiliary infrastructure ● airports and surrounding economic districts ● urban rail transit systems more than RMB 1.5 trillion cumulative lending to the railway more than RMB 2.6 trillion cumulative lending to the highway more than 90 airport projects sponsored 2,827 kilometers urban rail transit built cumulatively industry industry cumulatively cumulative lending to urban rail representing approximately 20% representing more than 10% of all accounting for 43% of all transit systems was RMB393.4 of all fixed asset investments in highway fixed asset investments in airports in China billion China during the same period China during the same period 30 Energy Promoted energy structure adjustments; supported major projects, including West-to-East Power Transmission, and also large hydropower bases in western regions; and increased support to clean energy efforts RMB 295.7 billion cumulative lending to nuclear power RMB 445.4 billion cumulative lending to hydro power 43.4 million kilowatt hours cumulative capacity of the 14.02 million kilowatt hours cumulative capacity of the projects projects installation of wind power installation of solar power generators generators accounting for approximately 30% of accounting for approximately 22% of the total investments to the nuclear the total investments to the hydropower power industry industry Water Resources Supported ● major water resources projects ● underdeveloped sectors such as drinking water safety in rural areas 59 major national water resources RMB 818.4 cumulative lending to water billion projects supported cumulatively resource industry 31 Modern Transit and Transportation Systems Modern transit and transportation systems are fundamental to the functioning and development of the economy and society, and play a crucial role in promoting regional economic development, furthering opening-up, and heightening the people’s livelihood. In 2016, in our dedicated efforts to help build safe and efficient, smart and green, and interconnected modern infrastructure networks, we provided strong support to the high-speed railway construction, the state’s major highway construction, hub airport and mainline airport construction projects. The section from Qingshan to Baigeda (on the border of Inner Mongolia and Gansu) of the Beijing-to-Urumqi Highway of the national highway network Case Connectivity revives former revolutionary base areas As a former revolutionary base area, Minxi in Southern Jiangxi is a mountainous region where the development of local economy and society was severely hindered. CDB helped resolve this bottleneck by providing a loan commitment of RMB5.7 billion to fund the construction of the Gan-Rui-Long Railway to connect the revolutionary base with the outside, a project that not only ended Minxi’s history with no access to high-speed railways, but, upon completion, will slash the journey times from Ganzhou to Xiamen from 6.5 hours to 3 hours. 32 Urban Infrastructure In 2016, as part of our effort to build and upgrade a smartly distributed, fully equipped and streamlined, ready to deliver designed functions, safe and efficient urban infrastructure system with comprehensive functions, we provided strong funding support to urban rail transit systems and utility tunnels. We also funded the urban ecological facilities and sponge cities to improve the urban environment, enhance the people’s quality of life, and enable the cities to become more harmonious and friendly, more lively, and more distinct. Definition Goal Our Actions Utility tunnels at a glance A utility tunnel is an underground By 2020, a host of utility tunnels designed and By applying appropriate options public passage in a city built to carry built with international standards are to become including public-private partnerships utility lines, including electric power, operational, and will help avoid repeated digging (PPPs), government procurement of communications, cable TV, water, up of roads, enhance the safety of the pipes and services, and evaluations through sewage, heat and gas. cables and the ability to prevent and survive established processes and against disasters, gradually eliminate the spider web of established criteria, we assisted overhead cables and lines above major streets, the local governments in planning Purpose and lift up the city landscape. the construction and operation model, financing model and loan 1) make a safer city with enhanced tenures, and provided mediumand city functions, improved landscape, long-term loans to facilitate the promoted cost-effectiveness and Policy Requirements construction of utility tunnels. efficiency, and drive its transformation and development; In the spirit of development finance, CDB At the end of 2016, cumulative encourages loan commitments for urban 2) raise a city’s overall resilience and utility tunnels across China were sustainability as well as the quality of 1) relevant financial institutions to increase RMB61.152 billion. urbanization; funding support to utility tunnel constructions; 3) increase the productive investments 2) banks to provide mediumand long-term in public goods, mobilize participation funding support to utility tunnel projects on of private funds, and develop condition that risks are properly managed and new driving forces for economic these projects are commercially sustainable. development. The utility tunnels and concurrent construction project in the New District of Zhaoqing, Guangdong 33 Case City amends, Egrets again Sanya’s Urban Construction Phase I project is a key component of the pilot city’s efforts encompassing city repair, ecological restoration, sponge city, and utility tunnel construction, aiming to improve its ecological environment and urban landscape. CDB committed RMB2.6 billion in funding, and the balance was RMB600 million at the end of 2016. The water quality is getting good. No wonder the egrets are coming. ——Zhang Gaoli, member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and vice premier of the State Council, during his inspection of the Sanya River in May, 2016 34 Case Perpetual financing in support of rail transit constructions Xuzhou Rail Transit is one of the first exemplary PPP projects approved by the Ministry of Finance and carried out in Jiangsu. In 2016, CDB committed to providing funding support to the Line 3 construction project of Xuzhou Rail Transit, which eventually adopted BOT model, and introduced the “perpetual financing”, an innovative solution that is inspirational for both the PPP approach and the market building of urban rail transit systems. Distinct and Unique Towns Developing towns that are distinct and unique for their resources and potentials, their locations and cultural heritage is not only one innovative field in the new urbanization, but also a major initiative to drive industrial integration and upgrade and promote the supply-side structural reform. In 2016, the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Construction, National Development and Reform Commission, and Ministry of Finance jointly proposed to build 1,000 distinct and unique towns in China by 2020, and have already identified the first group of 127 targets in October 2016. CDB draws on its innovative financing advantages to support the development of these towns, and promote their long-term sustainable growth through investments to improve local infrastructure and public facilities, and by helping channel public service resources, including quality education and medical care, to medium and small cities as well as small towns. Case Ancient town takes on a glorious new life Puyuan, located in Tongxiang City, Zhejiang, one of the five vintage towns in Southern China during Ming and Qing Dynasties, is renowned for land of honey and milk and land of blossom. Its well-preserved streets and houses can trace back over nearly 900 years. Puyuan is also a target identified by the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Construction. In 2016, CDB adopted a new approach that combined government purchase and additional capital contributions from shareholders to support the tailored upgrade of Puyuan’s central scenic district, an endeavor to drive synergies between the government and local enterprises to promote industrial integration and upgrade as part of the tourism industry development. 35 Industrial Transformation and Upgrade In 2016, we made steady and active efforts to promote the optimization and upgrade of traditional industries, while reducing new loans to global over capacity industries. As part of our commitment to support the state’s innovation-driven development strategy, we increased our investments in the strategic emerging industries and modern service industries. RMB 38.6 billion reductions in loans to the coal industry ● With top priority placed on planning, we actively took part in the formulation and study of the state’s major industrial strategies and 33.4 plans, comprehended industry trends and regulatory requirements, so as to more effectively delivered the task of cutting overcapacity RMB billion and reduced lending to over capacity industries reductions in loans to the steel industry 236.8 ● Actively explored new channels and options, including multifaceted innovations in financial products, financing solutions, management practices and executions, in order to meet the individualized needs RMB billion of strategic emerging industries for financial services loans to strategic emerging industries in 2016 ● Adhered to the opening-up strategy, and drove strategic emerging industries to become fully engaged in the open economy system and international competitions 36 Strategic Emerging Industries Strategic emerging industries are cradles of technological innovations and engines for driving China’s economic transportation and upgrade. In 2016, we made diligent efforts to identify ways in which development finance could support strategic emerging industries and cultivate new economic growth opportunities. Our funding not only fueled the industrial development for integrated circuit, flat panel display, aircraft equipment, and shipbuilding, among other industries, but also underpinned a host of key innovation projects in the technological industry, including the memories project of Yangtze River Storage Technology and Inspur’s cloud computing center. Case Unmanned terminal adds new power to international shipping Xiamen Ocean Gate Container Terminal, located within the Xiamen Haicang Free Trade Port Area, is the first fourth generation unmanned fully automated container terminal in the world. Powered by electricity, the terminal reduces energy consumption by more than 25% and also carbon emission by more than 16%, as compared with traditional terminals. 37 Technological Start-Ups and Innovative Enterprises Technological innovations are characterized by high investments, high risks and high returns, and it is common for technological start-ups to face difficulties in accessibility to financing and cost. We take upon ourselves to explore investment and financing solutions most appropriate for Chinese technological start-ups, including conducting pilot programs that combine investments and loans, and formulating and improving relevant business management rules and procedures. In 2016, by combining loans and equity investments, the Bank provided solid support to projects including Beijing Rechsand Ecological Environment Protection, Tianjin Jiuri New Materials, Shanghai ZM Logistics, Rogrand of Wuhan, and Huada Automotive Technology of Shaanxi. For a combined funding of RMB196 million, RMB137 million had been made available. The Bank thus took the lead in launching the pilot programs in China and covering all target areas within the pilot programs. Case The first combination of loans and investments pilot programs launching in China On 25 November 2016, CDB and Beijing Rechsand Ecological Environment Protection, a lead technological start-up in Zhongguancun, Beijing, entered into a combination of loans and investments, and RMB30 million in investments and RMB30 million in loans were made available on the very day to assist the startup in its R&D in green and recyclable products, marking the successful launch of China’s first combination of loans and investments project in support of a technological start-up. Case Timely loans aid the robust growth of smalland medium-sized enterprises In 2016, Henan Branch joined force with the Financial Services Office of Luoyang City and Luoyang SMEs Asset Management Company to offer the first-ever working capital loans to SMEs which are start-ups or engaged in innovative undertakings, or those focusing on fields such as poverty alleviation, agriculture, pensions, and to provide funding aid to ease their temporary working capital strains, a highly beneficial initiative in safeguarding the robust sustainable development of local SMEs. 38 The Belt and Road Initiative The goal of sustainable development is to achieve common prosperity of all humanity, and it is also the inherent proposition of the Belt and Road Initiative building a community of “common destiny”. As a leading bank for the Belt and Road Initiative, we have stepped up efforts in increasing cooperation in studies and planning with countries along the Belt and Road routes, driving the progress of major projects and constructions, and expanding room for bilateral and multilateral cooperation, so as to bring the benefit of development finance to more countries and regions. CDB’s Support ● Directed funding support to promote China’s cooperation with countries along the routes, especially in key areas such as infrastructure connectivity, production capacity cooperation, equipment manufacturing, and overseas industrial parks ● To optimize its overseas service networks, the Bank set up a representative office in Vientiane, Laos. In order to prov ide efficient and secure funding channels, the USD 12.6 billion loans to support the Belt and Bank entered into correspondent banking relationships with more than 170 banks in countries along the routes. Road Initiative in 2016 ● Compiled China’s first Report on the Legal Risks of Countries along the Belt and Road to establish country by country legal risk assessment criteria China-Belarus Industrial Park Project Greater Efforts in Research and Planning Placing top priority on planning, CDB has established a three-year rolling mechanism for the Belt and Road Initiative plans, and issued the guidelines for supporting the launch of major Belt and Road Initiative projects. Intensive policy studies in different dimensions and levels have been conducted, including regional planning, project planning, and country by country planning, and major planning have been developed, as a solid basis of insights for future efforts, for China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, Bangladesh-China-India-Myanmar Economic Corridor, and China-Mongolia-Russia Economic Corridor, among others. 39 Driving the Progress of Major Projects By drawing on the potentials of the Belt and Road Initiative and major international undertakings to drive cooperation and actions, stepping up strategic planning and management of business activities, and identifying and focusing on opportunities in energies resources, infrastructure connectivity, production capacity cooperation, economic and trade cooperation zones, and financial cooperation, CDB made concrete contributions in promoting solid progress of the Belt and Road Initiative and other major international undertakings, in addition to providing fundings to local economic development and regional cultural exchanges. We continue to explore options of how best green lending may contribute to major international project constructions, and are determined to incorporate sustainability in international cooperation, and embed green lending provisions in financing agreements so as to impose binding social and environmental obligations on both parties in a financing transaction. Upon signing a contract for a Belt and Road Initiative project or any major international project we maintain a whole life-cycle supervision and control over the project to ensure the project does make solid contributions to promoting local economic development, meeting the needs and expectations of local people, and complying with environmental protection laws and regulations as well as local social conventions. Case New power to drive the development of African countries “This company is pretty new. But since I heard that Chinese enterprises were involved in its management and operations, I am at ease with the safety of its flights.” This airline as referred to by Ghanaian businessman Appiah is Africa World Airlines (known as AWA), jointly funded by the CAD Fund, HNA Group, SAS Finance Group of Ghana, and the Social Security and National Insurance Trust (SSNIT), and it is the first overseas air transport investment project of the Chinese civil aviation industry. Since its opening for business, AWA has maintained an outstanding record in flight safety, and as its market share continues to expand, it has provided a huge relief to the aviation capacity strain in western Africa, offering a new option of safe, convenient and high-quality experience to African travelers. In 2016, AWA became the first Chinese funded overseas airline to receive the IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) from the International Air Transport Association (IATA). The Ghanaian president believed that the operation of this airline not only facilitated the travelling of the local people, but injected new life into the economic development of the country, providing new power that would enable Ghana to improve its investment environment, attract foreign investments, and drive the growth of associated industries. An AWA Open Day for elementary school students, offering local people a close view of AWA’s leading and convenient aviation services 40 Expanding Bilateral and Multilateral Cooperation In 2016, we employed various means and methods to help improve the growth capability of our partner countries, and reach out to and connect the people along the Belt and Road. Greater efforts were made to expand and deepen cooperation with other banks of Shanghai Cooperation Organization Interbank Association, ChinaASEAN Interbank Association, and BRICS Interbank Cooperation Mechanism. The Bank also hosted several multilateral conferences, notably the Long-Term Investors Club (LTIC) Steering Committee meeting and the D20 Annual Conference, and launched the 2nd Investing in Africa Forum (IAF) and the Investing in Africa Think Tank Alliance (IATTA) with the World Bank. In the past year, CDB organized 20 bilateral and multilateral training programs for countries along the Belt and Road, attracting 903 participations, and provided subsidies to 98 foreign students from 18 countries to study in China. Case The first overseas infrastructure development platform In August 2016, a plaque unveiling ceremony was conducted to mark the foundation of China Overseas Infrastructure Development and Investment Corporation Limited (COIDIC), China’s first overseas infrastructure development platform. COIDIC, funded by CAD Fund as the lead sponsor, has a total capital of USD500 million, and as China’s largest overseas infrastructure development platform. Its purpose is to increase mutually beneficial cooperation in infrastructure constructions between China and African countries, and enhance Africa’s sustainable development capabilities. 41 Challenges We resolve to combat inequalities within and among countries; to build peaceful, just and inclusive societies. ——United Nations, Transforming our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Inclusive development is an essential requirement of socialism with Chinese characteristics. We strongly hold on to the philosophy that development for the people, by the people and to the benefit of all the people, and develop better systematic structure so that the general public enjoys a stronger sense of reward in the course of economic development and distribution, which also increases motivation of development and unites our people to steadily advance to the goal of common wealth and well-being. ——Outline of the 13th Five-Year Plan for the National Economic and Social Development of China Actions The Bank is an active supporter of people-centered new urbanization, including support for promoting the development of the Western China and the new round of reviving the old industrial bases in the Northeast, identifying new solutions in support of the coordinated development of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei Region, fueling the development of the Yangtze River Economic Zone, and implementing preferential credit policies for Tibet and Xinjiang. ——Hu Huaibang, Chairman of China Development Bank, Draw on Development Finance to Promote Sustainable Development Social equitability is a key principle as well as the purpose in our pursuit of economic and social development. As CDB committed to strengthen China’s competitiveness and improve people’s livelihood, it makes continued efforts in supporting rural renewal projects, helping underprivileged people to fight poverty and improve their livelihood, guiding coordinated regional development, contributing to disaster aid and relief causes, so as to help make a inclusive, equitable and sustainable development. Social Equitability 44 Urban Renewal 46 Balanced Regional Development 49 Disaster Aid and Relief The urban renewal project of Zhanggong District, Ganzhou City, Jiangxi Urban Renewal Adequate housing is imperative for people to fully commit to their work and live a cozy life. As a major funding source for urban renewal projects, we continue to improve the availability of funds, increase funding to top target regions and those particularly tough reg ions , p romote the reduction of marketable housing, and enable more pre-renewal dwellers from owners of affordable housing units to owners of even good-quality housing units, so that more people will be able to enjoy the benefits of economic and social develop ment. Presidents Zheng Zhijie onsite to inspect the Beiliang urban renewal project in Baotou, Inner Mongolia Shared Prosperity Shared Economic and Social Development Affordable Housing More Ensure the Promote Expand specialized availability monetized financing and specific of funds relocation channels loan management CHINA DEVELOPMENT BANK At the end of 2016, the cumulative total of urban renewal loans was RMB 2,527.5 billion, helping improve housing condition for more than 18 million households. 44 ● Aligned the funding with the local three-year urban renewal plans Ongoing support for urban renewal Ensure sufficient funding for urban renewal ● Increaseed commitments tourban renewal projects in priority region, including forest regions, reclamation regions, SOE residential districts, and coal mining subsidence regions ● Set out clear requirements for monetized relocation programs in renewal projects Promote monetized relocation programs ● Developed and implemented localized solutions, and aligned monetized relocation with efforts to reduce surplus housing ● Disbursed relocation loans of RMB543.5 billion to enable the market to absorb more than 700,000 housing units, or 65 million square meters of floor space ● Deepened cooperation with local governments and promoted government purchase of Expand financing channels for urban renewal services ● Promoted urban renewal asset-backed securitization products, and have issued 3 urban renewal ABS products for RMB21.8 billion ● Led syndication efforts, and explored options to engage more financial institutions, including insurance companies, to support urban renewal ● Enhanced the evaluation and approval of renewal loan origination and disbursement, Improve more specialized and specific loan management for urban renewal and ensured the loans are used for the approved purposes ● Developed effective disbursement plans and optimized the fund disbursement and management processes ● Ensured the quality of renewal loans and maintained an NPL-free record Case Innovative solutions for SOE residential district urban renewal projects The residential urban renewal project for Guangdong Rising is the first project in Guangdong funded by CDB through the SOE residential renewal financing solution, and it has created huge social benefits after delivering 10,336 affordable housing units to resolve the housing difficulties of nearly 10,000 needy employee households of the state-owned enterprise and greatly improve their living conditions. CDB committed RMB2.355 billion loans in this RMB3.658 billion project. The successful financing of this project has paved the way for financing other SOE residential urban renewal projects in Guangdong for 38,000 households and with a funding need of nearly RMB8 billion. 45 Balanced Regional Development Coordination is an inherent need for sustainable robust development. We aim to help promote a balanced development in China and build a moderately prosperous society that will benefit more than 1 billion people. To this end, we endeavor to find the optimal balance between urban and rural areas, between the eastern and western regions, and between emerging economic zones and old industrial bases. 1,250.3 178.2 486 Funding in support of coordinated RMB billion RMB billion RMB billion loans to mid-western regions loans to old industrial basis in loans to Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei the Northeast Region 886.4 58 27.2 regional development RMB billion RMB billion RMB billion loans to the Yangtze River loans to aid development in loans to aid development Economic Zone Xinjiang in Tibetan regions Balanced Development in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei Region With a clear understanding of the functional propositions of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region, and by focusing on transport system integration, ecological and environmental protection and industrial upgrade and transformation, CDB adopts a comprehensive approach in prioritizing and allocating its resources and leveraging its development finance advantages to support technological innovations, resources and energy availability, poverty alleviation and internal and external opening-up, so as to underpin the balanced development of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region. Offload Beijing’s non-capital ● Supported the construction of Beijing’s sub-center with cumulative Restructuring and streamlining of functions, and resolved Beijing’s metropolitan problems lending of RMB 29.3 billion functions Build a multi-hub, grid● Set up the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei Transport Integration Task Force, and established the Transport system integration structured and full-coverage “1+3” model for cooperation between the head office and branches transport network based on rail transit ● Provided RMB 52.68 billion in loan commitments for 9 highway construction projects in the transport system integration plan in Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region ● Provided RMB 44.35 billion in loan commitments for 3 railway projects, including the Beijing-Zhangjiakou line ● Provided loan commitments of RMB 14.3 billion for eight rail transit lines in Beijing; RMB 62.9 billion for rail transit projects in Tianjin; and RMB8 billion for rail transit projects in Shijiazhuang Promote the accelerated ● Entered into an “investments+loans” contract with Beijing Rechsand Ecological Industrial upgrade and transformation industrial upgrade and Environment Protection to deliver the first project in China funded with a combination transformation, and help build of investments and loans industrial clusters with not only strong local footing but national ● Provided RMB 7.435 billion loans to help industrial upgrade and transformation and international presence in Tianjin region, with a loan balance of RMB 12.911 billion ● Provided RMB 10.31 billion in funding support to promote industrial upgrade and transformation in Hebei 46 Revival of the Old Industrial Bases in the Northeast In delivering our commitment to assist the economy of Northeast China to revive and move up, we faithfully implemented the latest strategic arrangements of the central government for revival of the Northeast, and continued to increase our efforts to pursue this end, including stronger and deeper cooperation with government agencies and local governments, greater support in funding and financial expertise and information, unflagging focus on key areas and weak sectors critical in the revival of the Northeast, and adoption of innovative financial services and solutions to ensure the availability of funds to these key areas and key projects. ● Focusing on urgent and tough issues faced by the development of the Northeast, CDB continueed to strengthen high-level Greater alignment of policies communications, explored new options for funding and financial expertise, and drived forward the implementation of the latest strategic revival arrangements ● Worked with government agencies, including National Development and Reform Commission, to conduct special studies, improved the alignment between policies and measures for planning, project implementation and financing to conduct PPP pilot programs ● Worked with relevant government agencies to issue guidelines and implementation plans, so as to more effectively drive the reform and development of old industrial bases in industrial transformation, private enterprises, and cultivation of talents, among other areas ● Deepened cooperation with Heilongjiang, Jilin, Liaoning and Inner Mongolia, including the signing of the Framework Agreement for Cooperation with the Pilot Province in Nationwide Comprehensive Utility Tunnels Constructions with the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Construction and Jilin provincial government ● Placed top priority on meeting the funding needs of urban renewal, railway, highway, public infrastructure, rail transit; More efficient resource allocation utility tunnels, petrochemical, water resources, among others ● Took various measures to ensure funding supply and facilitated the progress and delivery of projects, including largeamount pre-approval for projects of strategic plans, facilitating PPP projects, and organizing syndication loans ● Expanded funding channels through trusts, bond underwriting, Yinzhengzhai (a mechanism through which the Bank works with securities companies to issue debts), Yinzhengxin (a mechanism through which the Bank worked with securities companies to issue loans or provide financing through trust plans), among others ● Proposed to Jilin provincial government to set up an FOF to channel funds specifically to support the reform of the three Innovative financial services designated provincial SOEs ● Assisted Liaoning to build the strategic base and core cluster for high-end equipment and smart equipment manufacturing industries. Compiled the Systematic Financing Plan for China-Germany Equipment Manufacturing Industrial Park in Shenyang in order to promote the building of industrial parks Case Help Shenyang Machine Tool go global During the 13th Five-Year Plan Period, as part of the efforts to deepen comprehensive cooperation and partnership between industrial groups and financial groups, our Liaoning Branch committed to providing all-round support to Shenyang Machine Tool (Group) in its technological upgrade and innovation, industrial chain enhancement, and mergers and acquisitions, among others. One of the top priority in this partnership was to help the group implement the model characterized by R&D in Germany, made in China, and sold around the globe, a goal to be achieved by helping the Group build its overseas sales channels, develop its international marketing platform and service system based on the Internet Plus strategy, and promote the export of its high-end pre-assembled equipment, high-end machine tools, and hightech equipment, among other lead products. Working with CDB, Shenyang Machine Tool has strengthened its R&D capability with global reach, and was recognized as one of the China’s Top Ten Innovative Enterprises. 47 Balanced Development of the Mid-Western Regions We leveraged our unrivalled position as a leading bank for mediumand long-term financing capabilities and comprehensive financial services, so as to build diverse financing channels and talent retaining system, in support of the rise of the central regions and the development of western regions and assist Xinjiang and regions with predominant Tibetan populations to achieve the goal of a moderately properous society in all aspects. ● Signed the cooperation memorandum for the 13th Five-Year Period with Tibet Aid to regions with predominant Tibetan ● Issued The Guidelines of China Development Bank regarding the Application of Development Finance to Support Tibet’s populations Development in the 13th Five-Year Period, and take various measures to further increase support to Tibet’s economic and social development in the 13th Five-Year Period, including prioritized allocation of resources, differentiated credit policies, and pricing policies ● Placed top priority in various fields, including infrastructure, basic and pillar industries, urban renewal, poverty alleviation, and education loans ● Signed the cooperation memorandum for the 13th Five-Year Plan Period with Xinjiang, and The Cooperation Agreement Aid to Xinjiang for Financing Poverty Alleviation Initiatives in Southern Xinjiang with the Xinjiang State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission ● Placed high priority on supporting major projects in Xinjiang, including its expressway networking project and the upgrade and expansion of Urumqi airport The Xinjiang Fuli Zhenlun Spinning Company funded by CDB with an annual spinning capacity of one million spindles will create about 1,600 jobs for local people upon its completion 48 Disaster Aid and Relief Disasters could happen unexpected, but caring people are always ready to lend a hand. When natural disasters such as typhoons and earthquakes happen, we are always among the first to take actions and activate our disaster response mechanisms as we work closely with the Ministry of Civil Affairs and other agencies or organizations, stay on top of the state of affairs as well as the disaster aid and relief needs, and ready ourselves with emergency loans, so as to help the affected people and areas to overcome the difficult time. In 2016, our emergency loans amounted to RMB13.84 billion. Emergency loans issued in 2016 Type of emergency Region(s) Amount (Million RMB) Floods Anhui, Hubei, Jiangsu, etc. 9,950 Typhoons Ningbo, Guangdong, Fujian, etc. 2,590 Droughts Inner Mongolia, Qingdao, etc. 600 Winds and hails Jiangsu 400 Mud-rock flows Qinghai 300 Case Timely relief for the drought In the summer of 2016, Hulunbuir was hit by a prolonged two-month drought, which caused severe loss of moisture content in the soil, large areas of the grasslands to wither, and locust pestilence in certain regions. During this critical period, Inner Mongolia Branch remained highly attentive to the situation, activated its disaster response plan in a timely manner, issued RMB200 million emergency relief loans, which delivered timely relief to the people of Hulunbuir. 49 Challenges Committed to green development, China will adhere to the basic national policy of resource conservation and environmental protection, follow a civilized development path that ensures increased levels of production, better living standards, and a sound ecology. China will pursue green development by promoting a green and low-carbon development model and lifestyle, actively addressing the climate change and protecting ecological system. ——China’s National Plan on Implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Actions We will stay committed to green development and drive ecological civilization. We will focus on supporting key ecological protection efforts, including the prevention and remediation of air, water and soil pollutions. We will support the state’s efforts in building national reserve forest bases, promote the green, low-carbon and renewable solutions for economic development, including new energies and renewable energies, energy saving, environment protection, and modern agriculture, in order to improve the ecological robustness and sustainability. ——Hu Huaibang, Chairman of China Development Bank, Draw on the Five Development Propositions to Guide the Practices and Activities of Development Finance A good ecological environment is the most equitable public good and the most inclusive blessing for the well-being of the people. Facing the severe environmental challenges, we are dedicated in our pursuit of ecologically sustainable development, and staying green is always a critical component in fulfilling our social responsibilities, a key principle and criterion in carrying our lending activities, and a restraining force for our development efforts, as we support green, renewable and lowcarbon solutions, promote green financing, adopt green practices, and promote ecological civilization. Ecological Sustainability 52 Staying Green 53 Green Finance System 57 Green Office Solutions The urban renewal project to revive the old industrial bases in Xuzhou City, Phase I Staying Green Green development guidelines Promote ecological civilization ● Strengthened green lending capabilities, and established a comprehensive green lending implementation system ● Pooled credit resources to strongly support green, low-carbon and renewable economies Promote clients’ green development ● Assisted clients in taking active measures to minimize emissions of pollutants and prevent the pollution of soil and underground water ● Assisted clients in taking effective measures to protect the environment and biodiversity and prevent the destruction of major wildlife habitats, designated preservation areas and ecosystems in ecologically vulnerable regions Promote self sustainable development ● Increased training on green lending and sustainable financial skills, and continuously improved the front-office people’s capabilities in identifying environmental issues and risks as well as delivering quality credit services ● Maximized energy saving and minimized power consumption through green lighting, green office practices, reducing the consumption of water, electric power, natural gas, fuel and paper, and the emissions of greenhouse gases Environmental benefits derived from green loans 52.52 million tons per year energy saving equivalent 131.25 million tons per year reduction of the emissions of 1.64 million tons per year reduction of the emissions of to standard coal carbon dioxide sulfur dioxide 850 thousand tons per year reduction of the emissions of 70 thousand tons per year reduction of the emissions of 700 thousand tons per year reduction of chemical nitrogen oxides amine oxides oxygen demand 292.62 water saving million tons per year 52 Green Finance System We have incorporated green commitment, sustainability and win-win solutions as key hallmarks of CDB’s business operations, and by increasing green financing and offering innovative and diverse green financial products, we strived to employ green finance to drive sustainable development and achieve an optimal balance between economic, social and ecological outcomes. The Bank was the largest lender in the banking industries to green development with a loan balance of RMB1,571.6 billion at the end of 2016. Building a Green Finance System As part of our effort to build a green finance system, we undertake to establish and expand cooperation in planning and projects with government agencies and local governments, as well as cooperation with experts in different areas, continuously enhance our green lending rules and management practices, and heighten our green finance service capabilities. ● Participated in the formulation of environmental policies, including Green Lending Guidelines, Action Plan Improving the rules and procedures of green loans for Air Pollution Prevention and Remediation, Action Plan for Water Pollution Prevention and Remediation, Comprehensive Implementation of Extra Low Emission and Energy Saving Restructuring of Coal-Fired Power Plants Work Program, etc. ● Formulated green lending rules and procedures, including Decisions on Further Enhancement of Work relating to Green Lending, and CDB Interim Measures of Renminbi Green Bonds Management ● Worked closely with National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Environmental Protection, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, and Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Construction, among others, to engage in environmental protection and ecological planning and studies of the development and financing options for low-carbon ecological parks ● Set up the Green Lending Task Force to develop interim measures for green lending management and other Improving green lending policies capabilities ● Improved the environmental efficiency evaluation system and green lending information system for all loan projects across the Bank to deliver systematic and IT-enabled environmental efficiency assessment for green lending activities ● Greater efforts in training on and promotion of green lending Focusing Credit Support on Key Areas We work aggressively to optimize our resource allocation so as to better support renewable economies, air and water pollution prevention and remediation, energy saving and environmentally friendly industries, clean and renewable energies, green agriculture, and green transportation, as well as environmental initiatives that are closely linked to the daily life of the general public, including urban sewage treatment and non-industrial waste treatment. In 2016, RMB239.14 billion loans were made to support environmental protection, energy saving and emission reduction. 53 ● Exercised strict control over loans to high energy consumpion and emission industries, reduced the size Industrial energy saving of loans to over-capacity industries, and supported R&D in energy-saving and environmental protection and emission reduction technologies and equipment ● Supported the development of clean and renewable energies, including solar power and wind power, and New and clean energies the balance of loans to these industries was RMB402.4 billion at the end of 2016 ● Undertook comprehensive remediation of river regions, supported the development of modern agriculture, Ecological protection and contributed to ecological and environmental restoration of forest lands, lakes, deserts and mining and restoration regions Waste treatment and ● Supported non-industrial waste treatment in urban and rural regions, and supported the construction of pollution prevention and sewage pipeline networks remediation Case Improve the water ecology to build eco-friendly city The Follow-Up Project for the Comprehensive Remediation of East Taihu Lake (Qidu-Daquegang section of the Lake Rim Embankment) is one of the 172 national major water resource constructions, and by improving the water quality and ecology of the lake, strengthening interconnections of the water system, and upgrading nearby flood control infrastructure, the project played a key role in making the city a more eco-friendly place to live. 54 Case Combination of forest lands and photovoltaic technology to lead new energy development Chint Group’s 200-megawatt photovoltaic surface power plant in Jiangshan, Zhejiang, is a demonstrative new energy project designed to promote the comprehensive development of the region and encompassing photovoltaic power generation, modern agriculture and ecotourism, and is also the largest power generation project in Eastern China aiming to take advantage of the forest lands and photovoltaic technology. With an annual power generation capacity of 200 megawatt-hours, the power plant will produce 4900 megawatt-hours of clean energy in its 25-year service life, and save 1.63 million tons of standard coal. The Bank has provided RMB212 million loans on this project. Innovating Diverse Green Financial Products Case Innovative hybrid instrument that combined green debts, equity and loans As the lead underwriter f i n a n c i n g c o o r d i n a t o r, CDB helped Wuhan Metro Group to successfully issue its medium-term notes that combined debts, equity and loans. The proceeds raised from the note issuance would be entirely used to support Wuhan’s rail transport constructions and the repayment of green loans. 55 Case Green fund to support the construction of the international tourism district Anhui Branch has joined force with CDB Securities, China-Africa Xinyin Investment Management Co. and Huangshan Municipal Government to set up the Xin’anjiang Green Development Fund, the first cross-provincialborder fund in China dedicated to green purposes, with total capital contributions of RMB2 billion for the first phase of 8 years. At the end of 2016, the first investment of 30 million had been completed and made to priority areas, including ecological remediation, environmental protection, green industry development, and cultural tourism. The Fund aims to effectively attract and channel private capital to support Xin’anjiang’s environmental protection and ecological building effort, facilitate the construction of the international tourism district in Wannan of south Anhui, promote industrial transformation and green development, and shape the environmental protection and development approach to maximize social participation, diversity and long-term benefits. Case Underwriting of the first non-financial institution green bond The wind power generation project of Century Concord Wind Power Investment Company (Concord Wind Power) is a key component in the new energy industry of Qinghai. In April 2016, Qinghai Branch helped Concord Wind Power issued China’s first non-financial institution green bond through National Association of Financial Market Institutional Investors. The phase-one RMB200 million issuance is vital in expanding the funding channels for new energy enterprises in Qinghai as well as establishing Qinghai’s status as a green development leader. 56 Green Office Solutions We adhere to green operation principles, and by continuously raising our staff’s environmental protection awareness, striving to be more thorough and specific in our management and execution, and strictly implementing our energy saving and emission reduction solutions, we undertake to minimize our consumption of energies and our negative impact on the environment in our business operations. 1,046 video conferences to help reduced 24,852 tons of carbon dioxide emission Reduction in consumption of 1.137 million sheets of A4 paper through paperless conference systems RMB 1.05 million or approximately 30% in reduction of printing budget for large printing projects from the previous year Communications on green office concepts and practices Implementing green office practices ● Continued to elevate our people’s energy saving and environmental protection awareness through various means and methods, including WeChat, posters, desktop wallpaper, and proposals Promotion of energy saving green office practices ● Tightened control over and implemented quantitative monitoring over consumables, including electric power, water and paper ● Identified paperless office options to reduce budget for large printing projects and significantly cut down print-outs at the head office ● Strengthened expense management for office supplies and established strictly control over the scope and criteria for office supply purchases Maximizing the utilization of office supplies ● Improved the proper and efficient allocation of office furniture and resources, and improved their functionality and adaptability ● Minimized waste, including extended usage of aging furniture and appliances and the proper disposal of retired and aging fixed assets 57 Challenges We are determined to mobilize the means required to implement this Agenda through a revitalized Global Partnership for Sustainable Development, based on a spirit of strengthened global solidarity, focused in particular on the needs of the poorest and most vulnerable and with the participation of all countries, all stakeholders and all people. ——United Nations, Transforming ourWorld: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Actions CDB has significantly improved its operating, management and service capabilities, thanks to its unflagging endeavours in pursuing lean management, streamlining its processes and organizational structure, adhering to the principle of “Operate as One CDB, Deliver Customer Experience as One CDB and Deliver Services as One CDB”, providing diversified and comprehensive financial services, and cost-cutting and efficiency-improving. ——Hu Huaibang, Chairman of China Development Bank CDB always binds its own development with national strategies and people’s interests. In pursuing of becoming a world-class DFI and providing sustainable support to China’s economic and social development, we continue to strengthen partnerships with our stakeholders, including the clients, people and the communities, with a commitment to building a bright future together. Partnerships 60 Client Services 62 Staff Development 66 Social Harmony The urban renewal project in Shuangyashan City, Heilongjiang Client Services We are dedicated to serving our clients in good faith. By drawing on our advantages as a DFI, we provide diversified and comprehensive financial products and services to our clients around the globe, in order to achieve long-term win-win development. 94 % client satisfaction rate Comprehensive Service Platform In order to comprehensively improve the client experience and the quality of our service, we sped up the development of e-banking as well as system upgrades, and expanded our call center functions to build a comprehensive service platform. In 2016, the 95593 Call Center received more than 650 thousands of various enquiry calls with an overall call completion rate of above 95% and a first call resolution rate of 99%. ● Advanced the upgrade and promotion of the secure platform for e-banking E-banking ● Provided 33 thousand second-generation USB keys ● Strengthened the staffing of the Call Center and expanded the functions 95593 Call Center ● Delivered successful support to process education loan applications during the peak season ● Pilot programs to reduce burdens and improve efficiency of account managers were carried out in Anhui Branch, Enhancing service Tianjin Branch, Jilin Branch, Hunan Branch, Chongqing Branch and Shaanxi Branch efficiency ● Simplified and streamlined the process for signing and changing contracts, enhanced job allocation and segregation for the supervision of loan origination and disbursement, optimized loan management report, and improved accountspecific reporting ● Compiled the Fact Book on Key Points for Account Managers to clarify the rules and requirements for account management, facilitated account management activities, and concretely improved daily efficiency and performance Stepping Up Services to Group Clients We strengthened the connections and interactions at the head office level, and entered into Development Finance Cooperation Agreement and Strategic Cooperation Agreement with 9 central group companies, including China Nuclear Engineering & Construction (Group) Corporation, China Communications Construction Group, State Grid Corporation of China and China Poly Group Corporation, as part of the Bank’s effort to enhance its group client management and strengthen its comprehensive capability to deliver client services. At the end of 2016, our total cumulative loans to 123 central group companies amounted to RMB559.2 billion. 60 Case Love through a Call — 95593 Call Center stepping up to help needy students In support of the state’s education loans, CDB’s 95593 Call Center provided consultation to more than 8 million subsidized students from more than 2,000 counties and more than 2,700 higher education institutions around the country. From June to August in 2016, the Call Center adopted various improvements and measures to streamline services and ensure the quality of the hotlines, and completed 327 thousand enquiry and consultation calls in relation to education loans, delivering valuable support for education loan applications during the peak season. China National Center for Student Financial Aid under the Ministry of Education presented a Love through a Call pennon to the 95593 Call Center in honour of its professional and warm services to the needy students. One secondee posted to the Call Center had this statement to make, “To do a good job in student aid requires us to not only promote the state’s macro aid policies, but convey the message of care to each and every student in need. We aim at letting every student in need benefit from the aid policy.” Case Focusing on civility and high standards to enhance client services The Inner Mongolia Branch focused on civility and high standards to enhance client services and increased efforts in service innovation to elevate its competitiveness, as received wide praises from clients as well as interbank, including the Five-Star Banking Outlet in China in 2015 and Top 1000 Banking Organization in China Distinguished for Civilized and Exemplary Services in 2016. 61 Staff Development We place our staff first, and we take concrete actions to protect our employees’ lawful rights and interests and strengthen our culture so that our people and the Bank share the same interests, the same cause and the same future. 98 % employee satisfaction rate Protection of Our Employees’ Rights and Interests Protection of our employees’ rights and interests is always the top priority of our work, and we promote a democratic way of bank management and adhere to the laws in safeguarding our people’s lawful rights and interests. We continued to optimize our recruitment practices, and offered strong compensations and benefits to attract the best people. By the end of 2016, we had a staff of 8,939 people, including 40.83% of women employees. ● Optimized welfare safeguards and established rules for paid leaves Basic rights and interests ● Improved the rules for and the level of IT capability in support of better medical safeguards ● Organized the employee representatives to deliberate the Rules of China Development Bank for Management of Optimized democratic Welfare Expenses and Interim Measures of China Development Bank for Prevention of Conflict of Interests in management Employee Departure, as part of the effort to establish and apply rules to protect our people’s right to know, right to participate, and right to express themselves ● Collected 122 proposals for the third session of the Second Employee Representative Congress, covering business development, corporate culture, information management and training, among other aspects Career Development We are committed to continuously enhancing the career development paths for our staff, streamlining procedures and refining the criteria for selecting and promoting managerial talents, and adopting innovative solutions and practices to make our HR management more effective.We continued to strengthen continual education and training so as to enhance the professional competence and comprehensive quality of our staff. In 2016, we released the Decisions of China Development Bank on Deepening the Reform of Practices for Developing Managerial Talents, as an effort to step up our work in cultivating managerial talents, and optimized the procedures and measures to our staff development as well as the cultivation, selection, management and supervision of the managerial talents. ● Released the Decisions on Further Strengthening Education and Training Activities to fully launch our talent Talents development cultivation and development strategy measures ● Advanced our management trainee programs, including the first overseas exposure program for the management trainees ● Recruited various talents from campus and the society, including 71 Chinese overseas students from top schools and universities in the UK and the US to work as interns in the head office, branches, and subsidiaries ● Strengthened team building for international operations to ensure a strong pool of talents ● Launched the Quest Operation for cultivating our managerial talents and built reserves of future leaders for the longterm growth of the Bank 62 15,132 participations 58,168 participations in domestic training projects collectively in training projects organized by the organized by the CDB head office branches and subsidiaries Case Staff development through skill competitions In 2016, in light of the new trends and requirements facied by our urban renewal efforts, the Bank organized urban renewal competitions to encourage our staff to intensify study on relevant policies and operations, and enhance their comprehensive skills on urban renewal undertakings, so as to enable them to be better equipped for fulfilling the funding needs of urban renewal projects. In a contest with 111 contenders from 37 branches, Qingdao Branch and Hubei Branch came out as top team winners, 10 contenders emerged as individual winners, while Jia Jing, from Qingdao Branch, was presented the National Labour Day Medal of the Financial Sector onsite from the Chinese Financial Workers’ Union. Industrial Upgrade and Financial Innovation Training at the University of Michigan 63 Care for Our Staff We stay attentive to what our staff feel and think, especially the living standard and needs of those who are going through a difficult time, the women employees and the retired cadres, as well as the well-being of those away from home. We organize various self-empowerment and social responsibility training programs and rich cultural and sports activities, so that our people can grow together with the Bank. ring Shenzhen Branch sha Senior management of employees tim e wit h you ng quality eisure nges and L ound with Challe Outward B The Interdepartmental Cup bask etball game on the Came to Be and Carry Women employees of Guangdong Branch re: Remember How We taking part in the DIY Course for Fondant Long March Once Mo nch loo kin g bac k to loo k forward Mission – Hunan Bra Cookies 64 Dedicated Cultural Building Superior and distinct cultural genes are critical to the long-term success of an enterprise. In 2016, we released CDB Culture Manual to elucidate the Bank’s cultural propositions, drive commitment and strength, and help us focus on building our future. Cultural building is a fundamental undertaking for CDB to drive commitment and strength as well as consolidate our core competitiveness. In this way, we ought to learn our culture by heart, live our culture in our daily activities, and let our culture nurture us and guide our behavior, so that it serves as the endless unfailing spiritual force that drives forward our reform and development. ——Hu Huaibang, Chairman of China Development Bank Strive to become a world-class DFI and provide perpetual support to China’s economic and social development Strengthen China’s Vision competitiveness and improve people’s livelihood Responsibility, innovation, Mission green banking, prudence, Core Values win-win solutions Firm commitment to Undertake to implementing state policies; strengthen Party Striving for win-win building, deliver development; Focus locally, a top-performing Striving for sustainable strategize globally, bank, and provide Guidelines development professional and efficient, solid support to the CDB Spirit pursue excellence development of the country and the society Tenets Code of Conduct Operation: Support the development of China, Our people should be: strengthen risk management accountability, and ensure principal safety and dedicated, and hardmodest profitability working and professional; disciplined and law-abiding, Development finance: and honest and clean; Help the government to address tough issues;be there and be ready to help truthful and practical, and when it counts most; plan well and plan first; market planning; leverage the upholding integrity; open and force of the funds; and develop synergies and collaborate with other market inclusive, and innovative and participants and the communities empowered; doing the right Purpose of services: things and keeping improve Serve China’s development strategies; serve the society; serve the clients; oneself, and diligent in and serve our people learning and firm in working Risks: Everyone is equal when it comes to risk management and everyone is a risk owner Staff: We need people with both integrity and competence; we adopt competencebased and performance-based assessment criteria; and we engage the general public 65 Social Harmony We are fully committed to the cause of public welfare and charities, and work closely with domestic and foreign stakeholders to promote social harmony. As part of our efforts, we founded the Youth Volunteers Association to strengthen the organization and management of public welfare activities. In 2016, our total donations amounted to RMB46.64 million. RMB 46.64 total donation in 2016 million Grants and Donations In 2016, we further increased our attention to our social and public welfare activities and made solid efforts to help build a firm foundation for a harmonious society, including encouraging our people to participate in various public welfare activities as much as possible, providing concrete support to their participations, and heightening their awareness, responsibility and ownership with respect to the communities as well as the society. Case The donation and service platform and a giving culture In order to further raise the awareness and participation of our people in public welfare and charitable causes, the Party Committee of the CDB took the lead in setting the 28th of June as the day of donation, and establishing a poverty alleviation and donation and service platform for the CDB head office units, in an attempt to call our people to commit to voluntary activities, become active givers and build a caring and giving culture. Through the donation platform, the units as well as individual staff members have donated a cumulative total of more than 3,200 pieces of clothing and 300 packages to underprivileged regions. Young employees were actively involved in organizing various thematic activities as well as maintaining the efficient daily operations of the donation and service platform, and participations in voluntary and charitable services numbered more than 260 in the past year. 66 We Walk Together: We Care in Ghana – A CAD Fund donation drive in Africa Case The Yellow Wristband brings seniors safely home CDB joined force with China Population Welfare Foundation to launch the Yellow Wristband initiative, which, with a donation of RMB4 million and by distributing 3,680 free location-tracking yellow wristbands, aimed to help seniors suffering from Alzheimer’s and their families to prevent them from getting lost. In order to promote the Yellow Wristband Initiative, 6 feature events, including introductory workshops, voluntary medical consultation, and training for medical technicians and caregivers, were held in Beijing, Shanghai, Jinan and Qingdao, and volunteer professionals were also engaged to provide preventive prognoses and medical care for Alzheimer’s disease to people from local communities, as well as share expertise and skills with front-line medical workers in relation to early detection of Alzheimer’s disease, a tremendous efforts that benefited nearly 1,000 people. 67 Sharing and Transfering of Financial Knowledge In order to share the knowledge on development finance to the people, we organized a wide variety of programs, including Financial Knowledge at Your Door and Financial Knowledge Promotion Month, and continued to enhance the mechanisms for ensuring the long-term effectiveness of our efforts in delivering consumer education and services, so as to bring finance to benefit more people. We carried out the Financial Inclusive Operation in 71 counties in Wuling mountainous region, Gulin County in Sichuan, and Quannan County in Jiangxi to offer financial knowledge sharing and transfer sessions to local farmers and households. A total of 331 sessions of various financial knowledge sharing and training activities were organized and attracted approximately 180,000 participations, with 430,000 copies of various materials handed out and approximately 2,900 participations of local volunteers to support with volunteer services. ● Posting slogans on counter windows, and creating posters and video programs Our actions included: ● Reaching out to townships and villages to promote financial awareness, focusing on the financial needs of low-income people and financially underprivileged people ● Promotional activities focusing on education loans ● Promotional efforts through the official website, special publications, WeChat and SMS, among others Jilin Branch out to share financial knowledge and promote financial awareness Shanxi Branch out to share financial knowledge and promote financial awareness 68 Voluntary Services In 2016, we further enhanced our practices for delivering voluntary services, improved the quality and performance of our voluntary work, and organized diverse and rich voluntary activities, all contributing to implanting the voluntary service concept in the hearts of our people. Big Mountains and Big Dreams – an outreach R&D program on education and poverty alleviation Technology and Precision Make It Happen – an outreach program for the We Can Class of Cangxi Suburban Middle School in association with Jiangsu Zhongyuan Charity Let’s give and join hands to do better – an outreach effort of Ningbo Branch following the model of Lei Feng, a legend who lived for other people A young staff member from Shenzhen Branch teaching in a class as part of the poverty alleviation through education program in Shengli Village, Linjiang County, Heyuan City, Guangdong Staff members of Dalian Branch reaching out to the children of migrant workers at Gezhenbao Central Middle School, Jingzi District, Dalian Books with Love – from Hubei Branch We Care and We Make Winter Warmer – one of a series of voluntary poverty alleviation efforts from Better Environment and More Love – collection Tianjin Branch of used clothing by a team of young volunteers of Hainan Branch 69 Looking Forward 2017 is a decisive year for China’s 13th Five-Year Plan, a year for the country region) and three major strategies (i.e. the Belt and Road Initiative, the Yangtze to deepen the supply-side structural reform and one for the Bank to explore River Economic Zone, and the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei Region), and provide new solutions to support national strategies. We will play our role as a leading high-level support to the construction of Xiong’an New District. DFI, adapt to and stay current with and spearhead the economic New Normal, Double efforts in innovation-driven development, and promote new be open-minded and flexible in applying new methods to new issues, and make industries and new economies. We will make active contributions to the concrete contributions to the sustainable and robust development of the Chinese innovation-driven development strategy, and strongly promote the development economy and society. of strategic emerging industries. We will explore and cultivate new business Continue to deepen reform and provide enduring drive force for our growth points in priority sectors, including new-generation information development. Starting afresh from the successful achievement of the Threetechnology, high-end manufacturing, biotechnology, green and low carbon Step Reform Strategy, CDB will continue to further its reform efforts, actively industry, and digital innovation. We will increase studies of the state’s industrial explore ways to combine Party building and corporate governance, and further strategies and plans, so as to create synergies from the coordinated development enhance the Bank’s corporate governance. We will streamline the group of industrial chains and innovation chains, and to enhance the capability of organizational framework and business processes, as well as the organizational strategic emerging industries to develop as an industrial cluster. As part of our structure. Reform of the subsidiaries will be deepened to enhance their marketcommitment to innovation-driven development, we will continue to improve on driven development capability and promote the growth both in intension and the achievements we have gained in pilot programs combining investments with extension. loans. Focus on strategic priorities and help drive the supply-side structural reform Undertake to serve the Belt and Road Initiative and build global to deliver concrete results. We will make every effort to support the poverty partnerships. We will focus on infrastructure connectivity, production capacity alleviation campaign, improve the rules and procedures and adopt innovative cooperation, and trade and industrial cooperation zones of the Belt and Road methods, and deliver the goals of lifting more than 10 million rural population Initiative, and apply our attention to priority regions, priority countries and out of poverty and the cross-regional relocation of 3.4 million poor population priority projects to promote the concrete progress and delivery of a series of to improve their livelihood. We will continue to drive urban renewal efforts, key strategic projects. By promoting cross-border RMB trades, we will help including the follow-up constructions of urban renewal projects and the funding Chinese equipment, technologies, standards, and services to go outside China of urban renewal projects launched in 2017. We will apply ourselves to help and establish their global presence. As part of our commitment to promote revive the real economy, and focus on the state’s key investment areas and the international cooperation and communications, we will actively participate in 165 major construction projects for the 13th Five-Year Period, as part of our and contribute to global economic and financial governance, implement key ongoing role in sustaining growth and promoting structural reform through agendas in global sustainable development, promote cooperation and mutually effective investments. In addition to promoting new urbanization and the beneficial development by working together in discussions and negotiations, balanced regional development, we will take a holistic approach in furthering implementation and building, sharing the burdens, responsibilities, and the the balanced development of the four major regional blocks (i.e. the eastern benefits, and bring the value of development finance to more countries and coastal region, the western region, the northeastern region, and the central regions. 70 Appendices Key Data 1 Billion RMB, unless otherwise specified Key performance indicators 2016 2015 2014 I. Economic indicators Total assets 14,340.5 12,619.7 10,317.0 Total loans 10,318.1 9,206.9 7,941.6 Non-performing loan ratio (%) 0.88 0.81 0.65 Allowance for loan losses to total loans 4.11 3.71 3.43 Debt securities issued 7,898.5 7,301.4 6,353.6 Capital adequacy ratio (%) 11.57 10.81 11.88 Net profit 109.7 102.8 97.7 Total shareholders’ equity 1,162.7 1,070.3 680.8 ROA (%) 0.81 0.90 1.06 ROE (%) 9.82 11.74 15.63 II. Social indicators Balance with the railway industry 729.65 720.90 575.52 Balance with the power industry 821.66 783.12 773.59 Balance with the highway industry 1,576.97 1,559.51 1,387.76 Total loans to the central and western regions 1 1,250.37 1,093.26 957.22 2 Total loans to the old industrial bases in Northeast China 178.21 203.28 195.09 Total urban renewal loans 972.51 750.89 408.60 Population benefiting from urban renewal loans (in 10,000s) 5,881.47 4,374.17 2,857.00 Urban renewal loans to central/western and northeast regions 64.81 62.05 as a percentage of total urban renewal loans 3 Total cross-regional relocation loans 4 31.06 5 Total rural infrastructure loans 64.30 6 Total poverty alleviation loans to local industries 27.67 Total education loans 22.9 18.7 14.7 Students benefiting from the education loans (in 10,000 applications) 1,854.9 1,523.5 1,238.9 7 Total emergency loans 13.84 9.40 2.08 Total urban infrastructure loans 8 259.29 167.90 179.00 Total number of employees (persons) 9 8,939 8,838 8,723 9 Female employees as a percentage (%) 40.83 40.62 40.17 Public welfare donations (in RMB '0,000) 10 4,664 3,860 4,063 Employee satisfaction (%) 98 98 94 71 Key performance indicators 2016 2015 2014 III. Environmental indicators Percentage of projects subject to environmental impact assessment 100 100 100 Total loans to environmental protection, energy saving 239.14 191.8 167.2 and emission reduction projects 11 Balance of green loans 12 1,571.60 1,574.23 1,430.16 13 Electricity consumption per person at the head office (kwh/person) 14,509 13,876 14,525 Paper consumption per person at the head office (kg/person) 13 18.16 18.49 10.91 Water consumption per person at the head office (m3/person) 13 39.39 45.67 43.29 Client satisfaction (%) 94 96 95 Notes 1 This refers to total loans in both RMB and foreign currencies made by branches in central and western regions. The central and western regions include Shanxi, Jilin, Heilongjiang, Anhui, Jiangxi, Henan, Hubei, Henan, Inner Mongolia, Guangxi, Chongqing, Sichuan, Yunnan, Tibet, Shaanxi, Gansu, Qinghai, Ningxia, and Xinjiang. 2 This refers to total loans made to projects located in the three provinces in Northeast China, namely, Liaoning, Jilin and Heilongjiang. 3 This represents the urban renewal loans made to central, western and northeastern regions (including Shanxi, Inner Mongolia, Liaoning, Dalian, Jilin, Heilongjiang, Jiangxi, Henan, Hubei, Henan, Guangxi, Chongqing, Sichuan, Guizhou, Yunnan, Shaanxi, Gansu, Qinghai, Ningxia and Xinjiang) as a percentage of urban renewal loans made to all regions in China. 4 This represents loans provided for cross-regional relocation of registered underprivileged people and the concurrent relocation of non-registered underprivileged population. 5 This represents the loans to rural infrastructure projects located in and designed to serve regions where the registered underprivileged population account for 10% or more of the total local population. 6 This represents loans provided for agricultural development to registered underprivileged population or to projects which can help the registered underprivileged population with the poverty alleviation efforts. 7 This represents loans made within one year (included) based on rapid response decision-making as part of the Bank’s scope of business, and provided to local governments and critical enterprises and institutions to aid their efforts in managing emergencies before fiscal aid or relief becomes available or the afflicted enterprises or institutions can resume their normal productions and operations. 8 This represents the loans for projects classified as Urban and Municipal Infrastructure Construction under the heading of Urban Construction, including urban railways, heating, natural gas supply, water supply, sewage treatment, public bus passenger transportation, taxi passenger transportation, passenger ferry transportation, flood prevention and control, urban landscape, environmental hygiene, municipal facilities, and greening management, among other municipal facility construction areas. 9 This does not include employees of rural and township banks as well as subsidiaries. 10 This represents the amount of actual cash donations to external causes made by the head office and the branches. 11 This represents the sum of three major types of loans, namely, those made for comprehensive remediation of river and urban environment, those made to promote industrial pollution remediation and comprehensive utilization of resources, and those made in support of clean energy efforts and the ten energy saving projects. 12 This represents the balance of loans to the 12 categories of projects as set out by China Banking Regulatory Commission (CSRC) in the Circular of CSRC General Office regarding the Reporting of Green Loan Statistics ([2013] No.185). 13 This represents the average consumption per person of electricity, paper and water by full-status employees of the head office, and, in particular, the consumption of paper refers to the total consumption in the head office building of the Bank. 72 Honours and Awards Awards Awarded by People's Social Responsibility Award (11th consecutive year) people.com.cn 2016 Special Contribution Award for Corporate Social Responsibility www.xinhuanet.com Most Socially Responsible Financial Institution of the Year China Banking Association Leading Enterprise in Achieving Sustainable Development Goals United Nations Global Compact Network China Best Corporate Responsibility Report Chinese Institute of Business Administration Beijing Rongzhi Corporate Social Responsibility Institute Best Practices in Overseas Communications Financial News Bank of the Year for Best Contribution to the Supply Side Structural Reform Institute of Finance and Banking of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Distinguished Financial Institution in Contributing to Poverty Banyuetan magazine Alleviation in China Best Performance in Syndication Loans Best Manager of Syndication Loans China Banking Association Distinguished Contributions to Great News in the Chinese Banking Sector A Rating from the Assessment of the Banks’ Compliance with State Administration of Foreign Exchange Foreign Exchange Administrative Rules and Regulations Most Influential Bank in the Interbank RMB Market China Foreign Exchange Trade System Best Market Maker in the Interbank RMB Market Top ABS Sponsor Top Member of the Chinese Bond Market – Top Policy Bonds Issuer China Government Securities DepositoryTrust & Clearing Top Member of the Chinese Bond Market – Innovation in Bond Issuance Top Financial Services Institution China Association of Small and MediumEnterprises Institution of the Year for Distinguished Contributions to the Bond Market Financial News InnovativeInstitution of the Year in the Bond Market Banking & Financial Services In-House Team of the Year Thomson Reuters ALB 73 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report To the Board of Directors of China Development Bank Our Independence and Quality Control We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on the We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirement of the selected 2016 key data as defined below in the 2016 Sustainability Report (“the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Sustainability Report”) of China Development Bank (the “Bank”). Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality Selected Key Data and professional behaviour. We carried out limited assurance on the environmental indicators and Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly social indicators in the table of key data in the Bank’s 2016 Sustainability maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented Report. policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our assurance was with respect to the selected key data in the 2016 Sustainability Report only and we have not performed any procedures with Practitioner’s Responsibilities respect to any other elements included in the 2016 Sustainability Report or information in 2015 and earlier periods. It is our responsibility to express a conclusion on the selected key data in the 2016 Sustainability Report based on our work. Criteria We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on The criteria used by the Bank to prepare the selected key data in the 2016 Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements Other Than Sustainability Report is set out in the footnotes to the table of key data (the “basis Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. This standard requires of reporting”). that we plan and perform our work to form the conclusion. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and The Board of Directors’ Responsibilities timing from, and are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement. The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the selected key data Consequently the level of assurance in a limited assurance engagement is in the 2016 Sustainability Report in accordance with the basis of reporting. This substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining internal control a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Accordingly, we do relevant to the preparation of the selected key data in the 2016 Sustainability not express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether the Bank’s 2016 Report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. selected key data in the 2016 Sustainability Report has been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the basis of reporting. Our work involves assessing the risks of material misstatement of the selected key data in the 2016 Sustainability Report whether due to fraud or error, and responding to the assessed risks. The extent of procedures selected depends on our judgment and assessment of the engagement risk. 74 Within the scope of our work, our work was performed at the Head Office and Conclusion the following branches: Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the 2016 selected key data in the 2016 • Shandong Branch Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with • Jilin Branch the basis of reporting. • Yunnan Branch Restriction on Use We performed the following procedures: Our report has been prepared for and only for the board of directors of the Bank and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility towards or accept 1) Interviews with relevant departments of the involved in providing liability to any other person for the content of this report. information for the selected key data within the Sustainability Report; 2) Analytical procedure; 3) Examination, on a test basis, of documentary evidence relating to the selected key data on which we report; 4) Recalculation; and 5) Other procedures deemed necessary. PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian LLP Shanghai, China Inherent Limitation 14 July 2017 The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial information allows for different, but acceptable, measures and measurement techniques and can affect comparability between entities. 75 The Ten Principles United Nations Global Compact Ten principles of UNGC Actions and results in 2016 Human rights We comply with all applicable human rights laws and regulations in China and in regions where we operate, and maintain a 100% record in signing labour contracts with our people. We exercise democratic management and oversight, Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of protect the legal rights and interests of our people, provide five basic insurances internationally proclaimed human rights for our people, including endowment, basic medical insurance, unemployment, work injury, and maternity, and provide minimum compensations in excess of local minimum wage requirements where we operate. We comply with all international conventions entered into or recognized by the Chinese government, and we honour the Universal Declaration of Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and other conventions and declarations. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the We have adopted effective employee representative systems and practices, and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining met all requirements for establishing labour unions across the Bank. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour We have eliminated all forms of forced and compulsory labour. We have abolished all forms of child labour within the Bank and its supply Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour chains. We adopt practices to ensure the use and selection of our people are based Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment on fairness, equality, competitiveness and merit, and have eliminated and occupation discrimination against our people due to race, gender, national origin, age, disability, marriage; religion, culture, language, etc. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to We take initiatives to address climate challenges, including strong efforts in environmental challenges promoting green loans and building our green finance system. We provide strong support to recyclable economy, prevention and remediation of air and water pollutions, energy saving and environmental industries, help Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental promote green initiatives, including green agriculture and green transportation, responsibility and adopt green procurement and green office practices. In the past year, we provided RMB239.14 billion environmental protection, energy saving and emission reduction loans. We support the development of clean and recyclable energies, including solar Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally power and wind power, and the balance of our loans to new and recyclable friendly technologies energy industries amounted to RMB402.4 billion. Anti-Corruption We continue to increase efforts in improving our systems for preventing and Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, punishing corruptions, organize education and training programs to promote including extortion and bribery ethics, increase the cleanup of business briberies, and heighten our capability to maintain compliant and transparent operations. 76 Mapping of Global Reporting Initiative G4 Indicators General Standard Disclosures Category No. Description Status Notes Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, Strategy and G4-1 or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the Adopted. analysis organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Adopted. G4-3 Report the name of the organization. Adopted. G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. Adopted. G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. Adopted. Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either G4-6 theorganization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics Partially adopted. covered inthe report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. Adopted. G4-8 Report the markets served. Adopted. G4-9 Report the scale of the organization. Adopted. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. Report the total workforce by region and gender. Organizational G4-10 Partially adopted. profile Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legallyrecognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in thetourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Not adopted. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. Not adopted. Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, G4-13 Adopted. structure, ownership, or its supply chain. G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. Adopted. List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives G4-15 Adopted. towhich the organization subscribes or which it endorses. List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacyorganizations in which the organization:holds a position on the governance body; G4-16 Adopted. participates in projects or committees; provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; and views membership as strategic List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Adopted. See the G4-17 Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or annual report. Identified material equivalent documents is not covered by the report. aspects and Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. boundaries G4-18 Adopted. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. Adopted. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization. Adopted. 77 General Standard Disclosures Category No. Description Status Notes G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. Adopted. Identified material Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for aspects and G4-22 Not available. suchrestatements. boundaries G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Not available. G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Adopted. G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Adopted. Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement Stakeholder G4-26 bytype and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was Adopted. Engagement undertakenspecifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how G4-27 theorganization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Adopted. Report thestakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. Adopted. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Adopted. G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Adopted. G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Adopted. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. G4-32 Adopted. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI Report Profile recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and G4-33 basisof any external assurance provided. Adopted. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance G4-34 body.Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and Adopted. social impacts. Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the G4-35 Adopted. highestgovernance body to senior executives and other employees. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with G4-36 responsibilityfor economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly Adopted. to the highestgovernance body. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on Governance G4-37 economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any Adopted. feedback processesto the highest governance body. Adopted. See the G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees. annual report. Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his Adopted. See the G4-39 or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). annual report. Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, Adopted. See the G4-40 andthe criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members. annual report. Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and Adopted. See the G4-41 managed.Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders. annual report. 78 General Standard Disclosures Category No. Description Status Notes Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and G4-42 updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals Adopted. related to economic, environmental and social impacts. Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective G4-43 Adopted. knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. G4-44 Partially adopted. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. G4-45 Adopted. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk G4-46 Adopted. management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and G4-47 Adopted. Governance social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s G4-48 Adopted. sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. Adopted. Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest G4-50 Partially adopted. governancebody and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives. G4-51 Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s Not adopted. and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are G4-52 involvedin determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any Partially adopted. otherrelationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including G4-53 Not adopted. the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in G4-54 each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees Not adopted. (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highestG4-55 paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual Not adopted. total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of G4-56 Adopted. conduct and codes of ethics. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and G4-57 Adopted. Ethics and Integrity mattersrelated to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or G4-58 unlawfulbehavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line Adopted. management,whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. 79 Detailed standard disclosures Category No. Heading Status Note G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Adopted. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to G4-EC2 Adopted. climate change Adopted. See the G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations annual report. Adopted. See the G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government annual report. Economic Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant G4-EC5 Not adopted. locations of operation Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of G4-EC6 Not adopted. operation G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported Adopted. G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Adopted. G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation Not adopted. G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Not applicable. G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Adopted. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Adopted. G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Not adopted. G4-EN5 Energy intensity Adopted. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Adopted. G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Adopted. G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Adopted. G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Not applicable. G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Not adopted. Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas andareas of high G4-EN11 Not applicable. biodiversity value outside protected areas Environmental Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected G4-EN12 Adopted. areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Adopted. Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas G4-EN14 Not applicable. affected by operations, by level of extinction risk G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Adopted. G4-EN16 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Adopted. G4-EN17 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Not adopted. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Not adopted. G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Adopted. G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Not applicable. G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions Not applicable. 80 Detailed standard disclosures Category No. Heading Status Note G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Not applicable. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Adopted. G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Not applicable. None. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardousunder the terms G4-EN25 of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage oftransported waste shipped Not applicable. internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats G4-EN26 Not applicable. significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services Adopted. G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed bycategory Not applicable. Environmental Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonG4-EN29 Not applicable. None. compliance with environmental laws and regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the G4-EN30 Adopted. organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Adopted. G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Partially adopted. Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions G4-EN33 Partially adopted. taken Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal G4-EN34 Not applicable. None. grievance mechanisms Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and G4-LA1 Partially adopted. region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time G4-LA2 Adopted. employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Partially adopted. Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in G4-LA4 Not adopted. collective agreements Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety G4-LA5 Partially adopted. committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total G4-LA6 Partially adopted. number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Labor practices and G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Not applicable. decent work G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Adopted. G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Partially adopted. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of G4-LA10 Adopted. employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by G4-LA11 Partially adopted. gender and by employee category Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according G4-LA12 Adopted. to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant G4-LA13 Not adopted. locations of operation G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria Partially adopted. 81 Detailed standard disclosures Category No. Heading Status Note Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions G4-LA15 Adopted. taken Labor practices and decent work Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal G4-LA16 Not adopted. grievance mechanisms Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include G4-HR1 Partially adopted. human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of G4-HR2 Partially adopted. human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Adopted. Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and G4-HR4 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these Not applicable. None. rights Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and G4-HR5 Adopted. measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory G4-HR6 Adopted. Human rights labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures G4-HR7 Not adopted. that are relevant to operations G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken Adopted. Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or G4-HR9 Not applicable. None. impact assessments G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria Partially adopted. Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions G4-HR11 Adopted. taken Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal G4-HR12 Adopted. grievance mechanisms Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and G4-SO1 Partially adopted. development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Not applicable. None. Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the G4-SO3 Partially adopted. significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Adopted. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Adopted. G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary Not adopted. Communities Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and G4-SO7 Not applicable. None. their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonG4-SO8 Adopted. compliance with laws and regulations G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society Not adopted. G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken Partially adopted. Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal G4-SO11 Partially adopted. grievance mechanisms 82 Detailed standard disclosures Category No. Heading Status Note Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are G4-PR1 Not applicable. assessed for improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the G4-PR2 Not applicable. None. health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product G4-PR3 and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories Not applicable. subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning G4-PR4 Adopted. product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Product responsibility G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Adopted. G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Not applicable. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning G4-PR7 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of Adopted. outcomes Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of G4-PR8 Adopted. customer data Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the G4-PR9 Adopted. provision and use of products and services FS1 Policies with specific environmentaland social components applied tobusiness lines Adopted. FS2 Procedures for assessing andscreening environmental and social risksin business lines Adopted. Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and social FS3 Adopted. requirements included in agreements or transactions Process(es) for improving staffcompetency to implement theenvironmental and social policies FS4 Adopted. andprocedures as applied to business lines Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regardingenvironmental and social risks FS5 Adopted. andopportunities FS6 Percentage of the portfolio forbusiness lines by specific region, size and by sector Not adopted. Monetary value of products andservices designed to deliver a specificsocial benefit for each FS7 Adopted. Financial Services business linebroken down by purpose Sector Supplement Monetary value of products andservices designed to deliver a specificenvironmental benefit for FS8 Adopted. each businessline broken down by purpose Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting FS10 Not adopted. organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject topositive and negative environmental orsocial screening Adopted. Voting polic(ies) applied toenvironmental or social issues for sharesover which the reporting FS12 Adopted. organization holds the right to vote shares or adviseson voting FS13 Access points in low-populated oreconomically disadvantaged areas by type Adopted. FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financialservices for disadvantaged people Adopted. FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financialproducts and services Adopted. 83 Notes to the Report This Sustainability Report (the Report)presents the true state of affairs with respect to the sustainable development of China Development Bank. Time Covered: 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016, including certain information outside this timeframe. Frequency of Publication: The Sustainability Report of China Development Bank is an annual report. Entities Covered: The Report covers China Development Bank (as referred to as China Development Bank, CDB or we or us) and its subsidiaries. References: ISO 26000 Guidance on social responsibility (http://www.iso.org); G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 Guidelines) and Financial Services Sector Supplement (http://www.globalreporting.org); GB/T 36000 Guidance on social responsibility; United Nations, Transforming our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development; and relevant decisions and guidelines of China Banking Regulatory Commission and China Banking Association. Assurance: In order to ensure its truthfulness and reliability, PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian LLP has been engaged to provide third-party assurance on the Report. Access to the Report: The electronic copy of the Report can be found athttp://www.cdb.com.cn. Contact: Tian Qing Tel: 86-10-88309375 Fax: 86-10-88309169 Email: csr@cdb.cn 84 No.18 Fuxingmennei Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, P.R. China 100031 TEL: 86-10-6830 6789 FAX: 86-10-6830 6699 E-MALL: csr@cdb.cn WEBSITE: www.cdb.com.cn
