LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI television) Joined: February 26, 2016 Kyiv. Ukraine 2016 2017 “TRC Interradio” (RTI) Ukraine, Kyiv, Vykentiya Hvoiky st., 21 Tel. (044) 374-12-14 www.rti.ua We, socially responsible company “TRC Interradio” (RTI) seek to change the life in our country for the better, adhering to the principles of UN Global Compact, which we became members a year ago. Our company supports the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and actively implements the mechanisms of human rights protection, environment and resources preservation and anti-corruption in its activity. In 2016, the company LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI) in spite of the difficult political, social and financial situation in our country has been able to implement several ambitious projects, which fully meet the social responsibility policies and principles of the UN Global Compact, which we are actively develop in our work. As a mass media organization, we constantly attract attention of our viewers to environmental issues, social issues, corruption, difficult situation in the East of our country. We also actively help people affected by the hostilities and soldiers of the ATO. We are going to follow further the strategic line of development of our TV channel, which is based on the fundamental principles of the UN Global Compact, to improve our corporate and social policy, corporate culture and daily activities, and to inform about undertaken commitments and progress. Director of LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI) Denysenko V.M. 2 CONTENTS Section I Human rights protection .......................................................................4 Section II Labour relations…....................................................................................8 Section III Environment……...................................................................................11 Section IV Anti-corruption........................................................................................15 Section V Business for Peace..................................................................................18 Section VI Information support of the UN Global Compact in Ukraine...................................................................................................21 3 I. Respect for human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should not be complicit in human rights abuses. The Company Policy Human being is the highest value. This principle is taken as a basis of the company`s policy. The priority of this principle is fundamental for a successful and sustainable business functioning. In the field of human rights protection our company adheres to the internationally recognized documents such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The priorities of our company are the principles of respect for human rights, social security, timely payment of wages, providing a comfortable work environment for professional growth. We constantly carry out team building projects to upgrade our work coordination and to make sure that every employee of our company has all opportunities for professional growth, as well as safe and comfortable working process. As the majority of our employees are young people, we fully support them in the pursuit of higher and further education (training, courses), preserving jobs and wage for them. Our human resources management policy involves the creation of a transparent and clear staff management system that meets international standards and contributes to maximum fulfillment of each 4 employee`s potential. The realization of human rights in our company. The main principles of our daily work in the company are professionalism, honesty and mutual respect. These principles apply not only to employees but also to our guests in the air, partners and our audience in general. During the reporting period the company did not reveal cases of discrimination on any ground: age, gender, disability, ethnicity, sexual orientation, religion, economic or legal status. The company cooperates only with those partners who do not make fraud and have stable business reputation. The company does not use child labor, and the age of employees corresponds to the legal age of employment according to national law and internationally recognized standards. The company supports young people in their efforts to develop and grow professionally, that is why a lot of students of specialized universities and specialties have practice on our channel. Also, we support and respect the desire for work of people with disabilities and we provide them with necessary conditions for safe, comfortable and efficient functioning, taking into account their physical characteristics. The company constantly: Keeps track on providing employees with safe workplaces that comply with relevant requirements and sanitary norms; Protects employees from harassment and oppression at the workplace, including physical harassment, verbal abuse, sexual harassment, psychological pressure, violence or threats. Our organization is neutral with respect to all political forces and trends, as we are firmly convinced that mass media must be objective, impartial and put information that is based on facts. Our human resources policy is based on respect, systematic training and professional development of employees. LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI) provides all conditions for professional and career development of its employees. The main criteria for promotion are professionalism, certain accomplishments, abilities, personal qualities and desire for professional growth. 5 Working with inspection authorities the company demonstrates legitimacy, accountability, high ethical standards of work, willingness to cooperate within the framework of existing legislation. Working with competitors, the company sticks to fair and healthy competition based on respect. The company does not use forced or compulsory labor. All the employees signed a contract of employment or they are hired in accordance with the Labor Code. The company follows the path of the following actions in respect of staff: • develops job descriptions functional competencies for staff, which describe the requirements for professional knowledge and skills; • regularly informs the staff about current and strategic objectives of the company for clear understanding of the functioning and better involvement in work; • the Company continuously monitors schedule, work pattern, procedure and technical personnel safety; • direct supervisors held periodic inspection of results 1 2 times a week. Monitoring and Feedback All employees have the opportunity to consult with a company lawyer in case if they consider that their rights in the organization have been violated in any way; Also, employees can address to supervisor or director for clarifications (in person or in written form) and to discuss their comments; Every employee can express their concerns and proposals in the area of his or her rights and claim their rights during regularly scheduled general meetings or a personal meeting with the company management (including the director); Every employee knows the director`s personal e-mail, his mobile and office phone number and can send a letter or call in person and describe his problem or the problem of the company; The company's management at all levels is interested to solve 6 the problem and to implement measures of elimination the causes of the problem, as it affects directly or indirectly the performance of the company. 7 II Labor Relations. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the complete abolition of child labor. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in the field of labor and employment. The Company Policy At observance of the labor rights LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI) is guided by international standards, based on documents such as the Convention of the International Labour Organization Forced or compulsory labor , the Convention on minimum age for employment, as well as the Constitution, laws and regulations legal acts of Ukraine. The company supports freedom of association and recognizes the right of employees to form trade unions and to participate in them at their discretion, and the right to collective bargaining. We do not use forced, compulsory or child labor and we do not cooperate with organizations that do not support this principle. Based on the second article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , according to which everyone is entitled to all the rights and 8 freedoms, without any distinction , the company does not allow discrimination against employees and partners on any grounds, including race, nationality, religion, sex, political views. In the field of personnel management our policy is based on the principles of long-term cooperation, mutual respect, continuous development and serves to attract, promote and retain talented professionals. We recognize that our employees are the most important asset of the company and strive to ensure their personal and professional growth. We build relationships based on the principles of social partnership, ensuring safe, comfortable conditions and decent wages. We also strictly follow the rules on minimum wages and stick to the principle that employment decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. Exercise of labor rights in the company Employees of LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI) can join a trade union of their choice without fear of negative reaction on the part of management. The company does not use child labor. The company has complied with the minimum age of employment, in accordance with national labor laws and international standards. The company does not use forced or compulsory labor. With temporary or part-time employees the company sets up relevant contracts to ensure that all their rights are guaranteed and to prove that the company fulfills all the financial, labor and other obligations. If necessary, the company can set up a contract with private enterprises. There is no discrimination of employees on political, religious, racial, sexual or other grounds in respect of hiring, payments, promotion and creation of comfortable and safe conditions for effective workflow. The proportion of basic salary of men and women working for the company amounts to 1:1. Women in our company are represented at the level of middle and senior management. 9 The gender ratio of executive management in LLC TRC Interradio» Male Female When working with employees LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI) focuses on acknowledgement of every individual, respect for the personality, recognition of merit. We are open to ideas of all the employees and we give them an opportunity to implement their ideas, as well as provide an opportunity for professional and personal growth. We believe that one of the main prerequisites for a successful business is creating a friendly atmosphere in the team. We monitor the safety of all employees at their workplaces. Within all the years of our work there was not a single case of occupational injuries or diseases. Our company complies with all legal requirements in the field of occupational health and safety. Objectives: • Attracting young professionals, the development of the personnel reserve; • Improving employee motivation system; • The development of training programs, including training and upgrade qualifications. Monitoring and feedback Our company regularly held general staff meetings to estimate the psychological climate in the team. Also, every employee can express his or her views, comments, suggestions, and thus have an impact on the company's policy. 10 III ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should uphold the approach to environmental issues, based on the precautionary principle. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives aimed at increasing responsibility for the environment. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Company policy Company LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI) being aware of complexity of ecological situation in the world, adheres to the policy of respect for the environment and the precautionary principle in its activities. The company contributes to reducing environmental pollution, both by taking care of its equipment and, as a means of mass media, regularly informing about new technologies and opportunities for the efficient use of natural resources, reducing pollution, opportunities of transition to alternative energy sources that are safer for the environment. In the future, the company intends to develop eco-safe approach in the field of environmental protection, to support international and Ukrainian initiatives, to contribute to the development of environmental responsibility and to disseminate information on environmentally friendly technologies. 11 Implementation within activities of the company To prevent harm to the environment, responsible employees regularly check the condition and safety of the diesel generators, which work to ensure smooth air in the case of a power outage. In our offices we placed special containers for used office paper, which we then give to companies for recycling. We sparingly use paper, electricity and water. LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI) readily and regularly provides airtime to activists, environmentalists, innovators in the field of environmental protection and conservation who can convey important information about preserving the environment to a large number of people with the help of our channel. We also cooperate with the organization “Green School”, whose principal activity is to conduct trainings and workshops on saving natural resources, transition to alternative energy sources, the creation of eco-innovative projects. Among the main areas of study are: • sustainability and conscious consumption; • economy of common use (sharing economy); 12 • organic farming and permaculture design; • ecological transport and electric vehicles; • sustainable building and compact housing; • alternative energy sources and energy efficiency; • Eco-projects and ecological start-ups; • ecovillages and farming communes Our company is a media partner of these events and tells about these projects on air to attract the maximum of public attention to this issue. Also, our company is committed to making our office green . Green office as we understand it – is a modern, comfortable and safe space for human that efficiently uses its own resources, thus contributing to the preservation of the planet for future generations. Ecological office is not only a reduction of office maintenance costs, but also a real investment in the preservation of the environment. Our path to the green office is through the implementation of these simple actions that are low-cost and fast in the execution. Our actions towards eco office: Electricity • We increase our energy-saving culture and undertake appropriate awareness-raising activities among the employees; • We eliminate the use of inefficient sources of light, except in cases where their use cannot be excluded due to technological or safety reasons. We use modern energy-efficient bulbs LED and fluorescent lamps equipped with electronic control gears. Heat • To regulate the temperature in the office we have installed hand-held heat supply system. Water • In our office we have installed water meters and pay for water according to their counter levels; • We plan to install water-saving nozzles on taps. Waste In our office there are special containers for collecting used office paper, which we give then to recycling companies. 13 Toxic contamination • We try not to use household chemicals containing chlorine and organochlorine compounds in the office, as well as phosphates and phosphonates. We give preference to environmentally friendly household chemicals (that are in short term at least 90% degradable into harmless components in the environment); • We decided to give up on using disposable tableware in the office; • There are special containers for used batteries in our office. These batteries are subsequently given to specialized companies for further processing; GMO In case of centralized procurement of products for the events that take place in our company, we pay attention to the labels and exclude the use of foods containing GMOs. Employee training • We have placed posters motivating employees to save resources; • We plan to hold socially useful projects aimed at improving the ecological condition of the city and the country as a whole (together with our team members we organize events aimed at cleaning of territories and encourage our viewers and partners to take part). Objectives In the nearest future we plan to actively promote, support and implement projects aimed at improving the environment, saving natural resources and the transition to alternative energy sources. If the economic component of our company increases, we plan to switch to electric cars instead of gasoline that pollutes the environment. 14 IV Anti-Corruption. Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Company policy LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI) advocates the prevention and eradication of corruption, and gives special attention to the observance and promotion of 10 UNGC principles in order to protect its reputation and does not cooperate with companies that withdrawfrom this principle. The company is focused on transparent business practices and respect for international norms enshrined in documents such as the UN Convention against Corruption, as well as in national legislation. We continue to improve the program to combat and prevent corruption. Our goal to meet the highest standards of business conduct with our partners, customers and other stakeholders. During the reporting period, LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI) found no trace of corruption. Fines and financial sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations have not been applied. In order to control the risks of corruption, the company takes such measures: • Notifies all employees and partners of LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI) • Irrevocably condemns any behavior that goes against the laws or internal control rules, the principles of effective business operations • Always inform employees and external partners about seriousness of administrative sanctions that apply in case they commit illegal acts 15 • Maintains constant control of all risk areas and personnel trainings for proper performance of their duties. The entire management team and the accounting department personnel have received a training on anti-corruption policies of the company. • Maintains relationships with employees of public bodies, adhering to the principles of transparency, loyalty and all-round cooperation. Objectives • Creating a system of anti-corruption policy training. • Promoting the fight against corruption. • Informing all the partners on the policies to eradicate corruption. • Improving monitoring and warning system of possible breaches of ethical norms. Monitoring Security Service staff have been trained on anti-corruption. On the part of senior management, regular checks take place to ensure compliance with obligations under the Prevention of Corruption. Implementation Employees of LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI) are familiar with the anti-corruption policy of the company. Information about alleged or surmised act of corruption should be passed to senior management. In this case the employee`s privacy is guaranteed. Responsibility for combating corruption in the company lies on security service and top management. As a means of mass media, we actively fight all forms of corruption at all levels. The program which highlights problems associated with corruption is constantly present on our air. In the Insiders program our emcees and leading journalists investigate cases of corruption situations in Ukraine. The difference between our program from others similar ones is that we are ready to investigate and reveal corruption schemes at the request of our viewers who can anonymously send us a complaint or request for an investigation to our specially designed online resource nashanora.com. The “Podiya v diyah” ( Event in Actions ) is designed to encour16 age our guest or expert in the studio to answer lucidly and accurately the questions of the host, some of which are also aimed at identifying corruption schemes. In morning economic show Ranok.Groshі RTI» (“Morning.Money.RTI”) we invite representatives of small and medium-sized businesses, who in addition to stories about their businesses, also share their problems, some of which also lie in the field of corruption violations. Thus, our channel actively covers the issues of combating corruption and tries to solve them by attracting the audience's attention to these issues, helping to find ways to resolve the problem of corruption. 17 V. Business for Peace Currently Ukraine is a country where military operations are being held (ATO). The economy weakens because of this, entire cities are destroyed, while people are injured and killed. At this difficult time for all the Ukrainians, we believe that every Ukrainian business should make its own contribution to help people who are in the zone of fighting soldiers and civilians. We need to support each other and lend a helping hand to those who need it internally displaced persons, those who are fighting for the integrity and independence of our country and civilian population, who decided to stay at home in the ATO zone. All together we can become stronger and promote the end of the war, reducing human losses and preservation of peace, nature and infrastructure. Company Policy LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI) fully supports the official policy of the government of Ukraine, aimed at the speedy end to hostilities in the Donbass. Our company cooperates and helps both our partners, whose work is also aimed at implementing the principle of Business for Peace , and government agencies, that also seek to end the war. Also our company is friendly to internally displaced people, several our employees are IDPs. We believe that each of us has an opportunity to influence the improvement of the situation and hasten the peace process. We believe that by uniting all together and focusing our efforts on assistance and support to ATO soldiers and civilians, we can bring peace to the territory of Ukraine. Implementation in the activities of the company Today, Ukraine is experiencing one of the most difficult periods since 18 independence. The country is torn by war, the economy falls, people are forced to leave their homes to escape the shellings and the horrors of warfare. Currently there are about 2 million internally displaced persons in our country, 270 thousands of them are children. For the sake of support of these vulnerable social groups (refugees from ATO zone) LLC TRC Interradio (RTI) has created a television project Realnі іstorії ATO” (“Real stories of ATO”), which not only tells about the problems of these people, but really helps them. The essence of the project consists in the next: on the one hand, we invite to the studio live broadcast people from ATO zone, refugees who have problems with adaptation, accommodation, involvement in a normal peaceful social life. On the other hand, we invite the representatives of various foundations, charitable organizations, officials, psychologists, volunteers, who can solve this specific situation. Every program of this kind is a problem solving for an individual or a family. We believe that such a clear targeting of these small steps can generally make the lives of refugees from the ATO better and help them to live normal, fulfilling lives again. Another ongoing project of LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI), which implements the principle of Business for Peace is a project “Z ruk v ruky” ( From Hand to Hand ) which consists of several stages and combines both volunteer assistance to those civilians and soldiers who stay in ATO zone and the coverage of their life and problems on the air. 19 Stages of the project From Hand to Hand 1. A trip to ATO zone for filming scenes, documentaries, material for the program. Gathering information about the products and things that are needed for soldiers and residents on the territory of ATO (Luhansk and Donetsk regions). 2. Video editing and release of documentaries and coverages created on the basis of materials taken in the ATO. Series of programs From Hand to Hand on the air. The presenter discusses the major problems and needs of people in ATO with leading experts, representatives of the authorities. 3. Purchase of products and things that people in ATO need and preparing them for shipment. 4. New trip to ATO area where we hand out necessary food and things collected and bought by the TV channel. Drawing up a new list of necessary items and shooting new scenes. (Screenshots of the program From Hand to Hand and the document of Napivmir movie) Objectives 1. The continuation of the air work aimed at coverage and informing viewers about what is happening in the area of ATO. 2. As Ukraine is not only in the state of factual, but also media war, our main principle as a media is providing only proven and reliable information based on facts. The information that does not intimidate, but helps to know the truth, to fight and to approach the cessation of hostilities in the East of Ukraine. 3. Continued collection and purchase of necessary food and goods to send to the ATO zone. 4. Collaboration with governmental agencies and representatives of other businesses to assist in early and successful finishing of ATO. 5. Job search and assistance in social adaptation of internally displaced people. 20 VI Information support of the UN Global Compact in Ukraine LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI) is a media partner of the UN Global Compact in Ukraine. Our broadcasts are attended by the representatives of companies the UN Global Compact participants who share their experiences and tell about the benefits of joining the UN Global Compact. Also, the chairman of the board of the Global Compact Network in Ukraine Tetiana Sakharuk repeatedly visited our studio. Production LLC TRC Interradio» (RTI) is actively involved in the production of promotional videos, infographics, motivational films both for UN Global Compact participants in Ukraine, and for its potential members. We believe that actively promoting the values of the UN Global Compact in Ukraine, we will be able to improve the state of economy, help companies reach a new level, to become active, transparent and socially responsible, which, in turn, will improve the general condition of Ukraine as a state. 21 “TRC Interradio” (RTI) Ukraine, Kyiv, Vykentiya Hvoiky st., 21 Tel. (044) 374-12-14 www.rti.ua 22
