Sustainability Report 2016 The global leader in door opening solutions Saint-Gobain and Certain Teed’s new state-of-the-art headquarters in North America has earned LEED 2009 Platinum certification by utilizing sustainable products. ASSA ABLOY collaborated with Saint-Gobain to provide six distinct door opening solutions, each of which has obtained an Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) for sustainability. Photo © Jeffrey Totaro, 2015 This icon means more information at Sustainability Report 2016 assaabloy.com/sustainability About the report This report, along with additional information available online, describes the Group’s sustainability initiatives and performance in 2016, and addresses issues that ASSA ABLOY has identified as the most important to its stakeholders. As signatory to the UN Global Compact, ASSA ABLOY will submit this report to the UN Global Compact as its Communication on ­Progress report 2016. The report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) guidelines, G4 Core (see pages 26–27 for GRI content index). The data presented in this report has been collected over the calendar year and includes all ASSA ABLOY operations. For further ­information regarding the Sustainability Report and its reporting principles, see page 28. External recognition Contents ASSA ABLOY’s initiatives and results have gained recognition – ASSA ABLOY is included Highlights 2016 1 in FTSE4Good, the OMX GES Sustainability Sweden PI Index, and in the Kempen SNS SRI CEO statement 2 ­Universe. ASSA ABLOY has participated in the Carbon Disclosure ­Project (CDP) since Business context 3 2007. For 2016, the Group received a score of C in the CDP climate change program, and Strategic direction 4 a score of B in the CDP water program. Performance in 2016 5 In January 2017 ASSA ABLOY became an official regional partner in the World Green Customer value and Building Council’s Europe Regional Network. The Network represents a confederation of ­sustainable innovation 6 24 Green Building Councils, eight Regional Partners and over 5,000 company members Supply chain management 8 who work together to promote the development of sustainability and innovation in the European building sector. Manufacturing 11 People 16 Statement from investors 20 Governance 21 GRI content index 26 Reporting principles 28 Glossary 29 Contacts 29 The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The UN SDGs were launched in 2015, defining the global agenda i­ nnovation. The products themselves can reduce customers’ clifor change in 17 overarching goals for a more sustainable society. mate impact through innovative solutions, in for example buildCompanies can play a role in contributing to progress, and much ings. Continuous efficiency improvements in the production proof ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability work is aligned with the objectives cesses reduces ASSA ABLOY’s climate impact and is linked to SDG of the SDGs. Looking at ASSA ABLOY’s offering and operations, 13 on urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. there are six goals in particular that highlight the value ASSA Taking responsibility in everyday operations, ASSA ABLOY has a ABLOY strives to bring, and the responsibility the company takes. strong focus on efficiency, like SDG 12 on responsible production Urbanization and the role of sustainable cities present an through the constant focus on resource efficiency and waste important opportunity to ASSA ABLOY. The business is contributreduction. The Group’s goal is to reduce the water intensity suping to SDG 11 on making cities and human settlements inclusive, porting SDG 6 on clean water and sanitation. Integrating sustainsafe, resilient and sustainable. Everywhere ASSA ABLOY operates, ability into the sourcing processes also means ASSA ABLOY conthe company supports the intention of SDG 9 on resilient infratributes to SDG 8 on inclusive and sustainable economic growth structure, inclusive and sustainable industrialization and and decent work, where health and safety is a top priority. This is ASSA ABLOY ASSA ABLOY in brief WHO ARE WE? ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in door 1 71 47,000 opening solutions with sales of SEK 71 billion and 47,000 employees. The strategies for profitable growth are market presence, product leadership and cost-efficiency # SEK bn employees WHAT DO WE DO? ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in door opening solutions and offers tions, primarily in identity and access management, as well as a number mechanical and electromechanical locks, digital door locks, security of other related products and services. doors, entrance automation, hotel security and secure identity soluFOR WHOM? Institutional and commercial Residential Aftermarket ­customers ASSA ABLOY covers all needs for door opening solutions and service for market. The Group has the largest installed base of products in the institutional and commercial customers, as well as for the consumer world, with a large share of sales in the stable aftermarket. WHERE ARE WE? ASSA ABLOY has leading ­positions in Share of Group sales by region most of Europe, North and South 2016 ­America, Asia and Oceania. EUROPE 38% (37) AFRICA 1% (1) NORTH AMERICA 40% (39) SOUTH AMERICA 3% (2) ASIA 15% (17) OCEANIA 3% (4) Value creation strategy VISION To be the true world leader, the most successful and ­innovative p ­ rovider of total door opening solutions. To lead in innovation and provide well-designed, convenient, safe and secure solutions that give true added value to our customers. To offer an attractive company to our employees. STRATEGY Strategy and targets 10 % 16–17% annual growth through a combinaoperating margin Long-term and as an average over tion of organic and acquired growth a business cycle Strategy for growth and profitability The Group’s overall strategic direction is to spearhead the trend towards increased security with a product-driven offering centered on the customer. The strategic action plans are focused on three areas: market presence, product leadership and cost-efficiency. Market ­presence Product leadership Cost-­efficiency Increasing growth in the core Continuously developing innovaReducing the cost base through business and expanding into new tive products offering enhanced improved processes, flexible final markets and ­segments. customer value and lower assembly close to the customer ­product costs. and production in low-cost ­countries. Employees Beliefs Sustainability Continuing professional ­development, are based on accountability, diversity and is integrated in all Group ­processes: capabilities and beliefs are the basis for commitment for a focused, results-driven innovation, product development, the Group’s success. company with high business ethics. manufacturing, logistics and sales. Highlights 2016 The Group had a positive development across all reporting areas. The range of sustainable solutions was expanded with many new products including the first solar-powered access control lock for the commercial market. The Code of Conduct for employees was updated and available in 28 languages and Code of Conduct for business ­partners was launched.  The Group’s total greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 24 percent during 2016 driven by new production tech­ nologies and efficiency improvements.  The number of entities covered by ISO 14001 or other certifiable environmental management systems increased from 121 to 124 which means that the system covers approximately 76 percent of employees in the Group’s factories.  Development of a Group-wide Health and Safety Management System containing standardized metrics, including leading indicators to prevent injuries and help strengthen the Group’s safety culture. “Sustainability creates business value for ASSA ABLOY and its ­customers.” Johan Molin President and CEO ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Highlights 2016 1 CEO statement Growing demand for energy efficient door opening solutions 2016 was a good year for ASSA ABLOY, with continued sales and earnings growth. Global demand for products with declared and improved sustainability performance is increasing in demand on the market. Our customers are quickly turning to sustainable security solutions, particularly on account of energy savings. ASSA ABLOY’s new five-year sustainability program is proceeding according to plan. During the year we expanded our ­portfolio of green products, improved energy and water efficiency, increased the use of environmental management systems and continued an ambitious plan to improve health and safety within the Group. Sustainability is a win-win situation where we continuously applies to the consumption of materials, water and energy, do more with less resources. Focusing on resource efficiency health and safety and to the environmental impact in the and taking responsibility are fully integrated parts of ASSA form of emissions and waste. Ambitions have been raised in ABLOY’s processes and make us a better and more sustainall these areas and the results from the first year of the proable business. We create more customer value at a lower gram are positive and according to plan. The sustainability cost on the basis of our three fundamental strategies of program is supported by improvements in our reporting increased market presence, product leadership and cost-­ ­systems to ensure faster information procurement. Furtherefficiency. more, the number of supplier sustainability audits remains at The door opening solution, our specialty, plays an impora high level. I’m pleased to report that third-party auditors tant role here in making buildings more energy efficient. We have confirmed high integrity and quality of these audits. have a global leading position with our strategies that drive Our efficiency programs such as the Manufacturing products and solutions with increased customer value, and ­Footprint and VA/VE (value analysis/value engineering) reduced resource consumption and environmental impact. also give significant contribution to the overall sustainability The proportion of environmentally rated buildings are growimprovements in terms of reduced energy consumption and ing in all our markets. ASSA ABLOY has a complete range of materials. total door opening solutions that are energy efficient, intelliIn 2016 we evaluated our sustainability program in gent and some products even harvest the energy they need. ­relation to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and The Group continues to develop Environmental Product ­concluded that our work are in line with UN’s SDG initiatives. Declarations to meet our customers’ need to achieve certifiFinally, I wish to thank all our employees and other stakecations and to be transparent. Today all major product lines holders whose daily commitment makes ASSA ABLOY a are covered by Environmental Product Declarations. ­better and more sustainable business. For many years, we have maintained a high innovation rate. Products launched in the past three years account Stockholm, 6 March 2017 for 30 percent of sales. The Group has also initiated a monitoring system for measurement of revenues from green products. Higher sustainability performance from a life cycle perspective is a prerequisite for our development work and “ASSA ABLOY remains comis integrated into the product innovation process. mitted to the principles of In the beginning of the year we launched our second fiveJohan Molin the UN Global Compact in year sustainability program, which runs until 2020. This President and CEO the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. This report contains our annual communication on progress.” 2 CEO statement ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Business context ASSA ABLOY’s business context ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in total door opening solutions. With global reach comes global responsibility, and part of earning stakeholders’ trust is to manage the material aspects of sustainability throughout ASSA ABLOY’s value chain. Globalization, urbanization, digitization and constant streamlining of all processes, the Group is utilizing sustainability resources efficiently with increased profitability at the same ASSA ABLOY’s stable, value-creating capacity is rooted in a time as we use fewer resources. handful of long-term, global development trends. As the global economy is growing, more and more people are Engaging with stakeholders ­better off financially and have a greater need for safety and Stakeholder engagement is the key to understanding security to protect their homes and families. An increasing ­society’s needs and expectations on ASSA ABLOY and how number of people are moving to cities to find work, and at they can be met. ASSA ABLOY’s main stakeholder groups are least 1 billion people are expected to make this journey in those with a high level of influence, and with whom we interthe next 10 years. This means cities are growing to host act directly and actively in our daily business: customers, homes and workplaces for the new inhabitants. Rising investors and shareholders, employees, suppliers, non-­ ­prosperity is leading to greater investments in advanced governmental organizations, and local communities. doors and door-opening solutions in homes, workplaces, As stakeholder relationships differ greatly, so too does and shopping centers. ASSA ABLOY’s engagement approach to particular stakeAt the same time, rising environmental concerns and holder groups. For example, customers are involved in resource consumption are placing a focus on energy savings. the product development process through Voice of the Locks, doors, and door-opening solutions have a key role ­Customer; suppliers are engaged through the sustainability to play in climate-smart buildings. Digitization provides audit program; employees through daily operations as well enormous potential for smarter security, connected dooras training, the employee survey, and the work council; and opening solutions, and management and control of access the investment community through targeted sustainability and energy consumption. dialogue together with traditional investor relations These trends provide ASSA ABLOY with conditions for ­activities. good underlying, long-term growth. With the Group’s three main strategies of market presence, product leadership, and Our value chain cost-efficiency, ASSA ABLOY has shown a good ability to Sustainability is a driver throughout ASSA ABLOY’s value identify focus areas for profitable growth over time. chain; it is an important element in innovation, in sourcing, ­Emerging markets, innovation, and product development in production, in employee development, in applying with a focus on electronics, as well as increasing sustain­ ASSA ABLOY’s products and solutions, and in upholding ability performance in the use of products and solutions, good relations with external stakeholders. ­provide great opportunities. With good cost control and SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR VALUE CHAIN Innovation Sourcing Manufacturing Market presence Customers Employees | Code of Conduct | Governance Innovation New products are evaluated from a life cycle Manufacturing The manufacture of the Group’s products Customers ASSA ABLOY’s ambition is to supply high-­ perspective. Many recently developed products save should be carried out safely and with the lowest possible quality products that fulfill customer requirements, have a energy as a result of improved insulation and intelligent environmental impact. long life, are manufactured with minimal use of resources, control of various door-opening solutions. Innovation is and have a minimal environmental impact throughout carried out either locally, divisionally, or shared between Market presence ASSA ABLOY is present in more than their life cycle. End users are large institutional and comthe divisions depending on the content and scope. 70 countries, more than two-thirds of which are in North mercial customers (within health care, education, retail, America and Europe.. Wherever ASSA ABLOY does business, hospitality, office buildings, and industry), small and Sourcing Every year the Group purchases a considerable it follows the Code of Conduct, respects the laws and regumedium-sized customers (offices, stores), and the residenamount of material, components, and products from about lations governing business ethics in the countries in which tial market (apartments, houses). Examples of distribution 7,500 direct s­ uppliers around the world at a value of more it operates, and it requires all of its partners to do the same. channels: security systems integrators, locksmiths, security than SEK 25 billion. 53 percent of this value is sourced in installers, building and lock wholesalers, retailers, DIY, low-cost countries. Suppliers in risk areas are evaluated ­hardware and security stores, original equipment manu­ from a sustainability perspective. China is by far the facturers, and door and window manufacturers. ­dominant low-cost country. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Business context 3 Strategy Strategic direction Our Road to the Future – the Group’s strategic direction is a world-leading market ­presence, product leadership, and cost-efficiency. This forms the basis for ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability priorities and work. ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in door opening solutions. applying the reduce-reuse-recycle principle. ASSA ABLOY Sustainability parameters are increasingly becoming a part can reduce its environmental impact and increase cost-­ of identifying and managing business opportunities and fully efficiency by being systematic, exploring various means of exploiting the brand portfolio across diverse segments. reducing production materials, optimizing product compoASSA ABLOY’s expansion is facilitated by a strong brand and nents, and streamlining production as well as transport a good reputation, which is supported by acting in a responmethods. Relevant sustainability factors are considered in sible way. business plans, decision-making processes, and business ASSA ABLOY can reduce production costs by considering principles. In keeping with the Group’s long-term risk-­ the environmental impact of a product from its conception management strategy, sustainability parameters are integral phase onwards, by using resources more efficiently, and by parts of the value chain – from conception to recycling. Turning vision into operation The management of prioritized aspects improved in 2016, • Increased capabilities for data analysis and benchmarking as each division had identified its greatest environmental • Continued focus on sustainable products impact and presented an action plan. The results were aggre• Health and safety – implementation of Group approach gated and presented in a plan for 2020, with targets set at and start monitoring additional KPIs Group level. Monitoring impact and ensuring adequate • Improved system support to automatically calculate manage­ment is an everyday responsibility. ASSA ABLOY’s audited spend in low-cost countries sustainability management has set the following priorities: • Each division has started to measure the sales of the port• Targets for all sustainability KPIs, covering all entities and folio of sustainable products in 2016 the Group • Coordinated implementation of environmental manageEach quarter, ASSA ABLOY reports on, follows up, and evalument systems and systematic follow-up, currently 76 perates its defined KPIs. The result is distributed to management cent of the Group’s employees working in factories, are at different levels in the organization. This process has covered with environmental management systems resulted in regularly updated and more ambitious targets for • Conduct 80–100 workshops for value analysis and value the majority of the follow-up areas. In recent years, the engineering to develop a model for product optimization reporting process has been increased to four times per year, that reduces environmental impact and some KPIs are followed up on a monthly basis. Sustainability agenda 2020 Increasing efficiency in production as well as elevating innovation in products and processes are essential to the Group’s ­ability to grow and be profitable. The sustainability agenda places an emphasis on the following, in accordance with our materiality analysis: Material priorities: Material opportunities to manage: • Strengthen anti-corruption measures • Enhance the sustainability performance in • Ensure responsible acquisitions* ASSA ABLOY’s supply of products and solutions* • Reduce resource and energy consumption • Create products that fulfill our customers’ • Reduce emissions with global warming potential, demands both related to energy consumption and • Create products that our customers want to buy ­chemicals used in industrial processes • Increase knowledge of customers’ future demands • Increase the portion of renewable energy • Increase efficiency in production • Improve water and waste management • Improve health and safety performance • Improve sustainability performance within the supply chain* • Include environmental management systems in all relevant sites • Improve diversity in managerial positions * The aspect is material also outside the organization. 4 Strategy ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Performance in 2016 Performance in 2016 and targets for 2020 The Group had a positive development across the reporting areas. Strong improvements were noted regarding the injury rate and the injury lost day rate, as well as for water and energy efficiency. The Group’s total greenhouse emissions decreased as a result of new production technologies and efficiency improvement. The target scheme that the Group is reporting on today was reporting system since 2013. This has provided an increase set in 2015 and runs until the end of 2020. The Group in the quality of data and enabled a smoother integration of reports its sustainability performance (certain KPIs) every six new units. months. With 347 (338) reporting units, it is important to In relation to the program set for 2020, the Group has ensure a high level of awareness of the Group’s sustainability identified four additional KPIs: priorities in all parts of the organization and to share infor• Generation of non-hazardous waste mation and best practices between entities. The ASSA ABLOY • Portion of renewable energy sustainability database and analysis tool are key elements for • Consumption of other types of organic solvents tracking performance and identifying areas where improve• Generation of greenhouse gas emissions related to ments can be made. The Group has had a new sustainability ­chemicals used in industrial processes Material KPI Target Change Area 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20161 2015–2020 2015–2016 Environmental KPI Number of entities covered by ISO 14001 ­certificates and other ­certifiable management systems 75 100 101 111 121 124 125 +32 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions ­related to energy ­consumption (tons/SEK M)5 14.8 12.9 11.9 10.3 9.8 8.7 –20% –11% Energy intensity (MWh/SEK M)5 36.9 36.3 33.8 31.7 28.2 24.9 –20% –12% Water intensity (m3/SEK M)5 138.8 148.5 129.6 119.1 100.8 76.4 –20% –24% Hazardous waste intensity (kg/SEK M) 186.0 181.4 130.9 125.7 129.4 119.4 –20% –8% Consumption of chlorinated organic solvents (PER and TRI) (tons) 21.6 20.1 14.4 1.7 19.0 16.8 –85% –12% Non-hazardous waste intensity (kg/SEK M)* 853 872 814 990 959 878 –20% –8% Portion of renewable energy* 10.0% 8.7% 6.9% 7.8% 9.1% 10.8% 20% +1.7 p.p. Consumption of other types of organic ­solvents (tons)* 804 933 949 1,033 1,255 1,123 –50% –11% Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions ­related to chemicals in industrial processes (tons/SEK M)* N/A 9.4 9.0 10.5 6.7 3.3 –85% –51% Social KPI Injury rate (number of injuries per million hours worked)5 9.2 9.1 7.5 6.4 6.7 5.2 –40% –22% Injury lost day rate (number of lost days related to injuries per million hours worked)5 182.4 187.4 168.2 135.7 136.0 90.9 –64% –33% Portion of spend in low-cost countries ­represented by ­sustainability audited suppliers 90%3 90%3 89%4 90%4 90%4 93%4 90%4 +3 p.p. Number of sustainability audits of suppliers in ­low-cost countries 4933 7953 8854 8124 8904 8654 –25 Gender equality6 Level 2: 0% 18% 27% 27% 27% 27% +0 p.p. Portion of females in management positions Level 3: 15% 16% 12% 16% 17% 21% +4 p.p. Level 4: 19% 18% 21% 20% 16% 17% +1 p.p. Level 5: 26% 23% 24% 23% 25% 27% +2 p.p. Level2–5: 24% 22 % 23% 22% 23% 25% 30% +2 p.p. 1 For comparable units in 2016. 5 The historical numbers have been adjusted with proforma data 2 The development is a combination of an increased number of for the years 2011–2013. certified entities and recently acquired companies with ISO 6 The definition of management positions have been revised 14001 certification. ­during 2014. 2012 and 2013 have been restated to be compara3 Countries covered: China, Macau, Hong Kong, Taiwan, India, ble with 2014. Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand and Philippines. *N  ew KPIs from 2015. 4 Countries covered: All low-cost countries. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Performance in 2016 5 Customer value and sustainable innovation Sustainable innovation ASSA ABLOY sees rapidly growing opportunities in all markets, based on the Group’s proven track record within sustainable innovation. Key components to unleashing the market potential and meeting customer demands are life-cycle-based Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs), applying sustainability-related design criteria and using the ASSA ABLOY Sustainability Compass. Progress in 2016 the materials used when developing new products. This will further increase • ASSA ABLOY Sustainability Compass launched and implemented in all divithe visibility of the Group’s expanding product listings and strengthen the sions. Training conducted with internal key stakeholders, and con­tinued leadership in innovative thermal and energy conserving products. roll-out across the organization is planned for 2017. This vouches for ­sustainability being an integral part in the initial stages of development. ASSA ABLOY’s Sustainability Compass • Implementation of internal list of non-desirable materials for new The ASSA ABLOY Sustainability Compass is raising the profile of sustainability­product process designs. related design criteria during the development of new products. The com• Initiated development of a “Materials Cheat Sheet”, describing the pass is used to outline the sustainability vision for individual products and ­­environmental effect of the materials to favor conscious environmental includes eight life-cycle dimensions or focus areas: raw materials, water, choices in new product development. ­virgin material, end-of-life reusability, recyclability, in-life energy consump• Continued internal awareness and training programs, including certification, carbon footprint, and financial cost. It is used to track performance and tions and EPDs, to promote sustainability knowledge and understanding to communicate the importance of sustainability-related design criteria throughout the Group. among internal and external stakeholders involved in product innovation • Initiated an awareness program for ASSA ABLOY sales and marketing orgaand ­development. nization’s emphasizing sale of products with ‘Green Attributes’. Emphasizing sales with green attributes Growing market for more sustainable and resilient products Important work during the year includes increasing awareness within the The demand for more sustainable and resilient ASSA ABLOY products is Sales and Marketing teams of how to improve customers’ environmental fueled by the strong growth in green buildings and more sustainable urban footprint by promoting “green attributes” within ASSA ABLOY’s product environments around the world. This trend is manifested by the growing use portfolio. By explaining the environmental improvements and customer of certified systems and sustainability certification schemes for buildings, value that a reduced environmental footprint brings, ASSA ABLOY seeks to such as LEED and BREEAM. promote the portfolio of more sustainable products and increase their share According to the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), LEED is referenced of sales. in project specifications for 71% of projects valued at USD50 million or more. According to a report from Dodge Data & Analytics, the numbers of green Future outlook buildings worldwide are expected to double by 2018 and more than 60% of Demand for sustainable products and green buildings is gaining more the U.S. construction projects will be green by 2018. momentum around the world. ASSA ABLOY continuously works to further improve the Group’s sustainability practices. EPDs The Internet of Things (IoT) will play a key role in sustainable solutions. Customers are increasingly assessing the environmental impact of building IoT will have devices and systems constantly talking to each other and materials. In many cases the purchasing decision and path to achieve LEEDv4 reporting their status. ASSA ABLOY recognizes the opportunity to utilize this and other certifications is based on the information from EPDs. ASSA ABLOY technology. Energy consumption can be dramatically reduced with smarter is leading the industry in establishing product category rules (PCRs) which door solutions at times when they are not in use. With the use of sensors and have resulted in a credible and uniform comparison of similar products. low power standby modes, certain parts of a system can be turned off when Through Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) the environmental impact is mapped un-used. For example, ASSA ABLOY door sensors can inform operators when from raw material extraction to disposal or recycling and this fundamental hotel rooms are unoccupied. As a result, supporting systems such as air work ultimately made it easier for the customers to compare products that ­conditioning and lighting can be switched off. All these play a big part in the fulfill the same function. smart and green building infrastructure. There are door sensors that can In 2016, Health Product Declarations (HPDs) for 21 door and hardware detect if a person is walking by or intends to enter. The doors don’t open if a products were issued. The next step is to expand the approach to optimize person only walks by. Every small decision makes a big impact. Sustainability Compass Eight dimensions in the ASSA ABLOY Sustainability Compass Recycled Content The ASSA ABLOY Sustainability Compass includes eight • Reduce => all five dimensions should be as low as possible dimensions representing the products’ environmental to decrease the environmental footprint. Cost, material, ­footprint. water, energy in use and carbon footprint should all be The starting position is a reference product, existing prodreduced. uct or a product on the market (internal or external), whose • Reuse => the more the better, durability, upgrade, repair, Carbon Cost footprint values are reference points. If there is no reference or reuse, the design reduces the use of disposable com­ Footprint product available, the new product performance is set to ponents such as batteries, cartridges or replacement parts. 100%. The ‘new product’ is compared with the reference as a • Recycle => two dimensions, use of sustainable recycled percentage of the reference product. The reference point is material in new design and also design for easy dis­ marked with a blue ring in the compass. assembly to allow for recycling after disposal. The i­ ndicator Water should be high. Reduce 6 Customer value and sustainable innovation ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Creating customer value through product innovation ASSA ABLOY’s commitment to promoting sustainability-related design criteria in ­product development reduces life-cycle costs and creates value for its customers. Product management and innovation The Global Sustainable Product Council CHANGE IN PRODUCT MIX The ASSA ABLOY Innovation Management system, which is ASSA ABLOY’s Global Sustainable Product Council reprebased on lean innovation principles, consists of several sents functions within sustainability with a focus on new ­modules, including product management, customer insight, products and solutions. The council leads and coordinates long-term trending, and generation planning and projects. activities in all divisions with the purpose of enhancing the The system ensures that new product concepts are fully sustainability performance of new products. It works with 2006 ­evaluated against customer needs and sustainability requiretarget setting and develops policies and guidelines for more SEK 31 billion ments before moving into the engineering design phase. sustainable product development. The council is a forum for Legend Legend Group-wide development and the sharing of best practices Legend and technology, and it provides second opinions and reviews Legend on tools and methods of working. Legend Mechanical products, 51% Legend Electromechanical products, 31% Security doors, 18% Regenerative door operator The 5800 Series ADAEZ PRO is a compact electromechanical door operator that is simple to install and use. This heavy-duty, low energy operator is intended for hightraffic manual opening applications that occasionally require automatic operation like retail outlets, banks, schools or universities. The ADAEZ PRO utilizes a Regenerative Legend Drive System to charge an onboard battery pack eliminating the need for electrical Legend power. When used 25% or less in automatic mode the ADAEZ PRO will self-­generate all Legend 2016 the power it needs to keep its field replaceable, onboard, battery pack charged for up Legend SEK 71 billion to 12 years and in some cases longer. Legend Legend Energy harvesting lock The IN120 WiFi lock with energy harvesting technology demonstrates how a batteryMechanical products, 28% powered lock can utilize light (sunlight or interior lighting) to reduce dependence Electromechanical products, 26% on batteries. This new technology affirms our commitment to providing sustainable Security doors, 18% Entrance automation, 28% access control solutions that help our customers reduce their environmental ­footprint. Since 2006, electro­ mechanical products, including entrance auto­ mation, have increased Green certification confirms energy-saving advantages from 31 percent to 54 HID Global is discovering how achieving third-party certification for its products and ­percent of Group sales. services offers a powerful communication tool to customers seeking “green” solutions. With customers placing increasing importance on the environmental attributes of products, companies such as HID Global need third-party proof to instill consumer confidence in their energy-savings claims. To reinforce its messaging and provide value to its brands, HID Global has partnered with GreenCircle to provide independent third-party validation, assuring its sustainability claims and reinforcing its position as a market leader. GreenCircle certification has been awarded to HID Global’s secure issuance ID printers as well as to its physical access control iCLASS readers. Tests have shown that HID Global’s direct-tocard printers have energy savings of between 53 and 69 percent compared with ­similar products, while its iCLASS readers have shown energy savings of 59 percent when operating in intelligent power mode versus the baseline of standard mode. Brandon Arcement, director of Product Marketing at HID Global, says: “GreenCircle certification provides a powerful communication tool for HID Global’s commitment to green innovation. It enables our customers to invest in our platforms with ­confidence.” ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Customer value and sustainable innovation 7 Supply chain Supply chain management The long-term objective of Group supply chain management is to reduce business risk by improving sustainability performance throughout the value chain. During the year, ASSA ABLOY introduced a Code of Conduct specifically for Business Partners and ­conducted a third-party assessment of ASSA ABLOY’s internal supplier audit system to verify the robustness of the processes. Supply chain challenges Progress in 2016 Ensuring that suppliers fulfill ASSA ABLOY’s requirements is • Business Partner Code of Conduct released an ongoing challenge, which during the year has involved In April 2016 a Code of Conduct for Business Partners phasing out suppliers that fail to meet the company’s stanwas released, in which the text has been updated to be dards. At the same time, ASSA ABLOY’s pace of acquisitions is specially adapted to the needs and challenges of business a supply chain management challenge, and integrating partners. The Business Partner Code of Conduct applies to acquired companies’ supply chains into ASSA ABLOY’s value all partners that provide products or services to ASSA chain is always a priority. This is particularly the case as the ABLOY or that are engaged or instructed to act for or on Group expands into emerging markets and further develops behalf of ASSA ABLOY, such as suppliers, consultants, its supplier base in low-cost countries, which makes it ­distributors, agents and other representatives. increasingly important to ensure a consistent approach to • Improved version of the Business Intelligence System supply chain management. An improved version of the Business Intelligence System Additional challenges include continued efforts to was launched in October 2016. The system, which ­examine suppliers’ environmental management systems and ­incorporates information on spend per ASSA ABLOY encouraging suppliers to perform Environmental Product entity, supplier, category, supplier segment, whether the Declarations, which are increasingly requested by customBusiness Partner Code of Conduct is signed or not and ers. Furthermore, as ASSA ABLOY phases out hazardous subaudit results, is an important tool for measuring and stances, the Group also audits the suppliers’ use of these ­follow up of progress being made. Examples of improvechemicals. ASSA ABLOY plans to overcome some of these ments in the new version is improved measurements for challenges by increasing the use of third-party auditors to measuring suppliers signed the Business Partner Code complement internal auditing capabilities. of Conduct, or suppliers not having resolved any non-­ conformances in conducted audits. The definition of the sustainability audit indicator has also been tougher. Audits overdue according to the audit follow up rules no longer are counted in the measurements. SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS OF SUPPLIERS IN SHARE OF PURCHASES IN LOW-COST COUNTRIES LOW-COST COUNTRIES Number % 1,000 60 50 800 40 600 30 400 20 The share of the Group’s total pur­ 200 chases of raw materials, components 10 In 2016, ASSA ABLOY conducted and finished goods from low-cost 0 865 (890) sustainability audits. 0 countries was 53 percent 2016. 11 12 13 14 15 16 11 12 13 14 15 16 DISTRIBUTION OF SUPPLIER SPEND NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS Number Asia, 43.4 % (46.9) 12,000 Europe, 35.0 % (29.3) 10,000 North America, 18.6 % (21.1) South America, 2.0. % (1.6) 8,000 Australia, New Zealand, 0.9 % (0.9) Africa, 0.1 % (0.2) 6,000 4,000 Reducing the number of suppliers is important for reducing costs and 2,000 improving quality. Active efforts have reduced the total number of ­suppliers 0 by 29 percent over the past five years. 11 12 13 14 15 16 8 Supply chain ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 • Assessment of ASSA ABLOY’s internal supplier Key audit findings in 2016 ­auditing systems In total, ASSA ABLOY has about 7 500 external direct ­material The assessment of ASSA ABLOY’s internal audit internal suppliers, of which 2 700 are located in low-cost countries program continued in 2016, where an external audit and regarded as higher risk. At the end of 2016, 1034 active company audited suppliers previously audited following suppliers were audited and of these 1 011 had satisfied the ASSA ABLOY standard process. In total 865 audits were minimum sustainability requirements, which corresponds conducted during the year and the results have given to an audited spend in excess of 93 percent. The company good information on how to improve ASSA ABLOY’s audited 12 percent of its new suppliers in low cost countries ­internal auditing capabilities. in 2016. At the year-end, two suppliers in low cost countries were blacklisted and 36 put on new-business hold by the Supplier sustainability audit program Group, meaning they were not eligible for new business from The supplier sustainability audit program focuses on direct any ASSA ABLOY entity. material suppliers in low-cost countries in South and Central Based on audit data reported in the new Business America, Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia, as these are ­Intelligence system the most frequent areas with non-­ ­perceived as greatest risk for not being compliant with conformities as well as the areas with biggest improvements ASSA ABLOY’s Business Partner Code of Conduct. In the new made have been analyzed. The analyses showed that busiBusiness Partner Code of Conduct ASSA ABLOY’s policies and ness ­ethics and human rights and labor standards were areas principles are communicated regarding business ethics, where most suppliers were excellent or satisfactory, and human rights & labor standards, health and safety and health and safety in areas such as personal protective ­environment. ­equipment (PPE) and management of hazardous chemicals ASSA ABLOY conducts its own supplier audits and due were the most frequent area where suppliers were rated ­diligence processes. The Business Partner Code of Conduct poor or rejected. The analyses also showed that the areas of sets out clearly that ASSA ABLOY does not accept child labor environmental improvement plans has been adhered to in in its own operations nor at a business partner. Recognizing the follow up audits. the complexity of this matter, should however a child be found in the production chain, ASSA ABLOY requires that the Supply chain management governance employer acts in accordance with the overall best interest of Group Management sets supplier sustainability targets and the child. Neither does ASSA ABLOY accept any form of manages the overall framework, and each division is responforced or bonded labor, prisoners or illegal workers, and the sible for ensuring its suppliers meet ASSA ABLOY requireCode specifies unaccepted conditions of modern slavery. ments. Group Supply Management is led by the SustainabilIn addition, the Code reinforces ASSA ABLOY’s support for ity Supply Council, which is made up of representatives from the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, each division. The Council coordinates activities and follows as well as other working conditions such as contracts, hours up on progress. All divisions apply the same guidelines and and compensation. processes provided by Group Supply Management. Renewable energy replacement brings cost savings Replacing fossil-fuel energy with renewable energy plays an RESULT: “Spain saved EUR 95,000 in 2016 compared with the important part in ASSA ABLOY’s aim to become more sustaincost level before switching to renewable resources in 2014,” able. Charles says, adding that the key to being cost-effective lies in negotiating electricity costs. “Each of the 11 regions in EMEA is CHALLENGE: Efforts are being made throughout ASSA ABLOY responsible for handling the negotiations for electricity locally to reduce its carbon footprint and lower its fixed-energy costs and requesting a mix that includes renewable resources.” by using more renewable energy. “Many people have a mis­ conception that it costs more to purchase electricity from renewable resources like solar and wind power,” says Charles Robinson, sustainability manager ASSA ABLOY EMEA. “But ­buying electricity from renewables is often on a par with ­fossil-fuelgenerated electricity.” SOLUTION: The measures taken by the company have had a major effect. In EMEA, for example, more than half of the ­electricity consumption now comes from renewable energy, and this is expected to increase in the coming years. And some centers already procure their electricity strictly from renewable resources, including Abloy in Finland, the company’s operations in Spain and some UK facilities. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Supply chain 9 Supply chain Supply chain auditing Supplier audits Supplier contractual expectations ASSA ABLOY’s audits are designed to assess if suppliers comASSA ABLOY ensures that new suppliers fully understand ply with the company’s Business Partner Code of Conduct in what is contractually expected of them to help avoid risks terms of business ethics, human rights and labor standards, associated with business ethics, human rights, workers’ health and safety and environmental criteria. Some criteria rights, health and safety and the environment. in the audit checklist are of such significance that they are known as “stoppers”. If a supplier fails to comply with these important standards they are rated “red”, and put on new business hold. If the suppliers fails to improve the supplier will be blacklisted and their relationship with ASSA ABLOY terminated. There are many reasons why suppliers are blacklisted, but the main issue encountered is an unwillingness to THE ASSA ABLOY BUSINESS PARTNER meet ASSA ABLOY’s demands for improvements. CODE OF CONDUCT The ASSA ABLOY audit process is always the same, regardAll suppliers are required to comply with the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct for Business Partners. The Code of Conduct is based less of supplier or auditor, and includes self-assessments, on the following international standards: ­on-site initial audits and on-site follow up audits to verify • UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and connected that the supplier has implemented the agreed action plan. UN Conventions • ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning ­Multi­national Business Intelligence Supply Management System Enterprises and Social Policy Divisions submit their audit reports to the Group’s supplier • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises • UN Global Compact Business Intelligence Supply Management System, which • ISO 14001 allows ASSA ABLOY to grade and analyze the performance of its suppliers. The system is used as a basis for procurement The ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct for Business Partners is decisions to identify preferred suppliers and enables ASSA ­available in 17 languages. ABLOY to monitor several supply chain key performance indicators. AUDIT PROCESS AND TRAFFIC-LIGHT SYSTEM Long term Supplier development and consolidation Mid term Targets and measurements Supplier risk assessment Supplier On-site audits Supplier development self-assessment Scoring principles Grow Traffic-light system Ongoing Sustainability Fix Supplier quality Follow-up audits Exit The traffic-light system ASSA ABLOY uses a traffic-light system to rate individual suppliers on how they conform to Red – the supplier is not approved. The supplier is put on new business hold, and ASSA ABLOY’s Business Partner Code of Conduct. Suppliers are rated on the following five a follow-up audit must be done within a maximum of six months. color-coded system: Green – the supplier is approved. A follow-up audit is done after three years to verify Red, yellow, orange, and purple statuses can be revised based on evidence of a corrective ­compliance. action plan, well-documented progress, and firm commitment from the supplier. Yellow, orange, and purple – the supplier is approved on the condition that it resolves ­Contracts with suppliers may be terminated in the case of a non-compliance that is not ­outstanding issues within an agreed time frame. Yellow signifies the fewest number remedied within an agreed time frame. The contract is automatically terminated if a of non-conformities and purple the most. A follow-up audit is done after one year. ­supplier scores “red” for longer than six months. 10 Supply chain ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Manufacturing Enhancing our environmental performance in operations ASSA ABLOY’s environmental performance improved in several respects in 2016. There is a clear ambition to continuously reduce the environmental impact and enhance performance while expanding the Group. The commercial importance of sustainability performance and analysis of performance. As the Group is decentralized – has increased during recent years. ASSA ABLOY offers with strategic and operational responsibility at divisional ­products and solutions that help the customer enhance its level – a systematic approach and the ability to allocate and sustainability performance, it is therefore important that the oversee performance are important components in driving Group improves the environmental performance across the progress at Group level. The new system also provides better value chain. This includes the phases before the product is tools to visualize and benchmark the development of indiused by the customer: innovation, supply chain, production vidual entities and divisions. The belief at ASSA ABLOY is that and logistics. ASSA ABLOY has been successful in excluding benchmarking and best practice sharing within the Group certain hazardous substances, replacing energy-intensive drive progress. materials, increasing resource efficiency and improving Environmental performance within the supply chain is of waste management. These factors all add value to the high relevance to ASSA ABLOY’s overall performance. The Group’s premium offering. Group has an upgraded platform to monitor individual ASSA ABLOY faces challenges when growing its opera­suppliers’ risks, risk management and performance. During tions and doing so in regions with more fossil intensive 2015, the Group started an initiative with the ambition that energy mixes as well as water scarcity. Furthermore, when no waste should end up in a landfill. In Division EMEA 15 expanding geographically, the transportation footprint must manufacturing sites have been certified as zero-waste to be managed carefully. Energy consumption, carbon emislandfill by the organization Carbon Trust. Similar initiatives sions and water consumption are the most significant conare under implementation in other parts of the Group. tributors to ASSA ABLOY’s environmental impact. Several ­initiatives have been taken across the Group during the year Environmental management systems to address these issues. All entities with significant environmental risk should have an environmental management system. The system gives a Environmental priorities systematic approach to environmental risks and how to ASSA ABLOY has a set of environmental priorities. These ­continuously reduce environmental impact over time. The include: Group has developed a list containing materials and sub• Coordinated implementation of environmental managestances that should be avoided in manufacturing processes ment systems and products. When it comes to development of new prod• Increased capabilities for data analysis and benchmarking ucts, ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability compass guides on eight • Increased efforts in water and waste management life-cycle dimensions. Two aspects are related to hazardous • Efforts to reduce energy consumption and increase materials and whether the product contributes to the ­portion of renewable energy ­building’s energy efficiency or an improved indoor health • Efforts to phase out organic solvents environment. They are all interlinked and closely connected to production Environmental compliance and resource efficiency. Notable progress has been made Environmental compliance is critical to maintain the reputawithin all areas. In 2016, there was a continued increase in tion of ASSA ABLOY and its brands, and it gives a license to the number of units covered by certified management sysoperate. Non-compliance could result in issues with the tems (ISO 14001). In 2013, a new sustainability reporting Group’s stakeholders ranging from employees, customers, system was implemented. Since 2014, the system has shareholders and authorities. No significant fines or nonenabled ASSA ABLOY to collect more data of higher quality monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental and more frequently. This in turn has improved the tracking laws and regulations occurred during 2016. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Manufacturing 11 Manufacturing Energy consumption and carbon emissions Reducing energy consumption is important to ASSA ABLOY Phasing out substances that impact global warming in order to be a more sustainable organization and to save There are two units in particular that use substances with costs. In many countries where ASSA ABLOY operates, there significant global warming impact. The main consumption are, or will be, regulations to decrease energy consumption of Freon takes place in China. In 2015, the first production and emissions. For ASSA ABLOY, the emissions are related to line in China was converted to use environmentally friendly energy consumption and substances used in the Group’s technology, and the remaining lines in China were then manufacturing processes. More effective energy consumpscheduled to be converted in 2016 and 2017. ASSA ABLOY tion will reduce both emissions and cost. complies with the Montreal Protocol and with country-­ The company has reduced its total energy consumption specific legislation on ozone-depleting substances. by, for instance, implementing improved control systems or technologies for heating, ventilation and pressure systems. Cutting energy consumption at production units Modern LED-lighting with occupational sensors has also As much as about 50 percent of the energy consumption in been introduced in large number of factories and sales comlarge manufacturing units is related to factors independent panies. When old machines and processes are replaced by of production volume; for example, heating, ventilation new ones due to age, in most cases they not only require a and lighting. ASSA ABLOY takes steps to streamline and smaller footprint but also use energy more efficiently. ­specialize production of certain products with the purpose Improving energy performance also requires a cultural of increasing efficiency in terms of utilization of machines, change, where employees for instance should switch off equipment and floor space, as well as allocation of compemachines, equipment and PCs when they are not in use. tence. This will allow ASSA ABLOY’s production facilities Improved overall energy performance is the result of to work at full capacity, while supporting efficient working many improvement projects of different types. Most of the practices and high standards of quality. projects generate significant energy savings, without any major investments. Intelligent logistics ASSA ABLOY has been able to reduce the environmental Performance in 2016 impact of transportation while the Group expands. Locating The Group’s total energy consumption decreased by 2.4 perassembly close to the customer has enabled a more flexible cent in 2016 for comparable units as a result of improveand efficient supply of goods. ment activities. Specific energy reduction projects have The Group has a database of the geographical locations reduced the energy consumption by 5,324 MWh. Improved of all suppliers of direct materials, as well as all ASSA ABLOY energy efficiency and increased volumes have reduced factories and sales companies. The database is connected to energy intensity by 11.7 (6.2) percent for comparable units. ASSA ABLOY’s central purchasing database, which enables The portion of energy coming from renewable resources transportation impact estimations to be made based on increased from 9.1% in 2015 to 10.8 percent in 2016. The tar­purchased value, weight of purchased goods and mode of get is to increase the ratio to 20 percent by the end of 2020. transportation. Purchased electricity generated by hydropower, wind and solar accounts for the vast majority of the renewable energy Ozone-depleting used by ASSA ABLOY. To reach the target a higher portion of substances 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 the electricity will have to come from renewable resources. Ozone-depleting subDirect energy consumption such as burning of oil and coal stances in tons of R11 will gradually be reduced in favor of purchased electricity. equivalent 1 (tons) 27.0 27.7 30.3 20.8 8.12 1 R11 equivalence measures ozone-depleting potential. The calculation is based on the consumption of HCFC-141b. 2 For comparable units. Total amount of ozone depleting substances in tons of 1 For comparable units. Total energy R11 equivalent amounted to 8.1 tons, including units acquired during the year. consumption amounted to 716,003 MWh, including units acquired ­during the year. 2 The historical numbers have been adjusted with proforma data. Energy consumption and related CO2 emissions 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016¹ 3 Total energy use/value added. Direct energy – Scope 1 4 For comparable units. Total energy – oil (MWh) 30,324 34,942 31,179 29,231 23,177 23,911 use/value added amounted to 25.0 MWh/SEK M, including units – gas (MWh) 178,069 192,733 200,393 244,785 251,997 246,978 acquired during the year. – coal (MWh) 75,756 96,533 86,493 77,695 88,226 48.884 5 For comparable units. Total greenhouse gas emission related to – biofuel/biomass (MWh) 3,480 2,201 1,958 3,119 energy consumption amounted to – Total 284,149 324,208 321,545 353,912 365,358 322,892 246,101 tons, including units acquired during the year. Indirect energy – Scope 2 6 Greenhouse gas emission related to – electricity (MWh) 313,966 334,331 321,824 347,306 358,983 349,516 energy consumption CO2/value – district heat (MWh) 29,138 32,935 47,493 30,877 30,981 28,069 added. 7 For comparable units. Total green– Total 343,104 367,266 369,317 378,183 389,964 377,585 house gas emission related to TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION2 627,254 691,475 690,862 732,095 755,322 700,476 energy consumption/valued added amounted to 8.6 tons/SEK M, includKPI, Energy intensity3 (MWh/SEK M) 36.9 36.3 33.8 31.7 28.2 24.94 ing units acquired during the year. CO2 emissions related to direct energy consumption – Scope 1 (tons) 70,212 81,536 79,674 84,711 87,994 74,140 8 Emission factors are based on data published by the United Nations CO2 emissions related to indirect energy consumption – Scope 2 (tons) 204,068 163,605 163,204 170,460 174,847 169,420 Intergovernmental Panel on Total greenhouse gas emission related to energy consumption CO2 (tons) 274,280 245,141 242,878 255,171 262,841 243,5605 ­Climate Change (IPCC, 2007). 9 For comparable units. Total calcuKPI, Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 6 (tons/SEK M) 14.8 12.9 11.9 10.3 9.8 8.77 lated CO2-emissions related to Greenhouse gas emission related to substances in industrial processes ­substances in industrial processes – Calculated CO2-­emissions8 (tons) – Scope 1 N/A 178,288 184,552 241,783 179,395 92,1739 amounted to 92,385 tons, including – Total CO2 emissions – Scope 1 and 2 N/A 423,429 427,430 496,954 442,236 335,733 units acquired during the year. 12 Manufacturing ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Water and waste management Efforts to reduce water consumption and improve waste consumption primarily relates to painting, plating and cleanmanagement have increased at ASSA ABLOY. They are key ing processes. Twenty such entities, located mainly in the US parts of reducing environmental impact, increasing effiand China, account for more than 70 percent of the Group’s ciency and cutting costs. ASSA ABLOY has improved tracking total water consumption. Water recirculation in wastewater and management of both water and waste. treatment plants is important to improve efficiency. In 2016 the total amount of water recycled corresponded to 19.3 Water management (12.0) percent of the total water consumption. Emissions to Water shortage is an increasing concern in many parts of the water are monitored in accordance with local regulations. world. It is the Group’s ambition to minimize the water footIn 2016 the Group’s total water withdrawal amounted to print and to implement efficient recycling systems or even 2,203,000 m³, of which 84.8 percent were sent to municipal closed loop systems to ensure sustainable operations. treatment plants after use. The ASSA ABLOY units that manDuring 2016, the water withdrawal decreased by 20.5 age chemicals are properly licensed and registered with the percent and the water intensity decreased by 24.3 percent local authorities. Acquisitions in China in recent years have for comparable units as a result of improvement activities added processes with high water consumption. The Group is and changed production mix in China. The Group’s water working intensively to find more efficient alternatives. Water performance 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Purchased water (1,000 m³) 1,777 1,756 1,575 1,600 1,565 1488 Water from on-site wells (1,000 m³) 526 1,070 1,063 1,144 1,127 647 Rainwater (1,000 m³) NA NA 4 1 7 9 Surface water (1,000 m³) NA NA 10 6 3 2 Total water withdrawal (1,000 m³)3 2,303 2,827 2,652 2,752 2,702 2,146¹ KPI, Water/ Value added (m³/SEK M)3 139 149 130 119 101 762 ¹ For comparable units. Total water withdrawal was 2,203 (1,000 m³), including units acquired during the year. ² For comparable units. Total water intensity amounted to 77m³/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. 3 The historical numbers have been adjusted with proforma data. WATER BALANCE Water withdrawal Water usage Water discharge Sanitary and drinking (33.0%) Municipal pretreated (48.7%) Water purchased (68.5%) Industrial processes (57.5%) Municipal untreated (36.1%) Recirculated Water from local wells (31.0%) Cooling (3.9%) Other recipients pretreated (1.0%) Other (5.6%) Other recipients untreated (14.2%) Rain and surface water (0.5%) Relocating electroplating line improves ­sustainability and production CHALLENGE: One of the Group’s largest manufactursafety, a new sprinkler system has also been installed ing sites in China, ASSA ABLOY Zhongshan used to prothat fits the Group’s insurance company’s requirements. cess the wastewater from the electroplating process in its own facility. However, this treatment was far from RESULT: Using the new facility has made the rinsing efficient, as the process created up to 70 tons of elecprocess more efficient, reducing water use by 45 pertroplating sludge each year – all in close proximity to cent and increasing the water reuse rate to over 85 populous areas. percent, which far exceeds the 60 percent standard set by the local government. The upgraded electroplating SOLUTION: ASSA ABLOY Zhongshan has relocated its line has also shortened the production lead time and electroplating line to an industrial estate 13 km from its improved product quality. original site and upgraded the machinery. Wastewater is now collected and treated by a centralized treatment facility managed by the industrial estate. To improve ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Manufacturing 13 Manufacturing Waste management reused in manufacturing. Certified companies appropriately Waste represents a substantial cost both in terms of the dispose of any hazardous waste that cannot be reused. resources needed to generate the waste and the cost to Several companies have reduced the use of packaging ­handle the waste in a proper way. The demand on resources materials, switched to less harmful packaging materials and is expected to increase in the future as a result of economic introduced reusable/­recyclable containers. By using elecand population growth. To minimize resource consumption tronic orders and integrating information flows across sysand waste generation, and to increase recirculation of used tems, the number of printed documents has been reduced. material are important for a long term sustainable business. The intensity value for non hazardous waste decreased by ASSA ABLOY works to minimize waste from its manu­ 8.4 percent for comparable units. facturing processes as well as the waste related to packing. Various metals are sorted by type to assist in the recycling Several companies within the Group generate revenue from of their content. The ambition is to further reduce the selling paper, cardboard and plastic for recycling rather than amount of metal waste by optimizing the dimensions of the having to pay for disposal of those materials. raw materials being used. Two minor incidents of spills were In 2016, the total amount of waste for comparable units reported in 2016. The cases did not cause ASSA ABLOY to was 83,115 (86,821) tons. The intensity value for hazardous exceed permitted levels and was managed in accordance waste decreased by 7.7 percent for comparable units. Cutwith national legislation. ASSA ABLOY has improved its ting oil is extensively filtered and cleaned, so that it can be ­relevant internal processes to avoid future incidents. Recycled metal 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016¹ Waste metal for recycling (tons) 42,710 45,972 49,000 54,025 57,632 55,075 1 For comparable units. Total amount of waste metal for recycling amounted to 56,338 tons, including units acquired during the year. Hazardous waste 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Metal sludge (tons) 661 650 537 563 805 767 Oil for recycling (tons) 490 579 295 370 360 419 Other types of toxic waste (tons) 1,934 2,225 1,846 1,971 2,304 2,171 Total hazardous waste (tons) 3,085 3,454 2,678 2,904 3,469 3,357¹ KPI, Hazardous waste/Value added (kg/SEK M) 186 181 131 126 129 1192 1 For comparable units. Total amount of hazardous waste was 3,560 (tons), including units acquired during the year. 2 For comparable units. Total amount of hazardous waste/value added amounted to 124 kg/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. Non-hazardous waste 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Household incinerated/recycled (tons) 1,975 2,442 1,938 1,955 1,766 1,836 Household deposited (tons) 6,364 6,049 7,308 9,531 11,208 11,147 Paper and cardboard for recycling (tons) 2,621 3,766 3,833 4,329 4,803 4,402 Plastic waste for ­recycling (tons) 382 584 550 1,051 879 731 Wood waste (tons) NA NA NA 4,224 4,277 4,316 Other types of waste (tons) 2,811 3,758 3,013 1,774 2,787 2,252 Total (tons) 14,153 16,599 16,642 22,865 25,720 24,683¹ KPI, Non-hazardous waste/Value added (kg/SEK M) 853 872 814 990 959 8782 1 For comparable units. Total amount of non-hazardous waste was 25,105 (tons), including units acquired during the year. 2 For comparable units. Total amount of non-hazardous waste/value added amounted to 876 kg/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. Eco-friendly packaging brings benefits to ASSA ABLOY South Korea CHALLENGE: Packaged products at iRevo, ASSA RESULT: Hundreds of different box designs have stickers showing the contents of the boxes are ABLOY South Korea, used to come in a range of now been unified into fewer than 10, leading to cost printed using soy-based ink. The new packaging has shapes and sizes and the printed contents on the savings of around 20 percent. All packaging is made also strengthened its brand identity among customboxes and the materials used vastly differed. The from 100 percent recyclable cardboard and the ers by attaining an environmentally friendly image. packaging gave the products a unique feel, but the vast array of packages caused difficulties for factory staff and suppliers. Furthermore, the boxes were not environmentally friendly and brand identity suffered due to the inconsistent packaging. SOLUTION: By categorizing its products into groups, iRevo has reduced the quantities and variations of the packaging. Pictures of the products and the specific contents are now printed separately on stickers and attached to the redesigned common boxes. Packing boxes and printing inks have also been replaced with eco-friendly materials. 14 Manufacturing ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Environmental management systems The Group’s goal is for all units with significant environmenNumber of entities covered by ISO 14001 certificates and tal impact to have an environmental management system to other certifiable environmental management systems comply with ISO 14001. As new companies are acquired 2011 2012¹ 2013 2014 2015 2016 such systems are gradually introduced, if they are not already ISO 14001 55 71 75 85 98 110 in place. A total of 124 units had environmental manageCertifiable systems 20 29 26 26 23 14 ment systems at the end of the year, which means that the Total 75 100 101 111 121 124² system covers approximately 76 percent of employees in the Factory employees covGroup’s factories. ered by environmental In 2016, the number of entities covered by ISO 14001 management systems, % N/A N/A N/A N/A 73 76 environmental management systems increased by 12 to ¹ From 2012, sales companies are included in the reporting of environmental management systems. A part of the change is related to the increased number 110, primarily by certifying entities that previously had other of certified entities as well as closing of units in the restructuring program. certifiable environmental management systems. 2 The total number of entities covered by ISO 14001 and other certifiable management systems amounted to 121, including units acquired during the year. Organic solvents and surface treatment ASSA ABLOY has reduced the consumption of chlorinated other types of organic solvents for comparable units organic solvents through investments in new cleaning techdecreased by 10.5 percent to 1,123 tons in 2016. The target nologies. A gradual phase out of those chemicals is in place. is to reduce the consumption by 50 percent between 2015 ASSA ABLOY uses chlorinated organic solvents such as perand 2020, primarily by switching to water or powder based chloroethylene (PER) and trichloroethylene (TRI) for surface paint applications. treatment of metals, including degreasing, cleaning and pretreatment before plating. Surface treatment is needed to meet high standards of durability, corrosion resistance, CONSUMPTION OF CHLORINATED ORGANIC SOLVENTS ­quality and finishing. The Group works systematically toward eliminating the use of PER and TRI. Most entities have already Tons replaced PER and TRI with less harmful alternatives like ultra25 sonic cleaning and wateror steam-based processes. 20 The total consumption of chlorinated organic solvents was reduced by 12 percent compared with 2015. The major15 ity of the consumption of chlorinated organic solvents in 2016 is related to companies acquired during 2014–2016. 10 The target is to reduce the consumption of chlorinated organic solvents by 85% between 2015 and 2020. 5 The Group is also using other types of organic solvents Consumption in companies 0 acquired 2014–2016 primarily as solvents for paint. The total consumption of 11 12 13 14 15 16 Detergent switch cuts consumption of organic solvents Changing the type of detergent and cleaning tables used to SOLUTION: Several suppliers of cleaning tables were condegrease product parts has significantly reduced the consumptacted and various detergents were tested at the plant, includtion of organic solvents at ASSA ABLOY’s manufacturing plant in ing water-based alkaline cleaners and detergents containing Rychnov nad Kněžnou in the Czech Republic. natural organisms. When evaluating the products, the team at the plant focused on the level of safety of the detergent, its CHALLENGE: Eighteen cleaning tables used for cleaning impact on the environment, the cleanliness of the cleaning commachine tools and components at the plant were using a ponents, the corrosion protection tools and the operating costs. ­detergent that contained organic solvents. A decision was therefore made to replace the degreaser with a product that caused RESULT: By using the new cleaning preparation, the consumpless harm to the environment. tion of organic solvents at the plant in Rychnov nad Kněžnou has been reduced by about 30 percent. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Manufacturing 15 People People – leading the future Employees are the foundation for ASSA ABLOY’s future success. A strong and clear ­strategy linking overall objectives to individual targets and development opportunities helps attract the right competencies. Our employer brand is characterized by our ­commitment to innovation. Accountability and ownership at the core While showing overall positive development, one area for The Group’s 47,000 employees, working in over 70 councontinued focus relates to the individual’s professional tries, strive to earn ASSA ABLOY the position as a true world development. Another area was physical working condileader in door-opening solutions. While the Group is global, tions, which has been one of ASSA ABLOY’s strategic focus there is a nurtured culture of local ownership and decentralareas during 2016. ized decision-making. ASSA ABLOY will carry out its next employee survey in The company’s vision is to be an attractive employer by 2018. The survey is an important tool to understand how instilling a workplace culture that gives employees authority employees feel about their workplace, as well as issues such to act, opportunities for professional development and a as professional development, diversity and equality. sense that every individual is able to make a difference. ASSA ABLOY strives to attract and retain the people with the right Keeping track of internal mobility competencies needed for the company’s continued success. It is ASSA ABLOY’s responsibility to create the necessary structures and offer the right tools for continuous employee High level of participation development to unleash the potential of the internal talent Every second year ASSA ABLOY conducts a Group-wide pool. Employees are actively encouraged to utilize these employee survey. In 2016 the response rate was 92 percent structures and tools to seek out opportunities to develop which in itself is an accomplishment. Overall, there were their own career. A Group-wide intranet portal listing job continued improvements across the spread of areas, but vacancies keeps employees informed of career opportuniwith notably high scores for meaningful and challenging proties across the Group. Internal candidates are given priority fessional opportunities and fair treatment, as well as an open consideration for positions that arise, provided that their and supportive climate. The view is shared among men and qualifications are comparable to those of any external women, of different ages. For ASSA ABLOY this is significant ­candidates. During 2016, 37 percent of the management proof of the performance on the performance management positions across the Group were filled by internal candidates, within the Group, providing employees with clear roles and and there has been a positive development in terms of responsibilities, with the authority to act and a climate that ­internal job applicants for job vacancies. allows for sharing of ideas and innovation. Actions to improve health and safety pay off CHALLENGE: A service engineer servicing industrial door and RESULT: Since these actions began being put into place three docking installations works alone with large and heavy products years ago, the lost time accident rate has fallen by 40 percent. and attends multiple customer sites in a day to perform main­ ASSA ABLOY will continue to reinforce a culture of safety at all tenance activities. Their workplaces are not under ASSA ABLOY levels of its organization, as there is a firm belief that all accisupervision and there is no way to directly control the working dents are preventable. environment. SOLUTION: Several actions were identified in 2013 to reduce the lost time injury frequency and to further reinforce a culture of health and safety. For example, management team members attend training courses, place health and safety at the top of the agenda in each meeting and are made aware of their responsibilities as employers. In the Health and Safety Council, injuries are tracked as they happen and corrective actions followed up. The council also shares best practices from countries or manufacturing sites, so these can be spread and lessons learned. ­Regular safety bulletins and on-the-road campaigns are also used to spread health and safety messages and to raise awareness among service engineers. 16 People ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Training and development – local and global on future challenges. As a complement, the Group also supIn line with the strategy of local ownership and autonomy, ports several short-term initiatives and projects that enable the majority of ASSA ABLOY’s training and development exchange of competence among employees and teams. ­initiatives are implemented and managed on a divisional level based on local needs. Meanwhile, on a Group level, Shared values and a strong foundation ASSA ABLOY runs two global development programs each Being the world leader in door-opening solutions with a year for selected senior managers: the MMT-training, an global presence, ASSA ABLOY must manage social and ethiinternal orientation and development program; and the IMD cal issues and observe a high standard of integrity and fair Business School (IMD) Leading the Future. In 2016, 60 (93) practices. The Group-wide Code of Conduct is available in ASSA ABLOY managers participated in one of these two pro28 languages, and is, together with our way of doing busigrams. The idea of MMT is to create an international crossness, a key component of the ASSA ABLOY introduction probusiness network of colleagues to promote best practice gram. The Code of Conduct underlines ASSA ABLOY’s comsharing and increase the knowledge and awareness of the mitment to fair employment conditions and labor rights, organization and our business. It also facilitates integration and is a clear stand against human rights abuses, child labor of new employees following acquisitions. The IMD program and forced labor of any form. During 2016 the Code of was updated in 2016, and extended with a particular focus ­Conduct was updated following a review. From thesis project to managerial position Maarit Karhumaa contacted ASSA ABLOY Group company Abloy to write her master’s thesis in 2011. Now, she is ­production development manager. The production processes at Abloy have long been familiar to Maarit, who studied these for her master’s thesis. However, the encounter with Abloy came out of the blue, as she had almost decided to write her thesis at a Finnish steel manufacturer. “Then one day, I noticed Abloy was searching for a thesis worker, and both the subject and the industry were perfect for me,” Maarit says. The subject was production control and visual management on the shop floor. “The aim was to reduce inventories and the work in progress related to key component manufacturing processes by developing visual shop floor production control systems,” she says. After completing her M.Sc. in technology, Maarit joined Abloy as a graduate intake, working as a production development engineer at business unit level. Then in 2013, Maarit spent three months at ASSA ABLOY in Germany, as part of the graduate ­program. It was at this time she found out about a vacancy as production development manager within her business unit at Abloy. In 2016, Maarit became production development manager for the whole of Abloy, where she enjoys trying to maintain a level of creativity and remembering to think out-of-the-box. “Those features and a positive attitude are needed for ­continuous improvement,” she says. “Another challenge is how to successfully combine project deadlines with daily management, as we need to support ­production to meet customer needs. One hundred percent ­customer value is our aim. That’s why we’re all here.” ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 People 17 People Gender balance and diversity ASSA ABLOY aims to make the most of the entire workforce available to the company, drawing on individual dynamics, local knowledge and expertise. Promoting a gender ­balance and diversity strengthens ASSA ABLOY’s competitiveness and performance. Gender balance diverse teams at ASSA ABLOY, it has been noted that they With ASSA ABLOY’s Code of Conduct and gender diversity often provide a more holistic approach and better end policy as a foundation, the organization systematically works results – particularly in terms of product development and with gender balance at all levels throughout the Group. business processes. ­Discrimination is simply not tolerated, and ASSA ABLOY Consequently, we strive to achieve an employee strucworks proactively against discrimination. The target for 2020 ture based on diversity at all levels of the organization. is to have 30 percent female managers in senior positions. For example, 28 nationalities are currently represented at The development is monitored every six months. Groupthe highest management levels. An understanding of the wide gender diversity objectives are set, and the actions local market is key to ASSA ABLOY’s success, which has been taken to achieve them are managed and implemented by proven by the geographical expansion of the Group and new the various divisions. market development. One of the challenges to speeding up the development The recruitment process is an important element in towards the Group’s gender balance objectives, is the freachieving a better diversity and gender balance. Managers quency of ASSA ABLOY’s acquisitions, as women have been are expected to examine their organizations to ensure that the clear minority in several of the companies that the Group diversity and qualified females are considered for high-­ has acquired in the past few years. profile projects, employee development and leadership opportunities. The objective is also to have at least one canEmployee diversity didate from the underrepresented gender on the shortlist in As an organization working around the world and across every recruitment situation. In addition, gender balance and ­cultures, ASSA ABLOY promotes diversity to draw fully on the diversity are considered when selecting candidates for the local expertise and dynamics of individuals available to the Group’s talent management programs. company. With extensive experience of working with more PEOPLE – FACTS Number of employees by employment contract, Women at different levels of the organization AND FIGURES employment type and gender Percentage of women Number % of total Female, % Level 2011 20121 20131 2014 2015 2016 Permanent 44,421 95 31 2 – reports to CEO 0 18 27 27 27 27 Temporary 2,507 5 38 3 – reports to level 2 15 16 12 16 17 21 Total 46,928 100 31 4 – reports to level 3 19 18 21 20 16 17 5 – reports to level 4 26 23 24 23 25 27 At the end of 2016, 35 percent of ASSA ABLOY employees Level 2–5 24 22 23 22 23 25 were covered by collective bargaining. All employees 35 35 31 31 31 31 1 The definition of management positions was revised in 2014. 2012 and 2013 have been restated to be comparable with 2014. AVERAGE NUMBER OF AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY REGION NATIONALITIES – ASSA ABLOY’S MANAGEMENT TEAMS EMPLOYEES Number 50,000 Europe, 16,496, 27% women Europe excl. Sweden, 34% North America, 11,924, 27% women Sweden, 21% Pacific 40,000 South America, 2,237, 30% women North America, 19% South A Africa, 587, 42% women Asia, 16% 30,000 Asia, 14,684, 43% women Africa och Middle East, 5% Africa M Oceania, 1,000, 31% women South America, 4% 20,000 Asia Pacific, 1% North A 10,000 Pacific Sweden Asia 0 11 12 13 14 15 16 Europe Africa Women Central and South America Men North America Europe 18 People ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Engaging in safety is a shared responsibility ASSA ABLOY is working towards an injury-free workplace, everywhere the Group operates. ASSA ABLOY is introducing a global management system for health and safety, providing consistent standards across the Group. Safety is viewed as everyone’s responsibility, and ASSA ABLOY strives to promote a culture where everyone is engaged in his or her own and their colleagues’ safety. Only then can ASSA ABLOY can reach the objective. Developments in 2016 Training INJURIES • Development of a Group-wide Health and Safety The safety training is applicable to all current employees, ­Management System, to be implemented in 2017 new employees, visitors and on-site subcontractors and field 200 10 • Implementing a set of standardized metrics, including service work. Training is mandatory also when new processes leading indicators to prevent injuries and help strengthen or changes to processes are introduced. To help facilitate 150 8 the Group’s safety culture training, ASSA ABLOY has developed a training : a Health• There was in general a good development of safety package with a Safety awareness video and a presentation 100 6 ­performance during the year with guidance for implementation and use of the tools. As a complement there are a number of topic specific trainings to 50 4 Occupational safety at ASSA ABLOY meet assessed needs. Each unit is to have a plan for safety ASSA ABLOY employees who face the greatest safety risks training needs and records of training completion. 0 2 are maintenance and service personnel – particularly when 113 123 13 144 15 16 113 123 13 144 15 16 they are working at non-standardized workplaces such as Metrics and reporting customer sites. The main safety risks faced within the Group Each site will report on an additional number of metrics to Injury lost day rate¹ Injury rate² have been identified as heavy lifting, traffic accidents and identify focus areas for improvement and to measure pro­ utting and crushing injuries. For some ASSA ABLOY employgress. Some indicators serve to measure actual performance, 1 Injury lost day rate in lost days per million hours worked. ees there may also be risks related to use of chemicals and and are called lagging indicators as they record injuries that 2 Injury rate in injuries per million other hazardous materials. have occurred. As part of the Group-wide approach, each hours worked. The high number of acquisitions is a challenge for ASSA site will also report on leading indicators that help identify 3 The historical numbers have been adjusted with proforma data. ABLOY’s safety performance as it can take time for a new unit areas for improvements and preventive actions. ASSA ABLOY 4 For comparable units. The total to be fully integrated into the Group’s safety procedures and units will now report consistently on the following indicators injury lost day rate was 136, includreporting. To enable this transition, and to ensure a robust as a minimum: ing units acquired during the year. From 2012, the reporting of injuand cohesive approach across the Group, a working group • Injury rate ries and days lost due to injuries with representatives from the ASSA ABLOY divisions has • Injury lost day rate includes data from ASSA ABLOY entities performing service or launched a Group-wide Health and Management System. • Lost days per injury installation. Total injury rate was Implementation is planned for the beginning of 2017. The • Safety improvements identified 6.7 including units acquired during the year. standardized approach focuses on four main areas, which • Safety improvements implemented will enable a more consistent and systematic way of working across the Group: To nurture a safety culture it is important to follow up on • Health and safety policy manual each incident or accident to learn from it in order to prevent • Communications material reoccurrence. ASSA ABLOY has introduced a standardized • Training format to record, investigate and analyze incidents. This • Metrics and reporting record contains detailed descriptions of the incident, specifies type of injury, determines root cause and what corrective Health and safety policy manual actions have been implemented. Mandatory requirements Building on experiences and best practices from across the for all ASSA ABLOY sites: Group, the Health & Safety Policy Manual was developed to • Develop emergency evacuation and shelter plans and support a systematic approach to identifying and reducing related training drills workplace hazards, and to provide a framework for imple• Provide available basic first aid supplies menting, reviewing and continually improving controls that • Provide fire safety and extinguisher use training provide a consistent approach across the organization. • Assess site hazards and risks The system builds on ASSA ABLOY’s beliefs that safety is • Perform incident investigations and reporting a top priority that is everyone’s responsibility, and that all • Comply with applicable local safety regulations injuries are preventable. Safety incidents are opportunities to learn, improve and take preventive measures. One key Safety culture component of the manual is to identify safety risks, and ASSA To prevent accidents and injuries, ASSA ABLOY is promoting ABLOY has developed an identification and risk assessment a culture where employees are engaged in proactive safety model that can be used in the operations as a first step. measures, teaming up to eliminate potential safety risks. To support the work, all units with more than 50 employees will Communications to promote awareness have their own health and safety committees, which will As part of the Group-wide approach, each ASSA ABLOY ­facility operate on a divisional level and include union representaneeds to create visual safety communications for all employtives where applicable. ees. Content will include safety performance metrics, notices of updates, lessons learned or best practice sharing, thematic Absenteeism and Occupational diseases focus topics or results from safety improvement actions. Absenteeism and Occupational diseases are measured by Units are encouraged to use physical or digital content standard Group KPIs on local entity level, where activities that is visible and present in the display at the facility, to be are implemented evaluated. The primary focus is that each a constant reminder of the importance of safety. local entity has a positive development. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 People 19 Statement from investors Statement from investors Julian Beer “ASSA ABLOY manages to combine profitability and ­sustainability” “In our view, a particularly strong point in ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability strategy is its integration into p ­ roduct innovation. We see that ASSA ABLOY manages to combine profitability and sustainability in its efforts to consistently improve product sustainability performance and increase efficiency (thus lowering costs) in the production process. Going forward, ASSA ABLOY could improve the markets’ understanding of its approach to ESG excellence by providing more detailed and specific reporting on how it manages and audits its supply chain. We believe that ASSA ABLOY’s preparedness in this area needs to be clarified or further developed to move towards best in class performance. ESG Financial Advisor, SEB ASSA ABLOY’s strategy of acquisitive growth requires comprehensive and robust due diligence of ESG issues in order to avoid costly surprises or liabilities, for instance relating to negative environmental impacts or unethical business practices. In cases of such incidents, we encourage ASSA ABLOY to be open about consequences in terms of how pre-acquisition processes or routines have been reevaluated to ­prevent the recurrence of similar incidents. One opportunity could be to ensure that acquisition teams have access to center of expertise and knowledge that leads this aspect of due diligence.” Emilie Westholm “It’s important for a company to challenge itself” “During the years, we have seen ASSA ABLOY making progress, in terms of management commitment as well. This is absolutely imperative to enable a company to make significant progress towards sustainability. The business case for sustainability, which for ASSA ABLOY’s offering is highly relevant, can help spur development across all sustainability aspects of the operations, for instance health & safety. In order to continue to make progress, it is important for a company to challenge itself. We commend ASSA ABLOY for reviewing and updating their targets for the next five years, adding new aspects, for instance waste. With regard to water management and health and safety there is still room for continued improvement. This is also true for equal opportunities and diversity, there have been few concrete examples of how the company is working to increase diversity. It seems that there is time to do a new take on this, Deputy Head of Responsible and to show more initiative.” Investment, Folksam Kristin Wallander “Green buildings globally is constantly on the rise” “Due to climate considerations the share of green buildings globally is constantly on the rise. This provides an excellent opportunity for ASSA ABLOY’s products that help reduce energy use, such as electronic locks and parallel windows which can be implemented already in the design phase. In terms of environmental and social footprint, we would like to see measures to further reduce the water consumption as a result of more efficient production processes, the same for the new KPI on ­hazardous waste enabling a more comprehensive follow-up. For health and safety we seek more detailed reporting, mainly ‘near misses’ which is an important measure to help identify and prevent risks. ASSA ABLOY’s presence in high risk countries poses challenges in the own organization and in relation to suppliers. We encourage more information on ASSA ABLOY’s efforts to implement policies and Code of Sustainability analyst, Conduct internally, in particular regarding business ethics and anti-corruption.” ­Swedbank Robur 20 Statement from investors ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Governance Sustainability governance ASSA ABLOY AB is listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm stock exchange, Large Cap. The Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, together with the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct form the basis for the Group’s actions, behavior, and external communication. The Code of Conduct was reviewed and updated in 2016, and complemented with a Business ­Partner Code of Conduct. 28 Frameworks and responsibilities New Business Partner Code of Conduct ASSA ABLOY has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact The new Code of Conduct for Business Partners is based on since 2008. Its affiliation with the UN Global Compact means the pillars and frameworks applied for the ASSA ABLOY Code that the Group supports and commits to actively promoting of Conduct, but is more concise and adjusted to external and respecting the 10 principles on human rights, labor partners. The policy sets forth principles that apply globally The Code of Conduct was ­standards, environment, and anti-corruption in the Group’s to suppliers, business partners and other stakeholders such updated during 2016 and is operations and in dealings with external stakeholders. As a as a third party acting on behalf of ASSA ABLOY. The Code is available in 28 languages. signatory, ASSA ABLOY is obligated to issue a Communicaavailable in 17 languages. tion on Progress report annually to the UN Global Compact. We fulfill this obligation by issuing an annual Sustainability The compliance committee Report, which is communicated to the UN Global Compact. ASSA ABLOY has a Code of Conduct compliance committee, The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for which is chaired by the Group Senior Vice President of identifying and managing existing and emerging risks. The Human Resources. Its members include the Group Head of Executive Team is responsible for sustainability risk manageEnvironmental Sustainability, Group Head of Compliance ment relating to the Group’s strategy, the Code of Conduct, and two employee representatives, who are also members of and other sustainability policies. The divisions have the operthe ASSA ABLOY Board of Directors. Among other things, the ational responsibility as well as the responsibility of integratcommittee receives information from whistle-blowers and ing the principles of sustainability into the daily operations. ensures that such matters are handled in an appropriate way and followed through. The committee meets twice a year. Updated Code of Conduct for employees in 28 languages Growing with care The Group-wide Code of Conduct covers business ethics, ASSA ABLOY grows organically and through acquisitions. 46 communication, human rights and labor standards, environRelocation of production is part of creating a more efficient ment and health and safety. It provides the framework for manufacturing structure. Growing the business in new ASSA ABLOY’s daily operations and dealings with external regions, often in emerging markets, will remain an important stakeholders. part of the strategy for the foreseeable future. It is important During 2016 the Code of Conduct was reviewed and to understand the new context when moving into new strengthened in a number of areas including health and regions and integrating new units. At the same time, the The Code of Conduct safety, diversity and compliance. In response to increased Group works to ensure that the business is run in line with includes a mechanism for stakeholder expectations, the updated code also contains a ASSA ABLOY’s Code of Conduct and values. The ability to whistle-blowing. In 2016, section on ASSA ABLOY’s position on conflict minerals. The grow in a responsible way impacts on ASSA ABLOY’s the Group handled 46 (35) Code of Conduct is based on the United Nations Universal ­performance. cases reported through the Declaration of Human Rights and associated UN convenThe Code of Conduct includes a mechanism for whistlewhistle-blowing function. tions, the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning blowing. The objective is for cases to be resolved on a local Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy, the United level, however in 2016, the Group handled 46 (35) cases Nations Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multi­ reported through the whistle-blowing function. The cases national Enterprises, and the ISO 14001 environmental represent a variety of issues, and signals that the mechanism manage­ment standard. is known across the organization. The ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct is available in its full To uphold the ASSA ABLOY standard across the organizaversion in English, French, German, Spanish, and Chinese, tion, the internal Code of Conduct compliance reviews are while a shortened version is available in 28 languages at: complemented with third-party audits. These audits focus www.assaabloy.com/code. on working and social conditions, such as human rights, The full version of the Code of Conduct is given to all manlabor rights, health and safety, and compliance. The Code of agers, employees with exposed positions, and union repreConduct clearly honors international labor rights, including sentatives. A short version is communicated and made availthe right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, able to all employees. New employees are required to read and promotes diversity. It also underlines ASSA ABLOY’s the Code of Conduct and agree to abide by it and any related commitment to human rights, taking a firm stand against policies within three months of joining the Group. As part of child labor and any form of forced labor or discrimination. the implementation of the updated Code of Conduct, ASSA In 2016, external audits were performed in ASSA ABLOY’s ABLOY will during 2017 launch an updated e-learning modoperations in China and Mexico. Since 2009, 16 sites have ule and a digital quiz to promote dialogue and discussion. been subject to internal audits. The Group carries out two ASSA ABLOY respects the laws and regulations of the audits per year with a focus on the Group’s manufacturing countries in which it operates. The Code of Conduct does sites in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe and South America. Based not replace legislation and if the two are in conflict, legislaon the audit results, the units will take specific actions for tion takes precedence. If the Code of Conduct sets a higher improvement. standard than the existing legislation, the reverse applies. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Governance 21 Governance Anti-corruption and other compliance programs ASSA ABLOY has implemented specific compliance programs within the areas of anti-­ corruption, antitrust, and export control, which supplement and expand on the Code of Conduct in respect of these areas. In 2016, ASSA ABLOY continued to review the process for screening potential sales partners to ensure its robustness. ASSA ABLOY approach to compliance Focus in 2016 All the compliance programs are built up in a similar way. The The work to implement and further strengthen the thirdpolicies and requirements are set by the Group, which also party due diligence process within each division continues. provides supporting tools, while each division is responsible The process is used to evaluate whether or not to engage a for implementing the programs. Each division has a complithird party to make sales on ASSA ABLOY’s behalf, based on ance officer responsible for overseeing the implementation. an adequate assessment and screening. The focus of such a Employees are expected to report concerns. Reports can process is to identify and prioritize our efforts toward be made to the nearest manager, the divisional compliance instances where the corruption risk exposure is perceived to officer, Group Legal, or through the Code of Conduct whistlebe high. blowing function. The implementation of the programs is In 2016, the review of selected arrangements within reviewed through the Group’s established process for ­certain business operations continued. The purpose of the ­internal control, including self-assessment in all operating review is to evaluate existing processes and to identify companies and internal audits. improvement areas in order to further define and develop As further described under the Acquisitions section on the third-party due diligence process and procedures page 23, ASSA ABLOY also has a mergers and acquisitions adjusted to the business and risk. During 2016 the Business compliance process as part of the acquisition process, which Partner Code of Conduct, which expands on ASSA ABLOY’s includes the areas of anti-corruption, antitrust, and export expectations on its Business Partners, was launched. There control. The aim of this process is to put any potential issues was also an update of the anti-trust program during the year. on the agenda at the outset of the acquisition to be able to ASSA ABLOY has conducted preparation work for the determine the level of risk at an early stage, as well as to General Data Protection Regulation that will come into force ­mitigate specific areas of concern. on the 25th of May 2018. The implementation and further development of the ­programs is an ongoing process, and ASSA ABLOY is working Training continuously to find methods that can be used to further ASSA ABLOY’s training guidelines stipulate that all relevant develop and evaluate their effectiveness. new employees should receive training on the compliance 22 programs, as applicable, within three months, and receive Anti-corruption compliance program further training every three years thereafter. Training is conCorruption increases inequality and the cost of doing busiducted either through e-learning programs (available for ness, and reduces efficiency. ASSA ABLOY works actively to antitrust and anti-corruption), webinars, or face-to-face. prevent corruption in its business. The anti-corruption comThe anti-corruption e-learning program is global and pliance program adheres to the strictest international stanavailable in 22 languages. The target group for the anti-­ The anti-corruption dards with the objective of preventing, detecting, and corruption training includes managers as well as sales, e-learning program responding to potential corruption and it is constantly evalu­purchasing, and sourcing personnel. is global and available ated. Risk assessments, employee training, third-party comAt year-end 2016, 79 percent (86) of relevant employees in 22 languages. pliance, and reporting are essential components of the antiin the scope 2016 had participated in anti-corruption traincorruption compliance program. The anti-corruption policy ing. The implementation of a new e-learning program is available on the external Group website, together with the resulted in a 80 percent of relevant employees in the scope Code of Conduct and the Business Partner Code of Conduct. 2016 had participated in antitrust training and 95 percent of All ASSA ABLOY employees have received information on the relevant employees in the scope 2016 had participated in anti-corruption policy. export control training. 70 ASSA ABLOY conducts business worldwide and con­ In 2016, local antitrust e-learning programs for Hong sequently operates in many countries where corruption Kong, India, Malaysia and New Zealand were added to the risks are perceived to be high, according to the Corruption already existing antitrust e-learning programs. Perceptions Index published by Transparency International. A large part of ASSA ABLOY’s sales are handled through third parties, such as distributors, and a great part of the Group’s At year-end 2016, anti-corruption efforts are directed to ensure that such third 70 percent of relevant parties acting on behalf of ASSA ABLOY comply with employees in the scope ASSA ABLOY’s standards. This is particularly the case where 2016 had participated in such sales are made to governments in markets that are anti-corruption training. ­perceived to have a higher level of corruption risk exposure, which is identified through our assessments and the ­Corruption Perceptions Index published by Transparency International. 22 Governance ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Acquisitions – to capture opportunities Acquisitions are important to ASSA ABLOY’s growth strategy. They strengthen the Group’s offerings, accelerate innovation, and take the Group to new geographic markets – enabling ASSA ABLOY to meet customer demands more rapidly. 148 With 148 acquisitions since 2006, ASSA ABLOY has estabTypical risks lished an efficient process for bringing new companies into ASSA ABLOY has identified the main areas of potential risks the Group. This includes reviewing sustainability-related related to acquisitions. All of these are covered by the operaissues and taking steps to help newly acquired companies tional and legal due diligence. ASSA ABLOY’s Group-wide raise their standards where necessary. The successful intesustainability management program – including targets, Since 2006, ASSA ABLOY gration of acquired companies is an important part of semi-annual reporting, Group-wide policies including trainhas made 148 acquisitions. ­reducing risks. ing, and supply chain management – captures the areas ASSA ABLOY prefers to acquire sound companies that listed below and mitigates identified risks. In addition, share the Group’s values and business practices. Ensuring ­dedicated action plans are set up when called for. The susthat acquired companies are smoothly integrated into the tainability management program covers: Group helps to reduce risk and contributes to development. • Significant environmental pollution (soil, ground water, Before an acquisition is completed, ASSA ABLOY shares its and air) way of doing business with the new company, including • Manufacturing processes that use hazardous substances introducing the Group’s Code of Conduct, among other • Supplier base in low-cost countries things. Both parties benefit from knowing as much as • Poor business ethics, including possible Code of Conduct ­possible about each other at an early stage. abuses (labor rights, human rights etc.) • Proper permissions The acquisition processes: before and after The Group-wide acquisition process is divided into four Compliance in the merger and acquisition processes phases: strategy, assessment, implementation, and integraThere is increased importance, and thereby focus, on comtion. Each phase has its own predefined activities, decision pliance issues in connection with acquisitions. This is, in part, points, and documentation requirements. Within these due to increased mergers and acquisitions (M&A) activity in phases there are three main due diligence processes: finanemerging markets. For this reason, ASSA ABLOY has implecial and tax; legal; and operational. The legal and operational mented additional M&A compliance guidelines as part of the phases include several sustainability elements. acquisition process. The operational due diligence phase not only helps The M&A compliance process has been designed to give ASSA ABLOY to decide whether to pursue the acquisition, an overall background and guidance, as well as being a pracbut also to understand and plan the work that needs to be tical toolkit for the people involved in the actual acquisition. conducted if the acquisition is completed. Operational due It covers the five areas of: diligence includes elements such as site visits and a com­ • Anti-corruption prehensive review of all aspects of the operational, commer• Antitrust cial, and administrative activities. The major findings are • Export control recorded and evaluated from a risk perspective. This evalua• Environmental health and safety tion will determine whether there are any issues that need to • Tax be resolved, or whether the process should be terminated altogether. The aim of the process is to supplement the due diligence Potential issues that are identified in the pre-acquisition already performed and to expand and include additional due diligence include the use of chemicals, applications for areas. The main objective is to get all potential issues on the permissions, and compliance. ASSA ABLOY brings in external agenda at the outset of the acquisition to enable a correct advisors when called for. risk appreciation at an early stage. With this support, the due Aspects that are covered by the legal due diligence phase diligence process can be even more focused and tailored to include employment contracts, payment processes and specific areas of concern. wages, insurance, and taxes. Post-completion, a thorough program for addressing any The supplier base is of relevance in connection to an identified compliance issues, as well as any Code of Conduct acquisition, and ASSA ABLOY performs a desktop analysis of related aspects such as human rights, is to be put in place the target company’s supplier base before the acquisition is and implemented. The post-completion review is especially completed. Two supplier categories are mapped, large supimportant if insufficient information has been obtained durpliers and critical components. This mapping involves Group ing the acquisition phase. The M&A compliance guidelines Supply Management and aims to identify risks and potential also offer guidance on this process. synergies. Post-acquisition, associated suppliers are automatically included in the Group’s supplier database, which is continuously assessed and audited on sustainability parameters. As part of the acquisition process ASSA ABLOY is obliged in certain cases to file for antitrust approval. During 2016, the company did this in a number of cases when it was deemed necessary. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Governance 23 Governance Organizational responsibility The divisions have operational responsibility and their work is overseen by the Executive Team and ultimately the Board of Directors. The Group’s strategy, sustainability ­objectives and the Code of Conduct form the foundation for the sustainability work. Managing the sustainability agenda up is clearly communicated and the accountability of each In the ASSA ABLOY Group, sustainability issues are managed person and function with a particular responsibility is in a systematic and consistent way, mostly at divisional level. defined. The environmental sustainability managers, supply managers and innovation managers at the Group and divisional levels ASSA ABLOY’s councils ensure that the necessary policies, processes and tools for The Group Sustainability Council has representatives from managing environmental issues exist and are implemented. Operations, Research and Development and Human The Human Resource functions at the Group and divisional Resources, including the person responsible for sustain­ levels have the corresponding responsibility for managing ability in each division. The council meets three to four times social and ethical matters. To drive the agenda, five functional per year to discuss various aspects of sustainability related to sustainability councils have been defined. The Group intranet innovation and production, to define action plans and set includes two sites that are focused on sustainability. One site targets. Each participant in the council is responsible for offers general information for all employees, while the other reporting back to their organization and for driving implesupports the sustainability managers and includes tools, mentation. The council reports on performance every six best practices, and access to the sustainability reporting months. database. Statistical reports and scorecards enable all of the In addition to the Sustainability Council, there are counASSA ABLOY companies to monitor their performance and to cils for Innovation, Sourcing, Operations and Human benchmark themselves with the Group. Resources, whose members include representatives from the Group and all divisions managing sustainability issues Responsibilities related to their areas. A special council on Health and Safety Each division has the responsibility for managing the Group’s was implemented during 2016. sustainability agenda, identifying and addressing risks and opportunities in their context, as well as governing the Code Monitoring progress of Conduct and related policies. The procedures put in place to manage the Group’s five The divisional work and progress is overseen by the ­functional sustainability areas have been successful. Sustain­Executive Team. Each factory or business unit then has the ability targets and policies have been implemented across operational responsibility within each division The Group’s the Group. The units have identified material risks and taken sustainability work and responsibility includes suppliers. actions to address them. Each division is further responsible for ensuring that curASSA ABLOY has a Group-wide database for sustainability rent and new suppliers understand and comply with indicator reporting. As of the end of 2013, a new reporting ASSA ABLOY’s requirements. system has been in place, enabling improved quality and At Group level, performance is monitored via the sustainanalysis of data. The database includes best practices and ability reporting process, which includes each company’s tools as well as details of measures taken by the various comreporting of material environmental risks and actions to panies to reach the Group’s sustainability targets. All compa­mitigate the same. Divisional board meetings address risks, nies and divisions in the Group can access information from compliance, performance and other sustainability matters. the database to compare progress and trends. In 2016, The delegation of responsibility, implementation and follow347 (338) factories, sales units and offices reported. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Board of Directors ASSA ABLOY Group Management Divisional Boards EMEA Americas Asia Pacific Entrance Global Technologies Systems Sustainability councils reporting process Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Environmental Social and Ethical Sustainable innovation Supply chain integrity Health and safety 24 Governance ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Materiality analysis and stakeholder engagement Materiality analysis tured, along with details of the materials contained in the In 2013, ASSA ABLOY conducted its first materiality analysis in products, and is addressed by the company’s work with its accordance with the GRI-framework. The analysis was supply chain (read more on page 8). Customer interest in reviewed in 2015, and the next review is scheduled for 2017. sustainable products has emerged from a growing interest in This report is based on the outcome of the 2015 materiality sustainable cities, buildings, and communities. One major process. The main outcome of the refinement in 2015 was the focus area is energy efficiency and how ASSA ABLOY’s prodaddition of waste and diversity as Group materiality aspects. ucts can make a contribution. ASSA ABLOY responds to this The refined materiality aspects have contributed toward interest by engaging and collaborating with customers in the company’s revised sustainability agenda and objectives, product innovation and at relevant conferences and events, which were launched in December 2015. ASSA ABLOY’s as well as through its membership of green building organirefined materiality also forms the basis for defining the zations and initiatives. ­Sustainability Report content in the transition to Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 guidelines. Investors and shareholders – investors and shareholders Materiality analysis provides a clear understanding of have become increasingly interested in sustainability issues which aspects are the most important to ASSA ABLOY’s in recent years. ASSA ABLOY engages with investors and stakeholders and its sustainability agenda. ASSA ABLOY’s shareholders in both one-to-one meetings and roundtable materiality analysis process consists of a three-to five-year discussions on a variety of issues, for example supply chain cycle, which involves a large internal workshop in the first management, Code of Conduct compliance, M&A due diliyear and stakeholder involvement later in the process. The gence, phase out of hazardous materials, energy consumpmateriality process is reviewed internally when needed by tion and CO2-emissions, health and safety, market demand the head of Environmental Sustainability, the head of HR, the and profitability for sustainable products and solutions and Product Innovation Process director, and the Group Supply type of whistle blowing cases. Management director. Employees – ASSA ABLOY engages with its employees Stakeholder engagement through annual appraisals, training and development initiaAs a key to understanding societal expectations on tives, staff meetings, the internal magazine in 17 languages, ASSA ABLOY, stakeholder engagement involves engaging and on the intranet. ASSA ABLOY works to improve with a wide variety of actors. ASSA ABLOY’s main stakeholder employee satisfaction across a broad range of areas, and groups are those with a high level of influence and inter­ progress is measured in the employee survey. action, and with whom the Group interacts directly and actively in its daily business. Suppliers – key supplier issues are managed through supply chain audits and Business Partner Code of Conduct Customers – transparency and products with improved sus­compliance. tainability performance are key issues in which ASSA ABLOY’s customers are increasingly becoming interested. EnvironNon-governmental organizations (NGOs) and local commumental and social supply chain transparency typically relates nities – ASSA ABLOY participates in local dialogue with the to where and how ASSA ABLOY’s products are manufacrelevant NGOs and the communities in which it operates. SUSTAINABILITY COUNCILS ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL AND ETHICAL SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN INTEGRITY HEALTH AND SAFETY INNOVATION ASSA ABLOY Stefan Tisell, Maria Romberg Ewerth, Zeljka Svensson, Stefan Calner, Maria Romberg Ewerth, Group Head of Environmental SVP HR Director Global Innovation Director Supply SVP HR Sustainability Management Management EMEA Charles Robinson, Allan Cooper Stefan Zintgraf, Mauro Felice, Mauro Felice, Sustainability Manager Director HR VP Product Innovation VP Operations VP Operations Americas Richard Hafersat, Jack Dwyer, Amy Vigneux, Jody Paviglionite, Kimberly Cummins, Director of Strategic Initiatives VP HR and Administration Director of Sustainable VP Supply Management HR Manager ASSA ABLOY Building Solutions Berlin Asia Pacific Michael Deng, Dolores Shore, Allen Wong, Michael Deng, Dolores Shore, Sustainability Manager Global Director HR VP Innovation Sustainability Manager Global Director HR Entrance Systems Tobias Svensson, Jessica Jonasson, Mats Nordén, Dan Gren, Tobias Svensson, Head of Process Excellence VP HR CTO Sourcing Director Head of Process Excellence HID Global Jeff Sasse, Michele DeWitt, Darren Learmonth, Russel Bruce, Jeff Sasse, Director Global Sustainability VP HR SVP Global Engineering VP Supply Management Director Global Sustainability Hospitality Nicklas Grabowski Marie-Louise Howett, Johan Warnström, Julie Zhu, Marie-Louise Howett, Global Quality Director Global Director HR CTO Hospitality VP Operations Global Director HR ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Governance 25 Reporting GRI content index ASSA ABLOY’s Sustainability Report 2016 applies the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core guidelines. The table below indicates where information can be found; Sustainability Report (unless otherwise stated), Annual Report (AR) or on the company website www.assaabloy.com General Standard Disclosures Description Page Comment/Omission Strategy & Analysis G4-1 Statement from the CEO 2 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization 21 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Flip cover inside, 7, Annual Report flip cover inside, 12, 20 G4-5 Location of headquarters Back cover G4-6 Countries in which operations are located Flip cover inside, 3, Annual Report 74, 86 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 21, Annual Report 103 G4-8 Markets served Flip cover inside, 3, Annual Report 13–15, 28–33 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Flip cover inside, Annual Report 59–60, 74, 79, 86 G4-10 Breakdown of workforce 18, Annual Report 86 G4-11 Coverage of collective bargaining agreements 18 G4-12 Description of supply chain 3, 8 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Annual Report 39, 84 G4-14 Addressing the precautionary approach or principle 11 G4-15 External charters, principles or initiatives endorsed Flip cover inside, 21 G4-16 Memberships in associations 2 www.assaabloy.com/en/com/sustainability/sustainabilitygovernance/guidelines-initiatives-memberships/ Identified Material Aspects & Boundaries G4-17 Report coverage of the entities in the consolidated financial statements 28, Annual Report 79 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries 25, 28 G4-19 Material aspects identified 4 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization 4 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization 4 G4-22 The effect of restatements of information provided in previous reports 28 G4-23 Significant changes in the scope and aspect boundaries from previous report 28 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged 3, 25 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 3, 25 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 3, 25 G4-27 Response to key topics and concerns raised 4, 20, 25 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period 28 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 28 G4-30 Reporting cycle 28 G4-31 Contact point for questions 29 G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option chosen 26–27 G4-33 Policy and current practice regarding external assurance 28 Governance G4-34 Governance structure 21, 24 Ethics & Integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards, code of conduct and code of ethics Flip cover inside, 8–10, 21 26 Reporting ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Specific Standard Disclosures Topic in DMA and ASSA ABLOY’s Aspects indicator Description Page Comment/Omission ­Materiality Analysis Environmental Energy G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4, 5, 11–12, 21, 24–25 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 12, 28 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 5, 12 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 12, 28 Water G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4, 5, 11, 13, 21, 24–25 Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 13 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 13 Emissions G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4, 5, 11–12, 21, 24–25 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) 12, 28 Organic solvents G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) 12, 28 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 5, 12 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 12, 28 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 12, 28 G4-EN21 Environmental organic solvents 15 Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4, 5, 11, 13–14, 21, Water 24–25 Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 13, 28 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 14 ASSA ABLOY reports waste in the categories that are relevant for the company. G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 14 Products and Services G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4, 6, 21, 24–25 Sustainable G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products 6–7 innovation/ and services sustainable products Compliance G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4, 11, 21, 24–25 Environmental G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non11 ­compliance monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Supplier G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4, 5, 8–10, 21, 24–25 Procurement Environmental G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 9, 10 Data presented is for total number of practices Assessment environmental criteria suppliers, not only for new suppliers. Percentage not available. G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts 8, 9 in the supply chain and actions taken Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Occupational Health G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4, 5, 19, 21, 24–25 Occupational health and Safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint 19 and safety management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 19 Data by type of injury, gender and region and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by not available. Data of absenteeism and region and by gender occupational diseases not available on Group level. Diversity and Equal G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4, 5, 18, 21, 24–25 Diversity Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 5, 18 Data by age group not available. per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Supplier Assessment G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4, 5, 8–10, 21, 24–25 Procurement for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor 9 Data presented is for total number of practices practices criteria suppliers, not only for new suppliers. Percentage not available. G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor 8, 9 practices in the supply chain and actions taken Human Rights Investment G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4, 21, 23–25 Acquisitions G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment 23 agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Supplier Human G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4, 5, 8–10, 21, 24–25 Procurement Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human 9 Data presented is for total number of practices rights criteria suppliers, not only for new suppliers. Percentage not available. G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in 8, 9 the supply chain Society Anti-Corruption G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4, 21–22, 24–25 Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks 22, 23 related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and 22 A business partner code of conduct will procedures be launched in 2016. Product Responsibility Product and Service G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4, 6–7, 21, 24–25 Sustainable Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the 6 innovation/ organization’s procedures for product and service information sustainable products and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Reporting 27 Reporting Reporting principles ASSA ABLOY continually works to improve NUMBER OF REPORTING UNITS the sustainability communication in terms Number of transparency, scope, quality and the 350 ­frequency of information. This is the 300 Group’s tenth Sustainability Report. 250 ASSA ABLOY reports in accordance with 200 the GRI guidelines, G4 core. 150 100 Reporting units 50 The number of reporting units in the Group has The number of entities reporting on sustainability in 2016 0 increased to 347 (338). has increased from 338 to 347. The reporting units include 11 12 13 14 15 16 sales units and offices. Units with fewer than 10 employees do not report on sustainability indicators. Joint ventures are included if ASSA ABLOY holds a majority of the shares. Sustain­ability indicators are reported by companies that have been part of the Group since at least the end of the As part of continued efforts to improve the quality of interfirst quarter of 2016. nal sustainability reporting, an analysis of certain units’ reporting in 2014 has resulted in restatements of previously Calculation principles reported data. It concerns reporting of water consumption, Reported normalized KPIs are based on currency-neutral energy consumption and carbon emissions. monetary values and value added rather than sales, in order Since 2015, all units report sustainability performance to minimize the effect of currency fluctuations and the every quarter (internal reporting). Altogether ASSA ABLOY ongoing restructuring of the Group. By using value added as has improved analysis capabilities and ­consolidation of data. a measure, the normalized values are also not affected by the outsourcing of manufacturing. We believe this provides a Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), G4 more accurate picture of what is going on in the Group. This report covers the 2016 reporting year and has been As of 2010, ASSA ABLOY uses the same principle for calcudeveloped with guidance from a number of standards and lating carbon emissions as in the annual Carbon Disclosure with substantial input from investors and available rating Project-report. The selected method gives a more relevant schemes, in particular the GRI Guidelines. The 2016 report calculation on the actual carbon emissions since it takes into adheres to GRI G4 guidelines at core level. Accordingly, the account how electricity is generated in different countries. GRI indicators have been chosen to match the material In 2012 the CO2 emission factors were updated with respect issues disclosed on page 4. Omissions or incomplete data are to international standards. commented on directly in the GRI index on pages 26–27. • Electricity emission factors are based on data on ASSA ABLOY reports its sustainability performance ­electricity production for 2010, as published by the ­annually. This is the eleventh Sustainability Report. The most ­International Energy Agency (IEA, 2012). recent Sustainability Report, for 2015, was issued in March • For district heat the emissions factors are calculated as a 2016. weighted average of energy sources for heat production per country, based on data from 2009 as published by the External assurance International Energy Agency (IEA, 2013). ASSA ABLOY has not sought external assurance for the • Emission factors for oil, coal and gas are based on data sustain­ability report of 2016. PwC Sweden has performed published by the United Nations Intergovernmental a GRI check and confirms that ASSA ABLOY reports on Panel on Climate Change (IPCC, 2006). GRI G4 Core. Changes in reporting management Communication ASSA ABLOY introduced a new sustainability reporting sysInternally, the Group intranet and sustainability reporting tem in 2013. It has facilitated the collection of data as well database are important tools for communication. Externally, as the quality of data. The reporting system has made the the Group website www.assaabloy.com and the annual sustain­ability reporting structure more aligned with the Sustain­ability Report communicate to a wider audience. Group financial reporting. It supports sustainability manageThe Group also presents its sustainability approach to ment in all areas of operations. external audiences, such as analysts and investors. 28 Reporting ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Glossary Contacts BIM Building Information Modeling (BIM), is Greenhouse gas emissions Gases from the Environmental sustainability: a method of drawing data-rich 3D objects that atmosphere that contribute to the green­ Stefan Tisell, ASSA ABLOY AB provide a wealth of information on product house effect, for example CO2 and methane. Director Production Processes and options and how the equipment integrates Environmental Sustainability into a building. Indirect energy Electricity and heating. stefan.tisell@assaabloy.com Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 BREEAM BREEAM is a sustainability assessInjury rate Measure of injuries per million ment method and rating system for buildings, hours worked. Social and ethical matters: measuring a building’s environmental perforMaria Romberg Ewerth, ASSA ABLOY AB mance during building design, construction Injury lost day rate Measure of days lost due Senior Vice President Human Resources and ­operation. to injuries per million hours worked. maria.ewerth@assaabloy.com Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) The CarISO 14001 A global, certifiable standard bon Disclosure Project, or CDP, is an indepenfor environmental ­management systems Supply-chain integrity: dent non-profit organization compiling the ­created by the International ­Organization Stefan Calner world’s ­largest database of corporate climate for Standardization. Director Supply Management change information. CDP harmonizes climate stefan.calner@assaabloy.com change data from local ­organizations from KPI Key Performance Indicator. Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 around the world to assist in the development of inter­national carbon reporting standards. Lean Lean production philosophy is about Sustainable innovation: using as few resources as possible. The focus is Zeljka Svensson Carbon footprint A CO2 measurement of the on just-in-time p ­ roduction, which means that Director, Global Innovation impact of human activities on the environmaterials, parts and products are in the right zeljka.svensson@assaabloy.com ment, in terms of the amount of greenhouse place at the right time. Striving for continuous Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 gases produced. improvement is an integral part of the Lean philosophy. CO2 Carbon dioxide. LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Direct energy Energy generated and utilized Design. on site from oil, gas, etc. NGO Non-governmental organization. EBIT Earnings before interest and tax. Organic solvents Perchloroethylene and Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) t­ richloroethylene. is a verified and registered document that communicates transparent and comparable PER Perchloroethylene. information about the life-cycle environ­ mental impact of products. SRI Socially Responsible Investment. Global Compact A UN initiative that encourTRI Trichloroethylene. ages companies to apply ­sustainable and socially responsible principles. Value added EBIT (earnings before income and tax) plus total cost for ­personnel. Global Reporting Initiative, GRI Global guidelines for sustainability reporting, ­version 3.0. Global-warming potential (GWP) is a relative measure of how much heat a greenhouse gas traps in the atmosphere. Production: ASSA ABLOY, Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photo: ASSA ABLOY’s own photographic library, among others. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet, March 2017. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Glossary / Contacts 29 ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in door opening solutions, dedicated to satisfying ASSA ABLOY AB end-user needs for security, Box 70340 safety and convenience SE-107 23 Stockholm Sweden Visiting address: Klarabergsviadukten 90 Tel +46 (0)8 506 485 00 Fax +46 (0)8 506 485 85 www.assaabloy.com Corp. Reg. No. 556059-3575 Photo © Jeffrey Totaro, 2015 Saint-Gobain and CertainTeed’s new state-of-the-art headquarters in North America earns LEED 2009 Platinum certification by utilizing sustainable products ASSA ABLOY provided a suite of six different door CHALLENGE: The previous North American headSOLUTION: ASSA ABLOY collaborated with Saintopening solutions, from four of its companies, for the quarters for Saint-Gobain was a structure suffering Gobain to provide six distinct door opening soluconstruction of Saint-Gobain & CertainTeed North from “sick building syndrome” at the same time as tions, each of which had obtained an Environmental American Headquarters in Malvern, Pennsylvania. the company was selling its customers on leading Product Declaration (EPD) for sustainability. edge construction materials designed to make their Because the ASSA ABLOY Group provides such a CUSTOMER: Saint-Gobain, a French company buildings healthier for employees. The new facility wide range of products, it was able to combine which prides itself as “the reference in sustainable was also targeted for a 2015 opening as part of them to provide the project with complete and habitat,” remains eager to partner with other interSaint-Gobain’s 350th anniversary – and was integrated door opening solutions. Using the national companies which have also identified intended to reinforce the company commitment ASSA ABLOY products, along with 15 other perma­sustainability as a priority. This emphasis came into to sustainability. nent building products from multiple companies, particular focus as Saint-Gobain spent several years Saint-Gobain was able to meet and even surpass the planning its new headquarters for North America, requirements for LEED 2009 Platinum certification. a building which would house 800 employees of Saint-Gobain and one of its subsidiaries, CertainTeed.
