Communication on Progress Submitted: 09/2017 1 Webhelp at a 09 Glance CO-Founder’s Human Rights at 05 Message 18 Webhelp Anti-Corruption Labour Law at 80 at Webhelp 44 Webhelp Environment at 70 Webhelp v CO-FOUNDER’S MESSAGE Dear Mr. Secretary-General, Together, we both began writing Webhelp’s history in 2000 and we have travelled a long way since. We laid the foundations of our Romanian branch before setting up our offices in Morocco, France, Algeria, Belgium, Madagascar, United Kingdom, Netherlands, Suriname, South Africa, India and more recently in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Czech Republic, Turkey, Portugal and Poland, Greece, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, USA, Spain, Finland, Latvia, Ivory Coast, And this is only the beginning! We always sought ways to satisfy our clients while believing that the wellbeing of our employees is the key to our success. We have surrounded ourselves with more than 35,000 co-workers. Webhelp is an organisation working to implement high level responsible practices whereby corporate social responsibility is everyone’s business. 6 Our vision is that we should carry societal commitments, in the countries we operate within. We are pleased to confirm that Webhelp supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. In 2016, we continued our commitments to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. You will read in our Communication on Progress (CoP) details about these initiatives and results. Sincerely yours, Fréderic Olivier JOUSSET DUHA Co-Founder Co-Founder 7 OUR EVOLUTION Through evolution and acquisition, today Webhelp is a 35,000 (plus!) people-strong global leader in business process outsourcing (BPO). We continue to specialise in customer experience outsourcing but our capabilities extend across voice, social and digital channels. Our outsourced services have also expanded to include payment management, sales and marketing services. Today the business is still led by its two founders, and their entrepreneurial spirit is woven deeply into the fabric of our culture. With a mission to “push the limits of customer experience and business process optimisation,” people are empowered and encouraged to push the boundaries. Since its inception, Webhelp has grown significantly with more than 250 partners being served by our global teams which cross more than 25 countries and more than 90 customer experience hubs. In the last four years alone, our revenues have grown by more than 250%. We achieved this by investing in our people and the environment they work in, and developing the analytical and operating capability to deliver truly transformational customer experience outsourcing with solutions which meet the challenges of a now omni-channel world. 10 Leader in outsourced customer relationship management in europe 28 €950 COUNTRIES 35000+ 100+ MILLION EMPLOYEES PRODUCTION TURNOVER SITES OUR VALUES The people who work at Webhelp are driven by a set of core values that define who we are and how we engineer the ideal omni-channel customer experience. With these values in mind, we work passionately to ensure that our clients and customers are happy, our business is succeeding and that Webhelp is a fantastic place to work. Crucial to those two goals is the drive to provide a vibrant and engaging working environment for our people, giving them the opportunity to go above and beyond every day. We are passionate about what we do – and it shows. 12 RECOGNITION Everyone at Webhelp, from customer advisors to company directors, is recognised for the vital contribution that they make. Working with our clients, serving our customers and keeping everything flowing smoothly – it all forms the backbone of our service offering. That essential hard work is important to acknowledge. INTEGRITY Part of what makes this company a great place to work, and a great partner for our clients, is the core belief that we should treat others the way we want to be treated. That means leading by example and placing an emphasis on positivity and fair play. Focusing on integrity means doing things the right way for everyone, including our. clients UNITY Webhelp is a team – a large and dedicated one. We hold the success of the company over personal interests, and place little value on ego when it comes to getting things done and doing them well. As a united workforce, we achieve small daily victories as well as large-scale successes. COMMITMENT Our company has considerable assets, but the most valuable of them all is our word. At Webhelp, commitment means keeping the promises that we make – whether they are to colleagues, customers or clients. Without the strength of our word, Webhelp would not be the successful strategic partner it is today. WOW We continually seek to provoke delight, create amazement and go the extra mile for the people we work with. Our partners know that Webhelp will always work to achieve more and evolve in the right direction. With that in mind, our people continually strive for the wow factor. 13 OUR LOCATIONS 14 Webhelp is a global business process outsourcer, with more than 100 locations in over 25 countries. Our people speak more than 40 languages, serving in excess of 500 clients. Across the world, more than 35,000 people make up the Webhelp family. We group some countries together in ‘clusters’, based on their primary operational language. Cluster FR Cluster NL Cluster D/A/CH France | Netherlands | Germany | Romania | Suriname | Poland | Morocco | Austria | Belgium | Switzerland | Algeria | Cluster UK Southern Europe Madagascar | Portugal | United Kingdom| Turkey | Greece | South Africa | Italy | Ivory Coast | India | Czech Republic | Cluster Nordics Lines of Business Denmark | Spain | Webhelp Payment Finland | Services (WPS) United States | Latvia | Xtrasource WESS Norway | Sweden | Netino by Webhelp My Studio Factory Direct Medica Green Point 15 OUR CLIENTS Webhelp works hard to build strong and strategic relationships with our clients. Through shared risk and reward contracting, we are jointly working towards performance, transformation or financially driven objectives. The value we offer is tangible; partners measure our success in reduced costs, increased revenue, improved customer advocacy and through greater customer experience. Meet some of our clients who are enjoying an engineered approach to outsourcing. 16 17 v HUMAN RIGHTS OUR MAIN COMMITMENTS TO HUMAN RIGHTS “Label de Responsabilité Sociale” certified since 2006 (Social Responsibility Label) – LRS – renewed in June 2015 Signing of the Charter of Diversity Signing of numerous agreements relating to the employment of vulnerable groups (employment of young & senior populations, disabled people, long term unemployed people...) Formalised training paths for all people to ensure their employability Partnered with local employment institutions 20 HUMAN RIGHTS WITHIN WEBHELP Webhelp considers it essential that all candidates or employees receive the same, fair treatment. The diversity of employees and cultures found in Webhelp are a significant resource. Respect is essential to a harmonious working climate in which employees’ rights are respected and their dignity unquestionable. • The company’s policy is to deal with every employee without consideration for ethnic origin, colour, religious beliefs, sex and sexual preferences, age, nationality or any other personal characteristic that is protected under law. • Our recruitment teams undergo non-discrimination trainings ▪ The company encourages all forms of social dialogue with employee representative organisations and each of its employees. ▪ We have displayed a prevention of psycho-social risks process, targeting specifically stressful and harassment issues. ▪ Global program, WebHEALTH, has been developed and put in place to focus on employees’ health and well-being, inside and outside of work. 21 WEBHELP FOUNDATION : SHARED SHARED, launched in December 2015, with the effective support of “Fondation de France”. The foundation’s main objective is to promote social and professional insertion, either through a financial supply, or through know-how transmission. The secondary objectives are: • Emergency Action (natural catastrophe…) • To help employees facing difficult situations… S H A R E D 22 FIRST ACTIONS OF 2016 23 PROMOTION OF DIVERSITY & EQUALITY Webhelp’s policy is to deal with every employee without consideration for ethnic origin, colour, religious beliefs, sex and sexual preferences, age, nationality or any other personal characteristic that is protected under law. • Our recruitment teams undergo non-discrimination trainings • The company encourages all forms of social dialogue with employee representative organisations and each of its employees. • We have displayed a prevention of psycho-social risks process, targeting specifically stressful and harassment issues. • Many actions have been launched against stress, such as stretching or massage therapy, specific training modules are also available to respond to this issue. 24 PROMOTION OF DIVERSITY & EQUALITY Cluster FR • Regarding internal promotion, Assessment Centers are used to guarantee unbiased promotions. In 2016, we renewed our process to ensure our collaborators can be real actors of their own development. An update took place to amend and improve the overall exercises. • In Morocco, an on-line system, called “Remontées RH”, allows all employees the opportunity to alert the HR Director / Senior HR Management directly, without involving their superior. It offers employees, who feel harassed, protection from possible retaliation . • In 2016, Webhelp Morocco received the Trophee for Professional Equity from the Moroccan Minister of Employment and Social Affairs. Many actions around diversity have been launched: • Renewal of our e-learning on “Non-discrimination” (Luttons ensemble contre la discrimination) • Celebration in the whole French Cluster on special Days, such as International Day of Disabled Persons, Women’s day… RESULTS, CLUSTER FR: All employees follow the e-learning class on harassment. 100% of people involved in recruitment process follow the e-learning class on non-discrimation. 25 PROMOTION OF DIVERSITY & EQUALITY Cluster NL ▪ We established an internal complaints handling committee for aggression, discrimination and sexual harassment. This committee is formed of representatives from HR, the works council and two employees. ▪ Also, an independent counselor has been appointed for all harassment complaints. Cluster UK ▪ A ‘Dignity at Work’ policy has been established and covers Harassment, Bullying and Discrimination. The policy outlines how employees can report such instances and also outlines what responsibilities are placed upon management. All employees are required to read and sign this and other policies on an annual basis. ▪ Recruitment procedures are designed to reach eligible applicants from all sections of the community and we offer pathways into the organisation for the following key groups of people; • School leavers • Semi-retired/retired • Long term unemployed • Parents & Carers • Graduates & Veterans Webhelp Payment Services • WPS has a Code of conduct which covers the respect of human rights, prevents acts of discrimination or harassment, applies a fair human resources policy that complies with the law. This Code of conduct is a commitment from the management and from all WPS employees 26 PROMOTION OF DIVERSITY & EQUALITY The table below represents the Human Rights that are applicable within SA and the provision that Webhelp makes in it’s People Policies and practices South African Act/Law upon which Human Right Webhelp SA People Policies are based Right to fair labour practices Constitution and Labour Relations Act Right not to be unfairly dismissed because you Labour Relations Act have HIV Right not to be unfairly discriminated against Employment Equity Act because based on your HIV status Right not to be tested for HIV unless your employer has applied to the Labour Court for Employment Equity Act authorization Right to a safe working environment Occupational Health and Safety Act Right to compensation if infected with HIV or Compensation for Occupational Injuries any other disease at work and Disease Act (COIDA) Right to certain basic standards of Basic Conditions of Employment Act employment, including 6 weeks of paid sick (BCEA) leave over a 3-year period Right to no unfair discrimination in giving Medical Schemes Act employee benefits Right to privacy about your HIV status at work Common Law right The labour tribunal body within SA to which 95% of all labour disputes are referred, the Commission for Conciliation, Midiation and Arbitration (CCMA), views discrimination in any way, shape or form as completely unacceptable. Webhelp has never been deemed to have discriminated against any employee in this forum and has a robust and fair internal process to mitigate this risk. 27 ENHANCED DISABILITY POLICY Our Webhelp sites are designed and built in line with local building regulations and specifications that make provision for being disability and wheelchair friendly. Work stations are designed to be ergonomically practical and disability friendly when relevant. Should any adjustments need to be made for special conditions, these are made to accommodate all needs within reason as not to affect other employees in the surrounding area. Cluster FR ▪ For years now, we have been conducting awareness-raising actions, specifically around the International Disability Day. Last year, we organized an artistic campaign with a drawing / poetry challenge on the theme “Disability at work” (Handi’Art). In Morocco, a movie was produced by and with our disabled colleagues to explain (in a very fun and light-hearted manner) the difficulties they have, and the very simple actions everybody can do to make thing easier for them. ▪ A signed partnership agreement with AGEFIPH, in 2015, a major player in the employment of people with disabilities in France. Our goal is to significantly advance and harmonise our practices within all of our sites. The signing of this Convention allows us to benefit from the expertise of AGEFIPH in improving our daily practices. An action plan has been launched that addresses various themes such as, recruitment, on-boarding and the follow-ups on disabled individuals. 28 ENHANCED DISABILITY POLICY ▪ In Morocco, we initiated a new follow-up process for our disabled colleagues : this has enabled us to identify global actions to make life easier at work, like for example, increasing break-time to people who find it difficult to move, so that they can really enjoy some restful time. We have also set up individual action plans to improve the situation of our disabled colleagues within the company. ▪ Webhelp Romania organised a Craft Sale displaying good handmade by disabled persons. “My dream, of which you are the hero” Awareness-raising movie by and with disabled collaborators of Webhelp Maroc https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qprFCSzIcqs&t=9s DISABILITY AWARENESS DAY, DECEMBER 3RD 2016 29 ENHANCED DISABILITY POLICY Handi’Art Competition 30 ENHANCED DISABILITY POLICY Turkey • We collaborate with several countrywide and local disabled persons associations for example, Disabled Persons Association of Turkey and local municipalities’ disabled person service centers. We care to recruit disabled persons to constitute at least 3% of our total workforce. • Contrary to other Turkish companies, all our disabled colleagues are encouraged to join us on-site, rather than work from home, to truly feel like they are a part of the Webhelp team Cluster UK ▪ We work with the UK Government via the ‘Access to Work’ programme to ensure that reasonable adjustments are made to working environments, allowing those with disabilities to have successful careers ▪ All employees are entitled to a Free Eye Test and a contribution can also be made for Vision Aids. 31 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Throughout our countries, new CSR actions are being implemented to ensure we’re continuously developing our capabilities. Below are a few examples of new initiatives that were launched in 2016. Cluster FR • New CSR governance and committee was developed, formed of nominated managers to be high-level CSR contacts for each country • They meet on a quarterly basis to discuss interdisciplinary aspects, engage in cross-country exchanges, and as a result, lead to strategic development by working on specific areas of action • We redesigned our CSR policy in 2016 around three pillars : Social, citizen and ethic contracts. • We edited our first CSR report, in order to communicate internally, and externally, about our CSR actions. • Each country of the Cluster edited its own policy, defining their ambitions for 2017. • We have got engaged in many best practices sharing, the most important one being our intervention at COP 22 in Marrakech in October 2016. 32 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Webhelp Payment Services Launched a Corporate Social Responsibility policy. Through this policy, WPS is acknowledging its impact on society, its environment and its workforce and has decided to act RESPONSIBLY in order to achieve SUSTAINABLE progress. As part of its CSR policy, Webhelp Payment Services has identified 4 key pillars which have been transformed into concrete commitments: A socially An responsible environmentally An employee A responsible and responsible relationship financing, sustainable strategy to which with customer reduce the promotes governance to relationship impact of our individual promote longbased on activities on the fulfilment and term mutual environment collective company respect and and promote performance development long term local charitable relationships projects The CSR policy at WPS is a policy focused firmly on progress, based on the principle of continuous improvement. WPS has a steering Committee which is in charge of validating the annual plan of actions proposed by the CSR committee. The first CSR plan of actions has be realised in 2016. 33 ESTABLISHMENT OF A CHARTER Establishment of a charter signed by webhelp main suppliers encapsulates principles of the Global Compact. When signing the Webhelp supplier charter, the supplier company expressly undertakes to: • Respect the national labor laws including statutory working hours and overtime, • Be fully compliant with international norms, • Declare all of its staff to collector social organisations, • Ensure the effective and on time payment of social security contributions. Provide, at Webhelp’s request, certificates proving such payments for the previous calendar period. • Respect the fundamental rights of the human, refuse any form of discrimination, ensure fair and dignified attitude towards all employees, • Enforce decent working conditions, • Fight against corruption and ensure Webhelp’s procurement practices. • Share information of demand of the services ordered. • Use its best efforts to preserve the environment and introduce sustainable development (energy saving, waste management). 34 PROTECTION OF EMPLOYEES Cluster UK Committed to protecting the welfare of not only it’s own employees, but that of Contractors also. Therefore all contractors complete a Permit to Work upon arriving at the site and they are also given a Health & Safety and Environment induction. • In South Africa, in line with recent labour law amendments, we ensure that all of our employees, whether contractors or permanent, enjoy the same working relationships and equal opportunities. • We adhere to the principles of the ‘Right to Work’ framework, and once this has been determined, we ensure that the human and labour rights of all employees are both considered and upheld in line with the practice of equality 35 WEBHELP GLOBAL CODE OF CONDUCT Due to legal needs and business wishes, a new global code of conduct will be developed within Webhelp. The code of conduct will: Reaffirm the rights and duties of all of the employees but also the values of the Group towards its clients and suppliers. Harmonize the Group’s practices on those fundamental topics throughout the world. Allows us to be more attentive and listen to the comments of employees & allow them to point out any violation of our values and our principles. WEBHELP’S COMMITMENTS • A constant compliance with law ; • Ethical principles for practices in hiring and treating employees ; • Respect for fair, honest and open competition ; • Fair treatment of clients and suppliers ; • A relationship of mutual cooperation and loyalty with our partners. REPORTING A PROBLEM • Implementation of an internal alert system: a unique e-mail address at Group level so that employees can report a suspected or confirmed violation of the code. phonethics@webhelp.com 36 WEBHELP GLOBAL CODE OF CONDUCT EMPLOYEE’S COMMITMENTS • The prohibition of Conflict of interest situations ; • Protection of confidential information and personal data of clients and of the company ; • Protection of the company’s assets and respect for its image ; • The prohibition of resorting to/accepting corruption ; • Protection of the environment and sustainable development. POPULATION CONCERNED BY TRAINING All directors, corporate officers and employees of Webhelp throughout the world. The Code & trainings will be available in : French Dutch Romanian Turkish English Italian Spanish Portuguese German Greek Swedish 37 WEBHELP GIVING BACK It is important for Webhelp to extend our every-day work activities and make a difference to our surrounding communities. Our Webhelp sites are proud to support numerous charities and local actions. Following are just a few of out many actions we’ve committed to across our geographies: UK ▪ We work with the UK Government via the ‘Access to Work’ programme to ensure that reasonable adjustments are made to working environments, allowing those with disabilities to have successful careers ▪ All employees are entitled to a Free Eye Test and a contribution can also be made for Vision Aids. ▪ We have worked with 'Help for Heroes’ as a Charity Partner. Help for Heroes are a national network to support wounded veterans and military personnel, and their families. Throughout the year, our Engagement Ambassadors will be holding a number of events to help raise money for this great charity. 38 WEBHELP GIVING BACK Turkey ▪ We carefully strive to contribute the upmost to the society which it is a part of. Taking charge of the full educational costs of 15 underprivileged children in collaboration with TOÇEV foundation. ▪ In January 2016, a blood donation campaign was launched in collaboration with the Turkish Red Crescent simultaneously running in all site locations and became one of the largest corporate donors ever with 408 donations. NL ▪ We support a number of charities such as the fundraisers for Dutch Cancer Society, Dutch Brain Foundation, Children Cancer Free Foundation, Dutch Heart Foundation and Dutch food bank and animal welfare. ▪ The Dutch government has implemented the so-called “Participatiewet” and “Wet banenafspraak”. The main goal of this legislation is to stimulate employers to hire (more) disadvantaged people. Webhelp has started a co-operation with UWV to help disadvantaged people to find a job at Webhelp 39 WEBHELP GIVING BACK India Smile Foundation • Smile Foundation is a national level development organisation directly benefitting over 400,000 children and their families every year • Webhelp India raised 50K INR for the Nepal Relief Fund, helping those affected by the Nepal Earthquake. • To further support the Smile Foundation, Webhelp India raised over 100K INR to support the Education of under privileged children. • Webhelp Directors took part in a Cooking Competition with other companies in a bid to raise funds. 40 WEBHELP GIVING BACK India Vidya • VIDYA is a non-profit NGO, charitable organization that specializes in the education and empowerment of less-privileged children, youth and women through working with them at an individual level. • This year we helped the school to develop some of the infrastructure • We organized a Football Tournament with the school kids which the operation played a curial part. Though we lost to the stamina of the young students but was an overall excellent day for all that participated. There were refreshments served to anyone who was there for the match. 41 A FEW OF THE MANY ORANISATION THAT 42 WEBHELP HAS ASSOCIATED WITH … 43 v LABOUR WEBHELP’S LABOUR COMMITMENTS Negotiation and signing of various agreements relating to working conditions (male / female equality, Pleasant work freedom of expression of conditions, state of the employees, management or art buildings, working annualisation of working time). spaces of high quality designed for advisors Various social benefits Respect for the culture of the including medical country we’re in. For instance, insurance, nursery in Morocco, during the facilities, employees Ramadan, “ftour” (breaking of transportation, fitness the Ramadan fast) is offered to centers, rest areas, all employees that are working different incentives in the time slot and team building events. 47 PLANNING AROUND EMPLOYEES’ NEEDS There is a constant focus and development toward delivering the best possible working conditions and evolving our processes to suit their needs. Throughout our countries, practices have been put into place to increase employee satisfaction, such as; Cluster FR ▪ First, we have settled a system that allows employees to swap a day off by making requests for exchanges. ▪ In France, many actions have been undertaken regarding the planning to meet the constraints of production and introduce flexibility in the management of schedules : • Ideally, schedules are sent to all advisors by email at least 2/3 weeks in advance. This period cannot be shortened to less than 7 days. • After a trial period, the “Desiderata system” is in place through Morocco and Romania. This system allows the advisor to rank up to 3 time slots among a panel and to be granted their preferred time slot if available. • Since 2015, the possibility was also given to our agents to access their planning on-line with their smart phone or digital tablet. This is a real asset in a work life balance perspective. • Since 2016, in Morocco, our disabled colleagues can get a longer break-time in order to compensate the time they need to move from their working position to the resting areas. RESULTS, CLUSTER FR: All advisors have early access to the planning and the possibility to ask for modifications. This access is now possible through digital devices ! 48 PLANNING AROUND EMPLOYEES’ NEEDS Cluster NL ▪ In a number of outbound teams, Webhelp Netherland has introduced self-scheduling, which means employees can complete the planning schedule themselves. 86% of the employees gave this availability tool (which creates a lot of flexibility) a positive rating ▪ The scheduling tool will be upgraded to offer new features to our employees, including being able to review their schedule, asking for time off etc. directly from their smartphone, etc… ▪ Work@Home has successfully been applied in one of the larger customer teams in the Netherlands and we are currently assessing if this can be introduced elsewhere Cluster UK ▪ Employees can access our workforce management system giving them the ability to check their upcoming shifts, access holiday information and request to swap a shift. This system is regularly updated to ensure the needs of our employees are met. It also acts as a real-time, two way communication tool between agents and managers. ▪ Across the UK Cluster, our HR system allows employees to view, request and manage their holiday entitlements. It also gives employees the opportunity to assess their working environment and request changes/consultations to improve their comfort whilst at work. 49 REINFORCING OUR HR COMMUNITIES ▪ HR communities have been implemented to discuss and harmonise our processes. Teams meet regularly to share information, best practices and determine the actions to be put in place to continuously improve the quality of HR management. It is an opportunity to bring together both the human resources managers of sites and the heads of HR projects around crossfunctional issues. ▪ To support our collaborative work, we have created a shared IT space to put our shared documents. In 2016, the launch of the new company collaborative and social network, called WISE, has allowed us to give an on-line collaborative area to this HR community. ▪ Local HR Teams meet regularly to discuss a number of corporate initiatives alongside any challenges. This allows them to collaborate and continuously improve the way they work together, and alongside Operations and Support teams, to ensure best practice. ▪ These teams work closely with all levels of the business, delivering a first rate service, guiding and empowering managers to engage and communicate to their teams. RESULT: A systematic pooling of our best practices 50 TUTORSHIP PROGRAM Cluster FR ▪ This campaign was launched in 2014 and renewed in 2015 : a tutor is assigned to every new disabled worker. These tutors are trained by governmental authority (complete training program: 14 hours) (site of Compiègne) ▪ For each employees that is under 22 years old, an adviser is named within the framework of the generation agreement. They are welcome by a Webhelp University Adviser with 2 personal interviews (during the integration process, in attendance of their manager and after 6 month spent in the company). ▪ Training new tutors within the framework of alternating work with training program (Training BTS Management of Business Unit (MUC) and Negotiation and Client Relations (NRC). (Site of Vitré) ▪ Training of tutors within the framework of the generation agreement : a new session of training was launched in June 2016. (Site of Saint AVOLD) 51 TRAINING Training is a key pillar of our value proposition and our performance. We intend to give our employees the best training from their 1st day at Webhelp and throughout their career path. To ensure long-lasting impact of our training, we are always eager to leverage latest technologies and practices. Cluster FR • After launching our first serious game (Lead the way!) in 2015, we kept on innovating with another tool that gives us the possibility to create e-learning modules very easily. • We have re-engineered our training approach: we try to respond to individual needs by thinking less “function training path” and more “competences range”. Hence, the Webhelp University (WHU) has redesigned its catalogue through this prism. • We integrated a new way of coaching (Coach me up), a turnkey program, based on a blended learning method. 52 HEALTH & SAFETY AT WORK • Webhelp identifies, trains and uses necessary staff and competent resources to drive Health & Safety practices on each location. We allocate responsibilities, such as First Aid, Fire Marshall and Health & Safety Representative • Webhelp trains some employees in the First Aid Course. Enough employees are certified to ensure that at least one is always present on-site. • All the sites of our countries have been equipped with defibrillators. • Below are some examples of the detailed health and safety actions implemented across our countries Cluster FR Launched Heatlh and Safety campaigns on-sites: • Romania carried out actions to prevent obesity • Morocco organised detections for breath and uterus cancer. We also launched a program to fight tobacco (WEST = Webhelp Entreprise Sans Tabac) • A campaign on ergonomy at work was launched, along with relaxation workshops. Cluster UK • Over 60 Health, Safety and Environmental Champions (HSE Champs) across our UK sites, all of which completed a 2 day training course. Webhelp Payment Services • Employees are offered 30 minutes of Taï Chi per week 53 HEALTH & SAFETY AT WORK Cluster UK • The health & safety of our people is of the uptmost importance, which is why we have a robust monitoring programme which allows us to reduce and minimise accidents and incidents. • A new improved accident reporting procedure was introduced during 2015 with the aim of reducing the total number of accidents across the Webhelp UK estate; this process was embedded during 2016 and has contributed to the significant improvement in accident performance during 2016 All Site Totals: January – December 2016 Accident Frequency Rate Accident Incident Rate SITE Accidents RIDDORS (AFR) (AIR) Derby 4 1.14 0 Dearne 18 5.93 2 126.50 Dunoon 1 3.25 0 Falkirk 9 4.84 0 Glasgow 2 1.61 0 Greenock 0 0 0 Kilmarnock 6 4.51 1 144.27 Rothesay 2 14.4 0 Warrington 3 6.05 0 All Site Totals 45 3.61 3 3.85 RESULTS : Both the ‘accident frequency rate (AFR) and ‘accident incident rate (AIR) fell in 2016; from 8.5 to 3.61 and 16.2 to 3.85 respectively. 54 PROTECT AND ENHANCE FAIR EMPLOYMENT Throughout our countries’ policies there are actions put in place to ensure our employees are protected, secure and comfortable at work. It’s a matter we take very seriously and following are just a few examples of such elements: Cluster UK We implemented a set of Polices that protect employees from discrimination and ensure that their career can be shaped around the demands of a modern world, whilst protecting them from discrimination. Career Break Policy Stress Management Policy For those employees who may Recognises that stress may be a wish to take an extended period problem in the work place and is of time off work with the committed to reducing it. Stress is possibility of returning to work not a sign of weakness. The policy afterwards. (For example, it’s acknowledges that it may not be recognized people may want to possible, but it strives to control pursue a University course or harmful and unnecessary levels of have child care responsibilities). stress. Equality and Diversity Policy Parental Leave, Paternity and Maternity Leave Policies Committed to ensuring that all decisions about employment and The policies in this section are development are made with intended to ensure that parents of integrity and based purely on children under 18 (Parental Leave) merit. The company recognises or newborns (Pat and Mat leave), that nurturing high performance have the ability to care for their through development of a children whilst not harming their diverse workplace is essential. career prospects within Cluster UK. 55 PROTECT AND ENHANCE FAIR EMPLOYMENT South Africa Performance Management Policy Performance management is a continuous process of developing, maintaining and improving performance and is based on the principle that the performance of each individual within the organisation contributes to the organisation’s overall performance in the achievement of its goals. Conduct and Capability Policy – Replacing current SA Code of Conduct Policy Webhelp expect employees to conduct themselves to a high standard in all employment related activities and we are committed to encourage and support employees to do so. This policy emphasis the fair treatment throughout the Conduct & Capability and that all employees will be treated with integrity. India Sexual Harrassment Policy, committed to providing a work environment free of sexual harassment. Transport Policy, free transport is provided for both male and female employees, and female employees will be accompanied by a security guard. 56 RECRUITMENT AND SOCIETAL ACTIONS Webhelp aims to providing equal employment opportunity for all and our countries are constantly finding innovative channels to accomplish that. For example: Cluster FR • In France, our policy of recruitment is adapted for disabled workers. Every new employee is integrated in a tutorship program. • In Morocco, Webhelp makes a partnership with ANAPEC to ensure we recruit young people and support them on their first professional experience. • In the whole Cluster, we are implementing new recruitment websites that enable our candidates to know us better and apply faster. • We also develop our presence on social medias in order to get more proximity with our audience (employees as well as candidates). 57 RECRUITMENT AND SOCIETAL ACTIONS UK • In the UK we conducted a ‘Schools Programme’. The aim was to encourage young school leavers to attend a 8 day workshop based at a site where they would learn about customer service basics, IT systems, recruitment advice/techniques and general working etiquette. After the workshop, the prospective agents were offered an interview for a permanent position. • This programme acts as a stepping stone into full-time employment for the young, job seekers. 58 RECRUITMENT AND SOCIETAL ACTIONS Webhelp Sotuh Africa’s Corporate Social Investment (CSI) strategy is geared to drive a robust bespoke impact sourcing model to contribute to youth unemployment in SA and have a socioeconomic impact on assisting previously disadvantaged youth become economically active. Our offering provides mentorship, employment and skills development opportunities to the youth from low income areas in South Africa in order to improve their standard of living and job prospects, and to indirectly assist them in positively impacting their community. This is aligned to Webhelp SA’s business imperatives and is delivered through a CSI value chain that has been designed to guide and manage the process. Webhelp SA has partnered with Columba Leadership and Harambee Youth Acceleration to fulfill this. 59 RECRUITMENT AND SOCIETAL ACTIONS 60 RECRUITMENT AND SOCIETAL ACTIONS Webhelp currently employs 62 Harambee graduates. South Africa Harambee is a business initiative aimed at providing employers with access to a broad labour pool of unemployed youth who have not had exposure to sustainable employment opportunities in the formal economy. The Harambee model seeks to minimise the typical challenges and risks employers experience with first time employees (FTE’s), by implementing rigorous sourcing, assessment and work readiness processes. Harambee is an independent, not-for-profit organisation funded through donor social investment, fees paid by employers and matched grant funding from the Jobs Fund. 61 PERFORMANCE & COMPETENCY MANAGEMENT In the objective to drive greater engagement, performance and consistency across our people practices we are implementing a new and unique global HRIS called TALENT. This system covers multiple people needs including the talent and performance management. The management of talent is coordinated across our geographies and is grounded on a consistent framework to identify and develop each people according to his performance and potential Cluster FR We completed our work on the Talent management field through: ▪ A reform of job description integrating competences and career prospects or career path (2015-2016) ▪ A common set of skills for all profession. It includes more than a 100 skills (generic, specific and managerial). For each profession, 12 primary skills were defined (2015-2016) ▪ A common definition of our competencies linked to our assessment centers to promote people (re-designing of the AC process in late 2015early 2016) 62 PERFORMANCE & COMPETENCY MANAGEMENT ▪ The creation of a mapping tool to detect High potential as well as to determine mentoring actions for low-performers (implementation through 2016) ▪ The revision of our performance evaluation system (2016) : we redesigned our whole set of evaluation grids as well as the evaluation scale. We added a new annual interview that will help collaborators to identify their areas or progress and define their career path with their manager and the HR team. ▪ With all these elements, we provide our collaborators with tools that will help them improve their skills and get better opportunities inside the company. 63 EMPLOYEE RIGHTS, BENEFITS & SUPPORT We recognise the need to support the interests of our employees and know that by doing this it will help maintain and improve the workplace effectiveness and performance. Turkey ▪ Above average percentage of female employees, makes a significant difference in Yozgat and Bingöl where our locations create job opportunities that are scarce for women considering that we as Webhelp are the largest employer in those two cities. ▪ Free meals are provided to all employees during their shifts, and free transportation to certain zones of the city. Team leaders, and above, are given private health insurance. 64 EMPLOYEE RIGHTS, BENEFITS & SUPPORT Cluster UK ‘My Benefits’, a website accessible by all employees provides an overview of our core benefits, voluntary benefits and lots of great discounts too. Core Benefits includes pension, holidays and life assurance. Voluntary Benefits everything Webhelp has to offer such as Fruity Friday, Workplace Giving, Star Awards, Childcare vouchers and much, much more. Discounts lots of great discounts including money off holidays, shopping and technology. Health and Wellbeing Information on our Employee Assistance Programme and options for benefit plans An online app will be introduced for the benefits portal and also a financial wellbeing aspect. Payslips – Salary review letters and payslips all going online to make it easier for staff Our ‘Employee Assistance’ programme offers an online and telephone service providing support to for all employees on matters such as consumer rights, personal, health, work-related, and child and dependent care. 65 EMPLOYEE RIGHTS, BENEFITS & SUPPORT Cluster UK A new Employee Assistance Programme is being launched providing our staff with a whole range of wellbeing tools. Support and advice offered on a whole range of subjects, including; • Money • Personal life • Legal issues • Relationships • Work • Family crises • Personal crises • Illness ▪ Employees will be able to access independent, free, professional help, 24/7/365. ▪ Easy access via website or mobile app. 66 PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT ▪ For the past few years, Webhelp had its own internal barometer that measures the satisfaction of employees : the Employee Engagement Survey ▪ In 2016 there has been a new global employee engagement survey developed, with the help of HR, Operations and Gallup (leaders in employee engagement surveys). ▪ The new survey and survey tool allow us to adopt a modernized approach with the employee in mind, keeping the survey light, relevant and personalized ▪ A new global branding will take place for this years launch, on October 25th, officially renaming the company’s survey ‘Your Call’ ▪ It’s an objective way to evaluate commitment, and identify areas for improvement. ▪ An action plan is systematically implemented and communicated to all our employees after each survey ▪ For the past few years our employee NPS has continuously improved and is strongly positive positioning us in the high performing organizations 67 WEBHEALTH 68 WEBHEALTH webHEALTH has a series of tailored activities and campaigns develop to educate our employees around a variety of different subjects. Such as: Posture Nutrition Stress reducing techniques Yoga @ Work Tips and tricks towards a healthier lifestyle…. 69 v ENVIRONMENT WEBHELP’S ENVIORNMENTAL COMMITMENTS Batteries Water: PIRS on urinals, low Sorting waste paper/ flush toilets, push spray taps. cardboard/ cans/ plastic (and Air conditioning: office & server now Food Waste at 2 UK sites) room temperature set at 19° C. Ink cartridges Paper: PIN printing, paperless Expresso capsules + Cups office environment, paper towels Bulbs / fluorescent tubes removed. Food Waste Collections Energy: Energy efficient hand introduced to 6 UK sites driers, vending machine timers, PIRs in all meeting/training rooms in UK, sensor lights Shuttles (Morocco) Active policy to reduce Bicycle parking shelters unnecessary printing. Discounted bus travel (UK) AVOB (PC automatic standby) Carpooling – now implemented in UK Video conferencing to reduce Pairing electrical maintenance business travel and HVAC (heating/ ventilation/ Electric vehicles and charging air conditioning) stations at all Netherlands Criteria related to sustainable branches (now app. 15% of development included in all portfolio) quotes 72 WEBHELP’S ENVIORNMENTAL COMMITMENTS For several years, Webhelp has been part of a sustainable development strategy As an office based company, Webhelp’s two main environmental impacts are production of waste and CO2 emissions from consumption of electricity. Our environmental policy states our commitment to reducing both of these, and also states our commitment to: 73 INITATIVES TO DECREASE OUR FOOTPRINT Webhelp has been committed to energy management for several years and has decided to look at its processes and business practices to see what could be done to reduce its impact on the planet. Our sites have made significant changes and necessary improvements to achieve this promise, a few of many have been highlighted in the following slides; Cluster France ▪ Awareness program in the sustainable development for all our collaborators (e-learning), as well as various awareness campaigns, such as an Instagram photo challenge on the theme “Water is Life” (L’eau, c’est la vie) ▪ Various initiatives to decrease our water consumption (push spray taps, reduction of the water flow…) ▪ Optimisation of our energy consumption (lightings LED, programming air conditioning, automatic extinction). In Morocco, we invested on solar energy, and use blackout stores. ▪ Charter purchase signed by our suppliers including the respect for the environmental best practice ▪ Increase of the use of visio-conference, as well as tools like Skype for business that helps collaborative work without anyone leaving his desk. ▪ Best practices sharing : we were present during COP 22 on climate change, and shared our experience as a responsible company. 74 INITATIVES TO DECREASE OUR FOOTPRINT Cluster UK • Continued investment in energy efficiency technologies across all our sites. These include; • 40% savings of Gas and Electricity at our newest site Sheffield • Major investment of two new gas boiler systems at Greenock and Derby, reducing consumption by up to 50% • New heating controls at head office has reduced gas consumption by 23%. • A further 40 water saving taps introduced across the estate with waterless urinals planned for this year. RESULTS : Another Successful Environmental year for Cluster UK Although absolute emissions have grown due to growth, our CO2/Employee has fallen 75 INITATIVES TO DECREASE OUR FOOTPRINT Cluster UK – INDIA & SOUTH AFRICA • Electricity monitoring and targeting programme has begun in India and South Africa • The enhanced electricity data will allow us to implement efficiency projects • Major LED project due to be completed June 2017 with significant energy savings at India • South Africa has over 20 waterless urinals contributing to considerable savings • LED, PC power management and controls on pumps and fans all planned for 2017. 76 INITATIVES TO DECREASE OUR FOOTPRINT Cluster UK • 2015 has seen the successful introduction of a more structured process of energy management, via the implementation of ISO 50001 • Having already achieved accreditation to ISO 140001: Environmental Management, the new ISO standard has further cemented Cluster UK’s determination to lower its environmental impact. • The new ISO standard will ensure areas of significant energy use are targeted and that efficiency measures are implemented. RESULTS : Now implemented, the new standard will provide a framework for energy management, ensuring ongoing reduction of energy consumption. 77 INITATIVES TO DECREASE OUR FOOTPRINT Cluster UK As part of our wider Webhelp2020 environmental targets, we have begun a relationship with Trees4Scotland Working with schools local to our offices, we are giving the children the opportunity to learn about biodiversity in a fun and engaging way. Our first project saw us work with 20 Primary 6 children from Dunoon Primary School where we planted over 50 trees of the birch, lime and rowan variety We have a target of 500 people engagement hours by the end of 2017 and other projects have included; Love Food Hate Waste workshops Driver Efficiency workshops Biodiversity project – Greening our spaces RESULTS : Engagement: Over 100 hours of people engagement so far in 2017 Up to 8 MPG improvement in fuel efficiency 78 INITATIVES TO DECREASE OUR FOOTPRINT Webhelp Payment Services • Eco-responsible charter has been developed within WPS • WPS also makes efforts to work with suppliers who are aware about environmental impacts. • A significant programme was settled to change from paper-based processes to electronic exchanges: WPS has implemented systems to reduce the intense usage of paper in administrative transactions, such as leveraging electronic transfers, electronic document management, and online services. Cluster NL • During 2016, the percentage of energy efficient cars within our lease car portfolio has further increased. In the current pool of 68 cars, a total number of 47 cars are considered “energy-efficient”. This includes 17 electric or hybrid cars. 79 v ANTI-CORRUPTION A GLOBAL PROCESS OF FRAUD MANAGEMENT Prevention -Awareness. This step is to proactively reduce fraud. It consists of : The definition and formalisation of a global process of fraud management The development and dissemination: • User Charter recalling the security rules to follow in business. • Code of ethics. The completion of awareness programs / specific security & fraud training. (Within SA, staff complete fraud and financial crime training during induction and thereafter refreshed at yearly intervals) Conducting audits and checks. 82 A GLOBAL PROCESS OF FRAUD MANAGEMENT Detection surveillance. This step is to identify potential fraud and implement measures in order to minimise or reduce the impact. It includes: • Conducting a Fraud Risk Analysis in different projects operated by Webhelp. This map is updated regularly. • The implementation of technical solutions or processes to monitor transactions deemed at risk“. Dedicated Operational Security Correspondent was created on projects flagged high risk. • The implementation of a number of proactive controls. Investigations corrections. Respond at the earliest and the most effective way possible after the identification of suspected fraud. It includes: • The definition of a workflow reaction in case of fraud/Crisis Cell. • The definition of a specific alert channel so that only persons to be informed are informed. Memos were distributed to all employees to tell them what to do in cases of suspected fraud and who to contact. • The training of teams in charge of performing forensics analysis and the creation of a toolbox analysis. 83 ANTI-CORRUPTION • The principle of Global Compact were included in Webhelp’s buying charter. • Implementation of contractual clause regarding anticorruption measures • Implementation of a process including the validation of several officers before signing an agreement with a supplier. Cluster FR • Bpack a management tool for handling purchase, allows for a computerised date processing, with follow up of the different departments and their spend, easy reporting by supplier allowing improved control, and calls for competition if necessary. • Cluster UK • We evaluate new suppliers in line with the Supplier Management Policy which directs employees to use the ‘Supplier Matrix’ in order to select the most appropriate supplier. • The Bribery & Ethics Policy directs all staff to complete the Corporate Hospitality Tracker on receipt of any gifts, offerings or expenditure over £75. • The Whistleblowing Policy has been introduced. Allowing for a provision for all staff to disclose information that he or she reasonably believes evidences a violation of any law or misconduct within the business. Further we have secured the services of an independent information gathering company, Whistle Blowers (Pty) Ltd to whom employees, our contractors, suppliers and customers may report illicit activity without fear of victimisation. • In SA, the Anti-bribery and corruption procedures are reviewed regularly to ensure their continuing suitability, adequacy and effectiveness in order to meet applicable legal requirements 84 ANTI-CORRUPTION Webhelp Payment Services We obtained the Payment establishment status in 2012, and are continuously embedding a solid Risk management culture. Our motto towards our customers is “less risk, more cash”. To be comfortable with risk management, WPS has: • An Audit and Risks committee • A head of compliance and Internal control • A real internal control system • An internal and customer data protection system. (In 2016, WPS will look forward to obtain the ISO 27001 certification) • A master contract for payment services to insure the same degree of equity and avoid conflicts of interest between its customers • Internal trainings to sensitize the whole WPS group to risks, as Anti Money Laundering and the financing of terrorism, security of internal and customer data, office access controls… • An internal and external fraud management policy with zero tolerance towards fraud and corruption Cluster NL Webhelp Nederland has decided to install alarm buttons at the reception desks in the various offices to provide for a safe working environment for the receptionists. 85 INDIVIDUAL DATA PROTECTION In addition to the basic requirements of quality of service, the Webhelp Group ensures data security and privacy protection. We strive to uphold the principles of responsible purchasing and to ensure the security and privacy of both internal and customer data. The Group attaches particular importance to the implementation of a continuous improvement approach. The principles and rules relating to Information Security are defined in the Information Security Framework, which applies to all Group entities. The framework is intended to ensure the availability, integrity, and confidentiality of information and services provided, as well as traceability of actions. It is based on best practices in terms of Information Security management and in particular on requirements regarding protection of personal data in each country (CNIL, OPC, CNDP, etc.), on the ISO 27002 standard, as well as on the PCI-DSS v3.0 standard for credit card holder data environments. The objectives of our information security strategy include: • Protection of Webhelp's data assets, as well as of those of its clients. • Continuity of Webhelp's operations, as well as of the services provided to its customers • Compliance with regulations • Protection of brand reputation 86 INDIVIDUAL DATA PROTECTION Strict measures are put in place to ensure data security and privacy. These include for example: • Strong access control, careful handling of security storage, and formalised exchange: o Access to sensitive data is allowed only after identification, authentication, and checking of access rights. oSensitive data may only be accessed by clearly identified persons who need to acquire that information for carrying out their duties. o Data that might contain personal information is considered sensitive data and is processed by Webhelp in compliance with regulatory and legal requirements. • Data protection requirements are included into our employment contracts. Additionally, a specific confidentiality agreement recalling good security practices is signed by each employee. • A restricted group of people are authorised to access the database containing personal data. 87 INDIVIDUAL DATA PROTECTION • Employee identity is monitored. Access control by badge is put in place at almost all of our centres. Badge access control is set up at the entrance of a centre, but may also be activated at each stage on request. By default, it is enabled in equipment rooms. • A user charter is attached to the internal regulations. It is intended to: o Facilitate understanding on how to use our information systems. o Regulate the operation and use of the company's Information System. o Maintain an optimum level of security. • Data is classified on a 4 level scale. Depending on the classification level, different security rules apply. o Level 1: Public data o Level 2: Internal Webhelp data o Level 3: Confidential data o Level 4: Secret data 88 INDIVIDUAL DATA PROTECTION • On some projects, including those dealing with credit card data (PCIDSS environment), in addition to the user charter, employees must sign a specific privacy policy. • An information security awareness program consisting of e-learning training modules, posters, newsletters, and videos, was introduced in 2012 to promote awareness of data protection amongst employees. • Regarding the protection of credit card data, Webhelp has set up in late 2011 a dedicated environment, in compliance with the PCI-DSS standard (standard required by the major credit card networks: Visa, MasterCard, American Express, etc.). o All employees working in this environment must complete a training module specifically on the protection of credit card data. o This environment was certified in April 2012 and is subject to regular external audits and self-assessments. 89
