PARAMOUNT EXPORTS COMMITMENT TO Paramount Exports Social Report PEX upholds the universal principles of the United Nation Global compact . 2017 Paramount reaffirms its support of the TEN Principles of the United nation Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and anti-Corruption 1 Overview 2016 proved to be a challenging year for Paramount Exports dominated by 6 months of reduced production due to the prevailing economic environment dominated by liquidity challenges and a shrinking formal market due to company closures and job losses. The company closures and lack of employment prospects had created a scenario where the rising informal market has grown into a dominant market force supplied by cross boarder traders and second hand clothes merchants. Despite the inevitable layoffs which were sanctioned by mutual agreement between the Workers and Management the year ended on a high when orders picked up and many of the layoffs were reengaged as more sewing lines were added. There were a few positives to be taken out of 2016 namely recertification under ISO 9001:2008 and Paramount being Certified SABS 434 compliant. 2017 has started with a new management initiative which is to turn Paramount Exports into an empowered sales led process driven brand adhering to the code of honour focused enterprise where service delivery is paramount. In addition to this management has adopted and included into tha paramount management system an environment policy which will be monitored and reported on in management review meetings where the performance of the Orginisation are monitored against set strategies and goals. VISION STATEMENT FIT FOR THE JOB “From Office to Farm, our service commitment is to deliver quality clothing for our customers safety and comfort through innovation and continual improvement, whilst respecting and providing value to all our stakeholders…… for a Better Life!” 2 MISSION STATEMENT We are a brand focused, process cantered organisation that develops, manufactures and delivers innovative Work Wear satisfying to our customer ensuring OVERALL PROTECTION & CONFIDENCE These principles are based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; the International Labour Organization’s Declaration of the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; and the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. Human Rights 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5. Business should support the effective abolition of child labor. 6. Business should support the elimination of discrimination of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Corruption 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 3 Paramount Exports Global Human Rights Statement a. Human Rights Principle INTRODUCTION Paramount Mission includes the commitment to treat its employees with respect and dignity, and to be a force for positive influence in the community in which it does business. 4 To this end, Paramount is committed to support and uphold the provision of basic human rights and to eliminate discriminatory practices. Paramount respects the inherent dignity of all persons, and seeks to enable all employees to do their best work by embracing and valuing the unique combination of talents, experiences and perspectives of each employee. PURPOSE AND SCOPE Paramount Global Human Rights Policy emphasises Paramount’s commitment to basic human rights as a core component of the way Paramount conducts business and how paramount engages its employees. The Policy supports the company’s Mission Statement by guiding employees toward the fundamental principles and requirements for upholding basic human rights in the workplace. The Policy supports employees in creating and maintaining a work culture that protects the unique rights of children to pursue basic education as a priority over work, prohibits forced labor, supports the rights of employees to engage in free association, and supports the provision of equal human rights to all persons. This Policy provides direction and guidance to employees to ensure that all practices and processes support the fundamental principles of basic human rights, and are developed and implemented in a manner that complies with Paramount core values around human rights and respects the inherent value of each individual. This Policy helps ensure that employees engaged in company business understand their responsibility for upholding human rights and equality in the workplace. Paramount’s goal is to maintain an environment that fosters open and direct communication between managers and employees as the most effective way to work together and resolve differences, and respects its employees’ rights to participate in a collective bargaining process should they so choose. The Global Human Rights Policy applies to all Paramount employees. Paramount expects any parties who do business on Paramount’s behalf to conduct business in ways that uphold the principles of this Policy. b. Labour Principles Child Labour Paramount prohibits all forms of child labor as defined in this Policy. When employing employees under the age of 18, managers must comply with all Paramount-established or legally required limitations on minimum hiring age, hours and tasks performed by these employees to ensure any work performed does not hamper the child’s education, health, safety, and mental or physical development. 5 Forced or Compulsory Labour Paramount will not make use of any form of forced or compulsory labor at any time for any purpose. Paramount prohibits all forms of work or service that is coerced or imposed with little or no freedom of choice and deprives a worker of a genuine possibility of terminating his or her employment without penalty or the threat of penalty, including deliberate withholding or non-payment of wages Free Association Paramount supports and encourages free formation and joining of groups by workers and employers for the promotion and defense of occupational interests, and to influence matters that directly concern them. Collective Bargaining All Paramount managers and employees are expected to engage in active and direct dialog to solve joint problems and deal with mutual challenges. Paramount also respects its employees’ rights to participate in a collective bargaining process should they so choose. Paramount supports a process through which employers or their organizations, and representatives designated by the workers, discuss and negotiate their relations, particularly the terms and conditions of work, to reach mutually acceptable collective agreements Paramount Commitment to Human Rights Paramount is committed to maintaining a work environment that respects and supports the provision of basic human rights to all of its employees, regardless of the country in which they work, to the full extent permitted by law. To this end: • Paramount strictly prohibits all forms of labour in the workplace that are detrimental to the health or safety of children, 6 • Paramount strictly prohibits forced or compulsory labor for any employees, • Paramount respects employees’ rights to engage in free association and to participate in a collective bargaining process should they so choose, and • Paramount promotes, protects and helps ensure the full and equal enjoyment of human rights by all persons, including those with disabilities. Paramount will not tolerate any behavior or actions prohibited by the requirements herein. Paramount does not consider such behaviors or actions within the core values of the company, nor is such conduct authorized by Paramount’s employees, including managers. Complaints Procedure Employees should immediately report any conduct engaged in or endured by a Paramountinterested party, or any individual conducting business on Paramount’s behalf, that is a potential violation of the Global Human Rights Policy or may compromise the company’s values around the provision of basic human rights. c. Paramount Exports Pvt. Ltd Environmental Policy Statement Paramount Exports PVT. Ltd. is committed to minimising the impact of its activities on the environment. The key points of its strategy to achieve this are:  Minimise waste by evaluating operations and ensuring they are as efficient as possible.  Minimise toxic emissions through the selection and use of its fleet and the source of its power requirement.  Actively promote recycling both internally and amongst its customers and suppliers.  Source and promote a product range to minimise the environmental impact of both production and distribution.  Meet and exceed where possible all the environmental legislation that relates to the Company. . 7 ________________________________________ Chairmen PEX Excom Environmental Policy Last Reviewed: March 2017 Next Review: March 2018 Mission Statement Paramount Exports PVT. Ltd. recognises that it has a responsibility of sustainable development. We are committed to reducing our environmental impact and continually improving our environmental performance and operating methods, with regular review points. We will encourage customers, suppliers and other stakeholders to do the same. Responsibility Bain Adcock (MR) is responsible for ensuring that the environmental policy is implemented. However, all employees have a responsibility in their area to ensure that the aims and objectives of the policy are met. Policy Aims We endeavour to:  Comply with and where possible exceed all relevant regulatory requirements.  Continually improve and monitor environmental performance.  Continually improve and reduce environmental impacts.  Incorporate environmental factors into business decisions.  Increase employee awareness and training. Paper  We will minimise the use of paper in the office.  We will reduce packaging as much as possible.  We will seek to buy recycled and recyclable paper products.  We will reuse and recycle all paper where possible. 8 Energy and Water  We will seek to reduce the amount of energy used as much as possible.  Lights and electrical equipment will be switched off when not in use.  The energy consumption and efficiency of new products will be taken into account when purchasing. Office Supplies  We will evaluate if the need can be met in another way.  We will evaluate if renting/sharing is an option before purchasing equipment.  We will evaluate the environmental impact of any new products we intend to purchase.  We will favour more environmentally friendly and efficient products wherever possible.  We will reuse and recycle everything we are able to. Transportation  We will reduce the need to travel, restricting to necessity trips only.  We will promote the use of travel alternatives such as e-mail or video/phone conferencing.  We will make additional efforts to accommodate the needs of those using public transport or bicycles. Maintenance and Cleaning  Cleaning materials used will be as environmentally friendly as possible.  Materials used in office refurbishment will be as environmentally friendly as possible.  We will only use licensed and appropriate organisations to dispose of waste. Monitoring and Improvement  We will comply with and exceed where possible all relevant regulatory requirements.  We will continually improve and monitor environmental performance.  We will continually improve and reduce environmental impacts.  We will incorporate environmental factors into business decisions.  We will increase employee awareness through training.  We will review this policy and any related business issues at our management review meetings. Culture  We will involve staff in the implementation of this policy, for greater commitment and improved performance. 9  We will update this policy at least once annually in consultation with staff and other stakeholders where necessary.  We will work with suppliers, contractors and sub-contractors to improve their environmental performance.  We will use local labour and materials where available to reduce CO2 and help the community. Signed ………………………………………………………………………….. Position ………………………………………………………………………….. Date d. Anti-corruption Principle and Business practice. Paramount Standards of Business Conduct Individual actions at work shape how Paramount is perceived, which is why it’s so important that we each take responsibility for the Paramount Mission and acting ethically in all situations. The Paramount Standards of Business Conduct support the Global Business Ethics Policy and provide an overview of some of the legal and ethical standards we are each expected to follow every day. If you are unsure of what to do in a situation, you have support. Speak with your manager or HR about your concerns. Asking for Guidance and Voicing Concerns Paramount core values require compliance with the law, as well as ethical conduct. If you feel these standards have not been met, need access to policies, or have any questions, please ask for guidance or voice your concerns by contacting any of the following resources: 10 • Your HOD • HR Department Anti-Retaliation Policy: Paramount does not tolerate retaliation against or the victimization of any person who raises concerns or questions regarding a potential violation of the Paramount Standards of Business Conduct or any Paramount policy that he or she reasonably believes to have occurred Workplace Environment o How We Treat One Another Consistent with Paramount’s Human Rights Standard, Paramount promotes equal opportunity in its hiring practices, makes recruiting decisions based solely on job-related criteria and does not use forced labor. When employing persons under the age of 18, managers must comply with all Paramount-established or legally required limitations on minimum hiring age, and on hours and tasks performed by these persons to ensure any 11 work performed does not hamper the persons education, health, safety, and mental or physical development. At Paramount we treat each other with respect and dignity. This means that all interested parties are entitled to work in an environment that is free of harassment, bullying and discrimination. Harassment, bullying and discrimination take many forms, including: • Unwelcome remarks, gestures or physical contact • The display or circulation of offensive, derogatory or sexually explicit pictures or other materials, including by email and on the Internet • Offensive or derogatory jokes or comments (explicit or by innuendo) • Verbal or physical abuse or threats o How We Treat Our Customers Great customer (internal and external) service is a top priority at Paramount. We strive to make every customer’s experience pleasant and fulfilling, and we treat our customers as we treat one another, with respect and dignity. This means, for example, that we never harass or discriminate against our customers. As we continue to grow, embracing diversity in every aspect of our business—from the way we work together to the way we procure and produce goods and services—is vital to our long-term success. We respect diversity in each other, our customers and suppliers and all others with whom we interact. Our goal is to be one of the most inclusive companies in Zimbabwe and the region, working toward full equity, inclusion and accessibility for those whose lives we touch o Workplace Health, Safety and Security All persons are expected to follow all safety rules and practices; cooperate with officials who enforce these rules and practices; take necessary steps to protect themselves and other partners; attend required safety training; and report immediately all accidents, injuries and unsafe practices or conditions. In order to enhance workplace security, you should be familiar with and follow any work safety information and training provided to you 12  Individual Responsibilities All employees are responsible for supporting human rights in the work environment. It is every person’s responsibility to: • Understand Paramount’s Global Human Rights Policy concerning basic human rights and uphold the provision of these rights in the workplace • Contribute to a positive experience at Paramount, offering inclusion, equity and accessibility to employees and customers • Treat each other with respect and dignity • Foster free, direct and open communication among all employees • Raise awareness of any behaviours or business situations involving Paramount that may compromise the company’s values around the provision of basic human rights • Report potential violations of the Policy directly to the person involved, or if not comfortable speaking directly to that person, report such concerns to his/her manager. 13 o Compliance with Laws and Regulations Paramount is committed to full compliance with the laws, rules and regulations of Zimbabwe and the countries in which it operates or conducts business. You must comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations when performing your duties. When you think a conflict exists between the Standards and an applicable law, rule or regulation, or if you have a question concerning the legality of your or other persons’ conduct, you should consult with your manager or the HR department o Business transactions Paramount is committed to the highest ethical standards in all business transactions. Persons must follow all applicable laws, rules and regulations when conducting Paramount business. Payments made to any external agent or government official must be lawful under the laws of Zimbabwe and the foreign country where we carry out business. Payments by or on behalf of Paramount to external agents or government officials should always be strictly for services rendered and should be reasonable in amount given the nature of those services. Under no circumstances may a person make payments in violation of the law or to induce government officials or external agencies or agents to do business with Paramount. Persons must comply with all local and foreign laws regarding customs and trade. Paramount and all interested parties will be accurate and truthful in representing business transactions to government agencies. All information that is furnishes to any customs official or to any agent hired by Paramount to facilitate imports and exports must be accurate and truthful. If you conduct business internationally on behalf of Paramount, please make sure you have a thorough understanding of these laws and know enough about any third parties doing business in Paramount’s name to ensure they are making appropriate decisions on our behalf. Paramount interested parties at no time are permitted to influence the outcome of any business decision by exchanging bribes or kickbacks of any kind. Although there is a serious Corruption problem in Zimbabwe especially in the Public Sector, Paramount has a policy of NON Payment of Bribes or Kickbacks. This policy requires patience and an attitude of steadfast resilience on the part of interested parties who come into contact with this problem. Insistence on ethical business behavior and compliance with the law and ensuring that all relevant documentation and other requirements are correct allows Paramount to maintain its Policy against corruption. o Interaction with the Government 14 Paramount is committed to complying with all laws, regulations and codes and to working fairly and honestly with government officials and others in our communities. In doing so, our actions must meet high ethical and legal standards. It is against Paramount policy (and may be a breach of law) to offer or make a payment or gift of any kind in order to facilitate a local process or to influence a local government official. If you are contacted by a government or regulatory representative and asked to provide information or submit to an inspection, you should inform your manager immediately. Your manager will take appropriate actions or contact the appropriate department for guidance. Paramount policy is to deal honestly and fairly with government authorities and to comply with valid governmental requests and processes. Interested parties must be truthful and straightforward in their dealings with the government and may not direct or encourage another partner or anyone else to provide false or misleading information to any government official or representative. Interested parties must not direct or encourage anyone to destroy records relevant to an investigation Paramount’s commitment to working fairly and honestly with the government includes all interactions with government officials. Sales Practices and Advertising Paramount competes on the merits of our products and service in all sales and advertising. Our communications with our customers or potential customers must be truthful and accurate. When we say something about our products and service, we must be able to substantiate it. We sell the quality of what we make and do; we do not disparage our competitors. o Fair Competition Fair competition laws are intended to promote vigorous competition in a free market. It is in Paramount’s best interest to promote free and open competition. Paramount must make its own business decisions, free from understandings or agreements with competitors or suppliers that restrict competition. We consider compliance with these laws of vital importance. When conducting Paramount business, all interested parties must:  Not discuss pricing, production or markets with competitors  Not set resale prices with customers or suppliers  Always present Paramount services and products in a manner consistent with our core values  Not induce a third party to breach an existing agreement  Never act in a manner that could be seen as an attempt to exclude present or potential competitors or to control market prices 15 Conflicts of Interest We all must avoid conflicts of interest. A conflict of interest exists when a personal interest or activity interferes or appears to interfere with the duties that you perform at, or owe to, Paramount. A conflict of interest may unconsciously influence even the most ethical person and the mere appearance of a conflict may cause a person’s acts or integrity to be questioned. Gifts and Entertainment A gift or favor should not be accepted or given if it might create a sense of obligation, compromise your professional judgment or create the appearance of doing so. In deciding whether a gift is appropriate, you should consider its value and whether public disclosure of the gift would embarrass you or Paramount Parties may offer or accept meals and entertainment if they are reasonable, customary, and appropriate, occur infrequently and are not expensive. Please consult the travel and/or expense guidelines for additional guidance. Paramount prohibits offering, giving, soliciting or receiving any form of bribe or inducement. There are serious penalties for engaging in this conduct 16 Intellectual Property and Proprietary Information o Confidential Information During the course of employment at Paramount, all persons gain some knowledge and information that is non-public and belongs to Paramount. You are trusted with maintaining the confidentiality of this valuable information. Confidential information includes things such as supplier information, Paramount technologies, business and marketing plans, internal company communications, and existing and future product information. Paramount information should be used only for company purposes and should not be disclosed to anyone outside of Paramount. Even within the company, only those individuals who truly need to know the information to conduct their business should have access to confidential information. If you leave Paramount, you must return all company materials and property, and any copies. Confidential materials should:  Be stored in a secure place and should not be left out where others can see them  Be clearly marked as confidential  Not be sent to unattended fax machines or printers  Not be discussed where others may hear Paramount is committed to being fair in the areas of confidential information and materials. Just as we take care to protect our information, Paramount respects the information of others. Here are some basic rules to follow:  Do not bring any material from prior employers to Paramount  Do not accept or use anyone else’s confidential information (or agree to maintain anyone’s information in confidence)  Do not solicit confidential information from another company’s present or former employees or suppliers  Do not engage in espionage; be transparent in obtaining information about the marketplace Community Involvement Personal Activities Paramount understands the need for balance between work, personal and family life, and we encourage all interested parties to be involved in their communities. However, 17 they should not impose their personal beliefs or opinions on others or represent their personal opinions as those of Paramount’s. You may keep your personal activities outside of the workplace confidential, but always keep in mind that you are a representative of Paramount. Your conduct can affect perceptions of the Paramount brand. Political Activities Political activities must be conducted on your own time and using your own resources. You must not promote any political or personal views or beliefs (including by posting or distributing notices or other materials) on or around Paramount premises and you may not indicate or suggest that you speak for Paramount or that the company supports your views. Public Relations All information disclosed outside of the company must be accurate, complete and consistent, and disseminated in accordance with Paramount policies. We all represent Paramount; if someone asks you for information (for example, the media), be sure to notify your manager or department head about the request. They will contact the appropriate party to ensure that the correct procedure is followed. Please do not attempt to answer these questions yourself All Paramount Interested parties have a continuing obligation to familiarize themselves with applicable laws relating to their job responsibilities and all Paramount policies. Breach of these standards, Paramount policies or the law may give rise to disciplinary action up to, and including, dismissal 18 Implementation (Labour Principles)  Child Labour Restrictions Paramount will gather and maintain data on the age of employees for auditing and reporting purposes. Additionally, Paramount requires employees under the age of 18 to provide a full birth certificate and Identity documentation where legally required. Zimbabwe Labour Law – Labour Relations Act 28.01 section 11“ No contract of employment shall be enforceable against any person under the age of sixteen years…”and Labour Relations Act Amendment No. 17 ,Section 9 New Section 19 substituted for section 11 of Cap 28:01, which clearly states zero tolerance for “ employment of young persons” Year 2014 2015 2016 Number of 1263 1451 1456 employees Persons employed Nil Nil NIL under 18 years  Equality and Non-Discriminatory Practices Paramountembraces and values the unique combination of talents, experiences and perspectives of each partner. It is expected that all employees are offered equal opportunities to develop knowledge, skills and competencies relevant to the company’s mission through inclusion, equality and accessibility. Paramount employees are required to uphold the elimination of discriminatory practices in the workplace as outlined in its Equal Employment Opportunity Policy and related governance tools. Additionally, Paramount employees are expected to uphold practices that focus on merit and the ability to perform work, rather than practices that are based on irrelevant characteristics that may lead to exclusions. Paramount employees are requested to report any discriminatory practices to their HOD or HR department. 20 Gender Balance & Total workforce within the Organization 1000 900 800 700 600 500 male 400 Female 300 200 100 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 Gender Ratio Paramount Exports  Prohibition of Forced or Compulsory Labour Wages will be paid regularly and according to all Paramount requirements and applicable laws. It is prohibited for any employees to instruct or permit any other interested party or individual doing work on Paramount’s behalf to work any amount of time for which the person is deliberately not compensated. Zimbabwe labour Law Section 4A of the Labour Relations Act No. 17 prohibits forced labour, The Clothing Association Collective Bargaining Agreement and the Clothing NEC ensure compliance to wages and work related activities. 21 Year 2014 2015 2016 Number of 1263 1451 1456 employees Number of signed 1263 1451 1456 employment contracts  Right to Free Association It is every person’s responsibility to uphold employees’ basic rights to engage in free association.  Participation in Collective Bargaining The Collective Bargaining Agreement S.I 1 of 1999 of the Clothing Industry and Section 4 of the Labour Relations Act 28:01 provides for “Employees’ entitlement to membership of trade unions and workers committees. The Constitution of Zimbabwe Amendment (No 20) Act 2013 provides for freedom of assembly and association and states that, “everyone has the right to freedom of assembly and association and the right to assemble or associate with others. No person may be compelled to belong to an association or to attend a meeting or gathering.” Year 2014 2015 2016 Number of 1263 1451 1456 employees Number of Union 160 169 102 Members The Collective Bargaining Agreement S.I 1 of 1999 of the Clothing Industry andSection 4 of the Labour Relations Act 28:01 provides for “Employees’ entitlement to membership of trade unions and elected workers committees who represent the workers needs at the work place. Year 2014 2015 2016 Elected workers yes yes Yes representatives Number of Works 10 8 6 council meetings Number of GDC 30 33 14 Hearings 22 NUMBER OF GRIEVANCE DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE HEARINGS AND WORKS HELD BETWEEN 2014 -2016 5000 4500 4000 3500 3000 2014 2500 2000 2015 1500 2016 1000 500 0 Total Works GDC'S Accidents Clinic Visits Employed Council The topical issues tabled for discussion in works council meeting during the period from 2014 to 2016 were as follows;  Annual bonuswas agreed upon  Production bonusthe formula was changed  Interest on loans given to employees by the Company  Plea for transport allowance  Attendance bonus  Long service awards-The Company will resume issuance of long service certificates  Outstanding upgrading authorizationperformance appraisal was done and the necessary documentation filled in for upgrading by the Finance Director.  Meal allocationsit was resolved and agreed that meals were attendance based and every employee was entitled to a meal if they followed the stipulated rules for meal allocation. 23 Reduction of carbon Foot Print  Water Treatment – All wash bay water is pumped to settlement tanks prior to flushing and all chemicals used are AZO free.  Reduce reliance on fossil fuels (Phase 1 2016) Paramount has switching from coal powered boiler systems to small efficient 4 KW mini electrical boilers to reduce the coal consumption and reduce carbon emissions.  Solar Water Heating (Phase 2 2017) Paramount is researching possible solar technologies for bulk water heating systems to reduce the requirements of electricity in the wash bay. In addition recycling of the final rinse water had reduced the water consumption by 30%. We have encountered difficulties in securing solar heating systems which can head bulk water to service our laundry effectively. This project is still ongoing.  Solar Electricity (Phase 3 2018) Paramount has researched solar electricity technologies with the aim of reducing reliance on the national Power Grid. This has developed into a plan to solarise the Admin, Sales, retail and warehouses. The objective is to reduce grid reliance by 7 megawatts per annum. CODE OF HOHOUR 1. SUMMARY 1.1. The purpose of this procedure is to define the behavior standards requirements for Paramount Group Employees 1.2. The HR department is responsible for implementation and all employees are responsible for management of the Code of Honour.. CODE OF HONOR 1. TIME 24 Be on time by being 5 minutes early. 2. AGREEMENTS  Right from the start ensure that you are clear on what you are agreeing to and that you are fully prepared to honor the agreement.  Honor All Agreements: o If you are going to break an agreement then alert the party / parties involved of your intention to break the agreement. Apologize and provide a solution to create a new agreement. o If you have already broken an agreement then alert the party / parties that you have broken an agreement. Apologize and provide a solution to create a new agreement. o Make sure that you Honor the next agreement. 3. RESPONSIBILITY  No Excuses.  No Laying Blame.  No Justification.  No Denial. 4. COMUNICATION  Be clear on all communication.  Verify all communication.  Verify all instructions given.  Verify all instructions received.  Be honest in all communication.  Respond promptly (ASAP) to all requests. Act with urgency. 25  Only communicate to the parties that are affected by any situation.  Always give people an opportunity to speak first. Listen first then speak.  Do not communicate in anger. 5. PROBLEM SOLVING  Always start by taking responsibility and ownership of the problem.  Be part of the solution rather than the problem.  Try to resolve the problem first, before escalating the matter.  Always speak-up immediately when a situation requires further assistance and/or support to resolve it.  Go direct. Go directly to the person or people involved when you have a problem. Try to solve it with them first.  Do not go behind peoples’ backs.  Do not solve problems, with your colleagues, by using the threat of and/or actual physical-force. 6. MISTAKES “Growth comes from change and change comes from mistakes”  When in doubt take action.  Use mistakes for learning.  Be prepared to make mistakes.  Learn from your mistakes and improve.  Encourage and support the full-disclosure of all seen and known mistakes; for improvement and constructive-development and feed-back.  When you make a mistake – OWN IT – LEARN FROM IT. 7. HONESTY  Be Honest in ALL Dealings.  Do NOT LIE.  Do NOT STEAL. 26  Do not tolerate those that lie, cheat and/or steal. 8. RESPECT “Treat people how they need to be treated NOT how you want to treat them”  Treat people with dignity and equality.  Be understanding and empathetic.  Talk to everyone in a civil manner & in a controlled tone of voice.  Do not communicate when you are emotional / angry. 9. INNOVATION  Be prepared to change.  Be part of the change.  Be part of the creative process that drives innovation.  Be prepared to advance the business and yourself by embracing change.  Find ways to do things better.  Strive to learn something new each day.  Do not change just for the sake of change – when it is working then work it! 10. MISSION  Our Mission is to sell products to customers’ needs and requirements, by putting:  MISSION 1ST  TEAM 2ND  INDIVIDUAL LAST 27 11. PERSONAL & TEAM DEVELOPMENT  Plan and structure regular meetings with your team.  Train and be trained.  Educate and be educated.  Know your Company’s products and market.  Know your role, responsibility and authority-limits.  Learn and understand how your company works including your colleagues’ roles and responsibilities.  Share your knowledge, encourage others to share theirs with you.  Be loyal to your company, brands, products and colleagues.  Act with integrity.  Work with urgency and efficiently to the best of your ability.  Be positive: it will have a greater effect than being negative. 12. WINNING  Play to WIN.  Do everything it takes to win as long as it is LEGAL, ETHICAL and MORAL. 13. POLICIES, PROCEDURES & STANDARDS  Understand and uphold all company policies and procedures. 14. SALES  Everyone SELLS. Whatever you do is selling to someone else – always think about what they are buying.  When we sell are we selling to achieve a profit  The Customer is KING and the customer comes 1st.  Know who your customer is – both Internal & External. 15. FUN  Play the game with a smile.  Work hard and play hard.  Have fun in good and bad times – never lose your sense of humor. HONOUR THE CODE – CALL IT AND BE PREPARED TO BE CALLED 28 OUT REACH – Supporting those less fortunate THANK-YOU!!... CHRISTMAS AT THE PAMONA “RUBBISH DUMP” Gumboots that were donated by Paramount to Eyes 4 Zimbabwe – pictures of these being handed out to the rural areas. A lot of happy faces Thanks very much to Paramount for bringing some smiles in the rainy season!!! 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 Emerald Hill School for the Deaf In 2017 Paramount Exports is embarking on a joint venture with the Emerald Hill School for the Deaf. Selected students who have passed their final exams will be given the opportunity to participate in the Paramount exports training school where they will be taught the skills required to work in the garment manufacturing industry. The candidates on completion of the training program will be offered employment . 39 It is hoped that the opportunities offered will allow the deaf to be able to fulfil their potential and become fully integrated on an equal footing with other Paramount employees. 40
