2 Contents About This Report ........................................................................................................................... 4 Message from the Management ................................................................................................... 5 Valneva’s CSR Approach ............................................................................................................... 6 Protecting Lives ................................................................................................................................ 7 Ethics ....................................................................................................................................................... 11 People ...................................................................................................................................................... 16 Environment ......................................................................................................................................... 25 Scope of Reporting ............................................................................................................................ 31 Valneva’s CSR Performance Indicators ................................................................................. 32 The Frameworks Used to Draw up This Report ............................................................. 39 Methodological Note .................................................................................................................... 40 Definitions ............................................................................................................................................ 42 Independent Auditor’s Report ..................................................................................................... 46 3 Protecting Lives Protecting Lives Valneva is engaged in the research, development and distribution of vaccines with the aim of protecting people from severe infections, and reducing morbidity and mortality. The Group provides vaccines to consumers across the globe. Ensuring their safety is one of the most important Valneva’s requirements. Presence and Impact of the Group in its vaccines are available all over the world. In Terms of Access to Healthcare 2016, Valneva successfully established three new commercial offices located in Canada, Valneva’s commercial vaccines, namely United Kingdom and Austria. The Group also IXIARO® and DUKORAL®, address two lifesigned additional marketing & distribution threatening diseases. agreements in countries where it cannot distribute its vaccines itself. IXIARO®/JESPECT is a next-generation vaccine indicated for active immunization Valneva’s Japanese encephalitis vaccine is against Japanese encephalitis; about 70,000 available in India through Valneva’s partner new cases are recorded every year, of which Biological E., under the trade name JEEV®. 20% to 30% are fatal. JEEV® protects small children and adults and was prequalified by the World Health DUKORAL® is indicated against cholera (and Organization. in some countries, against Enterotoxigenic escherichia coli (“ETEC”)). About 3 to 5 million Valneva also granted to Adimmune the right cases occur every year, leading to 100,000 to to commercialize JEVAL® in Taiwan (where 120,000 deaths. the disease is endemic), including the right to locally fill and pack JEVAL® by using Valneva is continuously expanding its bulk product delivered by Valneva. In 2016, marketing and distribution network to ensure Adimmune was granted marketing approval for Valneva’s Japanese encephalitis vaccine 7 Protecting Lives by the Taiwanese Food & Drug Administration. Through the development of its commercial network, Valneva also distributes other thirdparty products to protect people against diseases such as typhoid and influenza. Offering Free Doses of DUKORAL® Vaccine to the Canadian Olympic Team In September 2016, Valneva Canada Inc. (“Valneva Canada”) donated doses of the DUKORAL® vaccine to over 600 athletes, trainers and staff travelling to Rio for the Olympics, to help protecting them from cholera and diarrhea caused by ETEC. Valneva also partnered with the Canadian Olympic Supporting additional “Access to Foundation and a local travel clinic to offer healthcare” initiatives a free DUKORAL® vaccination to 50 friends & Throughout the year 2016, Valneva supported family accompanying the Canadian athletes additional initiatives which contributed to to Rio. improving access to healthcare. Valneva Austria GmbH (“Valneva Austria”) collected Supporting the Baan Dek Foundation funds for Neunerhaus, an organization that supports homeless people by providing To reinforce its involvement in offering access dental care. to healthcare, Valneva decided in 2016 to officially support the Baan Dek Foundation, Valneva Sweden AB (“Valneva Sweden”) a Thai registered foundation which aims to supported Wateraid, an organization that foster children’s education, health and safety strives to provide people with clean water, safe in Thailand. sanitation and hygiene education worldwide. Employees at Valneva Scotland Ltd. (“Valneva Scotland”) collected funds for the Macmillan Cancer Support charity, one of the largest British charities providing specialist health care, information and financial support to people affected by cancer. Scottish employees also organized a cake sale to collect funds for the British Heart Foundation and took part to the Rucksack and Handbag Appeal Day 2016, an initiative which supports homeless people In 2016, the Baan Dek Foundation supported by keeping them safe, well and warm. 1,147 vulnerable children throughout 26 slums and construction communities in Chiang Mai. To complement its donation, Valneva raised awareness on the Foundation’s work and additional funds through the creation of its Christmas card and distribution, to its employees, of Christmas gifts coming from the Foundation. 8 Protecting Lives Fighting Specific Diseases in Valneva’s Over the last couple of years, Valneva has Areas of Expertise also played an important role in the process development and manufacturing of GMP material for Janssen/Johnson & Johnson’s Valneva spends approximately 20% of its new Inactivated Polio Virus (“IPV”) vaccine revenues in the development of innovative candidate, setting-up and running the lifesaving vaccines. The Group currently works production process from the Valneva Sweden on the development of vaccine candidates site. The program is part of the Global against diseases such as Clostridium difficile, Polio Eradication Initiative, a public-private Lyme disease, Zika or Chikungunya, for which partnership led by national governments no preventative treatments currently exist. with partners such as the WHO, the Rotary International, the US CDC and the United In 2016, Valneva SE announced successful Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), whose Phase II results for its Clostridium difficile goal is to eradicate polio worldwide. The vaccine candidate, a nosocomial disease Phase I Clinical Trial Application was recently which affects approximately 400,000 approved by the Belgium authorities and the people in the United States and 172,000 vaccine will now be tested in humans. Valneva in the European Union, for which there are Sweden will continue to produce IPV material currently no approved vaccines. Valneva SE for Phase II in 2017. also announced the successful generation of a highly-purified Zika vaccine candidate Valneva also contributes to large scale vaccine in response to the international health manufacturing and availabilities of vaccines emergency declared by the WHO. Valneva through the licensing of its innovative vaccine is now looking for partners to pursue the production platform EB66®. In 2016, the development of these two vaccines. Group supplied EB66®-based pre-pandemic influenza vaccines in Japan. Valneva recently launched the Phase I clinical trial of its Lyme disease vaccine candidate in the US and in Europe. Currently, there is no licensed vaccine available to protect humans against Lyme disease, a multi systemic ticktransmitted infection that can cause serious health problems and disabilities. Each year, an estimated 300,000 Americans and 85,000 Europeans develop Lyme disease. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”), it is the fastest growing vector-borne infectious disease in the United States. Valneva’s other pre-clinical projects focus on diseases with unmet medical needs, such as Chikungunya (CHIKV) and Human metapneumovirus (hMPV). 9 Protecting Lives Patient Safety Medicines & Healthcare products Regulatory Agency or the Austrian Agency for Health All medicinal products in the European Union and Food Safety, through qualification are subject to a strict testing and assessment of verifications and inspections. their quality, efficacy and safety before being authorized. Once placed on the market, Valneva In 2016, Valneva also arranged a continues to monitor its products to ensure Pharmacovigilance audit carried out by that any aspect which could impact the safety external consultants to further improve profile is detected and assessed. Valneva’s processes and systems and ensure inspection Medical Affairs and Pharmacovigilance team readiness. Currently, as outlined in Valneva’s oversees the scientific and medical aspects of Pharmacovigilance System Master File clinical development at Valneva and ensures (PSMF), no critical or major audit findings appropriate flow of safety information. are open. An audit plan is also in place to Healthcare professionals and vaccine users verify that the Group’s partners operate have direct access, by phone or email, to according to the terms set up in the individual Valneva Medical Information Professionals Pharmacovigilance Agreements and who can provide physicians with timely and according to current regulation. accurate information on the Group’s products. Valneva ensures maintenance of the Global Safety Database and reporting of information to Competent Authorities, in accordance with applicable regulations in territories where Valneva has a marketing authorization for IXIARO®/JESPECT® and DUKORAL®. The service is formed by Medical Information and Pharmacovigilance experts. In some countries, Valneva’s products are distributed by partner companies. In such cases, individually adapted agreements ensure proper processing of all safety related information as well as adequate response to all medical queries. The quality approach relating to pharmacovigilance is set forth in a Quality Manual (GQP-0021) and in the Individual Standard Operating Procedures. Valneva’s production facilities operate according to high quality standards. These standards are regularly challenged by the Group’s partners and by regulatory authorities such as the US Food and Drug Administration, the Swedish Medical Products Agency, the UK 10 Ethics Ethics Because developing new vaccines means that the Group has a responsibility to its consumers, Valneva maintains the highest ethical standards, protecting trial subjects through solid R&D processes and continuously improving the Group’s business integrity and transparency to preserve the trust of the patients and the communities it serves. Ethics in Research & Development informed consent must be obtained prior to any procedure or change in the procedure As Valneva conducts research designed to required by the study protocol, and before develop new healthcare solutions, the Group any data is collected. This consent process must continually examine its practices and is the cornerstone of ethical recruitment of processes from an ethical standpoint and participants in Valneva’s clinical trials. comply with constantly-evolving regulatory requirements. Valneva has set up an in-house To ensure respect for ethics across the Group’s committee, the Research & Development R&D activities, Valneva monitors and audit its Operational Committee (“RDOC”), and a processes, as it continuously seek to improve framework, to guide the conduct of clinical them: trials. + Quality Control evaluates the performance Valneva’s RDOC committee meets every of the manufacturing process to ensure month to carry out a thorough review of adherence to specifications and limits, and Valneva’s clinical and pre-clinical pipeline and assesses the suitability of incoming raw ensure that the research to be carried out by materials, components, containers, closures, the clinical teams corresponds to a clinical labelling, in-process materials and final need. vaccine lots. To complement the scientific review from + Quality Assurance involves the systematic Valneva’s internal experts, the Group also and independent examination of all trialresorts to external experts to ensure the related activities and documents. This approaches it adopts for its clinical trials are includes sites audits, vendor audits and the most appropriate and effective. system/process audits, as well as inspections When recruiting patients and healthy subjects and pre-approval inspections. for Valneva’s clinical trials, the Group ensure it selects study sites with good clinical research infrastructures and that all study participants enrolled in any Valneva clinical trial conducted have given their free and informed consent to participate in the trial. Individual 11 People Value and Support Diversity of the diversity policy a subject of a dialogue with the employees’ representatives; The Group believes that all forms of discrimination are unacceptable in the +Insert a chapter in the annual report workplace. Group policy is to promote describing the Group’s commitment to equal opportunity through employment, nondiscrimination and diversity, including compensation, recruitment, training and details of the measures implemented, advancement for all employees. This means internal procedures and results achieved. that applicants and all employees receive the same treatment regardless of nationality, ethnic or national origin, gender, physical or mental disability, age, religion or beliefs, family situation or sexual orientation. As a global Group that respects all cultures, Valneva strongly believes that the diversity of its teams and talent is a valuable asset contributing to greater innovation, efficiency and competitiveness. 29 nationalities are represented within Valneva teams. Diversity Charter Signatories Valneva France and Valneva Austria are signatories of the Diversity Charter, as part of an initiative seeking to ban discrimination Equal Opportunity and Treatment from the workplace. This demonstrates the Group’s devotion to promote diversity. In its Code of Conduct, Valneva has emphasized its commitment to promoting The Charter’s six commitments, as described equal opportunity and maximizing the talent below, are integrated within Valneva’s Human and expertise of all employees. Resources strategy. +Raise awareness of non-discrimination and Gender Breakdown diversity issues among top management and staff involved in recruitment, training and Women are more highly represented than career development and to educate them in men at Valneva (61% females). these matters; +Respect and promote the application of all Gender Balance aspects of the principle of nondiscrimination at every stage of the Female human resources management, in particular 263 Male in the recruitment, training, promotion and career development of employees; 169 +Endeavour to reflect the diversity of the 90 87 society, particularly in its cultural and ethnic 55 47 48 44 32 20 dimension, at every level of the Group’s 3 1 4 3 workforce; Valneva Austria France UK Nordics USA Canada Group +Make all employees aware of Valneva’s commitment to non-discrimination and diversity, and keep them informed of the practical results of this commitment; +Make the development and implementation 20 People Audit and Inspection at Valneva Training Initiatives on Benefits of Near Scotland Miss Reporting Valneva Scotland and Valneva Sweden An inspection of the facility and the Environmental and Occupational Health Training initiatives were completed on the Sciences (“EOHS”) management system was Scottish and Swedish sites to emphasize the carried out by EOHS consultants Peninsula benefits of near miss reporting and the impact Business Services at Valneva. on reducing the number of serious accident events on site. Scotland to determine compliance with legislation and best practices. The overall A “near miss” is an unplanned event that did standard of health and safety management not result in injury or damage, but had the was demonstrated to be Satisfactory, with no potential to do so. Recognizing and reporting findings of non-compliance or requirement near miss incidents can significantly improve for action to improve health and safety noted. employees’ safety and enhance the Group’s safety culture. Employee Health and Safety Training at Valneva Sweden Trainings were carried out in group sessions using a PowerPoint presentation, a DVD and As a new routine for all employees and a group quiz contractors, personnel have to complete based on interpretation of a scenario and a questionnaire on Good Manufacturing identification of the near miss events, with Practice and Environment Health and Safety the impact of completing simple corrective area needs, before receiving their badge at measures identified to prevent a serious reception. New routines for EHS introduction accident from occurring. started in 2016, and all employees are required to receive proper overall EHS introduction The initiative led to the reporting of 27 near during the two first weeks of employment. miss incidents at the Swedish site in 2016, The introduction program is expanded to compared to 7 in 2015, illustrating the increase include the overall EHS system at Valneva in the level of safety awareness among Sweden. Managers have a separate EHS Swedish employees. training by the EHS Department connected to their EHS Delegate from the Chair of the At the Scottish site, 76 near miss events Swedish Management Board. were reported in 2016, with 11 reported minor accidents and 2 work days lost. A continuing In December 2016, 12 employees were trained campaign for near miss event reporting will be in first aid and 6 employees in the use of undertaken in 2017 with a target to increase defibrillators. These training sessions are near miss events reported by 20% at Valneva provided routinely since the last 10 years, with Scotland. the goal of having at least one trained person in each Department. Measures for Preventing Musculoskeletal Disorders at Valneva France After an ergonomic study conducted in 2015, the occupational health department at the Nantes site adopted measures to prevent Musculoskeletal Disorders (“MSDs”) for employees’ lab workers. Training/information on the ergonomic study’s results and recommendations for measures to be implemented in the day-today practice, were provided as a first step. Then, several thousand euros were invested to replace the older generation of pipettes by the most recent generation of pipettes providing greater ergonomics for employees 23 People performing microbiology lab work. Workplace Evaluation at Valneva Austria Following an internal office move at Valneva Austria in 2016, a new office layout was made to accommodate employees. Under the supervision of the external partner Health Consult, work stations were adjusted in accordance with ergonomic rules. 24 Environment Environment As a vaccine company, Valneva is aware that the environment directly affects people’s health. The Group feels that it has a responsibility to reduce its own carbon footprint and manage its waste consumption. Valneva’s Environmental Approach (Sweden). Environmental sustainability is a guiding Biotechnology risks were identified at principle at Valneva. The Group aims to use Valneva’s four R&D and production sites. natural resources efficiently and minimizes Dedicated teams have been accordingly the environmental impact of its activities tasked with implementing and monitoring and products during their lifecycles. It the necessary procedures for managing these integrates sustainable operations & supply risks and monitoring the installations and chains, innovative products & packaging equipment. In 2016, under the leadership of and environmental sustainability into its its President & CEO, Mr. Thomas Lingelbach, business decisions process. Valneva pursues Valneva formed an inter-site Health Safety its development in strict compliance with a Environment (HSE) team, at the Group level. number of corporate social responsibility rules Its purpose is to improve the efficiency of and environmental sustainability guidelines. work on-site and provide for the exchange of inputs between the different teams devoted The energy transition act enacted in France to health, safety and the environment within on August 17, 2015 established obligations Valneva. to promote the circular economy and waste recycling. Good practices for waste separation, Carbon Footprint recycling and monitoring have been adopted by the Group. These practices are a major As a vaccine company, Valneva feels that the priority and procedures have already been Group has a responsibility to reduce its own implemented for all sites. carbon footprint. Since energy constitutes the main source of its CO2 emissions, the Group Research laboratories are set up at the Nantes seeks to optimize energy consumption and and Vienna sites. Upstream vaccine testing is energy security for all its business activities. performed at the Vienna site. There were many projects in 2016 aiming to The Japanese encephalitis vaccine production improve the Group’s energy consumption unit is in Livingston (Scotland), and the and reducing its environmental footprint. production site for the vaccines against cholera and LT-ETEC diarrhea in Solna 25 Valneva’s CSR Performance Indicators Performance Indicators Related to Protecting Lives and Ethics Indicator GRI 4 Grenelle II Definition environmental law Regional, economic and social impact of the Company's activity In terms of employment and regional development Group EC8 3.a Communications actions (see pages 17 and 18 of this Report) On neighboring or local populations Group EC8 3.a No actions Relations with persons or organizations interested by the activity of the Company, and in particular non-profit organizations for social and occupational insertion, educational establishments, not-for-profits in the defense of the environment, consumer interests and neighboring populations Conditions of dialogue with these persons organizations Group EC8 3.b Communications actions (see pages 8 and 9 of this Report) Sponsorship or partnership initiatives Group EC8 3.b Communications actions (see pages 8 and 9 of this Report) Subcontracting and suppliers Taking into account social and environmental issues in the purchasing policy Importance of subcontracting and taking into account social and environmental responsibility in relations with suppliers and subcontractors Group HR7 3.c Purchasing policy Fair practices Actions taken to prevent corruption Group PR3-PR5 3.d Code of conduct Anticorruption policy Company compliance Percentage of persons who received training on the Code of Conduct in 2016 100% Number of training planed cross-sites in 2016 12 Number of employees trained in 2016 (new employees or employees never trained before) 99 Percentage of persons who received ABAC in 2016 100% Number of training planed cross-sites in 2016 10 Number of employees trained in 2016 442 Measures taken in favor of consumer health and safety Group PR3-PR5 3.d Pharmacovigilance / Medical information process Actions undertaken in favor of the Human Rights Group PR3-PR5 3.e Communication actions 32 Valneva’s CSR Performance Indicators Performance Indicators Related to Employment Indicator GRI 4 Grenelle II Unit of 2014 2015 2016 Definition environmental measurement law Employment Total headcount 10/LA1 1.a Number 278 414 434 By country Austria 10/LA1 1.a Number 132 146 145 Canada 10/LA1 1.a Number N/A N/A 7 United Kingdom 10/LA1 1.a Number 86 92 95 United States 10/LA1 1.a Number 2 2 4 France 10/LA1 1.a Number 60 47 52 The Nordics 10/LA1 1.a Number N/A 129 131 By gender Women LA12 1.a Number 162 252 263 Men LA12 1.a Number 116 162 171 By age Less than 30 LA12 1.a Number 25 37 39 30 to 50 years LA12 1.a Number 220 294 306 More than 50 years LA12 1.a Number 33 83 89 Average age LA12 1.a Years 39.54 41.49 42 By type of contract Permanent contracts 10/LA1 1.b Number 274 408 424 Temporary contracts 10/LA1 1.b Number 4 6 10 By function R&D N/A 1.a Number 124 132 131 Production N/A 1.a Number 58 138 138 Support and N/A 1.a Number 96 108 115 Administration Clinical development N/A 1.a Number N/A 11 8 Sales and Marketing N/A 1.a Number N/A 25 42 Recruitments and departures Recruitment 10/LA1 1.a Number 30 70 69 Dismissals 10/LA1 1.a Number 6 10 8 Voluntary departures 10/LA1 1.a Number 27 48 Organization of working hours Illness LA6 1.b Average 6.14 7.8 6.4 number of days per employee 33 Valneva’s CSR Performance Indicators Occupational illness LA6 1.b Number 0 0 0 Occupational accidents LA6 1.b Number 1 1 2 resulting in lost time days Labor relations Organization of 11 1.c Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee (CHSCT) report employee-management for Nantes, Local Committees, IWC (see page 21 23 of this Report) dialogue Collective bargaining 11 1.c 98 % of the Group employees are covered by a collective agreements bargaining agreement Code of Conduct and 11/56 1.c Code of conduct equal opportunity 1.f Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption policy Training Training policy LA9 1.e Training is managed both at the Group level and locally and applicable laws vary significantly with respect to reporting obligations. France G4-LA9 1.e Number of 970 1,453 1,366 hours Average number of G4-LA9 1.e Number of 21.5 38 32.5 training hours per hours employee per year for France Austria G4-LA9 1.e Number of N/A 1,507.77 944 hours Scotland G4-LA9 1.e Number of N/A 1,958.5 9,960 hours Workplace equality / Diversity Percentage of women LA12 1.a % 58 61 61 employed Supervisory Board LA12 1.f % 14,3 14,3 37,5 Number of employees LA12 1.f % 0 0 0 with disabilities Compliance with the EC9 1.f N/A Not relevant core conventions of the International Labor Organization 34 Valneva’s CSR Performance Indicators Performance Indicators Related to Environment Indicator GRI 4 Grenelle II Definition environmental law General environmental policy Organization of the company for addressing environmental issues and, as applicable, environmental assessments or certification approaches Group EC2 2.a Good Quality Practice (GQP-0008(02) Austria EC2 2.a VIE-SOP-0054/03IE Index Vönix VIE-SOP-0074 United EC2 2.a EOHS Guidance document Kingdom Valneva Livingston Statement of Intent SEPA permit PPC/E/20022 SAPO licence Environmental monitoring report France EC2 2.a Declaration ICPE2009Safety Action Plan Sweden EC2 2.a Operating authorization from the Swedish authorities Report & program for environmental self-assessments Training and employee information actions relating to environmental protection Austria EC2 2.a All employees receive training on the VIE-SOP-0054[03] procedure United EC2 2.a Controlling documents Kingdom LIV/SOP/0333 Waste Disposal and Spills Procedure France EC2 2.a Safety booklet for new employees Nantes Single Assessment Document Sweden EC2 2.a EHS Training system Resources devoted to preventing environmental risks and pollution Austria EN31 2.a VIE-SOP-0074 (02) waste management United EN31 2.a Controlling documents Kingdom PPC/E/20022 LIV/SOP/0333 France EN31 2.a Declaration ICPE -2009Mandatory waste management record Waste management procedures Sweden EN31 2.a Operating authorization from the Swedish authorities Waste handling procedures Amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental risks Group EN29 2.a In the absence of financial and non-financial sanctions for failure to comply with EN31 regulations, no financial provisions have been set aside for environmental risks. Austria EN31 2.a Business RA #39 Contamination 35 Valneva’s CSR Performance Indicators Pollution and waste management Measures for preventing, reducing and repairing discharges in the air, water and ground causing serious environmental impacts Group EN8 2.b Summary graphs (see page 26 28 of this Report) Austria EN8 2.b VIE-SOP-0074 (02) monitoring of energy media consumption United Kingdom EN8 2.b PPC/E/2002 Annual report PPC Nov. 2014 France EN8 2.b Mandatory waste management record Waste management procedures Sweden EN8 2.b Waste handling procedures Test and annual replacement of the HVAC filters, program for collecting water samples annual maintenance of the wastewater tanks. Action plan to reduce the discharge of chemical products in wastewater based on Swedish regulations Waste* exclusively for the manufacturing and R&D sites generating a significant quantity of waste Measures for prevention, recycling and eliminating waste Austria EN22 2.b VIE-SOP-0074 (02) United Kingdom EN22 2.b Controlling document LIV/SOP/0333 France EN22 2.b DASRI and Reach regulations Waste separation table Sweden EN22 2.b SLN-OTI-0020 Production sites* 2014 2015 2016 Total water discharge EN8 2.b N/A N/A N/A N/A Total Hazardous EN23 2.b In Tons 15.4 27.9 26.5 Waste Biological EN23 2.b In Tons 14.7 25.7 21.7 Chemical EN23 2.b In Tons 0.7 1.6 0.75 WEEE EN23 2.b In Tons 0 0.6 4.1 Total EN23 2.b In Tons 18.8 41.2 35.6 Non-Hazardous Waste Recycled EN23 2.b In Tons 12.6 27.8 27 Non-recycled nonhazardous waste EN23 2.b In Tons 6.2 13.4 8.6 (household waste) R&D sites* 2014 2015 2016 Total water discharge EN22 2.b N/A N/A N/A N/A Total Hazardous EN23 2.b In Tons 20.2 23 25.6 Waste Biological EN23 2.b In Tons 17.9 21.8 95.7 36 Valneva’s CSR Performance Indicators Chemical EN23 2.b In Tons 1.057 0.1 1.234 WEEE EN23 2.b In Tons 1.25 1.13 1.95 Total non-hazardous EN23 2.b In Tons 64.7 73.7 75.9 waste Recycled EN23 2.b In Tons 21.5 23.1 22.9 Non-recycled nonhazardous waste EN23 2.b In Tons 43.2 50.6 52.8 (household waste) *Production sites: Livingston (United Kingdom), Solna (Sweden) R&D sites Nantes (France), Vienna (Austria) Food waste Not relevant Energy 2014 2015 2016 Electricity EN3 2.c MWh 6,950 11,660 11,787 Gas EN3 2.c MWh 4,535 4,997 4,967 Raw materials for production sites* only 2014 2015 2016 Total EN16 2.c Tons 56.217 73.885 101.4 Solna (SE) EN16 2.c Tons N/A 2.03 3.1 Livingston (UK) EN16 2.c Tons 56.217 71.855 98.312 Production sites*: Livingston (United Kingdom), Solna (Sweden) Water 2014 2015 2016 Total consumption EN8 2.c m3 13,825 43,634 48,822 3 Total EN8 2.c m 5,900 35,466 39,628 production sites Total other sites EN8 2.c m3 7,925 8,168 9,194 CO2 emissions 2014 2015 2016 Relating to EN15 2.d Teq CO2 N/A 4131.2 3,475 energy consumption Taking into account noise pollution and other forms of pollution specific to an activity Austria EN25 2.b Installation of an active charcoal filter against odor pollution. These filters are changed annually Scotland EN25 2.b Preventative maintenance program for installations and equipment Biannual report to the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA) on noise pollution Group / other sites EN25 2.b N/A Energy consumption, measures taken to improve energy performance and recourse to renewable energy Austria N/A 2.c Monthly consumption monitoring and documentation for identifying unusual consumption Signature of a zero-greenhouse gas emission contract in 2015 (effective starting in 2016) 37 Valneva’s CSR Performance Indicators United N/A 2.c Controlling document Kingdom LIV-SOP-0008 Preventive Maintenance Plan (monitoring consumption and equipment calibration) France N/A 2.c Monitoring consumption and centralized control system (heating, air conditioning, air treatment, lighting) Use of the energy audit results to reduce energy and water consumption and minimize discharges. Sweden N/A 2.c Electric steam boiler turned off during the summer season. Installation of a presence detection system for new lighting systems. Preventive Maintenance Plan (monitoring consumption and equipment calibration) Soil use N/A 2.c No actions Climate change Adapting to the consequences of climate change Austria EN14 2.d Signature in 2015 of a zero-greenhouse gas emission United EN14 2.d Controlling document; Environmental Monitoring Report of Emissions to Atmosphere. Kingdom France EN14 2.d Use of the energy audit results to reduce energy and water consumption and minimize discharges. Sweden EN14 2.d Electric steam boiler turned off during the summer season. Installation of a presence detection system for new lighting systems Measures taken to preserve and/or develop biodiversity United EN14 2.e Compliance with SEPA license for waste disposal and emissions Kingdom France EN14 2.e Installation of 4 beehives on the site (see page 34 30 of this Report) 38 Frameworks Used to Draw up This Report Frameworks Used to Draw up This Report The French Grenelle II Act (Article 225) and ISO 26000 International Standard its implementing decree ISO 26000 provides guidance so it cannot be certified to unlike some other well-known Article 225 of the law ENE N°2010-788 of July ISO standards. Instead, it helps clarify what 12, 2010, or the Grenelle II Act, requires social, social responsibility is, helps businesses and environmental and sustainability information to organizations translate principles into effective be included in the Annual Management Report of actions and shares best practices relating to social companies and reviewed by third parties. This act responsibility, globally. It is aimed at all types of is an extension of the 2001 NRE law and applies organizations regardless of their activity, size or the provisions of the Grenelle Environmental location. legislation and the Grenelle I Act. The conditions for application are laid down in a decree N°2012The standard was launched in 2010 following five 557 of April 24, 2012. years of negotiations between many different stakeholders across the world. Representatives The ministerial decree of May 13, 2013 sets the from government, NGOs, industry, consumer procedures for the performance of appraisal groups and labor organizations around the world missions by independent third parties. were involved in its development, which means it represents an international consensus. The Energy Transition for Green Growth Act Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The French Energy Transition for Green Growth Act of August 17, 2015 sets energy transition targets. The Global Reporting Initiative is a nonGreenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by governmental organization that works as 40% by 2030, and divided by four by 2050. Final a global network to promote sustainability energy consumption must be divided by two in through environmental, social responsibility and 2050 in relation to 2012, and the percentage of governance reporting. The GRI produces the most renewable energy increased to 32% in 2030. The widely used sustainability reporting standards to text also focuses on additional priorities including, work towards greater transparency. The framework among others, developing clean transport, includes the G4 guidelines and sets the reporting combating waste and promoting the circular principles and indicators that organizations can economy. This includes a recycling target for use to measure and disclose their economic, non-hazardous waste of 55% in 2020 and 65% environmental and social performance. in 2025 and reducing amounts of non-recyclable manufactured products put on the market by 50% The Global Reporting Initiative was set up in 1997 before 2020 (article 70). by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and Ceres. European Directives The French Decree n°2016-1138 of August 19, Directive 2014/95/EU October 22, 2014 amended Directive 2013/93/EU and introduces changes 2016 for disclosures to be included in a CSR Report. The transposition of this directive is currently French Decree related to circular economy and under study and will enter into force no later than greenhouse gas generated by the company’s December 6, 2016. activities and modified the article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial code. This directive requires companies thus concerned to publish a report containing information risk prevention policies in the areas of environmental, social and employee matters, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and bribery matters, and the outcome of these policies, including a description of the “due diligence processes” and covering the entire supply chain under this approach. 39 Methodological Note Methodological Note Methodological Note on Group CSR Data 2. sending the resource persons a data Reporting collection spreadsheet for information to be provided along with guidelines for quantitative The different entities forming the Group operate employment-related and environmental data; according to different models linked to business operations (R&D and production) as well as their 3. classifying the source documents respective cultural and legal environments. received (codification) according to three fields: employment, environment, and social. The legal and regulatory context does notreflect the same requirements for compliance from one These documents are then made available to site to another. the CSR assurance service firm. The different priorities relating to the environment + For the construction of this CSR report, and also employment are reflected differently data collection is organized through resource according to the sites, even common practices persons identified internally: and shared values can be observed. + resource persons to coordinate, where Procedures are gradually being harmonized at the possible, and transmit quantitative and qualitative data for employment-related Group level. information requirements; + other resource persons to coordinate, Group Structure of Consolidated Operations where possible, and transmit quantitative and qualitative data for the environmental The quantitative data in the employment area is information requirements; consolidated at the Group level for the collection + resource persons to coordinate, where of information in 2016. These data are derived possible, and transmit quantitative and from the human resource management software: qualitative data for the social information HR Cube. requirements; + one person of Nantes in France to Quantitative environmental data has been coordinate the data collection at the harmonized at the Group level for 2015 inputs. international level; Environmental impact measures energy consumption, GHG emissions and waste for the 4. implementation of a dedicated CSR production and R&D sites (Livingston, Vienna, reporting platform (installed on the internal server) to improve the data storage and facilitate Solna and Nantes). access for the resource persons. Reporting Referential Comparison of Data Between the 2015 and To ensure the homogeneity and reliability of 2016 CSR reports indicators tracked for all subsidiaries, the Group is continuing to adopt common guidelines for The comparability of data is sometimes still partial, employment-related and environmental data. since all information collected is not based on the These documents specify the methodologies to same scope of reporting. Besides, certain items be applied for the reporting of indicators for the cannot harmonized at the Group level. entire Group: definitions, calculation formulas, etc. Valneva’s Social Responsibility Policy Data Collection Method In 2016, the Valneva Group concentrated Data collection in 2016 required application of efforts on integrating the Solna production unit a working method and different steps that are and developing the sales and marketing activities, presented below: and has defined more precisely a CSR policy organized around four pillars as follows: 1. maintaining the resource persons identified in 2015 to report quantitative + Protecting lives and qualitative employment, social and + Ethics environmental data for each site in order to + People optimize the collection process; + Protecting environment 40 Methodological Note Materiality Test The time requirements for producing these latter documents did not make it possible to produce a relevant materiality matrix capable of presenting the social responsibility stakes for Valneva with regards to its important stakeholders. Due diligence processes are in place within the Group, in particular in areas related to product liability (pharmacovigilance). However, consultation of the stakeholders is not carried out in a formalized and exhaustive manner. Potential Improvements Improvements can be considered for future years, including a materiality test adapted to the Group, in order to identify those issues that are most important in relation to expectations of Valneva’s critical and external stakeholders. 41 Definitions Definitions Employment Indicators conditions, employment and social guarantees for employees. Relevance: Employment indicators provide an understanding, through quantitative and Professional disease: An illness arising as a qualitative data, conditions with respect to human consequence to exposure to occupational risk rights, employability, working conditions, training factors (physical, policies impacts on employee health and safety, chemical or biological risks). diversity and equal opportunity employment. Occupational accidents: Accident resulting from Total headcount: Employees included in the or arising in the course of work, regardless of the headcount are those with an employment contract cause, to any salary employee or a person working (permanent on behalf of the Group. An occupational accident or fixed-term) with a Valneva Group company. can also arise in the course of a business-related Workforce is expressed based on headcount, trip. This Report contains only accident with days regardless of the amount of working hours or the lost. starting date in the reporting year. Medium age: The dates of birth are subtracted from December 31, 2016, then divided by 365.25 for each employee with an employment contract (permanent or fixed term) with a company of the Valneva Group, and divided again by the figure for the total headcount. Recruitments and dismissals: Recruitments and dismissals exclude movements within the Group, such as international transfers or transfers between companies and sites. New recruits: This includes employees recruited in the year under a permanent or fixed-term contract. Switching from a permanent contract to a fixedterm contract during the year is not considered as a new recruitment. Temporary contracts: This includes executive employees, corporate officers (“mandataires sociaux”) in France, and two Management Board Members in Austria. Number of dismissals: The number of dismissals corresponds to the number of forced departures, and as such, excludes resignations and the termination of contracts by mutual consent. Sickness rate: The absenteeism rate is the number of days of absence during the year (from Monday to Friday, or five days per week) for the average number of active employees (based on calculations for monthly periods) and concerns solely sick leave (= the average number of sick days per employee). Training: Number of internal and external training hours is taken into account. Conventions and collective bargaining agreements: A collective bargaining agreement is concluded between the employer and labor unions for the purpose of setting rules governing working 42 Definitions Environmental Indicators Social Indicators Relevance: Environmental indicators report inputs Relevance: Social indicators cover impacts of the (energy, water and raw materials) and outputs business on the territory, impacts of products on (emissions, effluents, waste) and the types of consumer health and safety, practices with respect impacts of the organization on the environment. to suppliers and subcontractors, the purchasing policy. Materials: This item corresponds to materials used in the production cycle. All impacts are derived from qualitative data (procedures and the assessments ofpractices). Energy: Only direct energy consumption (originating from a primary energy source) is taken The Group defined more precisely its social policy, into account. Energy savings linked to mechanism and focused around two pillars: “Protecting lives” for monitoring consumption and optimizing (inherent to its R&D and vaccine commercial equipment are reported in qualitative terms. activities) and “Ethics” (in consideration of the Consumption expressed in MWh. Health, products’ safety and Compliance issues). Water: Water consumption concerns solely withdrawn water volume Consumption expressed in m3. Biodiversity: This refers to a qualitative description of impacts linked to activities, products and services. Emissions, effluents and waste: Direct emissions of greenhouse gas emission are taken into account. Direct emissions of greenhouse gas emission expressed in tons of CO2. Waste is taken into account by category according to a breakdown between hazardous and nonhazardous waste. The production of waste is expressed in tons. Transport: Transport (employees, suppliers, customers) is not taken into account in this report due to the absence of data. 43 Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Auditor’s Report Report by the Certified Public Accountant appointed as Independent Third Party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the Management Report for the year ended 31/12/2016. This is a free English translation of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as professional certified public accountant appointed as Independent Third Party by VALNEVA and certified by COFRAC under number 3-1055, we hereby report to you on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information for the year ended 31/12/2016, included in the Management Report (hereinafter named “CSR Information”), pursuant to article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial code (Code de commerce). Company’s responsibility The Management Board is responsible for preparing the Management Report including the CSR Information required by article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code, prepared in conformity with the guidelines. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the French Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession and the requirements of article L. 822-11 of the French Commercial code. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements, French professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Certified public accountant’s responsibility On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: • attest that the required CSR Information is included in the Management Report or, in the event of nondisclosure of a part or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is provided in accordance with the third paragraph of article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial code (Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information); • express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information taken as a whole is, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines (Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information). Our work involved 3 persons and was conducted between 7th October 2016 and the 2nd March 2017 during a 10 day period, with an on-site audit on 2nd February 2017 in Solna and on 8th February 2017 in Saint-Herblain. We performed our work in accordance with the French professional standards and with the order dated 13 May 2013 defining the conditions under which the independent third party performs its engagement. 1. Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the Company’s sustainability strategy regarding human resources and environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments and, where applicable, any actions or programmes arising from them. We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report with the list provided in article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial code. For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we verified that explanations were provided in accordance with article R. 225-105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial code. We verified that the CSR Information covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as defined by article L. 233-1 and the controlled entities as defined by article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial code, with the limits mentioned in the guidelines presented in the 2016 Reporting Scope paragraph of the management report. 44 Independent Auditor’s Report Conclusion Based on the work performed, we attest that the required CSR Information has been disclosed in the Management Report. 2. Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work We conducted 8 interviews with the persons responsible for preparing the CSR Information in the departments in charge of collecting the information and, where appropriate, responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, in order to: • assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understanding, and taking into account industry best practices where appropriate; • verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, processing and control process to reach completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information with respect to the characteristics of the Company, the human resources and environmental challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy and industry best practices. We focused our studies on: • Social information: measures implemented for the health & safety of employees; • Environmental information: measures taken to prevent environmental risks and pollutions; prevention, mitigation and reduction of air, water and ground emissions or waste; energy consumption; • Ethics information: health & safety of products and users; actions implemented to prevent corruption. Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important: at parent entity level and the Solna site in Sweden, we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organisation, policies, actions), performed analytical procedures on the quantitative information and verified, using sampling techniques, the calculations and the consolidation of the data. We also verified that the information was consistent and in agreement with the other information in the management report; at the level of Solna, selected by us on the basis of their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied and we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. The selected sample represents on average 30% of headcount and 48% of quantitative environmental information. For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency based on our understanding of the Company. We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we have used, based on our professional judgement, are sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent to information and internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR information cannot be totally eliminated. Conclusion Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the guidelines. Toulouse, March 21, 2017 THE INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY SAS CABINET DE SAINT FRONT Jacques de SAINT FRONT 45 CONTACT INFORMATION CREDITS VALNEVA SE Published by World Trade Center Lyon Valneva SE 10-12 boulevard Vivier Merle World Trade Center Lyon 69003 Lyon, France 10-12 boulevard Vivier Merle 69003 Lyon, France Investor Relations & Corporate Communications France: +33 2 2807 3710 Austria: +43 1 206 20 1116 Legal Representative Thomas Lingelbach, President and CEO communications@valneva.com investors@valneva.com Editorial Laetitia Bachelot-Fontaine www.valneva.com Corporate Communications, Valneva SE VALNEVA SE Publication Date Campus Bio-Ouest, 6 rue Alain Bombard May 2017 44821 Saint-Herblain Nantes, France VALNEVA AUSTRIA GMBH Campus Vienna Biocenter 3 1030 Vienna, Austria VALNEVA SCOTLAND LTD. Oakbank Park Road Livingston EH53 0TG, Scotland VALNEVA SWEDEN AB SE-105 21 Stockholm, Sweden VALNEVA CANADA INC. 3535 Saint-Charles Blvd., Suite 600 Kirkland (Québec) H9H 5B9, Canada VALNEVA UK LTD Centaur House, Ancells Business Park Ancells Road / Fleet Hampshire GU51 2UJ, United Kingdom INTERCELL USA, INC. 910 Clopper Road, Suite 160S Gaithersburg, MD 20878 United States 46 47
