COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by the Communication On Progress (COP) From: December 2015 To: December 2016 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE OWNER December 19, 2016 To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Nasri Karam And Sons reaffirms its supports of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information through our website to assure our stakeholders of our longterm commitment to these principles. Sincerely yours, Naji Karam Managing Director/Owner Nasri Karam and Sons COP 2016 – Nasri Karam And Sons 1 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities ! A list of Legal Documents is required to be submitted by all employees in order to ensure the safety of all personnel. ! Workmen compensation is available to cover work accidents in the event of an accident. ! Training is provided for new comers to ensure familiarization with duties. ! Availability of firefighting and fire alarm system that is regularly checked and updated. ! In order to protect and enhance our indoor air quality, to promote the health and well being of all employees and to maximize safe working environment, smoking is prohibited in all of the areas within Nasri Karam And Sons sites, without exception and at all times. This includes common private offices, open work areas, conference and meeting rooms, hallways, restrooms and all other enclosed facilities ! Nasri Karam And Sons dedicates an isolated outdoor area for smokers Protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats ! The Human Resources department has an open door policy. If any abuse is reported, appropriate measures are taken according to each case Take measures to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products ! Filters are installed when needed in all work areas. ! An aeration system is installed in the factory, which is regularly checked and updated. ! Employees are provided with masks, goggles, gloves and protective outfits, and are required to wear them when needed. COP 2016 – Nasri Karam And Sons 2 Labour Ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour ! Nasri Karam and Sons internal Regulation is approved by the Ministry of Labour compliant with Lebanese Labor Law and applicable international conventions. Comply with minimum wage standards ! All employees are registered in social security and their full wages are declared. Ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria ! Competency based interviews and assessment are used for the selection of suitable candidates. Environment Avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc…) ! For air pollution control, plants are equipped with suitable filters. ! For waste monitoring, nylon, cartons and plastic are recycled regularly. Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health ! Emergency procedures are in place for fire, spills, and accidents. ! First aid measures are also in place. Minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances ! Materials are handled according to their Material Safety Date Sheets (MSDS). COP 2016 – Nasri Karam And Sons 3 Anti-Corruption Ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti corruption commitment ! An official audit function audits the financials and procedures of the business. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Demographics of management and employees broken down by diversity factors (e.g., gender ethnicity, age, etc…) ! At the management level, gender equality is respected in number of positions occupied and salaries. Demographics (Management Level) Women Men COP 2016 – Nasri Karam And Sons 4 Rate of occupational diseases, injuries and absenteeism ! Availability of sick leave database with obligation to hand in a medical report. ! In case of a work accident, appropriate corrective actions are taken, on one hand for the well being of the employee and on the second from the company to minimize an already small risk. ! Annual and exit leave policy and procedure available Percentage of recycled materials ! Recycled materials include paper, nylon, cartons and plastic bags (approx. 10%) COP 2016 – Nasri Karam And Sons 5
