Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS About This Report CEO Message About SIDPEC  Overview  Strategy People Waste Society Needs  Performance  Business Value Safety Energy Sustainability Initiatives  Supply Chain  Governance & Ethics Water Education Code of Conduct SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 1 This report includes Sidpec sustainability activities from January 2016 till March 2017 and published on UN Global Compact web site in May 2017. Our report is based on three aspects: Support economic growth, achieve community progress and contribute to environmental protection. This report highlights efforts to align with the 17 United Nations sustainable development goals to create a common set of goals in our local community. Also we take in mind the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the formulation of strategic plans, and business practices. “Refer to our Code of Conduct”. About this Report Further information shall be available on the web site www.sidpec.com We aligned with Egypt Vision 2030! Our strategic objectives issued in October 2016 and considered to be aligned with Egypt vision 2030, and the Ministry of Petroleum Strategy through the implementation of “Egypt’s Oil & Gas Sector Modernization Project”. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 2 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com CEO Message At the beginning of my message, I would like to express Our successful role towards social responsibility is based my sincere welcome to you in Sidpec annual sustainability on our commitment to three criteria: respect and report. responsibility towards labors and members of society, support the community and environmental protection, In continuation of SIDPEC leadership in the field of ensuring that all members of society support our goals and petrochemicals industry in Egypt and the conviction that development mission. We believe that our social role and its responsibility towards society and environment is an ethical commitment is an investment that shall increase option imperatively demanded in the development of our profit and productivity and that the economic process civilization, this report highlights in the third edition, the is a social, national and human activity aims to commitment of SIDPEC to provide the clean environment, sustainability and not isolation from the goals and eliminate waste in used resources and to raise the human aspirations of societies and countries. capacities of labors and society, bearing in mind the principles of UN Global Compact in the development of In 2016, SIDPEC sought to adopt effective social strategic plans, decision-making process and business responsibility programs that take into consideration the practices in order to meet the basic responsibilities social challenges by contributing to meet the necessary regarding human rights, labors, environment and antiliving needs, as well as providing new job opportunities corruption. through establishing charitable and social projects of a developmental nature. This report reviews a number of We are always keen to keep our labors aware that SIDPEC such programs, such as a “lower bill for a better life” and Eng. Osama Mahdy is not only an economic entity but an entity connected to “Safety Day” first Celebration. the nation facing complex socio-economic environment Chairman & CEO by fulfilling its responsibilities towards achieving the Finally, I would like to extend my thanks to all labors, required economic efficiency, so our social responsibility stakeholders and all those who have contributed in is a commitment of everyone working in our company to supporting the sustainable development initiatives, hoping the various laws and ethical criteria. to continue their commitment to in order to improve the living conditions of individuals and keep up with rapid From this perspective, we chose the title of this year's progress in all aspects of development. report showing our commitment to Egypt vision 2030. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 3 SIDPEC is an Egyptian joint stock company established on 16 November 1997 Under Egyptian investment law. SIDPEC is considered the first integral step towards the petrochemicals future in Egypt. The trade name of SIDPEC polymers is named EGYPTENE® polymer portfolio includes linear low density polyethylene (LLDPE) and high density polyethylene (HDPE). SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 4 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com OVERVIEW Current Social Skilled Work contribution Force since 2011 No Incidents since 2007 Energy GHGs Improvement Reduction since 2014 since 2014 SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 5 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com STRATEGY VISION MISSION Sustain SIDPEC’s leadership in providing value added and To produce and market high quality petrochemical highest quality petrochemical products worldwide while products through the integration of most efficient creating a superior shareholders value. staff, best updated technologies and business systems within the highest standards of ethics and integrity for the purpose of achieving sustainable and profitable growth. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 6 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com According to Sustainable Development Strategy Egypt Vision 2030; NEW EGYPT will be a competitive, balanced and diversified economy based on innovation, knowledge, justice and social Our Approach integration. It will invest the genius of our location and people to achieve sustainable development and We are promoting human rights and social improve the quality life of Egyptians (www.sdsegypt2030.com). values by integrating social responsibility into our business activities and where we build our approach based on a Ministry of petroleum issued its strategy 2021 to be aligned with “Egypt vision 2030” to achieve comprehensive view, transparency and optimum economic benefit from all resources to contribute to the sustainable development of Egypt. open dialogue that benefits our stakeholders. We are responsible for the This shall be achieved through the implementation of “Egypt’s Oil & Gas Sector Modernization Code of Conduct having a positive impact on society, the economy and the Project” which is consisted from 6 programs; Attracting investments in oil and gas exploration, Sector environment in relation to the rules of law restructuring, Raise efficiency and improve human resources, Development of the refining and and international standards of conduct. petrochemical sector, Transform Egypt into a regional energy center and Development of the Sustainability is an integral part of the Sidpec's 2021 strategy, which in turn is exploration and production sector. The main Core values to be considered are: safety, innovation, consistent with the Sustainable ethics, transparency and efficiency Development Strategy Egypt Vision 2030 and the Ministry of Petroleum Strategy SIDPEC is representing by two labors in the team work of two programs regarding this project which 2021 issued during 2016. are; Energy efficiency and development of human resources. Also we have some initiatives regarding this project such as: implementation of EnMS, perform a feasibility study to establish new plant, develop some assets. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 7 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Strategy CASE STUDY QMS Certificate Renewal according to the new version ISO 9001:2015 Sidpec succeeded in the transition of its QMS to be complied with the new version of the ISO 9001:2015 The preparation for such transition was completely done by sidpec highly competent personnel who had the required training and were capable to make gap analysis identifying the required objectives to determine the optimal resource allocation for the transition. “Sidpec has achieved the ISO 9001:2015 certificate renewal as the first company of petrochemical sector that achieves this transition in a record time with its wellqualified team and the power of support of the top management. ” Deliverables  Issue SWOT Analysis form has been integrated from different departments all over the company.  Issue Strategic Plan document has been submitted and signed from the CEO.  Issue SIDPEC’s Value Chain Analysis & SIDPEC’s Interested Parties and their requirements document.  Issue Knowledge sharing Guide document. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 8 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Strategic Objectives We issued our strategy (2016-2021) in October 2016 in which the strategic objectives are aligned with Egypt vision 2030. Firstly and according to the requirements of ISO 9001:2015, we determined external and internal issues, the interested parties and their requirements, customer needs and the risks and opportunities. Secondly, we identified our MATERIALITY according to SWOT analysis and addressed the corresponding procedures. Final step is to define our objectives what we must achieve to address the materiality issues as follow:  Maximize value added.  Increase production capacity and add new products.  Maintaining the leadership of the local market.  Maintain the presence in international markets for the purpose of penetrating the global market.  Take environmental protection into consideration by adopting environmentally friendly processes. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 9 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com PERFORMANCE Measured Performance Item Performance Indicator Measuring Unit 2014 2015 2016 People Skilled Work force Employee 1032 1028 1016 People Internal Mobility % 8.4 12.4 12.91 People Training Evaluation Surveys % 86.75 87.99 90.25 People Training related to Sustainability Courses 18 45 People Training related to Sustainability Employee 321 635 People Training (Sharing Knowledge) Courses 14 18 28 People Training (Sharing Knowledge) Employee 401 661 911 People Training Leadership development 34 46 98 Safety No incidents since 2007 Total Hours 13,702,590 15,744,125 17,121,086 Energy Total Energy Savings EGP 2,882,113 1,628,691 Energy GHGs emissions Reduction tCO2 eq 10,000 6,000 Energy Electricity Improvement % 2.6 1.1 Energy Saved Electricity MWh 4,819 2,172 Energy Firing Gas Improvement % 1.2 Energy Saved Firing Gas MMKCal 4,078 Water Total Savings EGP 2,500,000 Society Summer training Students 294 446 274 Society Social Contributions EGP 3,979,500 6,608,000 9,168,737 SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 10 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com BUSINESS VALUE Increase our business value Business Value SIDPEC is keen to meet the challenges that affect its CASE STUDY economic situation such as: CMMS Software (computerized Maintenance Management System) Lack of feed gas quantities; SIDPEC is currently working on the procedures to use a unified maintenance Change the specifications of feed gas; program for all the departments of the company instead of the current system, Aging equipment and used technology; preserving the company's assets and saving in the maintenance expenses without High prices of raw materials, chemicals and energy. prejudice to the efficiency of the maintenance process. So, sidpec has, within its strategy, developed many Benefits of this software are: procedures that have the ability to maintain assets, and Integration of all different disciplines with a unified maintenance program; optimize resources and performance of production units Determine the cost of maintenance work and control spare parts; In 2014 and 2015, we started to establish new Amine unit, Availability of an efficient system for planning, scheduling business and making addition of new drum of pressure swing absorption project full use of the company's resources; (PSA) and recovery of CO2 project which shall be Measure the performance and efficiency of the maintenance process; completed during 2017. Provide a complete database of equipment and generate statistical reports. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 11 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com SUPPLY CHAIN Secure our Supply Chain SIDPEC is keen to secure our global supply chain, creating a great value and enhancing the company's competitiveness in core markets. We perform some initiatives to enhance the level of customer service and develop relationships with related parties by collaborating with them to provide solutions for packaging and delivery. One of our initiatives is to appoint a Design pallets to fit different loading committee to study all customers’ cranes was recommended. complaints regarding final product Contact polyethylene licensor to update specifications and its packing and take fast the reference of standard methods of response to solve all inquiries and product laboratory tests. problems. Perform not availability laboratory tests at Several Recommended solutions were a third party. issued as follow: Also we perform site visit to evaluate Change the current welding machine to vendors of sacks, we exclude less qualified avoid the recurrence of the top welding suppliers and develop a mechanism for problems of the sacks. distribution quotas between the suppliers Not to use compressed wood pallets sufficiently taking into consideration the loading our product. appropriate price and quality standards. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 12 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com GOVERNANCE & ETHICS Governance Anticorruption Human rights SIDPEC has established a system of governance Sidpec Identified the Risks of Corruption, Sidpec avoids getting involved in any business is Implement and Maintain Many Policies and not consistent with Human rights. for the implementation of its sustainability Practices to Counter Corruption, Sidpec Rules strategy and appoint the general management of such as HR, Purchasing, Marketing and all of its Sidpec do not enter into partnership or Rules Counter Corruption. relationship with any partner that commits human HSE and Quality to be responsible for developing rights abuses. the sidpec’s vision towards sustainability, Sidpec’s Leadership is a Clear and Perfect Pattern for Anticorruption, provide Commitment, Sidpec avoids any relationship with entities which priorities, and objectives, as well as to be engaged in antisocial activities. encouragement Implementation Of anticorruption responsible for the corporate's performance on Polices. Sidpec has effective grievance mechanisms that sustainability. protect human rights Sidpec Code Of Conduct Emphasizes The Rules Of Anticorruption. Sidpec eliminates all forms of forced or Sidpec Always Work to raise the Awareness Of compulsory labor. its People and All Stake Holders about Sidpec do not use child labor internally or among Corruption. its suppliers or customers. Sidpec respects the right of own property. Sidpec respects access to due process and right to a fair hearing before any internal disciplinary measure had taken. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 13 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Internal Audit Internal Audit Responsibilities SIDPEC internal audit is an Support board and top managements in taking Assure safeguards by valuating procedures used independent, objective assurance and suitable decisions and fulfilling their to safeguards company’s assets from theft, fire consulting activity designed to add commitments toward governance process by ……etc. value and improve organization’s providing analysis, consultancy and Evaluate company’s resources are used operations. recommendations. economically and efficiently by determining Giving Assurance by assessing Internal controls: It helps the company to achieve its whether the operations and processes are well assure that controls applied all over the objectives and goals by applying designed to achieve company’s goals and company’s departments are adequate and systematic, disciplined approach to objectives. effective to respond to the risks threaten the evaluate and improve the effectiveness company. Monitor Compliance with Laws, Policies and of risk management, control and Evaluate Risks: Internal Audit assess the regulations. governance process. Significant risks facing the company and assess Recommending Improvements and assuring the risk management efforts. Developing Communicating all findings, observations and recommendations to improve risk management. Views to top managements to reduce risks, Ensure Accuracy, reliability and integrity of the reduce Spending’s, enhancing revenues hence information and data used as well as financial increasing company’s Profits. statements. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 14 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com SIDPEC Code of Conduct 1Governance: 2Human Rights: Our decisions are taken in pursuit of our We believe that all employees deserve to work in an objectives and are built upon factual Data. environment where they are treated with dignity and SIDPEC commits to encouraging a safe, We gain credibility by adhering to our respect. We are committed to creating such an supportive and reproductive work commitments, displaying honesty and integrity environment because it brings out the full potential environment through cooperative and and reaching company goals solely through in each one, which in turn, contributes directly to our sustainable principles of conduct and ethical honorable conduct. business success. behavior. We envision added human rights Management is responsible for demonstrating We are an equal employment entity and are and social value by incorporating Social through their actions, the importance of this code. committed to providing a workplace that is free of Responsibility into our activities. Our “Refer to our vision &mission”. discrimination of all types of abusiveness, approach is built upon a holistic view, offensiveness or harassing behavior. Any employee transparency and an open dialogue with consideration to our stakeholders’ interests. “It is easy to say what we must do, but the who feels harassed or discriminated against should report the incident to his or her supervisor or We are accountable for our impact on proof is in our actions” department manager. If the employee is not satisfied society, the economy and the environment that the matter has been appropriately addressed, the with respect to the rules of law and employee should feel free to address this issue to the international norms of behavior. company’s Chairman. We oppose child labor in our premises and among our stakeholders. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 15 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com 3Labor Practices: 4The environment: 5Fair Operating Practices: We endeavor to invest in our employees by We are committed to conserve the natural We prohibit corrupt or non-ethical practices. providing them with the best possible skills and environment, endorsing the principles of We investigate all reported instances of abilities in order to develop their individual sustainable use and minimum impact on the questionable or unethical behavior and take potential to the maximum, and thereby contribute environment in full compliance with the applicable appropriate actions that prevent such unethical to a sustainable success and competitiveness of our laws and regulation. behavior in the future. Our commitment to enterprise. We provide specific training to the Our stakeholders should be sensitive to the impact integrity begins with complying with laws, rules employees as regards to technical aspects of their operation on the local community and and regulations. connected with our processes and the field of health cultural setting within which they work and We are dedicated to ethical, fair and vigorous & safety at the workplace as well as other relevant minimize any adverse effects. competition. We sell our products based on their aspects connected with the enterprise activities. We encourage our stakeholders to develop their superior quality, functionality and competitive We strive to create working conditions that give our own, and others’ understanding of the environment pricing. employees the convenient environment to work protection and the behaviors that can adversely We respect the property right of others. We do not considering the human aspects and particularly affect it. acquire or seek to acquire improper means of a without any risk for their health and industrial Within our decisions and activities, we adopt competitor’s proprietary or confidential hygiene. special practices that take into consideration the information. direct and indirect economic, social, health and We have clear recruitment and promotion criteria environmental implications. for all employees. Our grievance procedures are We envision ourselves in future as a zero liquid identified and we recognize the right for discharge, zero pollutants emission and zero employees’ representation to participate in a wasted energy company. “Refer to our HSE transparent social dialogue. policy”. “Refer to our vision &mission”. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 16 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com 6Consumer Issues: 7Community Involvement and development: We are keen to provide products, which achieve our customers’ We consider ourselves as an integral partner of the community in satisfaction. approaching educational development projects. We provide our customers with fair and transparent information of our We provide continuous contributions to the surrounding communities products. to promote higher levels of well-being in these communities. We review our customers’ complaints and improve practices in We provide employment opportunities for our surrounding community response to them. either directly through us or indirectly through our subcontractors. We offer adequate and efficient support and advice system for our We never cease to invest tremendously on our community health care customers. projects. We always take adequate measures to protect our customer health, We support research and development projects in cooperation with safety and business. “Refer to our quality policy”. governmental institutions and universities. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 17 SIDPEC believes that people are the core of its success therefor we strive continually attracting and retaining the best talents, developing our employees and increasing their engagement and loyalty with a focus on maintaining safe workplace and reliable operations. Through an engaged and dynamic workforce, we would achieve a successful sustainable business. However, success also requires a culture of high expectations, continuous development and support. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 18 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com PEOPLE “We develop our workforce” Our workforce Measurable contribution A major part of securing a healthy, positive SIDPEC adopts a career development policy Our Priorities culture at SIDPEC is in selecting employees with consists of two processes: Our values & leadership principals shape our the right mindset. Our interviews are consistent, 1. Career planning (assisting employees to culture as a dynamic transparent workplace. Our legally compliant and structured to ensure a focus on their skills & abilities in order to establish a career plan through): company has a relevant anti-fraud strategy and we selection process that promises that identify and have a policy in place for reporting bribery or hire top talent.  Identify personal abilities and interest. other forms of corruption, our employees are  Encouraging & embracing employees in SIDPEC job description are an integral part of obtaining professional diplomas and encouraged to report any issues of potential quality & environment management. They are a academic degrees. misconduct, they may contact leadership or HR job reference for determining employee’s role 2. Career Management: rep. toward saving energy, environment protection & Reports are investigated & any substantiated  Identifying future staffing Needs. continuous improvement in the working place. incidences of misconduct result in disciplinary  Assess training program action.  Develop Career developing  Programs (career path)  Provide career training. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 19 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Employee’s loyalty Health Care Program SIDPEC provides a Health Insurance Program for employees and their families through direct contracting with medical specialties (physicians, hospitals, laboratories, prosthetic devices, etc.) Employees enroll in and get their medical benefits from a Medical managed care plan, employees can only go to doctors, specialists, or hospitals that are part of the plan. SIDPEC health plan brochure explain how they coordinate benefits with Medicare, where are lists of all physicians, hospitals & laboratories which an employee and their family can choose. SIDPEC raised its contribution in the medical provision plus a new advantage point has been added allowing employee’s parent to use the medical care employees program: Periodical medical check; Periodical medical check for all employees; Annual medical check for employees above 50 years old; First Aid training course is implemented for our employees every year as awareness. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 20 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Employee’s loyalty CASE STUDY Health Care – “SIDPEC free from Hepatitis C Virus”  The treatment period varies between 36 hours’ costs about 9,000 EGP. Our medical department developed an objective “SIDPEC free from Hepatitis C Virus”, and pit the corresponding action plan  If the labor doesn’t take the required treatment, he shall suffer from for implementation as follow: All patients with hepatitis C were screened; healthy deterioration and his treatment costs 300,000 EGP/year. Request laboratories medical analysis for all patients; Implementation of the treatment plan according to the treating  About 54 labors were suffer from Virus C. Now all of them are free of physician (3-6) months; Re-analysis and verification of the patient's response to this disease. treatment; Alternative treatment plan (in case of non-response). SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 21 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Employee’s loyalty Employee’s loyalty Providing Opportunities Retirement benefits SIDPEC offers employees opportunities to experience different aspects SIDPEC-sponsored retirement savings plans, which are useful for both of our business through: employees and employer, as they present benefits like savings directly,  Short term assignments deducted from employees’ paycheck and in some cases.  Internal transfers Employees are automatically enrolled in different retirement benefits  International roles systems and get their first contribution with their first paycheck, these competitive retirement plans enhance employees’ involvement and These opportunities provide employees with necessary hands-on training belonging also increases retention and longer stays within the company, to be successful in their careers while creating a more skilled workforce as mentioned below: to help the company achieve its mission.  Offering social insurance contribution that obtains the employee In 2016 we filled almost 90% of position at the manager level. the highest pension grade when reaching retirement age. Rewarding employees  Providing an additional pension benefit (supplementary pension) Our compensation packages are designed to reward & support the needs  Offering a life insurance policy subsidized by SIDPEC. of employees & their families, to verify that; package are fair & equitable  Qualified deferred compensation retirement plan offered to all we conduct annual compensation assessment to ensure our practices are employees, this plan provides a retirement reward at the age in line with selling and production plan. sixty. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 22 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Engaging Employees SIDPEC seeks employees, who are enthusiastic about their work and eager to make positive contributions. We encourage employees to contribute their ideas through:  Ideas Bank The idea was built where every employee introduces his idea, which contributes in improving the working process aiming better culture and results. These ideas are published to all other colleagues. We almost reached about 241 Ideas in the bank.  Training Surveys Training department regular surveys employees to understand how their training needs and evaluation can be better addressed. Performance improvement is accomplished through the delegation of authorities and teamwork through:  Committees Its main role is the direct communication with employees of different levels to share ideas, collect their suggestions and their views, and submit a feedback to superior management allowing employees to take the initiative to improve. Employees are trained one year in the new position before accession of the middle and top management level so that they can exercise responsibilities before promotion and ensure their ability to carry out their duties. Formation of committees, task forces for new projects and technical, feasibility studies, tenders, auctions, Practices and any other mandates. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 23 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Training & Developing Training & Developing CASE STUDY Talent Development Sharing Knowledge Over the last six years we have invested heavily in training Employee’s knowledge is our largest asset; HR plays a pivot role courses, our range of training & short courses provide in managing knowledge, we believe that knowledge in action opportunities for promoting sustainable development and gets results accelerating the rate of learning, cutting down the social responsibility aspect. risks of not knowing and repeating mistakes and retaining knowledge assets when people move, leave or retire. Leadership development We transfer valuable knowledge from the most experienced, high We have also launched several leadership development performing employees to others through internal training programs including advanced training. courses. When essential knowledge is captured & shared we touch an SIDPEC offers training courses covering the areas of finance, improved result across the range of cost saving, time on task, operations, safety & marketing. The programs enable recent error rates and innovative solutions. graduates & young leaders to accelerate their careers by gaining hands-on experience in multiple role. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 24 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com SAFETY We enhance our safety work place Our Priorities The petrochemical industry is one of the important strategic industries and one of the main pillars of building the national economy. Our State's policy is to preserve facilities property, and safeguard the lives of workers of these enterprises from the industry's risk. From these points, we have to provide the necessary protection for such important industry in all its components, represented in all the basic elements of production of workforces, equipment and materials, in addition we provide a safe environment against the risks of fire, explosion, collapse which may have a negative impact on this important pillar of the economy's foundations as well as may pose a danger to individuals and the environment. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 25 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Safety Day 2017 Under the slogan Towards a safe Environmental work Safety CASE STUDY First Festivity: Safety Day 2017 Under the sponsorship of the CEO, HSE department organized a safety day 2017 first festivity on 30 March 2017 in sidpec. The objective of this festivity is to spread culture and HSE standards inside our environmental work which shall be reflected on the protection of the external environment. During the festivity, a brief overview of our HSE system was presented during the last 17 years. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 26 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com First Festivity: Safety Day 2017 Honoring Ceremony A number of employees, distinguished contractors and other external parties were honored for their efforts and outstanding performance in the framework of maintaining the HSE system. The following External parties were honored: Safety office and Environmental Affairs Administration in El-Amerya district; Environmental Affairs Agency in Alexandria; Third Central Station. Ten personals of internal contractors and about 29 of our labors were honored during this festivity as they are keen to secure the environmental work, commit with safety instructions, and participate in emergency plan training activities. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 27 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com First Festivity: Safety Day 2017 Safety & Fire Fighting tools Exhibition On the sidelines of the ceremony, CEO opened an exhibition regarding safety & Fire Fighting tools. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 28 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com First Festivity: Safety Day 2017 Awareness Sessions Three awareness lectures were conducted during the festivity: Home Safety (Fire extinguishers); Health Care (SIDPEC is free from virus C); Safety on Roads (Smart Tire). Home extinguishers were distributed to a number of workers to strengthen safety inside the house. In addition to these lectures, HSE department distribute five publications for all labors regarding: First Aid; Home Safety; Firefighting; Alarm system and Evacuation instructions; And Chemical Handling. Also HSE department upload on our information system ten Safety videos entitled Think Safety available for all labors. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 29 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Item Description Develop New Rescue Equipment Max. Descent Height (1 person) 1640 ft. (500 m) Rescue Tool from Heights Max. Descent Height (2 person) 575 ft. (175 m) An automatic-controlled evacuation and rescue tool was Max. Person 2 Max. Weigh 620 lb. (282 kg) provided to lift or drop the casualty from altitudes used in selfMax. Descent Distance 17,814 ft. (5430 m) at 310 lb rescue operations or in the presence of a rescuer to evacuate a (141 kg) worker from a site that occurred at high altitude in a short Hoisting Capacity (1 person) 310 lb (141 kg) period of time with an anti-fall system. Max. Hoist Height (1 person) M 33 ft (10 m) Descent Speed 2-3ft (0.6 0.9m) per second Approved for Single or Multiple Use “HSE keens to provide new tasks capable to save people when needed in order to ensure rapid and safe intervention in case of injury to an employee ” SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 30 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Develop New Rescue Equipment Rescue Chair 1Evacuates injured and incapacitated individuals from high-altitude places in emergency situations. 2Can carry injured up to 225 Kg. 3The injured is protected during the use by restraints on the head, trunk and legs with easy connections in the installation, and also has several ligaments to connect the injured. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 31 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Environmental Work Environmental Work Environmental Work CASE STUDY CASE STUDY CASE STUDY Use Near miss Investigation Form New Service Building Elevator in Crackers Unit We keen to involve employees in reporting any potential Construction of a new service building in We decide to install an elevator in thermal risk or situation that may affect the safety of the employees the Ethylene plant to provide suitable crackers unit with a height of 36 meters, or the working environment. To encourage participation, a premises for the employees with an which regulates the workers' efforts and decision was made by the management review meeting for investment of approximately 6.5 M EGP. gives the ability to perform the operation, safety, with an incentive reward for the best risk models. The new building benefited about 90 maintenance, inspection and follow-up in Near miss form requires data to be filled out by the employees at various levels of employment. less times. employee indicating the location of the underlying risk, the reasons for its occurrence and the explanation of the losses that may result from it, as well as the recommendations taken to remove and control the underlying risk. HSE officials will study, evaluate and make recommendations to remove the underlying danger. “Sidpec continuously improves the internal working environment of the company, ensuring the safety and security of employees, mainly in its decisions and investments, including the addition of many new equipment and buildings for the company's assets ” SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 32 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Performance in 2016 SER. Indicator 1 Our workforce total employees 1016 2 Percent of positions filled with internal candidates for manager level and above 12.91 % 3 Evaluation of our trainees toward the training program 90.25 % 4 CSR Programs 80 Trainees 5 Energy Programs 167 Trainees 6 HSE Programs 388 Trainees 7 Training Courses by SIDPEC 911 Trainees 8 leadership development programs 98 Trainees SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 33 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Objectives in 2017 Energy Programs (200 trainees) Training Courses by SIDPEC (25 Programs) Leadership development programs (80 programs) Increase the response speed of the extinguisher (connect fire network to HSE building) Raising awareness of radiation hazards Zero accidents (continuous 2,025,072 hour) Raise the efficiency of the alarm system Application of 5S methodology in mechanical maintenance workshops SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 34 SIDPEC continues to apply its policies aimed at preserving the environment and do not taking any steps that would have any negative impact on the environment. Since its beginning, SIDPEC has adopted a clear vision reflecting its operational strategies, which among its priorities, maintain a clean environment and support the surrounding society with steps to ensure its sustainable development. Based on this vision, the strategic decisions taken by the top management regarding the investments allocated to the projects required for the continuation of the production process are fully studied on the expected environmental impact of these projects and are approved only for projects that have a positive impact on the environment and surrounding society. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 35 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com WASTE We manage our waste disposal Waste Disposal Our Priorities To be compliance with the Egyptian Environmental Law in the disposal of hazardous Sidpec is keen to take care of protecting the environment of solid waste. It has been disposed of by sending it to a hazardous waste landfill in the surrounding community in starting from the selection of Alexandria. We disposed about 120 tons including hexavalent chromium, molecular raw materials used and the end of the safe disposal of waste sieve, activated carbon, empty chemicals barrels and fluorescent lamps. resulting from the company's various works. Other non-hazardous solid waste like waste paper and Wooden pallets is sold to other The waste is collected according to the questionnaire form, companies. We sold about 16 tons. after which the waste is managed according to the nature of Our consumed oils are sold to El-Seham petroleum company with about 18 tons. the hazard, with the possibility of reducing it from the source or recycling, and finally the safe disposal. In order to comply with the environmental protection, we contracted with the hazardous waste dump in Alexandria for disposal of waste, as well as contracting with a number of specialized companies in the field of waste transport and has approvals from EEAA to work in this field SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 36 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Waste Disposal CASE STUDY Papers Reduction & Recycling HSE department submit an HSE bulletin aimed to aware the employees about their roles in papers reduction and wasted papers recycling used in our work. We believe that ONE-ton paper recycling shall save about 17 trees, 1,500-liter oil, 28 m3 water and reduce air pollutants with about 30 Kgs. Our objectives in 2017 is to reduce our consumption with 25 % by several ways: Use electronic documentation; Copy/print in two faces; Use waste paper as a draft. Also HSE department announced that waste papers shall be collected from all departments at the end of Nov. 2016 in order to send them to the other company responsible for paper recycling. In order to rationalize the use of natural resources and reduce the use of paper in internal correspondence and contribute to the preservation of the environment, we expanded the applications of the electronic documentary cycle to include material request and engineering changes. We create new two programs regarding these documentary cycles. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 37 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com ENERGY We increase our energy use efficiency Our Priorities Challenges we face SIDPEC is committed to the foundations of cooperative and sustainable work Sharp changes in energy prices and lower profit margin and its and ethical behavior to promote human rights and social values which have a impact on competitiveness in global markets. positive impact on the environmental field. SIDPEC emphasizes the commitment of all employees in their activities to Compliance with the requirements of environmental protection continuously improve performance through methodologies that elevate the laws. energy system to sustainability, efficiency and business excellence. Increased impacts resulting from climate change SIDPEC is committed to the effective implementation of the energy management system to ensure optimum operation and sustainability by Depreciation of equipment and units. relying on the effectiveness of planning: it will define goals and objectives. Increased population growth, increased energy consumption per Effective implementation: the ability to transform strategic objectives into capita and its impact on industrial processes. reality. Teamwork: Working in a multidisciplinary team unit. SIDPEC is committed to the purchase and use of high energy efficiency The current energy supply and consumption is not sustainable products and services, and supports designs that improve energy performance. for the interest of future generations. SIDPEC is committed to compliance with laws and legislation related to energy use activities. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 38 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Energy Projects CASE STUDY Change Steam Traps in polyethylene Plant We change all steam traps in the APU during shut down in Jan 2016 with others have higher technological specifications. The expected savings to be estimated with about 3-4 ton per hour of high pressure steam which shall be a positive impact on fuel consumption and some electrical consumption regarding auxiliary equipment. “According to international standard ISO 50001:2011, SIDPEC is committed to purchase steam traps have positive impact on energy efficiency” Benefits and Value Added  Improve the effectiveness of operations through periodical maintenance and inspection for equipment.  Reduce production costs.  Reduce environmental impacts as a result of reduce fuel consumption and GHGs emissions.  There is an actual saving with 1.2 % in firing fuel regarding utility boiler compared with baseline (about 4,500 MMKCal) which is equivalent to 650,000 EGP. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 39 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Energy Projects CASE STUDY Replacement of lighting fixtures Electrical department studied the replacement of fluorescent fixtures into LED ones in some areas of the production units and its surroundings, taken into account that the old fixtures can be used as spare parts for other locations. Some projects are performed during 2016 (286 fixtures) and others planned to be in next years (600 fixtures). “The energy consumption of LED fixtures is equivalent to about half of the energy consumption of fluorescent ones, with a long life time of up to 50,000 hours of operation and higher brightness intensity than fluorescent fixtures ” Benefits and Value Added  Save about 400 MWh pa which is equivalent to about 250,000 EGP.  Reduce electrical consumption, fuel consumption and GHGs emissions. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 40 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Energy Projects CASE STUDY Solar Cells In line with the national trend for the use of renewable energy sources and the continuation in this regard by SIDPEC, the establishment of 2 solar power plants in 2015, a third plant capacity of 45 KW has been built to total capacity of the three units 105 KW. Benefits and Value Added  Total save of three cells is about 225 MWh pa which is equivalent to about 120,000 EGP.  Reduce electrical consumption, fuel consumption and GHGs emissions.  Change the culture of employees and raise awareness of the importance of assessing social responsibility to bear some expenses in order to provide quantities of electrical energy to the surrounding community. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 41 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com International Certificates and Awards SIDPEC participated in one of the competitions organized by the Clean Energy Ministerial in March 2016, in which we presented a case study on our experience in implementing the energy management system and we were awarded “Energy Management Insight Award” in June 2016 as it is one of the 2016 Energy Management Leadership Awards. The case study was submitted on the Forum website for the purpose of disseminating our experience in implementing the EnMS around the world. (http://www.cleanenergyministerial.org/Portals/2/pdfs/Sidpec_Egypt.pdf ) Six chemical engineers from Sidpec certified as “national expert in the EnMS from UNIDO” and were honored in April 2016 during the organization of first conference of the “Kaffa campaign”. The conference was also honored SIDPEC as one of the leading companies in the implementation of EnMS. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 42 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com WATER We optimize our water use Our Priorities As part of the our keenness to rationalize the consumption of resources and extension of the efforts exerted by the State in dealing with the problems faced by water shortage problem, Utilities department is keeping pace with these efforts and striving very hard to achieve the highest production while rationalizing consumption in available resources. We aimed to the followings: Reduces the cost of operation and maintenance. Improve feed water quality to all units. Decrease raw water consumption. Reduce power consumption. Reduce chemicals usage and reduce its impact. Increase equipment life time. Increase process productivity. Decrease shut down periods. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 43 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Water Use CASE STUDY Reduce 65 % of Water Blow Down in Cooling Towers Flow rate of cooling water return was 200 m3/h in order to maintain TDS concentration in the cooling water circuit. According to cooling water chemical treatment program, the cycle of concentration is 1.8-2.2. Refer to the vendor, we raised cycle of concentration to be 4 and we reduced blow down flow rate from 200 to 70 m3/hr. we are always monitoring the specifications and operating conditions. Benefits and Value Added  Save about one million cubic meter of used treated raw water pa equivalent to 20 % of consumption.  Reduce about 20 % of chemicals used in pretreatment unit (about 65,000 EGP).  Reduce chemicals used in cooling towers (about 1 M EGP).  Reduce 200 MWh pa power consumption of effluent water pumps equivalent to 115,000 EGP.  Reduce operating hours of effluent water pumps (about 1500 hr.).  Reduce environmental impacts as a result of reducing water disposal.  Total savings are 1.2 M EGP. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 44 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Water Use CASE STUDY Reduce 80 % of Water Blow Down in utility Boiler We reduce the blow down in boiler from 2.76 m3/hr to 0.5 m3/hr without any changes in chemical treatment program, operating hours or specifications. Benefits and Value Added  Save about 1.2 M EGP pa as a result of reduce firing fuel gas, chemicals and demi water.  Save about 600,000 cubic meter of firing fuel gas (20,000 MMBtu).  Reduce environmental impacts equivalent to 650,000 m3 of CO2. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 45 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Water Use CASE STUDY Reuse backwash and water rinse in sand filters The outlet of backwash regarding sand filters is disposed to effluent sump. Also to maintain their performance, they run on rinse mode till put them in service, these rinsed water is disposed also to effluent sump. We issued engineering change in order to reuse these disposed water into pretreatment unit. Benefits and Value Added  Save about one 600,000 m3 of used treated raw water pa equivalent to 12 % of consumption.  Save about 35,000 EGP of used chemicals equivalent to 12 % of consumption.  Reduce 150 MWh pa power consumption of effluent water pumps equivalent to 85,000 EGP.  Reduce operating hours of effluent water pumps (about 1000 hr).  Reduce environmental impacts as a result of reducing water disposal.  Total savings are 120,000 EGP. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 46 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Performance in 2016 SER. Indicator 1 Waste Disposal 148.150 Ton 2 Saved Electrical Consumption 2,172 MWh 3 Saved Fuel Gas Consumption 4,078 MMKCal 4 GHGs Emissions Reduction 6,000 Ton CO2 5 Saved Energy Cost 1.6 M EGP 6 Saved Raw Water Consumption 1.6 Million M3 7 Saved Chemicals due to water use reduction 1.1 M EGP 8 Saved Electrical Consumption due to water use reduction 350 MWh 9 Saved Cost due to Water use reduction 2.5 M EGP SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 47 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Objectives in 2017 Saved Electrical Consumption by 1% Saved Fuel Gas Consumption by 1 % Replace 76 of HP sodium 150 W EX lighting fixtures with 60 W EX LED ones Start Commissioning and start-up of CO2 unit Install CEMS on boilers and cracking heaters Perform Environmental measurements in production units SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 48 Since its establishment, SIDPEC has been supported the main communities associated with them and identified these communities by holding meetings with the local government authorities and conducting cooperation protocols with them to identify the required needs and support areas. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 49 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com SOCIETY NEEDS We provide the requirements of our surrounded society Our Priorities Our contribution to society is in the form of programs and activities that benefit the society as a whole away from achieving any interests. Our Social contribution is not only about the size of financial contributions, but about the extent to which sustainable social programs and projects meet societal needs of the highest priority. We prioritized our programs, projects, sponsorships and charitable contributions, in line with the strategic objectives of social responsibility, focusing on education, health care, community development, and environmental protection. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 50 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Energy Conservation Campaign Under the slogan Lower bill for a better life As a result of the economic challenges facing the society and the pressures experienced by the citizen, Ministry of petroleum, ECHEM, SIDEPC and ETHYDCO have been keen to organize a campaign to reduce electrical consumption and change the pattern of consumption among citizens in the surrounded community Society Needs CASE STUDY Lower bill for a better life Campaign This campaign has taken the slogan of lower bill for a better life , focusing on changing the lighting technology used and following the principles of rational energy conservation in the El-Nahda land area by replacing the higher-consumption bulbs with lower-consumption LED bulbs. The campaign started on November 19, 2016. Four community facilities were focused in three villages around El-Nahda Land area which are: Abu Simbel-1, Abu Simbel 2, and El-Karnak. The main objectives are reducing the economic burden on the state and citizens. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 51 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Lower bill for a better life Campaign Our Surrounding Villages in Figures Abu Simbel-1 has 370 houses with about 8,000 inhabitants. Abu Simbel-2 has 406 houses with about 6,000 inhabitants. El-Karnak has 90 houses with about 5,000 inhabitants. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 52 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Lower bill for a better life Campaign Campaign ActivitiesHouses The campaign was based on the concept of benefiting from natural lighting as much as possible with the use of LED lamps and explaining the savings achieved, reduction the risk of power outages and fluctuation of electricity, protection of electricity networks and transformers in villages, and the reflection on the protection of electrical appliances in homes. “One of citizens said that he has 8 lamps and pays about 80 EGP per month regarding his electrical consumption ” SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 53 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Lower bill for a better life Campaign Campaign ActivitiesSchools It was necessary to convey the idea and to educate children in schools about the importance of changing the ordinary light bulbs to the available LED lamps. Through several meetings with school children, there was a response and welcome to the idea and awareness of the importance of this and its impact on their lives. Field visits were made to the schools of Denshway and Ibrahim Khader where an animation film was shown to the students explaining the importance of rationalizing electrical consumption. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 54 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Lower bill for a better life Campaign Campaign ActivitiesYouth Centers All lighting fixtures were replaced in the Abu Simbel-1 Village’s Youth center with awareness of the importance of rationalizing consumption and its impact on the youth. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 55 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Lower bill for a better life Campaign Campaign ActivitiesYouth Centers The imams of the mosques in the region raised awareness of citizens during the Friday sermons and the definition of the campaign and its importance in rationalizing the consumption of electricity. Lower bill for a better life Campaign Campaign Activities Other activities were achieved during this campaign as it performed during the winter season: Distribution of 1,300 blankets covers all families. Distribution of 1,300 pullover for the students. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 56 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Benefits and Value Added Expected Total Savings resulting from this Campaign: No. of LED Lamps: 12,000 Lamps Actual Saving/lamp: 91 Watt Average Daily Operation: 8 Hours Expected Saving of electricity/year: 3,000 MWh Expected saving of used fuel/year: 15 Million cubic meter of natural gas This is equivalent to 2.6 M U$ /year “This is a financial returns to our country” “This campaign shall save about 50 EGP/Month for each family and about 600 EGP/year” SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 57 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Society Needs CASE STUDY Rehabilitation of the El-Nahda Main Road Contribution from Sidpec to the development of the surrounding society and reflect the implementation of the principles of sustainable development, the company has carried the largest contribution to the rehabilitation and development of the main road of El-Nahda (20% of the total cost) in addition to supervision of implementation. This road serves many companies and residents of the region where this will achieve the development of a tangible economic return by facilitate the transfer of raw materials and products of the company, the provision of fuel and time to get to and from the company and the surrounding area, in addition to the development of this road it shall maintain the safety of the residents of the region and the health of the company's employees. Road construction began in 2016 and road rehabilitation work was completed in November 2016. In April 2017, Minister of Petroleum, accompanied by Governor of Alexandria, inaugurated the road of Al Nahda in El-Amerya area in Alexandria after finishing its development work and raising its efficiency. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 58 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Society Needs Other continuous contribution Supporting charities in the surrounding area and beyond to ensure that they continue to perform their social role. The number of associations supported by more than 60 associations and charitable organizations. Supporting universities through the organization of the charity market for students, allocation of cash to pay school expenses on behalf of the needy, and allocation of cash to support schools to qualify them to do their role by providing them with the necessary equipment aimed at the quality of the educational process. Donation to government hospitals serving the limited and the nonincome, and national nature projects such as Hospital 57357 for the treatment of childhood cancer. Continuing to help the urgent sick cases of the people, which resort to the company seeking treatment OUR TOTAL INVESTMENTS by depositing cash in the free treatment fund located in a charity hospital in the region in accordance with the protocol of cooperation. in social contribution during 2016 Support for people with special needs, such as blind associations and the small industries school for people with special needs. 9,168,737 EGP Community and Humanitarian Participation of Orphans in Orphan Day Celebrations. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 59 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES We sponsor initiatives affecting on sustainability Our Priorities We are supporting any community participation affecting on sustainability by: Create the necessary climate that enable other organizations to reach a balance between the achievement of profits and the requirements of community responsibility. Participate in events dealing with development issues and initiate the relevant initiatives and our experiences in field of sustainability. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 60 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Sustainability Initiatives “MOPCO is the 1 company have got ISO 50001 among the st CASE STUDY participating companies in the Peer-to--Peer program, the 1st MOPCO has a certificate in EnMS (Sidpec’s role) fertilizer company in Egypt, the 24th company in Egypt, and Despite the end of the peer-to peer support program for the rehabilitation of petrochemical companies to implement the energy management system as early as 2016, SIDPEC the 11,986th in the world. ” continued to support these companies, especially those who were planning to obtain a certificate of conformity with the international standard ISO 50001: 2011. Of these companies, Mopco took earlier this year the procedures for obtaining this certificate. Despite the existence of operational problems at Mopco plants and the change of the energy management representative at the end of the project, Sidpec continued to communicate with the new management representative and exchanged visits with him to provide technical support and follow up the development of the application of the system and try to remove obstacles. We conducted an internal audit of the energy management system as one of the procedures to be undertaken prior to the external audit, and a report was presented explaining the points of improvement and the cases of non-compliance detected. At the end of 2016, Mopco was able to obtain a certificate of compliance with the energy management system ISO 50001: 2011 thanks to the support provided by SIDPEC, whether moral or technical support. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 61 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Benefits and Value Added Reduce Energy Consumption Reduce GHGs Emissions 70 Million KWh 28 Million Kg SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 62 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Sustainability Initiatives CASE STUDY A seminar “Promoting sustainable development in industrial companies” The Alexandria Businessmen Association invited CEO of SIDEPC to hold a seminar on 9 August 2016 to discuss our initiatives in promoting sustainable development. The presentation dealt with the concept of social responsibility, the principles of the Global Compact for Sustainable Development, the areas of social responsibility and methods of implementation. The seminar was attended by a number of companies interested in sustainability issues as well as the deans of the Faculty of Science, Alexandria University, the Faculty of Engineering, Energy and Petrochemicals at the Egyptian Japanese University, as well as the relevant civil society institutions. This seminar is part of a series of awareness seminars on sustainability issues and corporate citizenship to encourage and push companies to adopt a policy that addresses the principles of citizenship and community responsibility through a sustainable approach. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 63 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Sustainability Initiatives CASE STUDY A Conference “Industrial Water Conservation and treatment” The Regional Office of the Arab Organization for Industrial Development and Mining prepared and organized the Arab conference on Treatment, Recycling and conserving Water Consumption in Industry at the Arab League headquarters during the period 26-28 April 2016 in cooperation with SIDPEC, Abo Quir for Fertilizers, environmental management, housing, water resources and sustainable development in the Arab League and under the honorary chairmanship of Environmental Minister of Egypt. Four sessions and 17 papers were presented during the conference highlighting the most important methods of rationalization and treatment of water in industry, methods of integrated management of water resources, challenges and obstacles, successful experiences of Arab companies. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 64 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com SIDPEC’s CEO foreword During the opening of conference, CEO of sidpec submit a word. He stressed on the need for the Arab countries to pay attention to sustainable development through the initiative of sustainable development of the Arab region adopted by the Council of Arab Ministers responsible for environmental affairs and the need for the countries of the region to adopt industrial policies to rationalize water consumption in industries to reduce the negative developmental effects arising from industrial growth. The existence of an integrated system of legislation and raising awareness and activation of laws and regulations and the establishment of incentives calculated and fair so as not to burden the entire company alone. Benefits and Recommendations  Updating national policies and adopting the concept of integration of water, energy and food, taking into account the objectives of sustainable development.  Direct investments to the scientific research sector and promote cooperation between industrial and research centers, encourage innovation to acquire the technologies used in processing and reuse.  Inviting banking institutions to support projects for the treatment of industrial waste and rationalization of water consumption.  Activate the laws and regulations governing the use of water and study the environmental impact before the establishment of any new plants.  Raising the level of awareness and instilling social responsibility among young people and focusing on the role of the family and members of society through awareness campaigns in schools and places of worship. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 65 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com EDUCATION We develop capacity for future generations Our Priorities SIDPEC took great interest in youth as the driving force of change, raising their practical ability is an effective way to overcome the challenges of the present and to embark on a bright and promising future for our new Egypt. We believe that the labor market relies mainly on human capital as it considered the real effect of increasing the value of the final productivity, so we are working to deliver outputs that harmonize with the needs of society and the market. We provide Practical training for the university students in order to connect the theoretical study with the practical reality and identify the work environment and atmosphere and put them in the test of the real abilities and the disclosure of strengths and weaknesses, Which is a necessity for all students to have a significant impact in qualifying them to succeed in their careers after graduation and the great benefit of honing their various skills, including the ability to deal with others and teamwork. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 66 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Education Summer Training SIDPEC offer a wide range of internship opportunities across job categories. Our internships provide students with the opportunity to do “real work” alongside our talented full-time employees and to gain first-hand experience with a leading petrochemical company. Many of our internships also provide broad exposure to the company Education through formal orientation meetings and session with senior leaders as Contractors (Safe Driving Training) well as a variety of development opportunities through training. The drivers of the contractor for the transfer of employees within the In 2016 approximately 274 students attended summer training (50 hour company and 104 drivers were trained on the safe driving program. The practical training). program was divided into: Theoretical training on how to drive and how to test tires. Practical training on the use of extinguishers and extinguishing the actual fire. The impact of this training extends to the external community where the drivers live. This training is done by the company to correct the behavioral habits of the trainees and thus reduce the road accidents and the consequent financial and human losses. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 67 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Education CASE STUDY A Site Visit “Pharos University to SIDPEC” In the framework of the integration of theoretical and applied studies, represented in the production units, the Department of Petrochemical Engineering at Pharos University organized a field trip to Sidi Kerir Petrochemical Company (Sidpec) on Tuesday, November 1, 2016 in the presence of a number of faculty members and students of the department. The company's production units were inspected, product testing labs. Sidpec believes that such visits qualify future generations to enter the petrochemical industry in Egypt by connecting the theoretical side with the practical one. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 68 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Education CASE STUDY A Seminar “Energy Management System” SIDPEC belief that it is important to transfer knowledge and experience, SIDEPC presented for the third consecutive year a lecture regarding energy management system on August 16, 2016 For the members of the Egyptian Association of Science and Scientists, the presentation highlights the current situation of energy consumption in Egypt and future plans developed by the State, also submit the SIDEPC's experience in implementing the energy management system and its benefits. SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 69 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Performance in 2016 SER. Indicator 1 Distribution of Ramadan food packages and Meat 1.4 M EGP 2 Subsidies for schools, universities and scientific research 870,000 EGP 3 Subsidies of public and private hospitals 772,000 EGP 4 Support for orphans and the disabled 64,000 EGP 5 Subsidies for syndicates and associations 325,000 EGP 6 Subsidies for Roads 2.7 M EGP 7 Subsidies for Awareness Campaigns for energy, natural gas and petroleum products 2.4 M EGP 8 Support annual Quran (Reading) Competition 250,000 EGP 9 Subsidies for Districts 256,000 EGP 10 Summer Training 274 Students SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 70 CEO Message About SIDPEC Governance & Ethics Employee Environment Society www.sidpec.com Objectives in 2017 Development Projects through charities (200,000 EGP) Subsidies for Surrounded Villages (3.4 M EGP) Support for orphans and the disabled (1 M EGP) Subsidies for schools, universities (800,000 EGP) Subsidies for Hospitals (2.5 M EGP) Summer Training (220 Students) SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 71 KM 36 Alexandria/Cairo Desert Road El-Amerya El-Nahda Territory Alexandria. Tel.: (+203) 4770141 to 4770145 Head Office Fax: (+203) 4770129 E-mail: info@sidpec.com E-mail: marketingspc@sidpec.com Cairo Office 12 Abo El-Allaa El-Maary St., Kaab Ibn Malek Crossing From El-Heggaz St, Heliopolis. Tel.:(+202) 6362176 / (+202) 6362154 Fax:(+202) 6382716 SIDPEC 2016 Sustainability Report 72
