Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 CONTENT 2 About Statkraft’s Corporate Responsibility Report 4 Corporate responsibility in Statkraft 12 Health, safety and security 19 Human rights and labour rights 23 Environment and climate 29 Business ethics and anti-corruption Appendix 35 Ambitions and goals for corporate responsibility towards 2020 36 Corporate Responsibility Statement 44 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 53 UN Global Compact Index 55 Auditor’s statement CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 2 About Statkraft’s Corporate Responsibility Report The report is based on the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines Statkraft’s corporate responsibility reporting is based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. GRI is an independent organisation that works to establish a standard reporting on corporate responsibility. GRI’s recommendations include both relevant indicators for a range of areas, as well as ten reporting principles related to the reporting process. Statkraft’s corporate responsibility reporting is based on GRI’s sector specific guidance and recommendations, described in supplement G4 Sector Disclosures Electric Utilities. Statkraft believes that the identified company indicators capture the most material aspects at a Core reporting level, while also taking into account expectations from our stakeholders. Statkraft’s GRI Index is presented in the Appendix. Material aspects and adhering ambitions and goals In 2015, Statkraft conducted a materiality analysis with the aim of identifying the corporate responsibility aspects that have most significance for Statkraft. The analysis was conducted according to the principles described in GRI’s Technical Protocol, and endorsed by Statkraft’s auditor, Deloitte AS. The materiality analysis included identifying key stakeholders and their most important aspects related to corporate responsibility and conducting workshops with representatives from Statkraft’s organisation to identify the most material aspects for the company. All aspects of corporate responsibility are important for Statkraft, and the analysis identified the following six aspects as most significant for the company:  Safety and safeguarding of people  Human rights  Water management  Biodiversity  Climate change mitigation, adaptation and preparedness  Business ethics and anti-corruption Statkraft has developed ambitions and goals towards 2020 for all six material aspects. This year’s corporate responsibility report is structured according to the identified material aspects. In addition, the report presents an overview of activities and initiatives performed in 2016 that contribute towards achieving the stated goals for each material aspect. Statkraft’s corporate responsibility statement Statkraft’s corporate responsibility statement (see Appendix) presents the numeric results for the last three years for the areas environment, health and safety, labour practices, human rights, ethics and contributions to society. The presented data covers the entire company, unless information provided next to indicators indicates otherwise. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 3 The statement mainly follows the Group’s accounting principles for treatment of subsidiaries, partly-owned power plants and associated companies. This means that data are collected from all companies where Statkraft is the majority owner, and these data are included in the statement in their entirety. Data relating to health and safety are collected from all companies where Statkraft owns 20% or more. Third party verification Statkraft has engaged Deloitte AS to conduct a review and provide a limited level of assurance on Statkraft’s corporate responsibility report. The review and assurance is carried out in accordance with the assurance standard ISAE 3000 “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” established by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. The auditor’s conclusion and scope of work is presented in the Auditor’s report. Statkraft is a member of the UN Global Compact Statkraft has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2010. The UN Global Compact comprises ten fundamental corporate responsibility principles relating to human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Companies that endorse the ten principles of the Global Compact commit to supporting and respecting the principles and reporting their performance annually. Members of the Global Compact are classified in three categories: Learning platform, Active level and Advanced level. Statkraft believes that the Global Compact’s ten principles are integrated into its strategy and daily operations, and that the company’s corporate responsibility reporting satisfies the requirements of the category Active level. Statkraft’s Global Compact Index is presented in the Appendix. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 4 Corporate Responsibility in Statkraft Statkraft offers renewable Statkraft supports a global transition towards a low-carbon economy by offering renewable and sustainable energy solutions. Renewable energy is key to combat climate change and and sustainable energy Statkraft is a part of the solution to a cleaner future. Since 2015, Statkraft is only investing in solutions renewable energy. Environment-friendly portfolio In 2016, over 96% of Statkraft’s power generation was based on renewable energy sources, and more than 92%, or 61.2 TWh, came from hydropower. As an energy technology, hydropower has many advantages, including high efficiency, low operating costs, long lifetime and high flexibility. The large, Norwegian water reservoirs enable us to produce electricity even in periods of little inflow. This flexibility is particularly important to balance the increasing amounts of unregulated electricity production from wind power and solar PV. Development and operation of hydropower plants facilitate multiple uses of watercourses and water regulation structures. Examples include irrigation, drinking water supply, transportation and recreation. In addition, flood control utilising reservoirs is an important safety function of many projects and assets in operation. Such use of our installations will in all probability be even more important in the future as the consequences of the climate become more apparent. Wind power is a renewable technology with few environmental impacts and next to no emissions. In 2016, Statkraft, TrønderEnergi and the European investor consortium Nordic In 2016 92%, or 61.2 TWh, of Statkraft’s Wind Power DA joined forces to realise Europe's largest onshore wind power project in power generation came from hydropower. Central-Norway, comprising six onshore wind farms, with a combined capacity of 1000 MW. The total investment in the wind farms amounts to approximately EUR 1.1 bn. Construction commenced in 2016 and will be completed in 2020. Power generation and district heating (Statkraft's share) TWh 80 The Group’s non-renewable electricity production includes gas-fired power generation and a 70 small part of the district heating production. Gas power is considered by many a transitional 60 technology. The technology generates CO2 emissions, but the emissions are substantially 50 lower than for coal-fired power plants. Statkraft’s gas power plants in Germany operate 40 30 mainly as peak load producers and, like hydropower, therefore contribute to flexibility in the 20 European energy markets. Statkraft’s gas power plants are some of Europe's most modern 10 power plants, with high efficiency, good treatment facilities and low emission and discharge 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 risk. Hydropower Wind power Gas power District heating Power generation in Statkraft by technology in 2012-2016. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 5 International standards and Responsible business conduct based on international goals standards Statkraft is committed to act in a sustainable, ethical and socially responsible manner. To operationalise these fundamental commitments, Statkraft bases its work on globally supported initiatives and standards. As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, Statkraft is committed to complying with its ten principles on human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. Statkraft also takes guidance from the principles contained in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, which cover major areas of responsible business conduct and which refers to the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. Statkraft assesses and manages its social and environmental impacts in compliance with the principles of the International Finance Corporation’s Performance Standards on Social & Environmental Sustainability, which include specific requirements on working conditions, pollution control, community health, safety and security, involuntary resettlement, biodiversity conservation, indigenous people, and cultural heritage. Statkraft’s assessment and management of climate change impacts are based on research, comprehensive analysis and scientific evidence, including assessments by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Contribution to the realisation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals In September 2015, the UN adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to be realised by the year 2030, thereby setting an ambition for a safe and sustainable future. The 17 goals provide a global framework for action to end poverty, combat climate change and fight injustice and inequality. Achieving the goals requires action, partnership and involvement of stakeholders all over the world, and the business sector has a crucial role to play. Statkraft’s business contributes to the implementation of the SDGs, in particular Goal 7 on “Affordable and Clean Energy” and Goal 13 on “Climate Change”. Statkraft, through its responsible business conduct and commitment to international standards for corporate responsibility management, also contributes to the implementation of several of the SDGs. In May 2016, Statkraft’s President and CEO personally committed to do his utmost to be business worthy in all his efforts and to tune its business to support the SDGs. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 6 Governance Statkraft’s fundamental principles for sustainable, ethical and socially responsible behaviour are described in Statkraft’s Code of Conduct. The Code applies to all companies in the Statkraft Group and to all individuals who work for Statkraft, regardless of location. Statkraft’s business partners are expected to adhere to equivalent standards as Statkraft and Statkraft has corresponding requirements for the Group’s suppliers, described in Statkraft’s Supplier Code of Conduct. The Statkraft Way Statkraft’s management system, The Statkraft Way, contains both policies and detailed specifications and supporting documents. Corporate responsibility is a key topic in The Statkraft Way. The management system facilitates structured and coordinated handling of a broad range of topics, and the system is regularly reviewed so as to tailor it to new expectations and challenges. Corporate responsibility is a line and managerial responsibility in Statkraft, and systems are in place to provide employees with necessary guidance and advice to uphold desired behaviour. At Group level, Statkraft has a staff unit which follows up the company’s work and performance as regards corporate responsibility on an overall level. The staff unit has an advisory role towards the business units and an overall responsibility to properly embed corporate responsibility into the management and reporting systems. Statkraft has implemented a decision model for major development projects, mergers and acquisitions that aims at ensuring a unified approach to corporate responsibility from an early phase and throughout the process. The basic principle of the model is to include documented information on a number of critical issues, including corporate responsibility, as part of the foundation for decision making at each decision gate. Corporate responsibility performance Statkraft has established Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) at the group level for the areas of environment and health and safety. Corporate Management and the Board of Directors regularly review the results of these indicators. Furthermore, challenges and results related to corporate responsibility topics are presented and discussed in regular Business Reviews (meetings between the CEO and each business and staff area). As a part of the annual audit plan, Corporate Audit verifies to what extent governing documents and requirements related to corporate responsibility have been implemented and adhered to in the organisation. Statkraft has implemented a system for registration and follow-up of non-compliances and potential improvements. The system facilitates structured handling of measures, analysis of incidents and improvements, and learning across the organisation. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 7 Supply chain management Statkraft is committed to act in a sustainable, ethical and socially responsible manner, which also includes our interaction with suppliers. We therefore work in collaboration with our suppliers to achieve a responsible supply chain. The basis for Statkraft’s supply chain management is Statkraft’s Supplier Code of Conduct. Statkraft’s suppliers are informed about the Supplier Code of Conduct and other relevant requirements during the procurement process and are legally bound to the Supplier Code in contract. Statkraft’s supplier base is very diverse, and in total the company has more than 10 000 suppliers. They stem from widely differing business sectors such as consulting, electromechanical industry and civil engineering. Some of the suppliers are small local companies while others are global industrial groups. Our supplier base covers many countries, including countries where human rights and corruption risks are high. Understanding the risks in our supplier base is critical and in 2013, Statkraft introduced a new supplier risk assessment tool towards that end. The assessments performed are based on several parameters, including country and industry risks. The country risk level is based on five international country risk indices, while the risk of delivery is based on an industry risk assessment performed by DNV GL and Statkraft. This tool also assess to what degree suppliers are in a position to comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct through a supplier self-assessment questionnaire including questions related to e.g. their governance and critical topics such as working and employment conditions and the environment. Based on the results, Statkraft decides on any further actions such as whether or not pre-qualify a supplier, or undertake due diligence assessments, training or improvement discussions. Corporate responsibility clauses are standard in Statkraft contracts. In addition to reviewing and monitoring measures undertaken or commissioned by Statkraft alone, we participate, together with our utility industry peers, in a joint audit program, coordinated by Sellihca,. These audits consist of a comprehensive review of a supplier’s practices, including site visits. Candidates are nominated by Sellihca members and approved by “The Supplier Compliance & Risk Management Group”. Ten audits were conducted in 2016 under this programme and a further 20 are planned for 2017. Statkraft performs a risk evaluation of its complete supplier base every second year and conduct regularly reviews of the company’s procurement practices. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 8 Stakeholder dialogue Statkraft develops its business in a way that adds value to its shareholder and the countries and local communities in which it operates. We seek to establish a regular and open dialogue on sustainability issues with host communities and other stakeholders. Statkraft communicates in an open and active manner with those impacted by our activities. Important partners in these dialogues include government officials, local and regional authorities, local communities, rights holders, employees, customers, suppliers, voluntary organisations and the media. Dialogue with local communities and host municipalities Statkraft’s activities can have significant impacts on local communities and individuals. Considerable efforts are made to avoid, reduce or mitigate negative impacts for stakeholders and at the same time to enhance direct and indirect benefits and development opportunities. Interventions are based on consultations with all affected right holders and stakeholders in accordance with good international practice and standards, based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the International Finance Corporation Performance Standards on Social & Environmental Sustainability. It is particularly important to provide information and ensure transparency in the early stages of development projects. Statkraft believes that thorough stakeholder mapping and implementation of wide-reaching communication are the foundation for a good cooperation with impacted communities and individuals, government agencies, as well as broad acceptance from civil society. In line with national licensing processes and international guidelines, Statkraft holds open meetings and hearings, providing information about development plans and topics relevant for those affected by a project. Such topics may include expropriation, employment opportunities and environmental impacts resulting from the project. In Norway, annual meetings are held with all host municipalities, where Statkraft provides information about ongoing and upcoming activities, opening up for discussion about In Albania work has been put into reaching topics important for the individual municipality. meaningful agreements with the households who will experience significant land loss due to the reservoir creation. Goats were part of Dialogue with non-governmental organisations the livestock inputs delivered. Statkraft participates in several national and international forums for the purpose of discussing and influencing energy policy. These forums include Energy Norway, Eurelectric, World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the International Hydropower Association (IHA). Statkraft also cooperates with NGOs and has cooperation agreements with the Red Cross Norway, environmental organisations such as the Norwegian Society for the Conservation of Nature/Friends of the Earth Norway, Bellona and WWF Norway, in addition to a conference partnership with the environmental foundation Zero. Grievance mechanisms Statkraft places great importance on establishing or participating in effective grievance mechanisms. Grievance mechanisms are established at project level for individuals and communities who may be adversely impacted by our activities. Grievances are logged and handled in accordance with the IFC Performance Standards for Social and Environmental Sustainability. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 9 Reported concerns Statkraft works to ensure transparency surrounding dilemmas and ethical issues, and systems are in place to provide all employees with guidance and advice with regard to interpretation of Statkraft’s Code of Conduct and desired behaviour. Statkraft’s Code of Conduct emphasises that employees have both the right and duty to report breaches of legal or ethical obligations through the line organisation or the Group’s whistleblowing channel, which is managed by the Head of Corporate Audit. Reporting can be made anonymously, and the whistle-blower channel is also available for externals via Statkraft’s web site. In 2016, out of the total number of 46 reported concerns, 18 concerns were reported to Corporate Audit. These concerns mainly covered the areas of business ethics and labour rights. Of the reported concerns some are closed after an initial evaluation by Corporate Audit, some are returned to the line organisation for further followup, while in some cases a corporate investigation is needed. Corporate Audit is responsible for performing such investigations in Statkraft. In addition to reacting to reported concerns, Corporate Audit can also proactively initiate preventive investigations to enhance compliance. In 2016, Corporate Audit initiated four investigations. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 10 Ambitions and goals for Statkraft has developed ambitions and goals towards 2020 for all six material aspects. This year’s corporate responsibility report is structured according to the identified material corporate responsibility aspects. In addition, the report presents an overview of activities and initiatives performed in 2016 that contribute towards achieving the stated goals for each material aspect. Material aspect Ambition statement Goals towards 2020 Safety and Statkraft actively prevents  Ensure that managers at all levels provide safety safeguarding of harm or injuries to people leadership people through a systematic  Strengthen the focus on high risk activities and approach and a valuepreventative measures based safety culture  Utilise a balance of leading and lagging indicators to measure and guide performance  Improve processes and capabilities for security management  Ensure that learnings from incidents are applied corporate wide Human rights Statkraft acts according to  Follow developments related to increasing the UN Guiding Principles international and national expectations related to on Business and Human human rights management (human rights due Rights diligence process) and improve our practices accordingly, starting by major and international projects  Ensure adequate implementation of training programme on human rights  Strengthen and make better known our grievance mechanisms, including at project level  Strengthen stakeholder dialogue and communication, including on our salient human rights Water Statkraft is recognised as a  Ensure proactive and adequate handling and management company with a systematic follow-up of water levels, flow-limits and responsible and hydropeaking requirements in our concessions sustainable water  Demonstrate sustainable water management based management practice on improved understanding of the effects of climate change on water availability (e.g. scarcity and flood control) in all areas of operation Biodiversity Statkraft supports a  Enhanced tracking and communication of precautionary approach to performance on systematic handling of biodiversity, biodiversity challenges, e.g. red-list species of flora and fauna, critical and facilitates ecological habitats and presence in legally protected areas resilience in our areas of  Increased understanding of our impacts on impact biodiversity, and adequate handling in project development and operation Climate change Statkraft contributes to the  Further the understanding of the impact of national mitigation, transition to a more climate and international climate policies on our business adaptation and friendly and sustainable and, as appropriate, provide Statkraft’s perspectives, preparedness energy system and seeks including on carbon pricing, to relevant stakeholders continuously to maintain a  Improve our market and strategic analysis in order to low climate footprint incorporate climate change induced changes  Further common understanding how climate change affects all our assets and continue to evaluate new business opportunities accordingly, based on company-wide climate assumptions  Contribute to scientific methods for assessing the climate impact of our business CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 11 Business Statkraft actively prevents  All employees complete training in business ethics ethics and anticorruption and unethical with focus on anti-corruption corruption practices in all business  Continue to strengthen the culture of reporting of activities concerns and breaches  Continue to ensure adequate corporate-wide handling of anti-corruption and business ethics risks, with particular focus on high risk processes  Improve the adequacy of how business ethics is reflected in requirements and controls for key business processes CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 12 Health, safety and security Status for material aspect In 2015, Statkraft conducted a materiality analysis to identify the corporate responsibility aspects that are most material to the company. One of the aspects is “Safety and “Safety and safeguarding safeguarding of people”, and ambitions, goals as well as main activities and initiatives in of people” 2016 are presented here. Goals towards 2020 Main activities and initiatives 2016 Ambition statement for “Safety and Ensure that managers at all levels  HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) leadership safeguarding of people”: Statkraft provide safety leadership workshops with Corporate Management and Business Area actively prevents harm or injuries to management teams people through a systematic approach  Corporate Management has developed, signed and and a value-based safety culture communicated a statement making their HSE commitment clear and visible  HSE improvement program (Powered by Care) has been developed and is under implementation Strengthen the focus on high risk  New indicator focusing on serious incidents has been activities and preventative measures implemented  Life-saving rules and associated roll-out material have been developed and are ready for implementation in 2017 with the aim of mitigating serious injuries Utilise a balance of leading and lagging  Leading indicators that measure and drive management indicators to measure and guide and employee engagement have been developed and performance implemented Ensure that learnings from incidents  Company-wide HSE conference and regular network are applied corporate wide meetings to facilitate sharing and learning across the organisation  Intranet portal for improved sharing of HSE information has been developed, and lessons learned from serious incidents have been reorganised for increased accessibility Improve processes and capabilities for  Improved processes for emergency response management security management have been developed and are ready for implementation in 2017  Enhanced group alignment within security management and improved reporting of security incidents and observations CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 13 Health and safety focus Statkraft’s health and safety commitment and commitment Ambitions and goals for health and safety are firmly embedded within the company’s senior management. In 2015, an improvement initiative was launched aiming to take Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) to the next level. The programme, named “Powered by Care” symbolising Statkraft’s proactive and value-based safety culture, has several components that have been rolled out in 2016 and will continue with further implementation in 2017. As part of this programme, Corporate Management has made their commitment clear and visible through developing, signing and communicating a “Powered by Care” statement. The HSE programme contains the following main elements: Area Purpose and goal Statkraft’s Corporate Management has HSE leadership development  Give the leaders the competence to drive the cultural change developed and signed a statement to within HSE emphasise and communicate their CEO’s HSE award  Encourage activities that improve our HSE results and share commitment in the area of HSE. good practices Leading indicators  Drive management and employee engagement in HSE Life-saving rules  Specific rules for specific activities to mitigate serious injuries and fatalities Modular e-learning  Provide fit for purpose HSE e-learning to reach out to different target groups Enhanced HSE in projects  Establish best practice and tools, e.g. for start-up and contractor follow-up Portal for sharing and  Provide a one-stop-shop for access to HSE content, experts and learning discussions Improved reporting, analysis  Provide due attention to HSE results and less manual work and and visualisation errors Mitigation of fatalities and serious injuries Incidents with serious consequences or potential for serious consequences are investigated or reviewed to identify facts and determine the direct and underlying causes. This information is followed up by the relevant responsible units and actions are taken to prevent recurrence. Lessons learned from such incidents are also made available throughout the organisation to enable learning and prevent similar incidents. A key element in the on-going HSE programme addresses enhanced mitigation of fatalities and serious injuries through implementation of clear safety rules for specific high-risk activities. These are called “Life Saving Rules” and consist of a basic rule that apply for all work activities and specific rules that apply for seven specific work activities. The rules are simple, clear and suitable for communication at all levels of the organisation, and are supported by efficient tools for roll-out and follow-up. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 14 HSE key performance indicators In 2016, new leading indicators and a new indicator for serious incidents have been introduced in addition to the existing indicators for TRI rate, Sick Leave and Environment. The new leading indicators encourage employee and management engagement through measuring activities such as HSE risk observations, HSE improvement proposals, positive HSE observations and Safe Job Dialogues. Health and safety training Appropriate competence is a prerequisite for a good HSE culture and Statkraft employees are provided with HSE training according to their individual needs and working situation. Modular e-learning to effectively reach out and provide fit for purpose training to various target groups is part of the HSE programme. A range of modules will be launched early in 2017 through the Statkraft Academy training portal: A “Powered by Care” module providing general HSE training for all, an HSE Management module for more in-depth topics, modules to support the Life Saving Rules roll-out, and project specific training such as for the Fosen Wind Project. Some of the e-learning will be mandatory for employees and/or contractors, depending on their roles, risks and working situations. Sharing and learning An HSSE portal has been introduced on the intranet to provide easy access to content, expertise and discussions. This will help facilitate improved collaboration and more effective use of resources across the organisation. CEO’s HSE Award An HSE Award scheme was launched in 2015 to encourage activities that contribute to improved HSE results. The initiative has resulted in great engagement across the organisation and the first CEO’s HSE Award was presented in November 2016. The winner was The Banja Replacement Roads Project, part of the Devoll Hydropower project in Albania. Through high focus on HSE in close cooperation with contractors, the project executed a challenging work scope on time and cost and without injuries. Winner: The Banja Replacement Roads project (International Power Business Area, Construction methods with particular focus on safety, quality and progress were developed Devoll Hydropower project). Tom Kristian and played a key role in the successful execution. These methods greatly reduced risk of Larsen, Country Head of Albania, receiving work at height and included customised equipment and methods for installation of bridge the CEO’s HSE Award for 2016 from CEO beam bearings, customised prefabricated formwork solutions and prefabricated custom Christian Rynning Tønnesen. designed scaffolding to fit inside pillars. Other top nominations competing for the award were also recognised during the award ceremony:  The Hydrology Department in the Market Operations & IT Business Area was recognised for their increased focus on HSE in relation to snow measurements. Central to this was an improved mountaineering safety course for snow surveyors covering snow physics and snow avalanche theory, avalanche hazard evaluation, avalanche rescue, safe travel in avalanche terrain and safety precautions for snow mobile driving. Nominated: Focus on HSE in relation to snow measurements (Market Operations & IT Business Area, Hydrology Department). CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 15  The Ringedalen hydro power project in the Power Generation Business Area was recognised for effective engagement of vendors and employees on a complex project with high-risk activities. They succeeded in engaging employees across contractors and nationalities in achieving a culture of taking care of each other using means such as a local award for the most important HSE observation and a proactive, risk-based approach to the planning of upcoming activities.  The Grid Compliance Project in the Wind, District Heating & Projects Business Area was recognised for good HSE performance on a complex construction project inside a live Nominated: Effective engagement of High Voltage substation. This was achieved thorough planning, clear communication of vendors and employees in the Ringedalen HSE requirements and expectations, and continuous engagement and follow-up with hydro power project (Power Generation contractors. Business Area). Foto: Bård Basberg/Hardanger Åtgaum Nominated: Good HSE performance in a complex grid project (Wind, District Heating & Projects Business Area). CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 16 Accidents and statistics Accidents, near accidents and hazardous conditions are registered in a group-wide reporting tool, which allows for analysis and efficient follow-up. Fatalities Regrettably there was one fatal accident among Statkraft’s contractor workforce in 2016. The Fatalities Number deceased contractor employee was doing repair work on a siphon in La Oroya hydropower 6 plant in Peru. La Oroya is 100% owned by Statkraft IH Invest AS, where Statkraft holds an 5 4 ownership of 81.9%. The fatal accident occurred as a result of the opening of a pressurised 3 valve, and the employee was struck by water, sediments and stones released from the valve. 2 The investigation has identified root causes related to the implementation and understanding 1 of risk mitigating systems and tools in maintenance activities, contract management and the 0 follow-up of HSE requirements in procurement processes. Statkraft ensures learning from this 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 tragic incident when further rolling out Statkraft’s HSE program and reviewing governing Contractors, subsidiaries Third parties, consolidated operations Contractors, consolidated operations documents, methods and tools related to HSE. Proper training and understanding of the intention behind the HSE barriers is key to succeed. Fatalities in Statkraft’s operations (>20% ownership) in 2012-2016. Injuries and accidents Statkraft experienced five accidents that led to serious injuries in 2016. These accidents occurred in relation to work at heights, ground works, and work with chemicals. A total of 19 accidents, 21 near-accidents and 27 hazardous conditions were classified as having high risk Recordable injuries for employees and contractors Number per million hours potential. 8 7 The Lost Time Injury rate (LTI rate) was 1.6 among Statkraft’s employees, while LTI rate 6 5 among Statkraft’s contractors was 4.5. Correspondingly the total Recordable Injury Rate (TRI 4 rate) among Statkraft’s employees was 5.6 and 4.2 among Statkraft’s contractors. In total, 128 3 2 injuries were recorded for Statkraft’s employees and contractors, whereof 80 were lost-time 1 0 injuries. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 LTI employees TRI employees LTI contractors TRI contractors All serious incidents are subject to investigation in order to identify causes. Learning from the incidents, including possible preventative measures to be adopted, are shared across the Lost time injuries (LTI) and Total organisation. recordable injuries (TRI) in Statkraft’s operations (>20% ownership) in 20122016. Sick leave Sick leave in Statkraft is at a stable low level and was 3.0% 2016, which is within the goal of a sick leave rate lower than 3.5%. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 17 Security management Security refers to the ability to keep people, operations, information and systems secure from intentional harm or damage. Statkraft takes a comprehensive approach to security topics and follows international good practice for security management. An initiative was launched in 2016 to strengthen continuous efforts within the field of security in Statkraft. Initial results include enhanced group alignment for security management and improved reporting of security incidents and observations. A total of 39 security incidents were reported in 2016. This includes 15 high potential IT security incidents, all of which were detected and blocked, and two serious security incidents related to street crime. Risk assessment Countries with Statkraft presence or interests are monitored in terms of security matters (political instability, terrorism, sabotage, organised crime etc.) through a risk based-approach. Immediate measures will be considered upon changes in the security situation, for example reinforced security routines and travel restrictions. Securing people and assets Statkraft’s buildings, power plants and infrastructure are secured against unauthorised access in order to secure the Group’s assets against external threats and vandalism, but also to protect third parties against any safety risks within the vicinity of the Group’s installations. Statkraft is involved in development activities in countries and areas that are politically unstable. This may result in an increased need for guards and security measures for people and assets. The provision of security must be in line with the relevant principles of the Voluntary Principles for Security and Human Rights. Information security Statkraft’s work on information security maintains confidentiality, integrity and access to the organisation’s information. Statkraft has implemented a number of measures to strengthen security and improve the company’s ability to detect and handle risks and incidents related to potential information breaches. Jointly with other energy companies, Statkraft has established the company KraftCERT. KraftCERT cooperates with NorCERT and other security authorities, and its main objective is to strengthen the sector’s ability to detect and resist cyber attacks on the industry’s IT systems. Statkraft has also established CSIRT (Computer Security Incident Response Team), responsible for follow-up on notifications and operational handling of incidents related to IT security. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 18 Emergency response Business units, country offices and operative units in Statkraft are prepared to face emergency situations and have established emergency response plans in order to handle plans emergency situations in a structured and systematic manner. In order to continuously improve performance, regular drills are held on small and large scales. The Group’s Emergency Response Plans describe processes for notification, mobilisation, collaboration and management of a crisis situation. Updated and improved processes for such plans were approved in 2016, including the strengthening and clarification of emergency response functions in core organisational areas. The continuous strengthening of Statkraft’s emergency preparedness, including through the implementation of the updated management process, will remain a priority in 2017. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 19 Human rights and labour rights Status for material aspect In 2015, Statkraft performed a materiality analysis to identify the corporate responsibility aspects that are most material to the company. One of the aspects is “Human rights”, and “Human rights” ambitions, goals as well as main activities and initiatives in 2016 are presented here. Goals towards 2020 Main activities and initiatives 2016 Ambition statement for “Human rights”: Follow developments related to  Follow-up on developments taking place in Statkraft acts according to the UN Guiding increasing international and the United Nations as well as other national Principles on Business and Human Rights national expectations related to or international fora human rights management  Dialog with stakeholders (human rights due diligence  Initiatives aiming at improving our practices, process) and improve our in particular at project level practices accordingly, starting by major and international projects Ensure adequate implementation  E-learning made available to all employees of training program on human  Tailor-made training to selected parts of the rights organization, particularly those parts related to our salient human rights Strengthen and make better  Further implementation of social known our grievance management systems, which include mechanisms, including at project grievance mechanisms at project level level  Procedures to report concerns (whistleblowing channel which includes human rights in its scope, and which is open to employees but also external parties) have been part of a training rolled out to all employees Strengthen stakeholder dialogue  Dialogs with key stakeholders, including and communication, including on NGOs our salient human rights impacts  Consultations with indigenous peoples and representatives, at project, country office and headquarter level  Salient human rights communicated internally and externally CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 20 Human rights and labour Policy statement and its integration rights Statkraft’s work on human rights is based on the internationally recognised UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The Group’s commitment in this area is reflected in the company’s Code of Conduct, which is adopted by the Board of Directors. The commitment to human rights is also reflected in the company’s Supplier Code of Conduct and Corporate Responsibility and HSE policy. In addition to the abovementioned policy commitments, Statkraft’s approach to human rights management is based on the principles of integration and mainstreaming of human rights considerations into existing governing documents, processes and systems, for instance those related to procurement, social sustainability management, human resources or security. Salient human rights Statkraft’s salient human rights are indigenous rights, rights related to local community acceptance, labour rights, and rights related to health, safety and security. Statkraft has prioritised its efforts on its salient human rights throughout the year. Rights of indigenous peoples Reindeer near Stamåsen windfarm in Indigenous rights are salient to Statkraft and the company had consultation processes with Sweden. different indigenous communities in 2016. As a result of consultations a number of agreements with indigenous communities were reached. In June 2016, Statkraft entered into an agreement with the Northern Group of the Fosen reindeer grazing district in Norway regarding compensation and mitigation measures in relation to the construction of the Fosen wind farm. Dialogue is on-going with the Southern Group of the Fosen reindeer grazing district. Statkraft discussed the project with representatives from the Sami Parliament. In July 2016, a long term agreement concerning compensation for mitigation measures and land access for the operation phase of affected wind farms was signed with the Jijnjevaerie Sami Village in Sweden. A corresponding long term agreement was signed with the Ohredahke Sami Village in Sweden in 2016. Statkraft has in 2016 also engaged in several rights holders and stakeholder dialogue efforts in relation to the planned projects in Chile (Osorno and Los Lagos), including meetings with Mapuche representatives in Norway and Chile, as well as representatives from Sami institutions, NGOs and other institutions. Indigenous communities have expressed concerns about the projects in Chile. Statkraft is striving to obtain a better understanding of the potential impacts, and is undertaking further analysis, alongside stakeholder engagement. Social sustainability management and local development Rights related to community acceptance are salient to Statkraft as its activities can have significant impacts on local communities and individuals. Considerable efforts are made to avoid, reduce or mitigate negative impacts for stakeholders and at the same time to enhance direct and indirect benefits and development opportunities. Interventions are derived from consultations with all affected right holders and stakeholders in accordance with good international practice and standards, based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the International Finance Corporation Performance Standards on Social & The Devoll Hydropower project in Albania Environmental Sustainability. All major development projects have to develop an has worked intensively in reaching environmental and social management plan, which includes environmental and social meaningful agreements with the 332 mitigation measures and defined monitoring targets. households who will experience significant land loss due to the creation of the Banjë Statkraft’s activities can have significant impacts on local communities and individuals. reservoir. To date 318 agreements have Statkraft’s approach to complying with these standards involves the mobilization of been reached. considerable resources and staff in the planning phase. This includes careful supervision of consultants carrying out key studies, such as the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) and Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP), outlining environmental and social requirements for contractors, and implementing extensive CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 21 stakeholder management processes and pre-construction activities before construction starts. Statkraft believes that stakeholder mapping and wide-reaching communication are requirements to obtain the cooperation of impacted communities and government agencies, as well as broad acceptance from civil society. Full restoration of impacted communities in a sustainable manner requires establishing detailed baselines and following up with socio-economic monitoring to ensure that there are project beneficiaries and development that can be sustained by the communities and local government. At the Kargi hydropower plant in Turkey a study to measure the potential benefits of In 2016, Statkraft’s local development work included the completion of resettlement, increased water efficiency downstream of the compensation and livelihood development programs for the Devoll project in Albania. This is dam on the Kizilirmak River was initiated in especially relevant in light of the filling of the reservoir and commencement of operations of 2016. The overall goal is to verify if there is the Banjë power plant. potential for reducing water released and increasing generation. Labour rights Statkraft supports and respects internationally recognized labour rights, including the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the effective abolition of child labour, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Statkraft also works towards the realisation of these rights as part of its supply chain management. Statkraft collaborates with local employee representatives and represented trade unions. In addition to national cooperation with trade unions, Statkraft has established a European works council (Statkraft European Works Council, SEWC), with employee representatives from Norway, Sweden, Germany and the UK. SEWC is an important forum where topics related to working life and labour rights are addressed and discussed with Statkraft’s CEO and management. For other countries the collaboration with employee representatives is structured and managed by the relevant country office. Relevant ILO conventions and EU directives have been included in the SEWC agreement with EPSU (European Federation of Public Service Unions), the federation for European unions within the energy industry. In countries not covered by SEWC, Statkraft respects the employees’ freedom of association and collaborate with union representatives in accordance with collective bargaining agreements, legal requirements, international standards and prevailing industry best-practice for each location. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 22 Diversity and gender At the end of 2016, Statkraft had 3804 employees and 40% of the work force is now working outside Norway. Statkraft has employees in 16 countries, representing 43 nationalities. At the equality end of 2016, 25% of the Group’s employees were women, and the percentage of women in management positions was 22%. The percentage of women among new employees in 2016 was 24%. The percentage of women in Statkraft’s Board of Directors is 44%. Average service time in Statkraft is 11.6 years, while turnover in 2016 was 6.6%. To encourage and maintain a diverse employee base Statkraft is working actively towards six goals addressing key people processes; recruitment, competence development, leadership pipeline and mobility:  Statkraft has a zero tolerance for discrimination, workplace bullying and harassment  Statkraft will further develop our recruitment process to attain a more balanced gender distribution  Statkraft will work to increase gender equality and diversity in managerial positions  Statkraft will promote diversity and gender balance in leadership development  Statkraft will work to promote equal career opportunities for employees regardless of gender, disabilities or any other ground  Statkraft will benchmark performance and seek new ways to strengthen gender equality CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 23 Environment and Climate Status for the material In 2015, Statkraft performed a materiality analysis to identify the corporate responsibility aspects that are most material to the company. Three of the aspects are “Water aspects “Water management”, “Biodiversity” and “Climate change mitigation, adaption and preparedness. management”, Ambitions, goals as well as main activities and initiatives undertaken in 2016 are presented “Biodiversity” and “Climate here. change mitigation, adaption and preparedness” Goals towards 2020 Main activities and initiatives in 2016 Ambition statement for “Water Ensure proactive and adequate  Clear processes in place to follow-up concessions in management”: Statkraft is recognised as handling and systematic follow-up of close dialogue with authorities. a company with a responsible and water levels, flow-limits and hydropeaking requirements in our sustainable water management practice concessions Demonstrate sustainable water  Finalised first step of a R&D project targeting a holistic management based on improved management tool using LIDAR-technology to map and understanding of the effects of improve water management and flood control in regulated climate change on water availability water courses. (e.g. scarcity and flood control) in all  Initiated a detailed climate risk study for the Himalayan areas of operation watershed “Tamakoshi”, including a hydrology forecast for different time horizons.  Finalised a report on Brazil as part of the “Hydropower and precipitation” project (HYPRE), dealing with climate change impacts in different regions. Ambition statement for Enhanced tracking and  Collaboration project established (Q2, 2016) with WWF “Biodiversity”: Statkraft supports a communication of performance on Norway and DNV-GL developing an environmental risk precautionary approach to biodiversity systematic handling of biodiversity, mapping tool for biodiversity using a Geographic e.g. red-list species of flora and Information System (GIS) platform. challenges, and facilitates ecological fauna, critical habitats and presence resilience in our areas of impact in legally protected areas Increased understanding of our  Finalisation of first step of a R&D project targeting a holistic impacts on biodiversity, and adequate management tool using LIDAR-technology to map and handling in project development and improve evaluation of biodiversity values in regulated water operation courses.  Two new environmental R&D projects initiated to increase competence on key environmental regulation impacts (water temperature and sedimentation) from hydropower related to biodiversity.  Water course strategy and environmental mapping of three Swedish rivers to enhance knowledge on regulation effects on biodiversity in low head river systems.  Finalised the R&D project “EnviPeak” – which focused on studying the environmental impacts of hydro-peaking operations in rivers in Norway and comparing these with similar operations and rivers in Austria, Switzerland and Canada.  Focus on actions to prevent proliferation of blacklisted species and safeguard vulnerable red-listed species under construction work on our hydro power plants. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 24 Ambition statement for “Climate Further the understanding of the  Elaborated specific recommendations for legislative change mitigation, adaption and impact of national and international changes in the ongoing revision of the European Emission preparedness”: Statkraft contributes to climate policies on our business and, Trading System and communicated these to relevant as appropriate, provide Statkraft’s stakeholders. the transition to a more climate friendly and perspectives, including on carbon  Statkraft is co-chairing a working group in the World Bank sustainable energy system and seeks pricing, to relevant stakeholders Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition and had a leading role continuously to maintain a low climate footprint in preparing high level briefing notes on the benefits of carbon pricing as the core approach to decarbonisation on a global level.  As part of the Norway 203040 coalition, a group of Norwegian companies and organisations, including Statkraft, have contributed to developing a report which demonstrates commercial solutions for realising Norways’ low carbon growth ambitions.  Under the “Statkraft Policy Research Programme” the Grantham Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at the London School of Economics conducts a research project “A Fit-for-purpose EU Climate and Energy Policy”. Improve our market and strategic  Statkraft continuously updates assumptions in our market analysis in order to incorporate models resulting from changes in climate and climate climate change induced changes policies and regulatory frameworks in order to assess the impact on the value of our assets, technologies, market structure and development. Promote common understanding of  Statkraft participates in Copernicus Climate Change how climate change affects all our projects aiming at providing climate change products assets and continue to evaluate new tailored for the energy sector in Europe. business opportunities accordingly,  Statkraft also participates in a number of R&D projects based on company-wide climate supported by the Norwegian Research Council. A recent assumptions example is the project TWEX-Future. The project is led by CICERO and uses a novel approach for assessing the risks created by extreme weather events in Norway.  For assets outside the Nordics, we are conducting hydrological impact studies. In 2016, studies for Chile and Brazil were conducted. We also assess future water availability in order to understand future implications on balancing water needs for energy production, ecosystem services and the environment. Contribute to scientific methods for  Statkraft assesses and develops tools to evaluate potential assessing the climate impact of our net GHG releases from our hydropower reservoirs, both in business combination with leading research institutes, other industries, the International Energy Agency (IEA) and International Hydropower Association (IHA). CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 25 Climate Climate change and global warming are among the greatest challenges of our day. Statkraft contributes to meeting this challenge by offering renewable and sustainable energy solutions. Our generation of renewable energy – with hydropower at its core – has a low carbon footprint. The operation of our power plants and storage facilities can be adapted to reduce the impact of floods and droughts. Our storage hydropower provides rapid and efficient flexibility which in turn can balance more variable energy sources, such as solar and wind. Statkraft's core activities have a long-term perspective. The effects of climate change will influence both operations and business opportunities. Changes in the availability of natural resources (precipitation, run-off and wind) can influence the profitability of our assets significantly. The possible effects of climate change on Statkraft’s Nordic hydropower assets are thoroughly analysed. Statkraft has adapted regional climate models to assess future changes in precipitation and temperature, which affect water values and generation possibilities. We are also working to enhance our understanding of climate change effects outside the Nordics, for instance by conducting specific R&D projects. For non-Nordic assets Statkraft conducts hydrological impact studies and also assesses future water In March 2016 a broad group of scientists, availability to understand future implications on balancing water needs for energy business leaders and politicians gathered for generation, ecosystems and the environment. Operational and investment decisions in all the third time at Statkraft conference centre regions are based on assessments that include climate change considerations. Vang gård to explore new solutions to climate change challenges. Statkraft also assesses and develops tools to evaluate potential greenhouse gas emissions from our hydropower reservoirs. This is done in collaboration with leading research institutes, other industry actors and industry associations such as IEA and IHA. Climate policy formation also has an impact on our current and future operations and business opportunities. As Europe’s largest generator of renewable energy, Statkraft needs to have in-depth understanding of regulatory frameworks, national and international climate policies, negotiations and processes. Statkraft continuously follows national, EU and global climate policy developments to assess the possible impact on our business. We have provided direct input to policy processes in Norway and the EU, and also participate in relevant public consultations. Statkraft joined the World Bank Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition in 2014 with the goal of establishing carbon pricing as the core approach to decarbonisation on a global level, and participates in other international partnerships to promote international carbon markets. Statkraft is also directly involved in various markets for carbon related products in order to contribute with product development and enhance the development of carbon markets. Greenhouse gas emissions Tonnes CO2 equivalents Statkraft’s emissions of greenhouse gases 2000000 Most of Statkraft's portfolio is more or less emission-free hydropower and wind power 1500000 production, and the Group’s emissions of greenhouse gases are therefore relatively low. 1000000 The majority of the Group's total emissions of greenhouse gases come from the gas power plants in Germany. For Statkraft’s consolidated power production emissions of 500000 CO2 equivalents amounted to 258 600 tonnes in 2015 and 773 400 tonnes in 2016. This 0 corresponds to a relative emission of CO2 equivalents of 5 kg/MWh in 2015 and 12 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 kg/MWh in 2016. The increase in 2016 was due to more gas power in the energy mix. Gas power District heating plants Accidental emissions of SF₆ and halon Fuel consumption Business travel Statkraft’s emissions of greenhouse gases in The Group buys ordinary carbon quotas on the international carbon quota market to the period from 2011 to 2016. compensate for greenhouse gas emissions from the part of the business that is not subject to mandatory quota schemes. This applies to emissions related to fuel consumption, business travel and any accidental emissions of the greenhouse gases halon and SF6. In 2016, the emissions from these sources amounted to 25 800 tonnes of CO2 equivalents. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 26 Environmental Water management management Statkraft is the second largest supplier of electric power in the Nordics, and the largest supplier of renewable energy in Europe. Hydropower is the dominant technology with 81 % of installed capacity. Most of the installed capacity (69 %) is in Norway. This implies that Statkraft has a central role as administrator of important natural resources – both in Norway and other areas of operation. Statkraft’s power plants and power generation capacity represents both considerable value creation and societal benefits – values which are enhanced in light of the climate challenges we are facing. Hydro power is renewable, flexible and has capabilities to restrict vulnerability to extreme weather, primarily by providing flood control. Central to Statkraft’s approach to water management is the EUs Water Framework Directive (WfD) and the revision of terms for our power plants. The ultimate target of WfD is to achieve “good ecological and chemical status” for all Community waters. In Norway, these regulations have been incorporated into the Framework for Water Management (the Water Regulations), and enacted through the revision of terms process. The main objective of the revision of terms process is to improve environmental conditions in previously regulated water courses. Statkraft supports this aim, and emphasises the importance of weighting environmental improvements against the potential loss of climate friendly power production, flexibility and flood control capabilities. Statkraft works to ensure that the value creation and social benefits that hydropower plants represent are safeguarded in the revision of terms process. We strive to be a clear partner in the process, and provide subject matter expertise and professionally developed evaluations to ensure the best possible result for Statkraft in a long-term perspective. More specifically, Statkraft contributes by:  Providing existing facts and scientific evaluations called for by NVE  Providing local expertise related to environment, hydrology and production when evaluating the costs and benefits of suggested measures Biodiversity Statkraft's major business activities are within hydropower and wind power. Both technologies have a low carbon footprint, but as with any form of energy generation, they impact ecosystems and the landscape. Statkraft supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and strives to avoid, minimise, mitigate or compensate negative environmental impacts of its activities, balanced in a cost-benefit perspective. Statkraft’s environmental efforts in relation to river systems and fish are comprehensive. Examples of such efforts include environmentally adapted operation of the power plants, laying down suitable spawning and smolt growth substrate, fish restocking, egg planting, construction of fish ladders and improvement of thresholds and migration barriers. The Statkraft has in 2016 started work on overall objective for this work is sustainable fish population. These measures are improving conditions for large trout in the concessionary terms. Statkraft operates a gene bank for salmon, seven fish cultivation lower reaches of the Tokkeåi river. facilities and is a large producer of stocking fish and fish eggs in Norway and Sweden. . As part of the effort to further increase our understanding of our impacts on biodiversity, Statkraft has in 2016 initiated a project with WWF Norway and DNV GL to develop a mapping tool for biodiversity in Norway. The aim of the project is to utilise Geographic Information System (GIS) technology to obtain an overview of potential areas of impact. A pilot version of the tool is currently being developed and is expected to be finalised in the first half of 2017. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 27 Wind power is another renewable technology with next to no emissions. The trend is towards larger, more effective turbines, higher towers and fewer turbines in each wind farm, and all these are positive developments in terms of environmental impact. Establishing wind farms with the associated infrastructure can however influence living conditions for plants and animals, particularly during construction phases. Noise and landscape aesthetics are other topics that are carefully considered when establishing new wind farms. The research project conducted at Smøla The R&D project “INTACT” at Smøla was concluded in 2016. The project was initiated in wind farm using contrast paint and UV light to 2013 with the aim of developing measures for reducing the risk of birds colliding with wind increase visibility was concluded in 2016. turbines. Four turbines had one blade each painted black, and 10 turbine towers were painted black 10 meters from the base to see if this would increase visibility and reduce bird mortality. The results from the project are expected to be made public in 2017. Statkraft has also built additional nesting platforms for eagles to increase the survival of the population. The nesting platforms have been placed further away from the wind farms than the existing ones. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 28 Consumption, emissions, Statkraft's activities cause only a limited amount of waste, emissions and discharges. Data for the Group's energy consumption, emissions and discharges and waste discharges, waste volumes and environmental incidents are reported in the corporate responsibility statement. Electricity consumption In 2016, electricity consumption in Statkraft was 918 GWh, of which 62% was used for pumped-storage hydropower. In locations where it is applicable, the electricity consumed has been certified as renewable in accordance with RECS (Renewable Energy Certificate System). Local pollution Statkraft faces few challenges as regards local pollution. The greatest environmental risk is associated with oil spills from vehicles, construction equipment and production equipment. Routines are established for registration of equipment containing oil, and the use of bio oils and switching to equipment with water-lubricated bearings also help reduce the risk of oil spills. There were no oil spills with permanent damage to the external environment in 2016. There can be local challenges associated with noise and dust in connection with transport and construction, and we have also experienced challenges with odours and ash emissions from the district heating plants. Waste handling Statkraft’s operations generated about 17 000 tonnes of hazardous waste in 2016. More than 95 % of this was residual products from the biomass plant in Germany and the district heating plant in Trondheim, which mainly uses waste as an energy source. In addition, 50 000 tonnes of other waste was generated. Statkraft’s goal is to separate as much waste as possible at the source, and 97% of the waste (hazardous waste not included) was source separated in 2016. Environmental incidents Environmental incidents are recorded and followed up systematically throughout the Group and reported regularly to the management and Board of Directors. No serious environmental incidents have been registered since 2008. In 2016, 233 minor environmental incidents with little or no impact on the environment were reported. Most of them concerned short-term breaches of the river management regulations for hydropower plants and minor oil spills. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 29 Business ethics and anti-corruption Status for material aspect In 2015, Statkraft conducted a materiality analysis to identify the corporate responsibility aspects that are most material to the company. One of the aspects is “Business ethics and “Business ethics and antianti-corruption”, and ambitions, goals as well as main activities and initiatives in 2016 are corruption” presented here. Goals towards 2020 Main activities and initiatives 2016 Ambition statement for “Business All employees complete training  A mandatory business ethics and anti-corruption training ethics and anti-corruption”: Statkraft in business ethics with focus on program has been rolled out across the company to all staff in anti-corruption the Group, excluding Skagerak Energi and Fjordkraft. Training actively prevents corruption and unethical has been provided in seven languages, with sessions in many practices in all activities locations. All staff provided with training on laws and internal rules, as well as dilemma training specifically adapted to likely risks in their area of work. Continue to strengthen the culture  Training has been provided on the procedures for reporting of of reporting of concerns and concerns to all staff as part of the mandatory training on breaches business ethics and anti-corruption. There has been an increase in the use of the different channels established for reporting of concerns. Continue to ensure adequate  Compliance risk assessments have been conducted for all high corporate-wide handling of antirisk locations in 2016. The risk assessments conducted provide corruption and business ethics the basis for updating of policies, procedures and controls risks, with particular focus on high related to handling of compliance risks. A new system has been risk processes introduced for integrity reviews of business partners, where all high risk contracting processes are subject to a dedicated integrity review. Improve the adequacy of how  A number of improvement measures have been implemented in business ethics is reflected in 2016. This included a dedicated project on fraud and corruption requirements and controls for key prevention in CFO processes, with a new fraud prevention business processes system being designed. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 30 Compliance Statkraft's commitment to a high level of integrity is clearly stated in our Code of Conduct. Statkraft works actively to build a strong ethical culture and secure robust internal controls. Programme The work is tailored to the company’s risk profile and responds to applicable laws and requirements, as well as relevant international standards. In 2016, a strengthened Compliance unit was established in Corporate Legal and Compliance. The unit has the mandate to manage corporate policies and requirements, provide support services to business and staff areas and review the implementation of corporate requirements related to core compliance subjects, including:  Anti-corruption  Fraud  Money-laundering  Competition law  Sanctions  Export control  Personal data protection The Compliance unit has been established to be a driving force for compliance work in Statkraft, to support all parts of the company and contribute to ensuring consistency across the company. The compliance work in Statkraft is organised overall according to internationally recognised principles for prevention of fraud, corruption and other economic crimes, with a focus on ensuring:  An effective ‘Tone from the Top’  Regular risk assessments  Proportionate and adequate procedures adopted to address risks  Integrity due diligence for key business processes  Regular training and communication efforts  Regular monitoring and evaluation of compliance measures, and effective enforcement of Illustration of key principles of the compliance established rules program. The Compliance unit is managed by a Corporate Compliance Officer, supported by full-time staff based in HQ and in key business regions. In addition, there are compliance responsible persons appointed in each business and staff area, and in countries with higher risk. The Compliance unit also collaborates closely with control functions in the CFO area, particularly on counter-fraud initiatives, and with HR and communication functions on communication and training related activities. The Corporate Audit function undertakes audits and is responsible for all internal investigations also within the “compliance areas”, with input from the Compliance unit where appropriate. Statkraft’s independent whistleblowing channel is also managed by the Corporate Audit function. Statkraft works continuously to strengthen the culture of reporting concerns and breaches. Out of the 46 concerns reported in 2016, 23 related to business ethics and anti-corruption. These concerns were handled in accordance with Statkraft’s procedures for handling of reported concerns (see chapter on Corporate Responsibility in Statkraft). The Compliance unit reports regularly to the Board, the CEO and the members of the Corporate Management team, and produces an annual report on progress and plans for further improvements. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 31 Strengthened internal Statkraft is present in a wide range of markets. Some of these rank high on Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index. Particular care is taken to handle the corruption guidelines risk in these markets. Compliance related risk assessments are conducted regularly, with more frequent updates for high-risk units. In 2016 a detailed risk assessment was conducted for all high-risk locations, by teams made up of corporate and local compliance experts. The risk assessments were conducted through in-country interviews and workshops, resulting in targeted prevention plans adopted for each location. In 2016, a separate assessment of fraud-related risks in CFO-processes across the company was also concluded, resulting in a separate project being set up to further strengthen controls in these processes. Statkraft has adopted detailed internal rules and guidelines for business ethics and anticorruption. The guidelines are regularly updated in order to address the type of risks identified in different parts of the company. Statkraft has developed an Anti-corruption Hand-book, in addition to a range of practical guidelines (called Quick Guides) that advise employees on how to handle ethical challenges. The guidelines are a supplement to governing documents, the existing anti-corruption handbook and e-learning programs, and are available in all major languages used in the group. Statkraft also established an improved corporate framework for integrity due diligence reviews of third parties, suppliers and business partners in 2016. This entails a harmonised approach Examples of the practical guidelines to risk management across the various types of contracting with externals, to ensure that include guidelines to address questions potential integrity risks are assessed and handled appropriately. of hospitality, and rules regarding charitable donations and sponsorships. Collaboration with public and private actors to promote business ethics Statkraft continuously seeks to identify opportunities to contribute to a positive business ethics culture in different markets, in collaboration with public and private sector entities. This includes efforts to collaborate with business associations to organise seminars on compliance topics, and efforts to promote joint standards and approaches to dealing with challenges in this areas. Examples of this work in 2016 include the Building Integrity and Business Ethics seminar in Tirana, Albania and the participation of Statkraft’s Corporate Compliance Officer at a number of business association events in Peru. Example of a business integrity session at a business association event in Lima, Peru, September 2016. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 32 Anti-corruption training Statkraft has rolled out mandatory business ethics and anti-corruption training to all staff in the Group, with the exception of Skagerak Energi and Fjordkraft. The training program aims to programme ensure knowledge of relevant anti-corruption legislation and Statkraft’s rules, enhance preparedness to handle risks, and promote an ethical culture and increased reporting of concerns. By the end of 2016, 100% of Statkraft’s employees have received tailored training. Moreover, 100% of people in senior management positions have received specialised anti-corruption training over the last two years. The program consists of various elements, with classroom training or e-learning as mandatory for all. The combination of methods implemented in each business unit depends on their risk profile, defined according to the geography where staff is located and the function they hold. Key features of the training program include: An example of a classroom training session.  The training includes a strong emphasis on laws and internal rules, as well as dilemma training specifically adapted to likely risks in the different locations. Case studies, role plays, and written exercises are developed for different locations and business units, to allow for practical group work focused on mitigating and handling risks the respective unit may face.  Training has been provided in 7 different languages, with separate class-room sessions conducted in wide range of different locations. At the end of this cycle of training approximately 2/3 of all staff have completed classroom training, with the remaining trained through e-learning.  A ‘cascading down’ approach has been also used for some locations, where middle management participated in ‘train the trainer’ sessions, before conducting dilemma training sessions with their teams.  Additional targeted training for key risk exposed groups is provided on a regular basis. This includes training for suppliers and agents, with a risk based approach. Regular communication and awareness raising efforts are made at different levels of the organisation and externally. This includes, but is not limited to the following: talks by senior management and compliance personnel, intranet and internet coverage, regular articles in the internal magazine, guidelines and tools published. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 33 Fraud and corruption In addition to established rules and procedures, a recent initiative includes a CFO fraud and corruption prevention project which focusses on ensuring that the CFO processes have prevention in CFO sufficient controls in place to prevent and detect fraud. Following a company-wide risk processes assessment and gap analysis, a set of improvement measures have been identified. This includes the proposal to establish a new Fraud Prevention System, to be managed by the unit that manages the system for Internal Control over Financial Reporting (ICFR system) and supports the financial reporting process with regards to correctness and timeliness. The objective of the new system is to prevent and detect fraud in CFO-processes, related to procurement, accounting, tax and treasury. In line with the ICFR system, the new Fraud prevention system will have a risk based approach and will be structured through an annual process involving regular risk assessment and continuous improvement of controls. The system will be implemented through several phases, with the initial phase focused on the high risk locations. The annual process of the Fraud Prevention Process. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 34 APPENDIX 35 Ambitions and goals for corporate responsibility towards 2020 36 Corporate Responsibility Statement 44 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 53 UN Global Compact Index 55 Auditor’s statement CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 35 Ambitions and goals for corporate responsibility material aspects All aspects of corporate responsibility are important for Statkraft. However, a materiality analysis was conducted in 2015 with the aim of identifying the most significant corporate responsibility aspects for Statkraft. The materiality analysis was conducted according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4) standards, including an assessment of stakeholders’ expectations. Six material aspects were identified as a result of this analysis. In terms of reporting, these material aspects are given a more detailed and comprehensive review than other aspects – see the full Corporate Responsibility Report posted on www.statkraft.com. Material aspect Ambition statement Goals towards 2020 Safety and Statkraft actively prevents  Ensure that managers at all levels provide safety leadership safeguarding of harm or injuries to people  Strengthen the focus on high risk activities and preventative measures people through a systematic approach and a value-based  Utilize a balance of leading and lagging indicators to measure and guide performance safety culture  Improve processes and capabilities for security management  Ensure that learnings from incidents are applied corporate wide Human rights Statkraft acts according to the  Follow developments related to increasing international and national expectations related to UN Guiding Principles on human rights management (human rights due diligence process) and improve our practices accordingly, starting by major and international projects Business and Human Rights  Ensure adequate implementation of training program on human rights  Strengthen and make better known our grievance mechanisms, including at project level  Strengthen stakeholder dialogue and communication, including on our salient human rights Water Statkraft is recognised as a  Ensure proactive and adequate handling and systematic follow-up of water levels, flowmanagement company with a responsible limits and hydropeaking requirements in our concessions and sustainable water  Demonstrate sustainable water management based on improved understanding of the management practice effects of climate change on water availability (e.g. scarcity and flood control) in all areas of operation Biodiversity Statkraft supports a  Enhanced tracking and communication of performance on systematic handling of precautionary approach to biodiversity, e.g. red-list species of flora and fauna, critical habitats and presence in legally biodiversity challenges, and protected areas facilitates ecological  Increased understanding of our impacts on biodiversity, and adequate handling in project resilience in our areas of development and operation impact Climate change Statkraft contributes to the  Further the understanding of the impact of national and international climate policies on our mitigation, transition to a more climate business and, as appropriate, provide Statkraft’s perspectives, including on carbon pricing, adaptation and friendly and sustainable to relevant stakeholders preparedness energy system and seeks  Improve our market and strategic analysis in order to incorporate climate change induced continuously to maintain a low changes climate footprint  Further common understanding how climate change affects all our assets and continue to evaluate new business opportunities accordingly, based on company-wide climate assumptions  Contribute to scientific methods for assessing the climate impact of our business Business ethics Statkraft actively prevents  All employees complete training in business ethics with focus on anti-corruption and anticorruption and unethical  Continue to strengthen the culture of reporting of concerns and breaches corruption practices in all business activities  Continue to ensure adequate corporate-wide handling of anti-corruption and business ethics risks, with particular focus on high risk processes  Improve the adequacy of how business ethics is reflected in requirements and controls for key business processes CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 36 Corporate Responsibility Statement Power generation and district heating production Installed capacity per technology and geography 1) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Installed capacity power generation MW 17 418 16 778 16 401 Of which hydropower MW 14 075 13 464 13 273 Of which small-scale hydropower 2) MW 0 0 147 Of which wind power MW 703 647 488 Of which gas power 3) MW 2 600 2 600 2 600 Of which bio power MW 40 67 40 Installed capacity, district heating MW 820 838 760 Installed capacity per geography, power generation MW 17 418 16 778 16 401 Norway MW 12 041 11 711 11 823 Other Nordic countries MW 1 606 1 587 1 511 Other European countries MW 2 971 2 863 2 761 Rest of the world MW 800 617 305 Installed capacity per geography, district heating MW 820 838 760 Norway MW 657 675 596 Other Nordic countries MW 164 164 164 Installed capacity per technology and geography 1) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Installed capacity per technology, power generation Hydropower % 80.8 80.2 80.9 Wind power % 4.0 3.9 3.0 Gas power 3) % 14.9 15.5 15.9 Bio power % 0.2 0.4 0.2 Installed capacity per geography, power generation Norway % 69.1 69.8 72.1 Other Nordic countries % 9.2 9.5 9.2 Other European countries % 17.1 17.1 16.8 Rest of the world % 4.6 3.7 1.9 Installed capacity per geography, district heating Norway % 80.1 80.5 78.4 Other Nordic countries % 19.9 19.5 21.6 Capacity under development per technology and geography 1), 4) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Capacity under development, power generation MW 729 909 1 262 Of which hydropower MW 207 5) 873 1 016 Of which small-scale hydropower 2) MW 0 0 13 Of which wind power MW 522 36 247 Capacity under development, district heating MW 0 21 23 Capacity under development per geography, power generation MW 729 909 1 262 Norway MW 545 100 158 Other Nordic countries MW 0 0 126 Other European countries MW 184 5) 809 859 Rest of the world MW 0 0 119 Capacity under development per geography, district heating MW 0 21 23 Norway MW 0 21 23 Other Nordic countries MW 0 0 0 Capacity under development per technology and geography 1), 4) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Capacity under development per technology, power generation Of which hydropower % 28,4 5) 96.0 80.5 Of which wind power % 71.6 4.0 19.6 Capacity under development per geography, power generation Norway % 74.8 11.0 12.5 Other Nordic countries % 0 0 10.0 Other European countries % 25,2 5) 89.0 68.1 Rest of the world % 0 0 9.4 Capacity under development per geography, district heating Norway % 100.0 100.0 Other Nordic countries % 0 0 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 37 Power generation and district heating production per technology and geography 1) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Power generation TWh 66.0 56.3 56.0 Of which hydropower TWh 61.2 53.1 53.4 Of which small-scale hydropower 2) TWh 0.0 0.4 0.3 Of which wind power TWh 2.3 2.5 1.7 Of which gas power 3) TWh 2.2 0.5 0.5 Of which bio power TWh 0.3 0.3 0.3 District heating TWh 1.1 1.1 1.0 Renewable power generation 6) % 96.7 99.1 99.1 Renewable district heating 6) % 91.8 94.7 83.6 Power generation per geography TWh 66.0 56.3 56.0 Norway TWh 52.8 44.4 46.4 Other Nordic countries TWh 6.1 7.2 5.6 Other European countries TWh 3.2 1.3 1.8 Rest of the world TWh 3.9 3.4 2.2 District heating per geography TWh 1.1 1.1 1.0 Norway TWh 0.9 0.8 0.8 Other Nordic countries TWh 0.2 0.2 0.2 Power generation and district heating production per technology and geography 1) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Power generationper technology Hydropower % 92.7 94.3 95.4 Wind power % 3.5 4.4 3.0 Gas power 3) % 3.3 0.9 0.9 Bio power % 0.5 0.5 0.5 Power generation per geography Norway % 80 78.9 82.9 Other Nordic countries % 9.2 12.9 10.0 Other European countries % 4.8 2.3 3.2 Rest of the world % 5.9 6.0 3.9 District heating per geography Norway % 81.8 80.1 79.5 Other Nordic countries % 18.2 19.9 20.5 1) Includes Statkraft’s shareholdings in subsidiaries where Statkraft has a majority interest. 2) Installed capacity <10 MW. 3) Includes the jointly controlled Herdecke (Germany) and Kårstø (Norway) power plants. 4) Includes projects with an investment decision. 5) The Cetin project is no longer included in the figures, as it is currently suspended. 6) Non-renewable production covers gas power and share of district heating based on fossil fuel. From 2015 the waste used in the incineration plant in Trondheim is defined as input for waste heat and therefore counted as renewable. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 38 Climate Greenhouse gas emissions Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Emissions of CO2 equivalents, consolidated activities 1) Tonnes 773 400 258 600 313 300 Of which from gas power plants Tonnes 722 700 188 800 197 300 Of which from district heating plants 2) Tonnes 24 900 13 000 64 000 Of which from SF6 emissions Tonnes 2 700 2 300 5 500 Of which from halon emissions Tonnes 1 000 0 0 Of which from fuel consumption 3) Tonnes 19 100 50 900 44 500 Of which from business travel 4) Tonnes 3 000 3 600 2 000 Emissions of CO2 equivalents 5) from affiliated gas power plants Tonnes 85 600 26 000 39 600 SF6 emissions kg 120 101 267 Halon emissions kg 140 0 0 1) Statkraft’s ownership is >50%. 2) Fossil share of emissions. From 2015 the waste used in the incineration plant in Trondheim is defined as input for waste heat and therefore counted as renewable with zero emissions of greenhouse gases. 3) CO from fuel consumption from the Group’s machinery and vehicles. 2 4) Comprises air travel and mileage reimbursements for private vehicle use in the Norwegian operations. 5) Statkraft’s share. Relative greenhouse gas emissions 1) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh generated, total kg/MWh 12 5 2) 6 CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh generated, gas power kg/MWh 367 408 473 CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh generated, district heating kg/MWh 23 12 2) 64 1) Includes Statkraft’s share of production and direct fossil CO emissions from the production process. Includes also Statkraft’s share of production and emissions of CO in the jointly 2 2 controlled power plants Herdecke (Germany) and Kårstø (Norway). 2) From 2015 the waste used in the incineration plant in Trondheim is defined as input for waste heat and therefore counted as renewable with zero emissions of greenhouse gases. Allocated CO2-quotas Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Allocated CO2-quotas, consolidated activities 1) Tonnes 42 400 49 800 59 700 Of which Norway Tonnes 21 100 23 600 26 200 Of which other Nordic countries Tonnes 21 300 26 200 33 500 1) Statkraft’s ownership is >50%. Interventions on nature and biodiversity Impacts on watercourses 1) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Impacted river courses with: Anadromous fish Number 46 46 46 Catadromous fish Number 5 5 2 Impacted national salmon rivers Number 13 13 12 Impacted protected rivers Number 8 8 8 1) Impact entails change of waterflow, water levels or other living conditions for fish. Fish cultivation Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Restocking of fish and smolt 1) Number 916 700 523 000 1 799 200 Of which in Norway Number 485 400 139 600 Of which in other Nordic countries Number 403 300 376 400 Of which in other European countries Number 28 000 7 000 Of which in the rest of the world Number 0 0 Stocking of fish roe 2) Number 471 800 1 080 000 936 400 1) Includes salmon, inland trout, sea trout, grayling and eel. 2) Includes salmon in Norway and eel in Sweden. Red list species (fauna) 1), 2) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 Red list species with habitat in areas impacted by Statkraft's operations in: Norway Number 33 2 3) Other Nordic countries Number 6 4) 6 4) Other European countries Number 2 0 Rest of the world Number 23 5) 61 1) This indicator was introduced in 2015. 2) Includes species defines as red list species by either International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) or national authorities. 3) Includes red list species with habitat areas impacted by Skagerak Energi's operations. 4) Includes red list species with habitat areas impacted by Power Generation's operations in Sweden. 5) Reduction from 2015 largely due to revised analysis of red list species impacted by Statkraft's operations. Operational sites in, or adjacent to, protected areas 1), 2) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 Operational sites in, or adjacent to, protected areas Number 21 19 Of which in Norway Number 16 14 Of which in other Nordic countries Number 4 4 Of which in other European countries Number 1 1 Of which in the rest of the world Number 0 0 1) This indicator was introduced in 2015. 2) Limited to natural parks and nature or wildelife reserves. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 39 Energy and resource consumption Consumption Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Electricity GWh 918 1 031 899 Of which pumped-storage power GWh 566 858 668 Of which electric boilers for district heating GWh 63 35 76 Of which other operations GWh 289 138 155 Fossil fuel Natural gas, gas-fired power plants Mill. Nm3 349 91 95 Fuel gas, district heating plants Tonnes 6 722 3 506 3 712 Fuel oil, district heating plants Tonnes 1 556 3 438 1 817 Engine fuel 1) Tonnes 6 039 14 502 13 223 Other fuel Waste for district heating plants Tonnes 219 400 227 700 205 400 Waste for bio power plants Tonnes 279 200 110 000 0 Bio fuel Tonnes 207 700 154 200 409 700 Process water 2) m3 1 466 800 349 100 350 000 1) Includes consumption of fuel for own equipment and machinery. 2) Includes cooling water in gas fired power plants, bio power plants and district heating plants. Waste Waste Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Hazardous waste Tonnes 17 000 18 900 19 400 Of which from waste incineration plants 1) Tonnes 6 800 6 600 6 600 Of which from bio power plants Tonnes 9 400 8 300 11 200 Of which other hazardous waste Tonnes 850 3 980 1 750 Other waste Tonnes 50 000 54 500 48 600 Of which separated waste Tonnes 48 600 52 500 46 600 Of which residual non-hazardous waste Tonnes 1 300 2 000 2 000 1) Consists of filter dust and filter cake. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 40 Environment Environmental assessment 1) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Environmental assessment result, total Rating B+ B+ B Environmental management Rating B B B Products and services Rating B B B Eco-efficiency Rating A A A1) Environmental assessement from the rating company Oekom Research AG. Rating from Eto A+ (highest), where rating Band above is considered as leading by Oekom Research. Environmental incidents Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Serious environmental incidents 1) Number 0 0 0 Less serious environmental incidents 2) Number 233 228 159 1) An incident that results in permanent or severe environmental damage (restitution time>1 year). 2) An incident that causes a negative environmental impact, but without permanent or severe environmental damage (restitution time<1 year). Most of the less serious environmental incidents in 2016 were related to short-term breaches of the concession terms for water management, and minor oil spills to water and land. The less serious environmental incidents also included situations where birds collided with wind turbines, resulting in 14 dead whitetailed eagles. Judicial sanctions, environment Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Material judicial sanctions for non-compliance with environmental legislation Number 0 0 0 Fines for non-compliance with environmental legislation NOK million 0 0 0 Contribution to society Value creation Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Gross operating revenues NOK million 50 987 53 094 52 254 Paid to suppliers for goods and services 1) NOK million 34 261 37 655 29 942 Gross value added NOK million 16 727 15 439 22 312 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment NOK million 8 260 6 401 4 071 Net value added NOK million 8 467 9 038 18 241 Financial income NOK million 380 421 859 Share of profit from associates NOK million 0 683 661 Minority interests NOK million -62 -598 684 Values for distibution NOK million 8 909 10 740 19 077 1) Includes energy purchases, transmission costs and operating expenses. Distribution of value created Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Employees Gross salaries and benefits NOK million 3 202 3 107 2 667 Lenders/owners Interest NOK million -1 757 5 740 7 143 Dividend 1) NOK million 0 1 604 5 600 Taxes 2) NOK million 7 581 3 665 6 059 The company Change in equity NOK million -117 -3 376 -2 392 Total wealth distributed NOK million 8 909 10 740 19 077 1) Includes dividend and Group contribution from Statkraft AS to Statkraft SF. 2) Includes taxes, property tax, licence fees and employers’ contribution. Taxes 1) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Total NOK million 4 764 2 825 3 546 Of which in Norway NOK million 4 366 2 390 2 959 Of which in other Nordic countries NOK million 8 100 165 Of which in other European countries NOK million 293 279 420 Of which in the rest of the world NOK million 97 56 3 1) Taxes payable in the balance sheet. Stability of electricity supply Power outage Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Power outage frequency (SAIFI) 1) for Skagerak Nett Index 1.14 1.50 1.75 Average power outage duration (SAIDI) 2) for Skagerak Nett Index 102.4 92.4 115.8 1) System average interruption frequency index (measured based on IEEE standard). 2) System average interruption duration index (measured based on IEEE standard). CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 41 Reported concerns (whistleblowing) Reported concerns (whistleblowing) 1) Unit of measurement 2016 Total number of reported concerns 2) Number 46 Of which related to business ethics and anti-corruption Number 23 Investigations initiated by Corporate Audit in the reporting year Number 4 1) The scope of the whistleblowing procedures relates to the full scope of Statkraft's Code of Conduct, e.g. human rights, environment, health and safety, business ethics and anti-corruption. 2) The format for this indicator was changed in 2016, but historical data related to whistleblowing is available and has been published in Statkraft's annual reports since 2008. When a reported concern is received, a risk assessment is done in order to decide how to follow up the concern. Most of the reported concerns are handled by the respective business areas according to Statkraft’s procedures for handling of reported concerns. Concerns with potentially high consequences for the Statkraft Group are handled by Corporate Audit. In cases where a formal investigation is required, this is the responsibility of the Head of Corporate Audit. The four investigations initiated in 2016 were related to business ethics or anti-corruption. Business ethics and anti-corruption Training on anti-corruption 1) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 Employees that have received training on anti-corruption in the last two years Percentage 100 92 Employees in senior management positions that have received training on antiPercentage 100 90 corruption in the last two years Statkraft's Board members that have received training on anti-corruption in the last Yes/No Yes two years 2) 1) This indicator was introduced in 2015 and covers the Group, excluding Skagerak Energi and Fjordkraft. 2) This indicator was introduced in 2016. Judicial sanctions, business ethics and anti-corruption 1) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Judicial sanctions Number 0 0 0 Fines NOK million 0 0 0 1) Material judicial sanctions for accounting fraud, price cooperation and corruption. Human rights Consultations with indigenous peoples 1) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 Number of projects with ongoing consultations involving rights of indigenous Number 10 2) 9 2) peoples 1) This indicator was introduced in 2015. 2) Including ongoing consultations in Norway, Sweden and Chile. Judicial sanctions, human rights 1) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Judicial sanctions Number 0 0 0 Fines NOK million 0 0 0 1) Material judicial sanctions for discrimination, forced labour, child labour or violations of the freedom of association, indigenous peoples rights or labour rights. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 42 Labour practices Employees Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Employees 31.12 Number 3 804 4 119 3 731 Of which in Norway Number 2 297 2 327 2 470 Of which in other Nordic countries Number 224 222 216 Of which in other European countries Number 732 725 663 Of which in the rest of the world Number 551 845 382 Full-time employees 31.12 % 96 97 97 Staff turnover rate 1) % 6.6 4.6 4.0 Service time Average service time Years 11.6 10.8 11.8 Average service time for employees resigned or dismissed 1) Years 9.7 6.6 11.4 Apprentices employed 31.12 Number 59 61 75 Trainees employed 31.12 Number 15 15 14 Nationalities represented among Statkraft's employees Number 43 44 45 1) Excluding retirements, and not including ENEX in Brazil (2016). Gender equality Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Percentage of women Total % 25 23 24 In Norway % 27 26 25 In other Nordic countries % 20 20 20 In other European countries % 24 25 24 In the rest of the world % 19 14 16 In management positions % 22 23 22 In Norway % 25 26 24 In other Nordic countries % 12 15 12 In other European countries % 19 20 21 In the rest of the world % 18 17 16 In Corporate Management % 29 29 14 In Statkraft's Board of Directors % 44 50 44 Among employees recruited in the reporting year % 24 26 25 Among managers recruited in the reporting year % 19 16 14 Among full-time employees % 23 22 23 Among part-time employees % 70 55 57 Equal salary Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Salary ratio among employees 1) Ratio 0.90 0.97 0.90 In Norway Ratio 0.93 0.96 0.93 In other Nordic countries Ratio 0.96 1.05 0.98 In other European countries Ratio 0.76 0.85 0.70 In the rest of the world Ratio 0.94 1.07 1,02 Salary ratio among managers 1) Ratio 0.90 0.91 0.90 In Norway Ratio 0.97 0.96 0.94 In other Nordic countries Ratio 0.84 0.91 0.70 In other European countries Ratio 0.73 0.77 0.74 In the rest of the world Ratio 0.93 0.89 1.15 1) Average salary for women in relation to average salary for men. Statkraft as employer Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Organisation and leadership evaluation 1) Result Scale 0-100 2) 73 74 Response rate % 2) 88 87 Employees who have completed the performance and career development review % 81 88 Ranking as preferred employer 3) among Business students Ranking 60 53 48 Technology students Ranking 6 7 7 Business professionals Ranking 31 37 28 Technology professionals Ranking 6 8 18 1) From Statkraft’s internal annual organisation and leadership evaluation survey. Statkraft’s score can be compared with the European Employee Index Norway 2015 result of 70. 2) Evaluation postponed to 2017. 3) Ranking among final-year students and professionals, as defined and measured in the annual Universum Graduate Survey for Norway and the Universum Professional Survey for Norway. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 43 Health and safety Fatalities Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Consolidated operations 1) Employees Number 0 0 0 Contractors Number 1 0 3 Third party Number 0 0 0 Associates 2) Employees Number 0 0 0 Contractors Number 0 0 1 Third party Number 0 0 0 1) Activities where Statkraft has > 50% ownership. 2) Activities where Statkraft has 20 50% ownership The fatal accident in 2016 occurred in the La Oroya hydropower plant in Peru. La Oroya is 100% owned by Statkraft IH Invest AS, where Statkraft holds an ownership of 81.9%. Serious injuries 1), 2) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 Injuries with serious consequences Number 5 6 1) Includes activities where Statkraft has ≥ 20% ownership. 2) This indicator was introduced in 2015. Serious incidents and hazardous conditions 1), 2) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 Accidents with, or with potential for, serious consequences Number 19 12 Near-accidents with potential for serious consequences Number 21 27 Hazardous conditions with potential for serious consequences Number 27 22 1) Includes activities where Statkraft has ≥ 20% ownership. 2) This indicator was introduced in 2015. Injuries 1) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Employees Lost-time injuries (LTI) 2) Number 19 41 43 Lost-time injuries per million hours worked LTI rate 1.6 3.3 3.0 Total recordable injuries (TRI) 3) Number 71 70 80 Total recordable injuries per million hours worked TRI rate 5.6 5.6 5.6 Lost days 4) Number 491 781 566 Lost days per million hours worked Lost-days rate 40 63 39 Contractors Lost-time injuries (LTI) 2) Number 61 63 63 Lost-time injuries per million hours worked LTI rate 4.5 3.6 3.7 Total recordable injuries (TRI) 3) Number 57 106 90 Total recordable injuries per million hours worked TRI rate 4.2 6.0 5.4 Third parties Injuries 5) Number 0 0 2 Statkraft, total Lost-time injuries per million hours worked LTI rate 3.1 3.5 3.4 Total recordable injuries per million hours worked TRI rate 4.9 5.9 5.5 1) Includes activities where Statkraft has ≥ 20% ownership. 2) Work-related injuries which have resulted in absence extending beyond the day of the injury. 3) Work-related injuries, with and without absence. Includes injuries which resulted in absence, medical treatment or need for alternative work assignments. 4) Number of days of recorded absence due to work-related injuries. 5) Recorded injuries requiring treatment by a doctor. Sick leave 1) Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Sick leave, total % 3.0 3.0 2.8 Of which short-term absence (16 days or less) % 1.5 1.4 1.3 Of which long-term absence (more than 16 days) % 1.5 1.6 1.5 1) Sick leave due to illness or injuries, as percentage of normal working hours. Judicial sanctions, health and safety Unit of measurement 2016 2015 2014 Material judicial sanctions for non-compliance with health and safety legislation Number 0 0 0 Fines for non-compliance with health and safety legislation NOK milion 0 0 0 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 44 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) About GRI Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an independent organisation which, since it was established in 1997, has worked to establish a more standardised format for reporting on corporate responsibility issues and sustainability development. From 2009 guidelines tailor-made for the electric utility sector (Electric Utilities Sector Supplement) have been available. GRI G4 defines ten reporting principles. Four of these deal with identifying the scope and content of the report, while the other six address the quality of the presented information. GRI G4 covers both general and industry-specific indicators for enterprise profile, economy, environment, working conditions, human rights, corporate citizenship and product responsibility. For all material aspects, companies must describe the governance, measures and performance. Companies can choose between two reporting levels Core or Comprehensive. Statkraft’s Statkraft’s corporate responsibility reporting is based on GRI’s sector specific guidelines, described in supplement G4 Sector Disclosures Electric Utilities, and the reporting level is GRI Index Core. Statkraft has engaged Deloitte AS to conduct a review to provide a limited level of assurance on Statkraft’s corporate responsibility reporting. The review is based on the assurance standard ISAE 3000, and auditor’s conclusion is presented in the Auditor’s report. Explanations for the GRI index Reported = The indicator is reported. Partly = The indicator is reported partly. EU = Specific indicator for the energy utilities sector. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Letter from the CEO G4-1 Statement from the CEO Reported Report from the Board of Directors ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS G4-3 Name of the organization Statkraft AS Reported Statkraft in fact and figures G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services Reported Report from the Board of Directors G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters Oslo, Norway Reported G4-6 Countries in which the organization’s operations are located Statkraft in fact and figures Reported G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form State-owned limited company Reported Statkraft in fact and figures G4-8 Markets served Reported Report from the Board of Directors Financial key figures Scale of the reporting organization (employees, operations, net sales G4-9 Non-financial key figures Reported etc.) Statkraft in fact and figures CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 45 Scale of the reporting organization (employees by contract and G4-10 CR statement: Labour practices Reported gender, region etc.) Scale of the reporting organization (employees covered by collective Report from the Board of Directors G4-11 Partly bargaining agreements) Human rights and labour rights G4-12 The organization’s supply chain Corporate responsibility in Statkraft Reported Report from the Board of Directors G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Note 5: Business combinations and Reported other transactions Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or G4-14 Corporate responsibility in Statkraft Reported principle is addressed Externally developed sustainability related charters, principles, or Corporate governance G4-15 Reported other initiatives endorsed Corporate responsibility in Statkraft Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy G4-16 Corporate responsibility in Statkraft Reported organizations CR statement: Power generation G4-EU1 Installed capacity Reported and district heating production CR statement: Power generation G4-EU2 Net energy output Reported and district heating production See customer related information under: www.statkraft.com G4-EU3 Number of different customer accounts Partly www.skagerakenergi.no www.fjordkraft.no www.statkraftvarme.no Assessed as not material indicator G4-EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines at group level. G4-EU5 Allocation of CO2 emissions allowances or equivalent CR statement: Climate Reported IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS G4-17 Operational structure of the organization Activities: Organisation Reported Process for defining report content – Process for defining report About Statkraft’s CR report G4-18 Reported content Corporate responsibility in Statkraft About Statkraft’s CR report G4-19 Process for defining report content – material aspects Reported Corporate responsibility in Statkraft About Statkraft’s CR report G4-20 Boundary of the report – within the organization Reported Corporate responsibility in Statkraft About Statkraft’s CR report G4-21 Boundary of the report – outside the organization Reported Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information Corporate responsibility statement Reported G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Corporate responsibility statement Reported CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 46 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders engaged Report from the Board of Directors Reported Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement REPORT PROFILE REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS G4-28 Reporting period 2016 Reported G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Annual report 2015 Reported G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual Reported G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report info@statkraft.com Reported “In accordance” option, GRI content index, and reference to the G4-32 External Assurance Report Auditor’s statement Reported Statkraft’s GRI index Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external G4-33 assurance GOVERNANCE REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS G4-34 Governance structure of the organization Corporate governance Reported ETHICS AND INTEGRITY REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Report from the Board of Directors Values, principles, standards and norms, such as codes of conduct G4-56 Corporate Governance Reported and codes of ethics Corporate responsibility in Statkraft SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMIC ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Report from the Board of Directors G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Corporate governance Activities: Risk management CR statement: Contribution to G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Reported society Report from the Board of Directors Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the G4-EC2 Risk management Reported organization’s activities due to climate change Environment and climate G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Note 16: Pensions Reported CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 47 ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Corporate responsibility in Statkraft Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services G4-EC7 Human rights and labour rights Partly supported G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Human rights and labour rights Partly EU SECTOR SPECIFIC ASPECT: RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Report from the Board of Directors G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Environment and climate CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECT: ENERGY REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Environment and climate Environment and climate G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization CR statement: Energy and Reported resource consumption ASPECT: WATER REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Environment and climate CR statement: Energy and G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Partly resource consumption Environment and climate G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water CR statement: Interventions on Reported nature and biodiversity ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Environment and climate Operational sites in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of CR statement: Interventions on G4-EN11 Reported high biodiversity value outside protected areas nature and biodiversity Description of significant impacts on biodiversity in protected areas CR statement: Interventions on G4-EN12 Reported and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas nature and biodiversity Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list CR statement: Interventions on G4-EN14 Reported species with habitats in areas affected by operations nature and biodiversity CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 48 ASPECT: EMISSIONS REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Environment and climate Environment and climate G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Reported CR statement: Climate Environment and climate G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Reported CR statement: Climate Environment and climate G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Reported CR statement: Climate ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Environment and climate G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method CR statement: Waste Reported G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills CR statement: Environment Reported ASPECT: COMPLIANCE REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Environment and climate Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and G4-EN29 CR statement: Environment Reported regulations ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Corporate responsibility in Statkraft Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-EN32 Corporate responsibility in Statkraft Partly environmental criteria ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Human rights and labour rights Environment and climate G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts Human rights and labour rights Partly CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Health, safety and security Human rights and labour rights G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover CR statement: Labour practices Reported Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that has G4-EU17 Health, safety and security Partly undergone relevant health and safety training CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 49 ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Health, safety and security Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Health, safety and security G4-LA5 Partly management-worker heath and safety committees Human rights and labour rights Fatalities, injuries and occupational diseases, lost days, and Health, safety and security G4-LA6 Reported absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities CR statement: Health and safety ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Health, safety and security Human rights and labour rights G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Human rights and labour rights Partly Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career G4-LA11 CR statement: Labour practices Reported development reviews ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Report from the Board of Directors G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Human rights and labour rights Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per G4-LA12 CR statement: Labour practices Reported employee category according to indicators of diversity ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Report from the Board of Directors G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Human rights and labour rights G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men CR statement: Labour practices Reported ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Corporate responsibility in Statkraft Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor G4-LA14 Corporate responsibility in Statkraft Partly practices criteria SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS ASPECT: INVESTMENT REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Human rights and labour rights Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-HR1 and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent Partly Human rights and labour rights human rights screening CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 50 ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Human rights and labour rights Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-HR4 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or Partly Human rights and labour rights at significant risk ASPECT: CHILD LABOUR REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Human rights and labour rights Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-HR5 Partly incidents of child labour Human rights and labour rights ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Human rights and labour rights Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-HR6 Partly incidents of forced or compulsory labour Human rights and labour rights ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Human rights and labour rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous Human rights and labour rights G4-HR8 Reported peoples and actions taken CR statement: Human rights ASPECT: ASSESSMENT REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Human rights and labour rights Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-HR9 Partly to human rights reviews or impact assessments Human rights and labour rights ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Human rights and labour rights Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-HR10 Partly criteria Human rights and labour rights ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Human rights and labour rights Human rights and labour rights G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts Reported CR statement: Human rights CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 51 SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Human rights and labour rights Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 Human rights and labour rights Partly engagement, impact assessments and development programs Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-SO2 Partly local communities Human rights and labour rights Number of people physically or economically displaced and G4-EU22 Human rights and labour rights Partly compensation, broken down by type of project ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Business ethics and anti-corruption Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks G4-SO3 Business ethics and anti-corruption Reported related to corruption and the significant risks identified Business ethics and anti-corruption Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and G4-SO4 CR statement: Business ethics and Reported procedures anti-corruption Business ethics and anti-corruption G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken CR statement: Business ethics and Reported anti-corruption ASPECT: COMPLIANCE REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Business ethics and anti-corruption Human rights and labour rights CR statement: Business ethics and Significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for G4-SO8 anti-corruption Reported non-compliance with laws and regulations CR statement: Human rights ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Human rights and labour rights G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society Human rights and labour rights Partly EU SECTOR SPECIFIC ASPECT: DISASTER/EMERGENCY PLANNING AND REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS RESPONSE Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Health, safety and security CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 52 SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Corporate responsibility in Statkraft G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Health, safety and security G4-EU25 Injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets CR statement: Health and safety Reported EU SECTOR SPECIFIC ASPECT: ACCESS REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Report from the Board of Directors G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Corporate responsibility in Statkraft CR statement: Stability of G4-EU28 Power outage frequency Reported electricity supply CR statement: Stability of G4-EU29 Average outage duration Reported electricity supply CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 53 UN Global Compact About Global Compact is a UN initiative which encourages businesses to commit to sustainable development and to promote activities and partnerships that contribute to meeting the UN’s Global Compact goal of sustainable development. Global Compact comprises ten fundamental principles relating to human rights, labour rights, protection of the environment and combating corruption. Companies that endorse Global Compact commit to support and respect the principles and report their performance in the various areas annually. In 2011, Global Compact introduced a scheme where all members are classified in three categories; Learning Platform, Active Level and Advanced Level. Statkraft’s Global Statkraft has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2010. We believe that the Global Compact’s principles are integrated into Statkraft’s strategy and daily operations, and Compact Index that the company’s corporate responsibility reporting satisfies the requirements to the category Active Level. In the table below, references are given to Statkraft’s reporting on Global Compact’s principles. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE Business should support and respect the Report from the Board of Directors 1 protection of internationally proclaimed human Corporate responsibility in Statkraft rights within their sphere of influence, and Human rights and labour rights make sure that they are not complicit in human Corporate responsibility in Statkraft 2 rights abuses. Human rights and labour rights LABOUR PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE Business should uphold the freedom association Corporate responsibility in Statkraft 3 and the effective recognition of the right to Human rights and labour rights collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and Corporate responsibility in Statkraft 4 compulsory labour, Human rights and labour rights Corporate responsibility in Statkraft 5 the effective abolition of child labour, and Human rights and labour rights the elimination of discrimination in respect of Corporate responsibility in Statkraft 6 employment and occupation. Human rights and labour rights CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 54 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE Report from the Board of Directors Business should support a precautionary approach 7 Corporate responsibility in Statkraft to environmental challenges, Environment and climate undertake initiatives to promote greater Corporate responsibility in Statkraft 8 environmental responsibility, and Environment and climate encourage the development and diffusion of Corporate responsibility in Statkraft 9 environmental friendly technologies. Environment and climate ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE Report from the Board of Directors Business should work against all forms of 10 Corporate responsibility in Statkraft corruption, including extortion and bribery. Business ethics and anti-corruption CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 55 Auditor’s Statement Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Statkraft AS Statkraft AS PO Box 200 Lilleaker NO-0216 Oslo Tel: +47 24 06 70 00 Fax: +47 24 06 70 01 Visiting address: Lilleakerveien 6 Organisation no: Statkraft AS: 987 059 699 www.statkraft.com
