Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 1/44 Table of Contents CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED COMMITMENT 3 E3 – HAGER GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 4 01 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 6 02 LABOUR – PRINCIPLES 22 03 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES 24 04 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 38 05 Selected examples of social activities within Hager Group 39 Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2/44 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED COMMITMENT Blieskastel, June 2017 Markets, technological standards and customers’ needs are changing faster than ever before, therefore, the highly soughtafter ‘windows of opportunity’ for establishing innovative solutions that are ethical, environmentally-friendly and lower in energy consumption, open and close at breath-taking speed. If we are good, fast and ahead in the field we can play a more active part in shaping sustainable progress than ever before. On the other hand, there is also considerable risk: anyone who Tomorrow, next year, ten years’ time… misses important developments and rests What will the future bring? Nobody knows. on their laurels will find the march of time Yet at Hager Group we have chosen to leaving them behind even faster and more anticipate the future by calculating risks mercilessly than in the past. Never before and seizing our opportunities proactively. has innovation been so important to drive a For example, our company projects have a cleaner, greener and brighter future. longer-term approach, they are based on five years of commitment – our current one We follow the guidance provided by the is Project 2020. We invest in our ISO 26000 standard to integrate social employees and their training, in energy responsibility into our organisation. With efficiency and future technologies, in fair E3, our approach for sustainable trade relations and we work actively to development, we act ethically, caring for continuously improve our eco-balance people, and we respect the environment by sheet. Maybe we are giving up more profit taking into account our planet’s limited in the short term, but we are convinced that resources in our business activities, this is the way to achieve sustainable offering our customers energy-efficient success for the future. solutions. Indeed, at Hager Group our ambition is to In April 2007, over ten years ago now, we grow in the long term rather than signed up to the United Nations Global maximising profits in the short term. Compact, the voluntary business initiative Making money is, of course, something supervised by the United Nations to foster that we have to and want to do, but what Corporate Social Responsibility. With this counts is how we go about it. We want to document we renew our commitment and do things properly for the right reasons by contribution as a committed signatory. adopting an ethical approach when interacting with employees, partners and suppliers, and by continuously reducing our ecological footprint and developing more energy-efficient solutions for our customers. Daniel Hager, CEO Hager Group Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 3/44 HAGER GROUP, CONTINUED COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY… … because, our values are not negotiable, … we believe in respecting people and our environment, … Corporate Social Responsibility is more than just words. E3 – HAGER GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH “As a family-owned company it is in our nature to be sustainable.” With increasing globalisation and professional development and to promote diminishing natural resources, we must ethical behaviour with all our stakeholders. consider the consequences of our actions. The need for greater corporate E for Environment: we aim to make our responsibility and shaping a sustainable environmental footprint as neutral as future is increasing. At Hager Group, we possible for the planet by optimising the want to move forward in such a way that use of energies and resources, avoiding we leave a clean bill of health for future hazardous substances, and limiting generations. We have translated this vision emissions and waste. of sustainable development into a structured approach that we called E3. E for Energy: we offer value to people and their assets through safe, smart, ecoE for Ethics: we strive to offer our friendly and energy-efficient products, employees a safe and secure working solutions and services for both their living environment, equal opportunities of and working environments. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 4/44 E3 is a firmly established approach at Hager Group, it is easily accessible to employees, customers and suppliers alike In a video our Head of Sustainable Development, Denis Munch, (right) outlines the principles of our E3 approach. French with English subtitles French French with German subtitles For more information concerning our commitment to employees all over the world, please consult page 77 of our latest Hager Group Annual Report. In our current company project, Project 2020, our sustainability strategy has eight transverse challenges & eight key process indicators and objectives. The success of the sustainability strategy requires the involvement of every site, every function, every employee. Our 8 challenges Ethics: > Assessment, policy and goals: improve health and safety at the workplace > Implementation: reduce number of work and commuting injuries (with stoppage) per 1000 employees (temporary workers included) > Measurement of outcomes: 20% > Assessment, policy and goals: foster skills and talents > Implementation: 95% of people in scope of a Personal Development Interview have one validated individual appraisal review per year > Measurement of outcomes: 20% > Assessment, policy and goals: Increase gender diversity in key positions > Implementation: increase % of women in management positions > Measurement of outcomes: + 15% > Assessment, policy and goals: strengthen ethical behaviours in business > Implementation: 80% of managers qualified (trained and skills validated) in ethical management > Measurement of outcomes: 80% Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 5/44 Environment: > Assessment, policy and goals: Optimise on-site energy consumption > Implementation: decrease on-site energy consumption in kWh / million € TO > Measurement of outcomes: -10% > Assessment, policy and goals: Reduce CO2 emissions related to freight > Implementation: kg of CO2e emitted related to inter-sites and OTD-sales freight/million € TO > Measurement of outcomes: -10% Energy: > Assessment, policy and goals: Strengthen eco-design of products > Implementation: % of eco-designed products amongst the innovative projects > Measurement of outcomes: 80% > Assessment, policy and goals: Increase sales of energy efficiency devoted solutions > Implementation: Turn Over achieved with solutions enabling energy measurement, energy savings, energy storage or devoted to renewable energies > Measurement of outcomes: +100% “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 6/44 01 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses We at Hager Group support and respect 31% on average over 7 years specifically human rights through our daily activities by for 2016, the reduction was 16.7%. providing safe and healthy working We expect a great deal from our conditions and by ensuring nonemployees, however we also make every discrimination in personnel practices. effort to encourage them and develop their For example, from 2009 to end 2016, abilities in a favourable balanced working occupational safety actions have been put environment. Every Hager Group in place to promote safety group wide. The employee currently completes 14 hours of LTIFI indicator (lost time injury frequency professional training per year on average, index), shows our actions have resulted in therefore increasing collective knowledge the number of work accidents and travel to, and skills for all to enjoy the benefits. per 1,000 employees, being reduced by > Assessment, policy and goals: Diversity Diversity (n. f. Latin: diversitas, atis): Since our beginnings, we quickly character which is varied, diverse. Applied established ourselves in different local to companies, is the variety of human regions and abroad, seeking to capitalise profiles that may exist within (country of on this asset. “Beyond a humanistic origin, region, neighbourhood, patronymic, approach, we believe that diversity is culture, age, gender, physical appearance, essential for us to be successful in our disability, sexual orientation, qualifications, various markets. Proper management of etc. ...). This definition highlights a reality diversity at all levels of our organisation today: every company is faced with and in cooperation with our partner diversity and the challenges it represents. networks is now more than ever a genuine Hager Group has chosen to encourage lever to support our business,” explains diversity by seeing it as an advantage. Daniel Hager, Hager Group CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 7/44 > Implementation: We are operating in a global, multicultural, achieve success diversity is approached multigenerational & diverse world; to from four different angles in all we do. Multicultural approach We work in an increasingly international environment with colleagues from all over the world. Transversal projects and processes throughout the group necessitate a better understanding of cultural and linguistic differences. To facilitate our work numerous training sessions are in place to help us better understand and work efficiently with our colleagues from all around the world. Gender Balance 41% of our working population is female and 59% male, 15.9% of managers are female (project mgr, dept. mgr, senior mgr, directors). When appointing new colleagues, HR asses female and male candidates, however, we maintain a sensible and pragmatic approach. Our business approach on gender equality is to allow women to grow and access positions. Disability For Hager Group, disability is not considered as inability, but rather a different kind of ability. For 2016 there were 232 colleagues in France registered within RQTH (Reconnaissance en Qualité de Travailleur Handicapé). Inter-generational approach We act fairly in working relationships between colleagues, be they young trainees, employees with few or many years’ experience and seniors. This approach aims to bring employees together in purposeful, mutually beneficial work to promote greater understanding and respect between generations and contributes to the growth of the company. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 8/44 Corporate Social Responsibility CSR & community activities > Assessment, policy and goals: Corporate Social Responsibility is an Multinational Enterprises. We ensure that integral part of how we conduct our our suppliers and partners respect a business at Hager Group, make decisions number of rules on human rights and and set our priorities. Our corporate social labour law. That is how we aim for a responsibility approach is based on the 30 balanced and safe competitive articles of the United Nations Charter of environment and broad international Human Rights, the standards of the diversity. This approach not only increases International Labour Organisation and the the motivation of our employees, but also Organisation for Economic Co-operation the loyalty of our customers and our and Development Guidelines for partners, at home and abroad. > Measurement of outcomes: France Achieving a good work-life balance private and professional lives. The arrival of a new baby is a happy event, it entails a great deal of change and requires a lot of organisation. One of the main concerns new parents have is finding high-quality, safe, affordable childcare that also meets their requirements in terms of work and family life; with this in mind, reserved daycare places for the children of employees near our sites in France are provided. The wellbeing of staff has always been a As well as being close to the Hager Group key priority at Hager Group, as such, daysites, these nurseries charge attractive care places for employees’ children are rates, thus making them a practical and offered. One of the objectives of the Care economic option. In total, 232 of our Management scheme is to help employees employees benefit from this service. strike the right balance between their Toy collection in Bischwiller To give a new lease of life and benefit those less fortunate, in December 2016 employees at the site in Bischwiller, were able to drop off toys and games that their children no longer play with. During a threeweek period more than 200 items were collected and donated to the Sonnenhof foundation. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 9/44 Hacking Industry Camp Hager Group supported Hacking Industry Camp #HICamp & Alsace Digitale at the Hackathon weekend in Strasbourg, France from 14th to 16th October 2016. During this weekend, Hager Group challenged programmers to develop the app of the future at the Hacking Industry Camp. Handicap Awareness Day For International Handicap day on 2nd Dyspraxia, Dysphasia, Dysgraphia and December 2016, in four of the French sites Dyscalculia. At all sites, a collection was initiatives were carried out to make made to recycle toys for children and at colleagues aware of different handicaps in Crolles cakes were sold to raise money for the workplace. For example, in Obernai the association AFIP that assists with DYS workshops and conference were held professional reinsertion. providing information about Dyslexia, Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10/44 Young Talents Day On 30th March 2017, Hager Group opened innovation within the group and also served the doors of its Obernai site in Alsace to as a forum for the discussion of topics such students from various schools of as work-life balance, in-house career engineering in the region. More than 100 advancement prospects and diversity with participants took part in the fourth Young employees. In addition to this, ‘Speed Talents Day and, in numerous workshop Recruiting’ interviews with members of the sessions, and were given an opportunity to Human Resources team were organised at discover more about the group and the intervals throughout the day to provide the possible career options open to them. The students with information regarding career event is a part of the group’s diversity prospects within Hager Group. approach, the aim of which is to interest Franck Houdebert, young graduates in Hager Group, and also Chief Human promote and foster a mixture of Resources Officer nationalities and generations. commented, “…Young Talents The engineering schools taking part this Day pursues longyear included ECAM, INSA and Télécom term objectives. Physique from Strasbourg, the ESTA and We want to UTBM from Belfort and, for the first time, increase the ENSISA from Mulhouse. awareness of our company, our values and the opportunities we can offer. We also Each of the six themed workshops on the want to inspire interest in different career agenda gave the participants an paths and their evolution within industry. opportunity to learn more about product The challenges we rise to create our future solutions, production processes and successes.” Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 11/44 Hager Forum instils a positive attitude! June 2016, as part of European A total of 160 people took part in the Sustainable Development Week, Hager events. They included a presentation by Forum organised ‘Positive Impact Week’; a the company Parkeon about harnessing series of different events to help sustainable development for innovation, a employees find specific ways to take participative workshop about E3, a disco positive action and make a difference. A soup party, a brown bag lunch on the topic series of lunchtime sessions that of the circular economy with a presentation approached the topic of positive action by the company Ricoh and a community from different angles were held. Some of gardening session to create shared the sessions were business-oriented; gardens with consumables at Hager others were more informal; they included Forum. participative workshops and lectures featuring internal and external speakers. Warm-ups at the factory in Saverne At the factory in Saverne, before they enter ease muscles in gently and the therefore their shifts, teams systematically have a potentially reducing the risk of Repetitive five-minute warm-up session at their work Strain Injury. In 2016, all production staff stations. The aim of these exercises is to were trained in the techniques of warm-up. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 12/44 Healthy Hearts Day (Journées du Cœur) & blood donations three of the French sites are based. It is important to inform employees of the risks involved – prevention being better than cure. The four sessions consisted of making employees aware of diabetes, high blood pressure and obesity. Advice was also given on food hygiene, how to stop In November 2016 the health service in smoking and integrate physical activity into Obernai organised with the Healthy Hearts daily life. There was also conference about association in Obernai (Réseau Cardio well-being & relaxation. Prévention d’Obernai) four information On 6th March 2017 colleagues in Obernai sessions for healthy hearts awareness. had the oppourtunity to donate their blood, Cardio vascular disease causes incapacity as every year the National Association of and premature death and is one of the Blood donors set up on site. 65 colleagues major causes of death in Alsace where participated. Hager Group cooperates with universities in the field of engineering Hager Group has been cooperating with Susan Trulson, Human Resources various universities in the field of manager responsible for the Engineering engineering and machine-building for a division at Hager Group pointed out that, number of years already. In September “…partnerships with 2016, the Research and Development universities department welcomed a new colleague, encourage innovation Umesh Kumar. He arrived in the company and offer us very through a partnership with ENSISA good opportunities as (specialised University for Engineering in an employer to Alsace) in Mulhouse. Umesh got the establish contact with opportunity to acquire practical experience excellently educated and Hager Group in turn benefited from his students. As an extensive technical knowledge and his internationally operating family company, expertise in the field of electromagnetism. we are delighted that we were able to After completing his internship, Umesh was attract Mr. Kumar.” offered a permanent position as an engineer in the Research and For more details, click here. Development department. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 13/44 France and Germany SOS Villages – 2 events On 20th October 2016 80 youngsters aged close to our hearts; as such we support 3 to 18 from SOS Villages in Obernai, SOS Children's Villages International. The France and Merzig and Eisenberg in Villages offer these youngsters a family Germany were treated to a day and a half environment and the opportunity to have a at Europa Park in Rust, Germany. After better life,” explained Daniel Hager. dinner and a night in teepees at the park’s The Mack family, founders and owners of Camp Resort, they headed for Europa Europa Park, also wanted to support this Park’s attractions. This charitable initiative initiative by providing tickets for the was launched in 2011 at Hager Group children from SOS Children's Villages. Symposium. “Since we are a family company, the notion of family and the For more details, click here. social roots it represents is particularly On 11th April 2017, more than 80 children elephants, all spread out over the 18 between the ages of 3 and 19 and their hectare park. There were shows, including carers left their respective SOS Children’s one that is unique worldwide: TigerWorld, Villages of Obernai, Merzig and Eisenberg, with eight Bengal tigers and their trainer. and headed to the zoo in Amnéville. The Chocolate Easter bunnies were given in programme was action packed and full of anticipation of Easter and to add an excitement; participants discovered the 360 educational moment, the children did a species residing in the zoo, from parrots to quiz enabling them to further their seals, gorillas to giraffes, tigers to African knowledge. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 14/44 Germany Ambient Assisted Living added comfort for patients and staff in hospitals patients can rely on a special service; some of the hospitals’ rooms are fitted with the disorientation protection system my.connect, produced by a Hager subsidiary Locate Solution. Two further buildings at the Klinikum Westfalen hospital will be equipped with AAL technology, and it will later be rolled out to other locations. Stephan Kreutzer, former Head of Business Development Many patients require nursing care when AAL at Hager Group states that they least expect it, more predictable is that “…intelligent AAL technologies are not in the future an increasing number of about using more people will be reliant on care, and many of equipment; they are them will also suffer from dementia; about providing forward-thinking hospitals are already more personal care making provisions. For example, the and individual healthcare organisation Vest-Klinikverbund support. This is in North Rhine-Westphalia is currently exactly what equipping its newly built and renovated patients and staff need.” Instead of always hospitals with AAL (Ambient Assisted being busy with supervisory tasks, staff can Living) technologies by Hager. AAL spend more time caring for the patients solutions help nursing staff by allowing and tending to their actual needs. them to focus more on their actual job. At some of the organisation’s hospitals For more details, click here. Ambient Assisted Living – helping to grow old (more gracefully) whereby the boundaries between the residential and functional building segments are becoming noticeably blurred. In general terms, the trend is shifting from inpatient care to semi-outpatient or outpatient care. Private institutions and charities are hardly building any segregated in-patient nursing homes any more, but mostly ‘combination projects’ with attached assisted living facilities. Stephan Kreutzer comments that, Hager Group is specifically working on “…intelligent everyday helpers still seem a creating AAL solutions that can connect long way off, however they can make the with every smart home; solutions designed lives of older and care-dependent people to help mobility-impaired or carenoticeably easier. All we need to do is help dependent people and avoid them from make a breakthrough; it will happen soon.” having to be cared for in a home or hospital. Hager Group is accommodating For more details, please consult pages 20 the trend in the AAL business area to 22 of our 2016 Annual Report. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 15/44 Hager Group Training Day in Blieskastel and Heltersberg Training Open Days were held at both truck. Covering floor space of 80m² and Blieskastel and Heltersberg under the spanning two floors, the info truck provided theme of ‘hands-on training’. The event both career guidance with the help of saw our trainees, students and instructors multimedia applications, and also came showcasing a broad range of informative equipped with clearly designed activities on everything to do with our experimentation stations to give training centres. 150 visitors came along to participants an opportunity to fully grasp find out more about the variety of training and experience the fascinating world of opportunities and jobs on offer in the metal technology. (M) and electrical (E) industries. And the perfect place to do it was in the M+E info For more details, click here. Lange Nacht der Industrie (Long Night of Industry) On 6th October 2016, Lange Nacht der Foundation, participants then went on a Industrie, organised by the Saarland factory tour. Jörg Sick, Head of Human Chamber of Industry and Commerce (IHK) Resources, commented that …the Long and the AGV ME Saar took place. The Night of Industry is a chance for us to event is a yearly opportunity to see behind showcase our company and inform young the scenes; companies open their doors to people, young professionals or employees school children and students as well as job looking to make a career change about and training seekers. Hager Group Hager Group. In particular, the participants welcomed two groups of 50 guests. The can network with our on-site trainers and evening kicked off with a company students.” presentation speech by Oswald Bubel, deputy chairman of Peter und Luise Hager For more details, click here. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 16/44 Heltersberg 70th anniversary celebration In July 2016 Hager Group in Heltersberg engraving, Heltersberg fire brigade offering invited Tehalit GmbH employees and their the opportunity to see the entire site from families to a family celebration to mark its the top of a turntable ladder were just some 70th anniversary; around 80 helpers from if the day’s events. local clubs and associations were involved in arranging the programme. Production For more details, click here. open for visitors, works shops for Greece Hager Hellas is proud supporter of Aristurtle team The first electric racing car in North Greece potential of electrical vehicles were was presented on Wednesday 28th impossible to resist, and as such Hager September 2016 at the LABattoir in Hellas supported this initiative and the Thessaloniki a socially engaged machine Aristurtle team from the outset. As a laboratory of applied creativity that platinum sponsor, Hager Hellas provided promotes culture. This electric racing car the financial support necessary for the named ‘Aristurtle’, was designed and construction of the car and its participation constructed by a group of students from in European-wide university competitions. Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. Hager Hellas is a great supporter of young Design and construction of the car began students’ ingenuity and enthusiasm in the in 2013 with the support of the community development of new technological of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, solutions, and in particular welcomes and and also private companies; this is where supports those related to electric mobility. Hager Hellas stepped in. The combination of the student’s electrical expertise and the For more details, click here. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 17/44 International International TAI Community (Trainees, Apprentices and Interns) Hager Group TAI Community is made up of To conclude the day two Board of Directors Trainees, Apprentices and Interns, and members took part in a Q&A session, both supports efforts to promote diversity within stressing that the top management was the company. On 6th September TAIs from supportive of and encouraged the TAI France and Germany came together for Community. their first joint meeting at Hager Forum, in Obernai, France. The main focus of this Tamara Obry, Indirect Procurement intern international gathering was for young at Blieskastel commented that, “…the TAI employees to get to know their Community counterparts from their neighbouring meeting was really country. Additional aims of the meeting interesting; we got included furthering internationalisation of to know other TAIs, the TAI Community and promoting better as we were put into understanding of Hager Group employees different teams for work. each activity. It was Franck Houdebert, Group Human possible to talk Resources Officer explained that, “…the about the different TAI Community sites and find out what kind of work other reflects the TAIs were doing. That’s really useful, cooperative spirit especially when you’ve just joined the that we want to company.” promote within our company; it is an Stephan Hornig, Corporate IT work-study example of how programme student at Blieskastel networking can expressed the opinion that, “…the TAI help us build a Community meeting was well organised common future.” and very varied thanks to different group A total of 126 TAIs from Germany and activities. It was interesting to talk to TAIs France attended; they were introduced to from different sites. I’d like more events like the TAI Community concept and took part this in the future, maybe at different in various team-building activities and locations.” brainstorming sessions. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 18/44 Young Professionals Club The Young Professionals Club (YPC) is a department, related peer functions and talent management initiative built on a two Hager Group as a whole. The 2016 to 2017 year integration programme, established by edition of the YPC is a diverse group of 18 Hager Group Sourcing in 2014. Based on from Poland, France and Germany. the success of the first programme the Members meet twice a year and thus sourcing department organised a second create a network facilitating internal edition of the club for 2016 and 2017. Now communication. employees outside the Operations Hager Group Management Team also Services department can participate. works with the YPC to leverage the Members of this new YPC edition follow a Generation Y mindset in further business two year integration programme financed developments. by Human Resources. The HR team provides detailed information about the For more details, click here. Hager GO! In March 2017 a third edition of Hager GO! the company. For each survey completed, an internal opinion survey was launched for Hager Group donated one euro to Make Aall group employees. Employees gave Wish, an international charity, present in 47 anonymous feedback about their working countries, whose objective is to make the conditions, motivation, organisation of the wishes of children who are or have been company etc. The feedback resulted in seriously ill, come true. actions plans to improve working life within Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 19/44 Italy Various initiatives were taken. All companies in Italy: Hager Lumetal: Compliance with the activities and Hager Lumetal continues to work with Il programs of the Italian Standard 231 Giglio association in social projects to help Employees fundraised in favour of two disabled people. solidarity projects to help the earthquake victims in Central Italy: Hager SpA, Hager Lumetal, Atral Italia 1. The first, coordinated by the Friuli and AB Plast: Venezia Giulia Civil Protection, concerns Employees contributed towards buying a the reconstruction of a kindergarten in bus for an organisation that cares for the Sarnano (Macerata Region) which had to elderly in Porcia. be demolished after the earthquake. 2. The second, Ilfuturononcrolla consists of contributing to the reconstruction of buildings, labs and accommodation for the University of Camerino Students. AB Plast: Employees collected foodstuff for the Banco di Solidarietà; an organisation that provides food and support to families in financial difficulty. It gives them food and basic necessity products. The Netherlands 25th Anniversary party for Dutch colleagues in Amsterdam On 1st and 2nd October 2016, Hager transported 155 people to Amsterdam for colleagues from s-Hertogenbosch and various 25th Anniversary festivities. During Coevorden in The Netherlands visited the these two-day festivities the team capital Amsterdam along with partners, to participated in workshops, a dinner-party celebrate 25 years of Hager in The canal boat cruise and a city-sites visit. Netherlands. Two large birthday buses Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 20/44 Responsible purchasing at Hager Group > Assessment, policy and goals: As a signatory of the United Nations Global commitment from the supplier to comply Compact we aim to promote the principles with the terms of Hager Group's of sustainable development among our sustainable growth and ethical trade policy, suppliers. From the selection of our we encourage our suppliers to be active in suppliers, which involves ethical work and rolling out their socially responsible environmental protection criteria, to signing business approach. a purchase contract, involving a > Implementation: Hager Group stands for high standards in our sustainable development commitment. brand quality, reflected in our procurement Hager Group requests that its suppliers activities. We are very careful in choosing comply with Hager Group’s ‘Sustainable suppliers, and apply a range of selection Growth and Ethical Trading Policy’ that criteria. Any supplier wanting to work with includes the request to source materials us must recognise our core values used in needed for their operations solely from our own business: professionalism, fast socially responsible vendors. In particular, response times and a high level of the signing of our ‘Conflict mineral positioncustomer focus. Hager Group’ document to determine if Hager Group fully supports the OECD their components contain tin, tungsten, initiative of 2013, ‘Due Diligence Guidance tantalum and/or gold, is mandatory. for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk For more details about our sourcing policy, Areas’, which is in line with our values and click here. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 21/44 02 LABOUR – PRINCIPLES Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Occupational Health & Safety > Assessment, policy and goals: At Hager Group, employee health and employees with a safe workplace, safety are vital issues. Beyond compliance environment and working conditions is a with the applicable regulations and the core value of Hager Group, which places financial aspects of the costs of workplace the company’s men and women at the accidents or occupational illnesses, it is not heart of its concerns. This is an integral ethically acceptable for an individual’s part of our commitment to sustainable mental or physical health to be development, and more specifically to the permanently or temporarily affected by ethical aspect contained within E3. their professional activity. Providing > Implementation: Hager Group’s European Works Council, in appearance of major risks to the health and agreement with the company’s Top safety of individuals or to the environment. Management, has put in place a committee In the context of this mission, this made up of elected members of staff committee is tasked with carrying out whose goal is to notify management in the monitoring visits of the company’s sites. event of any serious issues or the > Measurement of outcomes: A shared health and safety indicator for the travel accidents resulting in stoppages of group was put in place in 2009: this is one day or more per 1,000 people (Hager known as the frequency index. This Group employees or temporary staff) per measures the number of workplace and year. Internal mobility > Implementation: International Mobility policy is part of a Internal mobility on a local and global scale wider business strategy developing is an important factor in career businesses in new countries as well as development and Hager Group developing international careers. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 22/44 > Measurement of outcomes: Human Resources departments in Hager objective is 30%; by the end 2016 it was Group follow indicators for the number of 28%. positions filled through internal mobility. Internal mobility for the whole group has For example in France, the internal mobility reached 23%. Health & Safety Certifications > Assessment, policy and goals: OHSAS 18001 & ISO We do our utmost to uphold the 18001 and ISO throughout Hager Group’s international standards such as OHSAS industrial and other sites. > Measurement of outcomes: Number of production sites including 3 logistic sites certified to: ISO 14001: 18 OHSAS 18001: 19 Number of sites in France (5 industrial: Annecy, Bischwiller, Crolles, Obernai, Saverne, as well as Bordeaux) certified to: ISO 50001: 6 Number of production sites certified to: ISO 9001: 28 Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 23/44 Italy Various initiatives in relation to employees’ health and safety took place in the different sites in Italy. AB Plast: Atral Italia: training on safety systems for employees, training courses updated for safety issues department managers, employee for employee representatives, representatives and Health and Safety yearly audit for Quality Certification managers, Standard ISO 9001:2009. free influenza vaccinations for all employees. Hager SpA: training courses updated for safety issues Hager Lumetal: training on safety systems for department managers, employee representatives and emergency team members, (first aid and fire-safety) for employee representatives, at both headquarters and branch offices. yearly audits on Environment & Safety Bocchiotti SpA: compliance to OHSAS 18001 and ISO OHSAS 18001 Certification in progress, 14001 Standards, legislative check on Health & Safety and training for defibrillator usage. audit for transition from step 1 to step 2, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certifications renewed, monthly updating of Health & Safety Notice Board with the collection and posting of visual communication, training courses on Health & Safety policies for all employees. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 24/44 03 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies The following commitments form our approach for sustainability. At Hager Group, we: put ethical behaviour at the centre of all want to be a corporate citizen and a we do with our customers, partners, responsible employer, suppliers & employees, care for people, contribute, with our solutions to a more act for the protection of the planet, efficient use of energy in buildings. For more information concerning our For further E3 (Ethics, Environment and commitment to employees all over the Energy) details, consult pages 5 & 6 of this world, consult page 77 of our 2016 Annual report. Report. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 25/44 > Assessment, policy and goals: In line with E3 and Global Compact’s encourages the development and diffusion principles to support a precautionary of environment friendly technologies that approach to environmental challenges, reduce our carbon footprint. As a familyHager Group undertakes both internally owned company, social responsibility is a and externally to promote greater matter close to our hearts. environmental responsibility and > Implementation: improving safety and creating good Hager Group's employees have played a working conditions, significant role in our company's success supporting internal advancement, with the professionalism and commitment developing competencies and increasing they have shown. The future of Hager employability, Group depends on its employees, so with promoting diversity, this in mind, priorities have been set for 4 respecting and supporting ethical different areas: principles. > Measurement of outcomes: Ethics: For every 1,000 employees, we and safety policy is for all our production have seen a reduction of 43% in the sites worldwide to be certified in number of accidents occurring in the accordance with the international standard workplace and on the way to or from work OHSAS 18001. So far, 74% of Hager since 2009. One of the aims of our health Group's employees work at a certified site. Environment: 18 sites are already certified ceremony where environmentally friendly ISO 14001 (environment management) projects were presented. For more details and 9, ISO 50001 (energy management). please refer to page 29 of this report. March 2017 saw 3 projects highlighted at a Energy: The need to contain CO2 the best compromises to be made in order emissions and curb the extraction of the to limit any negative impact on the earth's oil reserves has brought with it a environment, it also enables an demand for new transport solutions. One of environmental profile to be created for the these solutions is the electric car. Hager product. This serves as a sort of ‘green Group develops the charging stations for pass’ for products. The number of products these electric cars. The equipment used in with an environmental profile, named our sustainable buildings is intended to Hager Product Passport, has tripled in the have as little impact on the environment as space of two years. For more information possible. The solutions Hager Group about Hager Product Passport, please develops are subjected to a life cycle refer to pages 74 to 77 of our 2016 Annual analysis from the conceptualisation stage. Report and page 28 of this report This analysis not only helps us to pinpoint Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 26/44 “We do not inherit the earth from our parents; we borrow it from our children.” Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, a French writer, aviator and poet. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 27/44 Hager product passport: profile for life criteria including energy consumption, water consumption, raw materials consumption and CO₂ emissions. One third of Hager Group product portfolios now has a PEP. Every single newly developed product is also given one as standard. In the foreseeable future all Hager Group products will have their own individual environmental profiles. Products and solutions are designed right from the outset to ensure their environmental footprints are kept as low as possible throughout their Around a third of Hager Group products entire life cycles. According to Skander, already have a detailed environmental “PEPs are likely to become standard in the profile, more and more of them leave the future. The more sustainability minded factory today with one of these passports; builders and the a product environmental profile (PEP). It is construction a form of environmental passport providing industry itself accurate information on ecological become, the more performance. Skander Hassayoune, an important the environmental engineer at Hager Group performance of comments that, “…for sustainability-minded the individual planners and builders, PEPs are an construction invaluable tool for assessing and planning components will be.” the environmental performance of a product throughout its entire life cycle.” The For more information about the PEP and PEP records the environmental E3, please consult pages 74 to 77 of our performance of a product based on 27 2016 Annual Report. Added value venture: Azimut Monitoring solutions including connected multisensors and web-based reporting tools that measure energy consumption, air quality and visitor comfort. Indeed, one can only live and work effectively in clean, fresh air. These solutions help improve comfort, health and quality of life at work as well as help preserve buildings. In December 2016 Azimut Monitoring supplied the first 500 units to a market-leading company in Didier Dufournet, founder of Azimut heating and air conditioning technology. Monitoring, and part of Hager Services since 2016, provides sensors that measure For more information and to see the full air quality and energy consumption. interview with Didier Dufournet, consult Customers are supplied with a package of pages 14 to 17 of our 2016 Annual Report. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 28/44 Hager Group Eco-Awards Three ECO projects were featured at to increase turnover despite augmented Hager Group Continuous Improvement logistic costs. To achieve this, changes Awards ceremony on 15th March 2017. such as modifications to pallet size were implemented resulting in an 18% saving in Device-Bracket: the initial process had 7 logistic costs, a 20% increase in container loading capacity, a 22% reduction in CO2 emissions and a 9% saving in wood material. This project is easily duplicable and could bring environmental benefits to all of Hager Group. New injection machinery cooling system: is all about water, a limited different working steps with 16 days of Lead Time, now the product can be manufactured in one injection shot. Stock was reduced by 45% and lead time by 94% to 1 day. Environmental benefits are many thanks to process improvements; CO2 emissions reduced by 77%, equivalent to 72% stainless steel scrap. resource in la Roca, Spain, with frequent Green pallet: demonstrates the ambition periods of drought. It is our responsibility to ensure responsible use of water in our industrial activity. The advantages of the project are the reduction in water consumption on site by more than 50% (equivalent to the yearly water consumption of 32 people), elimination of the risk of contracting Legionella (colleagues and surrounding population), reduction in exposure to chemical agents and reduction of maintenance costs. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 29/44 ‘1,2,… E3!’ workshop Summer 2016 saw a series of workshops in the frame of Positive Impact Week, the sustainable development team were there to answer questions in an ‘1,2,3… E3!’ workshop. Below are the answers to questions about our assessment, policy and goals and how we measure our outcomes. How can we increase gender diversity in the injection department in Obernai, France positions of responsibility? to reduce injection waste by 4.5 tonnes per In the frame of Project 2020, we plan to year. This initiative is subsidised by increase by 15 the percentage of women ADEME (National Agency for the occupying positions such as project Environment and Energy Control). For manager and head of department, and at instance, 100% of metal waste from senior management level. To monitor this, stamping is recycled and 90% of plastic local and group indicators have been set waste from injection moulding is reused. up. Internal recruitment and promotion are prioritised and training programmes When will the company vehicles fleet be developed along with communication 100% electric? initiatives in order to change mind-sets. It is a matter of autonomy. 100kms doesn’t meet all trip requirements, for example the How do we measure ethics in the different distance between Blieskastel and Obernai departments? is 125km. The General Services A whistleblowing system has been Department in Obernai will progressively developed to allow reporting in good faith equip the vehicle fleet with additional of business situations that infringe our electric cars replacing combustion-powered ethics principles. Furthermore, an Internal vehicles for short trips. In Blieskastel and Audit function, created in 2014, offers Heltersberg, five electrical vehicles are yearly audits at group sites in accordance available. with a reference document underlining business ethics principles. On the basis of When will home office become the audits and alerts reported, actions are standardised thus reducing transportation taken. costs and carbon footprint? Home office is currently possible in Why don’t we promote more recycling accordance with some rules set out by the notions? Human Resources Department. It is not Recycling is a subject of great importance adapted to all departments as certain for Hager Group. Efforts are made functions require on site presence. internally to reduce waste at source and favour recycling. A project is underway in Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 30/44 When will photovoltaic panels be extended energy saving in buildings is also a to the whole of the Obernai site? sustainable solution. An eco-designed It is not simple to equip all rooftops with product is a product which needs less photovoltaic panels, some buildings simply material and contains no dangerous do not allow for it – in particular older substances for its production; it also buildings. Our priority is to reduce on-site consumes less energy when in use. The energy consumption: the best and cleanest product must also be produced at a energy is the energy we do not consume. certified ISO 14001 eco-aware production Photovoltaic panels on Hager Forum roof site. 80% of products developed between provide 40% of the building’s daytime 2015 and 2020 will comply with our ecoconsumption. In Heltersberg, a windmill design criteria. Furthermore, we set the project is currently under discussion. objective to multiply our energy saving solutions sales by three within the next five How is the reduction in energy years. consumption managed within Hager Group? How do you define your sustainable Energy is a resource that will become development objectives and the five-year unavoidably more and more expensive (the strategy? How are sustainable decrease in the oil prices is only a development results communicated? temporary phenomenon). Companies’ Our E3 approach and its related objectives performances will also be influenced by are defined by the Sustainable their ability to control their energy costs; Development Department and submitted to Hager Group is fully aware of this. Thus, the Executive Committee for validation; energy consumption control and reduction they apply to the group in its entirety. is one of our strategic challenges Objectives are cascaded in all countries integrated into Project 2020. Our objective along are added to their action plans. The is to reduce our energy consumption in Sustainable Development Department relation to turnover until 2020. Our annual carries out scheduled reporting to the Eco-Awards promote the best energy Board of Directors and the Executive saving projects and inspire and generate Committee. Long term goals are defined competition between our sites to reduce and redefined every five years in line with further energy consumption. the company project. We aim to consolidate our reporting system and make How can Research and Development it more comprehensive, to better anticipate contribute to sustainable development? the future. With product eco-design. Offering a larger eco-friendly product range that allows “All employees are part of our sustainably shaped future.” Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 31/44 E3 Learning module for managers As a family-owned company it is in our put this into practice from June to October nature to remain sustainable; sustainable 2016 an E3 learning module was launched development is development that meets in English, French and German as part of the needs of the present without the compulsory standard training plan for compromising the ability of future managers. The module concerned a generations to meet their own needs. As fictitious promising partnership with Stenco, such, E3 (Ethics, Environment, Energy) is an energy storage company. Managers embedded in our Project 2020 and part of were asked to ensure that this partnership our daily business. was sustainable and in line with our E3 It is important that we all be actors and approach. They had to audit and evaluate able to consider the economic, social and Stenco via a one-hour long Serious Game. environmental concerns of our E3 Before doing the audit, they refreshed their approach in our management methods and E3 knowledge via another e-learning decision-making processes. As such and to module. Health, Safety and Environment France Hager Group in Obernai continues to Safety and Environment in France participate in funding a local bus to avoid comments that “every effort we make to employees taking their personal vehicles. reduce our carbon footprint helps, for The bus runs example our company restaurant between the sites serves over 164,000 meals per year and and from the sites Spark café 22,000 equating to a saving to the train station more than 744,000 kms per year, and town centre. corresponding to about 126K tonnes Pascal Christmann, equivalent CO2. This has a positive impact in charge of Health, on the environment.” Electricity consumption reduction In September 2016 a condensing boiler there was a reduction of 708,000 KW of was installed in Factory 1, in just 3 months gas equating to 273 K Tonnes of CO2. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 32/44 HG Environmental and Energy Policy Our Environmental and Energy Policy was reedited and is now available in all group languages. It ensures adherence and harmonisation across the board. Hager Group commits to comply with legal requirements and all applicable local laws and regulations, as a minimum standard, when developing products and running activities. In particular for Environmental and Energy Management Systems we have consolidated and guarantee to carry out the following: Assess, analyse and improve most significant environmental impacts including energy consumption in a systematic way at all sites. Certify every production or logistics site to ISO 14001 standard. Certify every site with more than 250 employees to ISO 50001 standard. Request newly acquired companies to satisfy these obligations at the latest three years following the acquisition. Measures & celebrations Cogeneration boiler Measures are constantly being improved In 2016 at Bischwiller, the production site and put in place to progress safety and and Area Distribution Centre were linked prevent accidents in the work place. At up to the cogeneration boiler of a Factory 3 in Obernai, there have been 475 neighbouring company. This has allowed a days without an accident in the work place. reduction in the consumption of gas for In addition to this, celebrations took place heating the two facilities. start 2017 in Obernai to congratulate the different sectors of production that have gone over 1,000 days with no accidents. Ceremonies were held for 400 of the 1,000 workers on site. Coordination For all sites in France, security issues are now coordinated and a network has been set up. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 33/44 Sprue reduction in Alsatian sites With injection moulding a certain number of Since 2014, 71 tonnes of plastic material sprues are generated, 90% of them are has not ended up as waste, that is to say currently transformed and recycled 1,100 CO2 tonnes equivalent. internally. Injection moulds have been remade to adapt to recycling measures. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 34/44 Germany Finding the right energy balance at Blieskastel Our Research and Application centre smart research centre supply its own automatically makes the switch to a selfelectricity, but it also contributes to the sufficient energy supply. In just over a year energy supply for its neighbouring our Research and Application centre has buildings. virtually disconnected from the electricity The self-sufficient effect is made possible grid. Designed to function as a sort of thanks to a smart energy management green power plant, the smart office building system with around 5,000 data points in constantly analyses and optimises its the building. By collecting vast amounts of energy consumption in an intelligent way. data about users' consumption behaviour Since the systems were first introduced, or up-to-date weather forecasts, the they have proved so effective that this software solution is able to use this building covering an area of 3,000 square information to prepare accurate forecasts metres generates far more energy than it of the expected energy consumption levels. consumes. On the roof of the building, solar panels The building is a produce electricity from the power of the power plant that sun, while a highly efficient combined heat generates 1.7 million and power plant converts gas into heat and kilowatt hours of electricity in the adjacent building. energy a year, and Depending on requirements, the energy we can feed up to generated is either stored in a 112.5 kWh 1.1 million kWh of buffer tank or used immediately – for this energy into the example, to charge the factory's own plant's independent electric vehicles. grid system, commented Andreas Frevel, Solutions Support Manager in November For more details, click here. 2016. In other words, not only does the Italy Initiatives have been carried out in our various sites in Italy: Atral Italia: a new training room equipped Hager Lumetal: implementation of a new with new furniture to improve the comfort of system for the sorted waste collection. customers during training courses. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 35/44 KNX RF Protocol standardised module Along with other industry giants technical specifications for the KNX RF protocol were made to minimise the impact of radio frequencies on end-users environment. Specifications were designed with the least possible radio transmissions. Although this represents only roughly a few milliseconds of transmissions per day, equipment connected to the meter can recognise the information and take it into account. The end result is a quieter environment for the user. Regulations & Certifications > Measurement of outcomes: REACH Regulations Hager Group requires its suppliers to that they don’t contain hazardous declare the presence or not in their substances over the regulatory thresholds. supplied goods of one or more of the latest At Hager Group we endeavour to not use substances added to the SVHC list these substances of high concern in our (substance of very high concern). This existing products and all new projects do declaration concerns good provided with not contain any of them. This list, last and beyond Europe. Yearly screening tests updated on 12th January 2017, now are carried out by a third party laboratory contains a total of 173 substances. on randomly chosen products to confirm ISO 14001 Certifications By the end of 2016, 18 of our 25 production sites were certified ISO 14001. ISO 50001 Certifications By the end of 2016, 8 of our 25 production sites were certified ISO 50001. (Energy Management SystemS) Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 36/44 E-mobility > Assessment, Policy and Goals: As electrical mobility develops, charging solutions we have put the focus on easestations for electric vehicles are of-use, ergonomics, intelligent and increasingly more present in our lives, be aesthetic charging stations, positioning they in public places or in the home. By ourselves as an active contributor to this developing of a range of recharging new industrial and human adventure. > Implementation: Sponsoring a team in the WAVE Trophy The world’s biggest e-rally, the WAVE their message is clear, “the electric vehicle Trophy, has one mission zero emission. (E.V.) is a solution for today, and The e-rally runs from Germany to absolutely not a futuristic concept. Daily, Switzerland, the 2016 edition had 80 plus we can all choose to reduce our e-vehicles. What with our witty charging environmental impact. We are confident stations, an e-rally charging stop in 2015 that the E.V. is an effective solution and not for the simultaneous charging of 26 electric exclusively for technicians, engineers or vehicles, and a venture with freshmile (an militant environmentalists. It is simply a operator for recharging electrical vehicles) pragmatic solution for anyone.” we are firm supporters of all initiatives On arrival during the afternoon of 18th June promoting sustainable development. As at Liestal, near Bâle in Switzerland, Marie such, we supported Benoît and Marie and Benoît commented that, “…we are Kayser on their electric route. very happy to have been able to participate Marie and yet again in this extraordinary WAVE Benoît Trophy event. It was enriching and we met participated in many interesting people on our route from the WAVE rally the participants who are passionate about with their electric vehicles to the supporters who Nissan LEAF. waved us on. We hope the road trip will Sharing the encourage future generations to find ‘WAVE’ spirit, sustainable solutions.” Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 37/44 04 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Anti-corruption initiatives > Assessment, policy and goals: What is the right thing to do? business environment, making the right What is not right? choices becomes increasingly more Where do you draw the line? complex and more important. It is important that new and current employees be guided Doing business globally entails many through our company values and challenges, particularly when working in understand our Ethics Charter which make diverse cultures where ‘appropriate’ it very clear what is expected behaviour of business conduct can vary widely and in a Hager Group employee. Our Ethics countries where enforcement of national or Charter is a reference framework based on international standards may be weak. our values, providing an authoritative Therefore adherence to the company’s guideline for an upright, reliable yet Ethics Charter must be observed. In a successful way of doing business. > Implementation: Hager Group has set out its company Hager Group firmly believes that only those values and philosophy in its own Code of whose actions are moral and trustworthy Ethics. In addition to obeying the law and will benefit in the long term. To apply these treating competitors fairly, it also covers principles to the daily lives of employees, complex problems. 80 percent of executives will be receiving online ethics training by 2020. For example can I accept a supplier’s invitation to a symposium with a stay in a For more details about our Ethics Charter, luxury hotel? click here Is the gift of a pen tantamount to bribery? Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 38/44 05 SELECTED EXAMPLES OF SOCIAL ACTIVITIES WITHIN HAGER GROUP Peter und Luise Hager Foundation > Assessment, policy and goals: As a family-run company, it is part of Hager responsibility. The founders are convinced Group’s culture to be aware of its that it is important to give something back responsibility. This means taking to society in return for its commercial responsibility for employees and their success. Such a commitment reflects the families as well as the sustainable Hager family culture, integrity and their protection of the environment and natural values. resources, and above all, social > Implementation: The Peter und Luise Hager Foundation located near Hager Group sites and was established in December 2010 to therefore benefit the people who live and support projects in the fields of science and work in close proximity to the company. research, protection of the environment, The name of the foundation is also fitting; it culture, child development and education is named after the parents of the company and social care. Many of the projects are founders, Dr. Oswald and Hermann Hager. > Measurement of outcomes: Presenting Founder Award Hager Foundation. The award ceremony was held at the House of Family Businesses in Berlin on 12th October 2016. Acknowledgement of these new ‘masters’ is the legacy of Hermann Hager, one of the founders of Hager Group. With this award, the foundation rewards and promotes master craft-workers in the field of electrical engineering who have founded a company. The Jury focused on economic The three most successful German success, social commitment & public spirit founders among master electricians who and corporate culture with a human face. A have successfully established a company forward-looking approach to the business or taken over a business in Germany since is also criteria considered when awarding 2011, have received the new Founder this prize. Award, presented by Peter und Luise Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 39/44 Contributing to Student Research Centre in Saarlouis Officially opened in 2015, the Student community school, and the Ministerium für Research Centre in Saarland, Germany, Bildung und Kultur (Saarland) sponsors offers three large laboratories as well as teacher hours for developing and rooms for students to discover how supervising the laboratory work. Laboratory fascinating natural sciences can be. Each equipment, on the other hand, has been laboratory offers space for 20 students, to financed by the Peter und Luise Hager work on various experiments at their own Foundation as well as other sponsors such speed and with their own interests. The as ME Saar, representing the Saarland premises are in the ‘In den Fliesen’ Metal and Electrical Industry Federation. Welcoming new Perspectiva III participants On 7th and 8th January 2017, the ‘Welcome placement in German companies. Weekend’ took place for Perspectiva III Alongside the work experience, the participants. This year, 17 participants Spanish participants also continue to were chosen out of almost 500 applicants attend German courses, in order to further for the programme, which helps young improve their language skills. people from Spain to gain work experience To get a deeper understanding of German in Germany. The aim of the weekend was culture and to promote integration, trainees to get to know Saarbrücken, capital city of also have the opportunity to find the Saarland region, and to share their accommodation with a host family. In early experiences in Germany. In the two addition to professional support, the months before the start of the placement, foundation also looks after participants in the participants started a German course in their spare time by organising trips and order to broaden their language skills and provides support in overcoming any reach at least level B1. After that, on 9th bureaucratic hurdles they may encounter. January 2017, they began the 6-12 month Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 40/44 Donating to food banks in Germany and France At the end of 2016 and beginning of 2017, contribution on behalf of the employees of the Peter und Luise Hager Foundation the Hager Group and Peter und Luise donated to food banks in Germany and Hager Foundation , said Denis Munch, France. The Foundation supported head of Sustainable development, when he German food banks in Homburg, presented the cheque to the Banque Pirmasens, Schalksmühle and Uebigau, Alimentaire du Bas-Rhin in Strasbourg. and the French food banks Banque The donations were collected as part of the Alimentaire du Bas-Rhin in Strasbourg and 'Eine runde Sache' project, where les Restos du Cœur in Saint-Martin-Leemployees of Hager Group in Germany Vinoux near Crolles. and France round down their monthly net In France, almost six million people salary to the nearest whole number and depend on low-price and donated donate the remaining amount to a good foodstuffs. The work of the volunteers in cause. The Peter und Luise Hager food banks is vital for the most vulnerable Foundation top this amount up and donate in our society and their commitment is it to food banks close to Hager Group something that we hold in great esteem. locations in Germany and France. We are delighted to be able to make a Awarding a prize for most innovative 'circle' On 10th February 2017, the presentation of Art and Design honours particularly artistic the Peter und Luise Hager Foundation and creative student work, which explores Prize 2017 was held at the Saar Academy the sensual experience and interposition of of Fine Art and Design in Saarbrücken. The technical, social and cultural processes. Foundation and the Saar Academy of Fine The subject of this year's competition was Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 41/44 'Kreis' (circle). From the 34 entries, the jury Roland Mönig (Saarland museum), made up of members of the Board of selected ten candidates, whose work was Directors and the Board of the Peter und displayed at the Saarländische Galerie in Luise Hager Foundation, the Saar Berlin between 19th March and 15th April Academy of Fine Art and Design and 2017. Creating opportunities for Indian girls: Premanjali The Peter und Luise Hager Foundation has project we are able to greatly improve begun supporting an extraordinary project; prospects for at least a few girls.” some of the girls are studying business The Premanjali boarding school was management or business administration, opened in 2015. It is run by the Society of while the younger ones are still preparing the Helpers of Mary and supported by the for their school leaving exams. For all of charity LIFT e.V., which is based in them, attending Premanjali (which Hamburg. The Helpers of Mary run two translates as House of Love) is a fantastic homes in the state of Karnataka that look opportunity. The boarding school in after the daughters of day labourers and Mysore, southern India, makes it possible allow them to attend school and receive for around 30 girls to study, an opportunity training. A few particularly gifted girls from that is unfortunately still very rare in India. these homes can now attend college “It is a sad fact that millions of Indian girls thanks to the Premanjali project. are still forced to leave school at the age of All of the girls come from underprivileged 12 or 13 in order to get married”, says Evi backgrounds, and some of them are a ‘first Hager, chair of the Foundation. For many learners’, which means they are the very young Indian women, marriage is followed first member of the family to learn to read by a life of hard physical labour and one and write. The Peter und Luise Hager pregnancy after another. Foundation has donated enough money to Evi Hager adds, “…we are delighted that cover the tuition fees for all 30 girls at by supporting the Premanjali college Premanjali for a year. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 42/44 Providing street lighting in Laos In December 2016, installing a water supply network in a Cambodian village near Kampong Cham, 200 km northeast of Phnom Penh, was the objective of the thirteen students from the Lycée Louis Marchal in Molsheim, France. Over a period of ten days, they carried out supply the water pump as well as all the necessary installation to make it work and provide water from the taps. During their stay, the students discovered village life with the inhabitants and went even went to the local school to train the children about water hygiene. work so that twenty-five houses could be supplied with drinking water; this involved To consult the video about the project setting up photovoltaic panels to please click here. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 43/44 Follow Hager Group: Hager Group Communication on Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 44/44
